Document of
The World Bank                     0IL   tIir 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2979-PE
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
CORPORACION PERUANA DE AEROPUERTOS Y AVIACION COMERCIAL (CORPAC)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR AN
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 4, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The exchange rate is being adjusted daily roughly in line with the
difference between domestic and international inflation. The exchange rate
and currency equivalents in effect on January 31, 1981 were as follows:
CURRENCY UNIT = Sol (S/.)
Calendar 1980      January 31, 1981
US$1         =        S/. 287.8           SI. 353.0
SV. 1        =        US$0.0035           US$ 0.0028
SI. 1,000    =        US$3.47             US$ 2.83
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AEROPERU        Aerolineas del Peru
(Peru's State-owned airlines)
COPESCO         Comision Especial para Coordinar y Supervigilar
el Plan Turistico y Cultural
(Cuzco regional tourism development corporation)
CORPAC          Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y Aviacion Comercial
(Peru Airports and Civil Aviation Authority)
DGTA           Direccion General de Transporte Aereo
(General Directorate of Air Transport)
ERP            Economic Recovery Program
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
MTC             Ministerio del Transporte y Comunicaciones
(Ministry of Transport and Communications)
PPAR           Project Performance Audit Report
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
USAID          United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower.:             Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y
Aviacion Comercial (CORPAC)
Guarantor:             Republic of Peru
Amount:                US$58.0 million
Terms:                 Repayable in 17 years, including 4 years of
grace, at 9.6 percent interest per annum
Project Description:  The objectives of this project would be to increase the
efficiency and security of civil aviation in Peru and
improve service to the eastern jungle and jungle high-
land regions, which currently have poor transport links
with the rest of the country. This would be accomplished
through (i) the improvement of three regional airports
and construction of a fourth; (ii) provision on a
nation-wide basis of communications, navigational and
other aviation equipment including a flight inspection
aircraft; and (iii) final engineering for the project
airports and for a new airport at Cuzco and technical
assistance for CORPAC. This project faces no special
risks.
This document has a rsricaed distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:        The estimated cost of the project, including about
US$10.0 million in taxes and customs duties, is:
Local      Foreign       Total
--------(US$ million)---
1. Airport Improvement and
Construction                        15.9        21.4         37.3
Tarapoto                             6.0         8.4         14.4
Pucallpa                             2.9         4.0          6.9
Huanuco                              1.8          2.4         4.2
Tingo Maria                          5.2          6.6        11.8
2. Equipment                             17.1         28.2        45.3
Communications                      10.4        14.1         24.5
Navigational Aids                    3.9         4.5          8.4
Flight Inspection Aircraft           1.4         5.7          7.1
and Equipment
Other                                1.4          3.9         5.3
3. Consultants Services                   1.3          3.4         4.7
Baseline Costs                      34.3        53.0         87.3
Physical Contingencies               3.3         4.9          8.2
Price Contingencies                 13.0        19.1         32.1
Total Costs              50.6         77.0        127.6
Financing Plan:                                   Local       Foreign       Total
--------(US$ million)--------
Bank Loan                    --          58.0         58.0
CORPAC                     49.4           --          49.4
Government                  1.2           --           1.2
Cofinancing                  --          19.0         19.0
50.6         77.0        127.6
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY  1982    1983   1984    1985    1986
…_____-----…US$ million-----------
Annual                8.9    22.0   17.9      8.7      0.5
Cumulative            8.9    30.9   48.8    57.5    58.0
Rate of Return:        20 percent
Appraisal Report:      No. 2960b-PE of February 25, 1981



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE CORPORACION PERUANA DE AEROPUERTOS
Y AVIACION COMERCIAL (CORPAC) WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU FOR AN AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y Aviacion Comercial (CORPAC) with
the Guarantee of the Republic of Peru for the equivalent of US$58.0 million to
help finance a project for aviation development. The loan would have a term
of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at 9.6 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Long-Term Development Issues:
Peru" (Report No. 2204-PE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 13, 1979. This part is based on the report's findings and on those
of more recent economic missions to Peru. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
Natural and Human Resources
3.        Peru, the fourth largest country in Latin America, is divided by
the Andes mountains into three distinct regions: the coastal region (Costa),
with 46 percent of the population and where modern economic activity is concen-
trated; the mountain region (Sierra) with 44 percent of the country's popula-
tion; and the sparsely populated, tropical rain forests east of the Andes
(Selva). The country's rugged topography limits trade between the three
regions.
4.        Peru's natural resources include large deposits of minerals--
particularly copper, iron, silver, and zinc--located mainly in the Sierra
and the southern Costa. There are also large phosphate deposits, located in
the northern Costa. Petroleum resources found in the jungle areas and
offshore are also substantial, but their full extent has not yet been ascer-
tained. Another major natural resource is the large fishing potential in
coastal waters, although the magnitude of the catch is subject to sharp
fluctuations. Agricultural land is limited, and most of the soils suitable
for intensive agriculture are already being farmed.
5.        Crude oil is the dominant source of energy in Peru, supplying
approximately 80 percent of Peru's commercial energy requirements. Although
Peru's energy resource base is relatively diverse, with scope for expanding
hydro and coal based power generation, petroleum is expected to be the major
energy source in Peru through the rest of this century. After having been
dependent on imported crude oil for many years, domestic oil production
increased almost threefold between 1976 and 1979 to about 200,000 barrels per
day, enabling Peru to export oil in substantial quantities (about 70,000
barrels per day). Despite this encouraging production trend, domestic



consumption is rebounding after several years of stagnation, and Peru may
once again become a net importer of petroleum in the mid-1980s unless new
oil reserves are discovered and rational pricing policies adopted to contain
demand growth. The Government has begun to address the problem vigorously.
Prices for domestically consumed petroleum products were steeply increased,
and new legislation was enacted offering special tax incentives to investors.
Response to the tax incentives has been positive.
6.        As a result of three decades of rapidly falling mortality rates,
Peru's population growth accelerated during the 1930-1960 period. In the
early 1960s, however, birth rates started a gradual fall, mainly caused by
the urbanization process and by improved education. But with declining death
rates, population has continued to grow at about 2.7 percent p.a. and is
currently estimated at about 17 million. It is expected that population growth
will fall only slightly to about 2.6 percent p.a. over the next 20 years,
unless an effective demographic policy is adopted. The urban population is
increasing rapidly at 4.5 percent p.a., and over 4 million people are concen-
trated in Lima. Given the structure of Peru's population, the labor force is
expected to grow in excess of 3 percent per year during the next 20 years.
Past Development Policies and Performance (1968-78)
7.        The military Government, in office from October 1968 until July 1980,
followed a development strategy aimed at promoting economic growth and improv-
ing distribution of income and wealth, not only on the individual level but
also between regions. To achieve these goals, the Government expanded the
role of the State in the economy, changed the pattern of asset ownership,
reduced foreign ownership of national resources, oriented industry and agri-
culture toward production of essential goods for the domestic market, stimu-
lated regional deconcentration, and reformed the educational system. Through
nationalization and creation of new enterprises, the State took direct control
of key economic sectors. Moreover, the Government imposed complex legislation
to control the operations of the private sector.
8.        The pattern of asset ownership in the economy changed drastically.
Through nationalization, the share of foreign-owned assets fell sharply. A
sweeping land reform redistributed 49 percent of the country's best farmland
to workers' cooperatives benefitting some 30 percent of all rural families.
Through other laws, industrial workers were given shares in their employers'
firms and, in the mining sector, a share in profits. While these actions
benefitted large numbers of Peruvians, they barely reached the poorest groups,
which continue to live in abject poverty. It is estimated, for example, that
almost three quarters of rural families--mostly "minifundistas" (those farming
less than 2 ha) and landless seasonal workers--were not reached by social
programs. Moreover, subsidies were given to products that were more important
in the consumption basket of high and middle-income groups than in that of the
poorest groups. Artificially low prices for some products--such as mutton
and cereals--actually hurt the poor who produced these items, and affected
production negatively. Although many of the policies and structural changes
carried out after 1968 were meant to achieve rapid growth and more equality,
the cost of these measures proved to be excessive and their implementation
inefficient.



- 3 -
9.        Between 1968 and 1977, the Government followed expansionary fiscal
and credit policies. A rapid increase in expenditures was not matched by a
parallel increase in revenues. Public sector savings dropped steadily in
relation to GDP from 4.4 percent in 1970 to dissavings of 2.6 percent in 1977.
Major causes were the erosion of the tax base owing to excessive tax incentives,
loopholes, weak enforcement, rising budgetary cost of subsidies for foodstuffs
and petroleum products, and sharp increases in defense outlays. At the same
time, public investment expanded rapidly and was increasingly concentrated on
capital-intensive projects with long gestation periods and little immediate
contribution to the growth of output or employment.
10.       Pricing, interest rate and foreign exchange policies encouraged
consumption and discouraged savings, exports and sometimes overall production.
The problems were exacerbated by circumstances beyond the control of the
authorities such as the sharp drop in the catch of anchovies, the fiFhing
industry's mainstay, and the sharp deterioration in Peru's terms of trade
between 1974 and 1978. As a result, aggregate demand considerably exceeded
aggregate supply. Excess demand, in turn, led to strong inflationary pressures
and widening external gaps.
11.       Inflation accelerated from 5 percent per year irl 1970 to 38 percent
in 1977. Interest rates, however, remained substantially negative in real
terms, discouraging financial savings and stimulating capital flight. Moreover,
the exchange rate remained practically constant between 1968 and 1975, thus
contributing to the overall disequilibrium. National savings fell dramatic-
ally from 16 percent of GNP in 1970 to 8 percent in 1977, when they financed
only about one-half of investment.
12.       The growing disequilibrium was reflected in the balance of payments.
The current account deficit averaged US$1.1 billion per year in 1974-77,
equivalent to nearly 9 percent of GNP. To finance this deficit, Peru accum-
ulated a massive external debt. At year-end 1977, Peru's total private and
public external debt--including short-term indebte.ness--stood at almost
US$8.3 billion, equivalent to two-thirds of GDP anX almost four times exports
of goods and non-factor services. Much of this debt was contracted on fairly
short maturities. Three fourths of the US$6.4 billion long-term public sector
debt (including undisbursed) was scheduled to be r-paid over the 1978-82
period.
13.       Following the 1968-74 period of rapid expansion during which GDP
grew by more than 6 percent per year, the growth rate dropped progressively
and became negative in 1977 and 1978. GDP (at constant 1973 prices) fell by
0.1 percent in 1977 and a further 0.7 percent in 1978. In this two-year
period, GDP per capita dropped by over 6 percent and unemployment or under-
employment is believed to have risen to almost 60 percent of the labor force,
up from less than 50 percent during the early 1970s. According to Goverrunent
estimates, the purchasing power of an average salary had fallen 40 percent by
1978 compared to 1970 and that of an average wage by over 16 percent.
Stabilization Policies and the Economic Recovery Program (1978-80)
14.       From 1975 on, several unsuccessful attempts were made to cope
with Peru's deteriorating economic situation. By mid-1978 the economic
crisis had reached grave proportions, with a drop in real GDP and inflation



- 4 -
approaching 100 percent. Moreover, the private sector was finding it increas-
ingly difficult to open letters of credit for new imports and the banking
system's net international reserves had dropped to a negative level of US$800
million. Financial instability had reached the point where practically all
economic activities were adversely affected. The public sector was fast
approaching the point where it would no longer be able to fully service its
external debt. Peru was no longer creditworthy.
15.       Beginning in May 1978, the Government adopted a number of important
measures aimed at strengthening public finances, improving the balance of
payments and curbing inflation. It also reached an agreement with foreign
commercial banks to reschedule US$185 million of principal payments due in the
second half of 1978 until January 1979. Moreover, the Government negotiated a
stand-by arrangement with the IMF for SDR 184 million. In July 1979, this
stand-by was replaced by a new one for SDR 285 million in support of the same
financial program. Peru's debt outstanding to the IMF as of January 31, 1981
amounted to SDR 617.5 million.
16.       Major debt-relief operations carried out in late 1978 enabled Peru
to reduce the debt-service burden for 1979 and 1980 by postponing repayment to
the 1982-1986 period. In May 1978, the Soviet Union rescheduled the equivalent
of about US$140 million of maturities originally due in 1978-80. These amounts
are to be repaid over a 10-year period including three years of grace. In
November, at a Paris Club meeting, the OECD countries agreed to reschedule
90 percent of principal payments due by the public sector to governments and
guaranteed suppliers in 1979 (US$250 million) and 1980 (US$263 million).
These amounts were to be repaid over a period of eight years, including three
years of grace. The Paris Club creditors also agreed to reschedule 90 percent
of the principal payments due in 1979 and 1980 on private sector debt guaran-
teed or insured in the creditor countries (about US$30 million in each year).
In addition, Peru negotiated smaller amounts of debt relief with non-OECD
countries. At the end of 1979, however, in view of the improved balance-of-
payments situation, the Government decided to forego the Paris Club debt
rescheduling option for 1980.
17.       As regards the large medium-term public debt to commercial banks,
in keeping with an agreement concluded in December 1978, Peru repaid
in 1979 the bulk of the US$185 million rolled over from 1978 (para 15 above).
The agreement gave the Government the option of refinancing up to 90 percent
of the maturities due in 1979 and 1980. Again, in view of the strong balance-
of-payments performance, the Government decided not to take advantage of the
rescheduling of 1979 maturities, thus obtaining slightly better terms on the
refinancing of 90 percent of the 1980 maturities.
18.       To overcome the economic recession, the Government adopted a more
comprehensive Economic Recovery Program (ERP), which, in addition to the
above-mentioned stabilization actions, included measures to open up the
economy, promote non-traditional exports, strengthen the tax system by broad-
ening its base, and generally improve the efficiency of resource allocation
in the private and public sectors.  Import liberalization was the most im-
portant element of the ERP and is expected to have salutary long-term effects
on the economy. The Government also drew up a public sector investment program
that aimed at redirecting investment towards projects of clear economic



- 5 -
priority and with positive effects on production and employment. In support
of the ERP, the Bank approved a US$115 million program loan in May, 1979.
Progress in carrying out the ERP has generally been satisfactory. Performance
in some critical areas--e.g., export promotion and import liberalization--
exceeded expectations. In other areas--e.g., improvements in the quality of
public investment and in raising interest rates--progress was more modest.
19.       The Government's stabilization-cum-economic recovery program
resulted in a strong improvement in public sector finances in 1979. Central
Government revenues increased by 23 percent in real terms, while current
outlays declined by 6 percent. Payments for wages and salaries alone fell by
some 7 percent in real terms, partly as a result of a reduction in excessive
civil service employment. Public sector current account savings rose from -
0.7 percent of GDP in 1978 to about 3.6 percent of GDP in 1979, and the overall
deficit was reduced from 6.4 percent of GDP in 1978 to 2.9 percent in 1979.
In spite of the good fiscal performance, however, inflationary pressures have
remained strong, with consumer price increases of 67 percent in 1979 and of
about 60 percent in 1980.
20.       The implementation of stabilization measures and of the ERP had a
positive impact on the balance of payments. Moreover, an increase in petroleum
exports, substantial price increases for silver, copper, petroleum, and other
commodities, as well as the relatively low level of imports because of the
recession led to an overall surplus of the balance of payments of US$1,580
million in 1979 and an estimated US$860 million in 1980. At year-end 1980,
the net reserve position was estimated at about US$1.8 billion, equivalent to
over 5 months of imports. Peru also made greater use of assistance from
official bilateral and international sources thus improving the structure of
its external debt. The short-term debt of less than one year, already sharply
reduced from US$1.8 billion at year-end 1978 to US$1.1 billion at year-end
1979, is expected to be further reduced as the gradually improving economic
situation permits new medium-term credit lines to be opened. GDP growth in
1979 was 3.5 percent at constant 1973 prices. Growth of some 3 percent is
estimated in 1980 owing, in part, to a drought plaguing the agricultural
sector.
Outlook
21.       In July 1979, the military Government promulgated a new constitution,
written by a popularly elected constituent assembly. Elections were held in
May 1980, and the transfer of authority to the Government of President Fernando
Belaunde took place on July 28, 1980. The new Government faces a challenging
economic and social situation. Although the stabilization-cum-economic recovery
program (1978-80) has resulted in an improved financial situation and has laid
the ground fur more efficient resource use, the present economic situation is
characterized by a number of acute problems such as persistent high inflation,
high un- and underemployment, stagnating agricultural and petroleum production,
a deteriorated pattern of income distribution, food and petroleum subsidies,
and an inherited rigid structure of Government expenditures with relatively
low expenditures for economic and social purposes and high outlays for interest
payments and defense. Peru also faces severe long-term problems like wide-
spread poverty, poor state of health and nutrition, rapid population growth,
severe water and land resource constraints, rapidly expanding demand for



-- 6 -
energy and potable water, and the low degree of integration between the
different parts of the country. These problems call for urgent corrective
measures. Tackling them all will be difficult given overall resource scarcity
and particularly the very limited public sector resource availabilities.
22.       The new Covernment has a capable economic team, which is committed
to economic efficiency, decontrol, promotion of the private sector, and
policies conducive to a more equitable sharing of the benefits of development.
During the first few months in office, the Government took important economic
policy measures such as the elimination of import licenses, tariff cuts,
major upward price adjustments--particularly for domestically consumed petro-
leum, power, and food items--adoption of higher interest rates, a new agricul-
tural promotion law, and others. Moreover, it enacted a new petroleum law
giving tax incentives to promote new petroleum exploration, and it is preparing
programs to improve the situation in health, housing, and transport. Important
efforts have also been made to work out a five-year public investment program
that responds to the country's needs and resource availabilities. In this
context, the creation in November 1980 of PROINVERSION, a committee attached
to the Prime Minister's office and in charge of coordinating all efforts
related to public investment including foreign financing, is an important
initiative to improve the efficiency of resource use.
23.       To tackle the most difficult short-term problems, inflation (running
at over 60 percent per year) and the precarious public finance situation (with
an overall public sector deficit equivalent to some 5 percent of GDP in 1980),
the Government is planning a restrictive financial program for 1981 calling
for tight credit ceilings and limits to foreign indebtedness.
24.       Based on cautiously optimistic assumptions with regard to economic
management and commodity prices, the country is expected to have economic
growth of about 5 perr'ent per year and a manageable balance of payments
situation during the next two years, with only minor current account deficits
and continued gradua' build up of international reserves in spite of heavy
debt repayment obligations. The balance of payments situation may, however,
deteriorate in the second half of the eighties (or even earlier), if
the exportable surplus of oil declines. This would eventually result in
increasing current account deficits, particularly if imports further acceler-
ate as a result of the import liberalization and economic recovery process.
Against this background, there is a continuing need for official development
assistance. Considering the expected medium-term balance of payments perfor-
mance a debt service rati- hovering around the 30 percent mark and assuming
that the authorities continue the initiated course of economic policies, Peru
is creditworthy fo- Bank lending.
PAR'!  1  IAN-K GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
25.            S ial"`-iaas gpprovedc 40 loans to Peru for a total amount of US$791.8
millior. net of cancellations. About 28 percent of the Bank's lending to Peru
has been for transportation (mainly highways and ports), 23 percent for
agriculture, 18 percent for the energy sector, 11 percent for mining and
industry, abotut 4 percent for education and urban development, and 14 percent
for the US$115 million program loan of May 1979.



- 7 -
26.       As of January 31, 1981, US$265.4 million was undisbursed on proj-
ect loans (i.e., excluding the 1979 program loan) currently in execution.
(Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of January 31, 1981,
and notes on the execution of on-going projects). Disbursements on Bank
financed projects moved very slowly in the 1976-78 period, primarily because
of weak project execution capacity and a shortage of counterpart funds that
worsened as the economic situation deteriorated during this period. In an
effort to improve this situation: (i) the Bank opened a resident mission in
Peru; (ii) the Executive Directors approved modifications in the Education and
the Lima/Amazon Corridor Projects (see Annex II for further details); (iii)
the Government provided adequate counterpart funds for 1979 and 1980; and (iv)
the Government also set up a special commission to monitor loan execution and
resolve administrative problems which faced Bank-financed projects. With
these actions, the pace of disbursement is now increasing; about US$44.0
million was disbursed on project loans in FY1980 and US$29.1 million was
disbursed during the first half of FY1981.  This compares with averave annual
disbursements of US$27.5 million during FY1977-79.
27.       The main objectives of Bank lending to Peru have been to assist
in (i) the creation of the physical infrastructure needed to sustain and
foster economic development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in
crucial sectors; (iii) the consolidation of structural and institutional
changes, particularly land and education reforms; (iv) the strengthening,
through technical assistance loans and regular operations, of local capacity
to prepare, implement and operate projects effectively; and (v) the improvement
of living conditions for the urban and rural poor. In the past, Bank lending
concentrated on infrastructure in the transportation and power sectors. More
recently, the Bank's emphasis has shifted to more directly productive fields
-- mining, agriculture and industry -- to help Peru to strengthen its balance
of payments. Lending for social projects has also grown.
28.       The next operations that would be ready for the Executive Directors'
consideration include projects for industrial credit, road improvement and
rehabilitation, power engineering, small-scale industry, mining, urban develop-
ment, and health. This program has been reviewed with the new Government and
is in line with its priorities.
29.       It is estimated that Bank loans constituted about 4.0 percent of
Peru's total public external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of
1979, and absorbed about 3.3 percent of the country's external debt service
in 1979. Assuming increased recourse to long-term bilateral and multilateral
aid by Peru, the Bank's share in the country's outstanding public foreign debt
by 1985 could reach about 10 percent, and its share of debt service would be
around 4.5 percent.
30.       IFC commitments as of January 31, 1981 were US$29.7 million (includ-
ing US$15 million to the Southern Peru Copper Corporation for the Cuajone
Copper Mining Project) of which US$15.4 million is held by the Corporation.
A summary statement of IFC investments as of January 31, 1981 is presented in
Annex II.



- 8 -
31.       The other principal public agencies lending to Peru are IDB and
USAID. Total loan commitments as of December 31, 1980 by IDB and USAID
were US$652.4 million and US$348.6 million, respectively, and their shares of
debt service as of end-1979 were both estimated at 0.6 percent. In future
lending IDB is expected to emphasize agricultural, industrial, and mining
credit, roads, and small scale irrigation. USAID expects to stress rural
development and health.
PART III - TRANSPORTATION IN PERU
Background
34.       The concentration of Peru's population and economic activity in the
Costa, the enormous barrier presented by the Andes Mountains and the effort to
exploit Peru's rich mineral resources are some of the major factors that have
shaped the country's transportation system.
35.       Development of the system began with the construction of coastal
ports during the colonial period. In the 19th century, independent private
railways were built to connect mining areas in the Sierra with the coastal
ports. Today, freight and passengers move primarily over roads in Peru.
Difficult terrain and geologic and climatic conditions, however, have made
expansion of land transport systems a slow and expensive process. Compared
with many other Latin American countries, Peru's system is rudimentary with
resultant high transport costs, long travel times and considerable damage to
vehicles and cargo. As a result, civil aviation has grown rapidly in impor-
tance as an alternative, particularly for isolated areas in the Sierra and
Selva.
36.       Transport sector activities in Peru are the responsibility of the
Ministry of Transportation and Communications (MTC), which sets policy,
handles planning through its Sectoral Planning Office and carries out most
construction projects. The MTC supervises the activities of five public
enterprises which are responsible for transportation operations in the areas
of railways, shipping, ports, airports and public transportation. The MTC is
also responsible for setting transport tariffs, based on the studies and
recommendations of its Transport Tariff Regulation Organization.
Highways
37.       Peru's highway network totals some 58,000 km, of which 6,000 km are
paved, 16,000 km have gravel surfacing and 36,000 km are earth roads. Road
development in the Costa is adequate. The principal road is the 2,750 km Pan
American Highway, which carries the bulk of the country's traffic. The larger
towns in the Sierra are linked to the Pan American Highway by secondary roads,
while only a handful of roads, mostly unimproved, lead to the Selva region.
The Bank-financed Transandean Highway, which runs 800 km from Lima to Pucallpa
in the Selva, is the only all-weather road connecting the three regions of the
country. The technical difficulties and high costs that have been encountered
in constructing this highway (see para 52 below) are indicative of the pro-
blems confronting highway development in Peru outside the Costa.



38.       The Government put heavy emphasis on road construction in the 1960's
but this effort lagged in the 1970's because of the country's economic prob-
lems. Also, with limited technical and administrative capacity, the MTC
encountered difficulty in carrying out the program. In recent years, few
new construction projects have been undertaken and the MTC has concentrated on
paving and improving the more heavily used roads and on an expanded road
maintenance and rehabilitation program. This latter activity is of very high
priority since many roads have deteriorated badly after years of inadequate
maintenance. The Bank-financed Lima Amazon Transport Corridor Loan (Ln. 1196-PE
of May iS76) was restructured in April 1979 to provide increased support for
road maintenance.
Ports
39.      'In addition to serving international traffic--most of which flows
through Lima's port, Callao--coastal ports play an important role in the
internal movement of bulk cargo. This consists primarily of crude oil and oil
products from the terminal of the northern Peru pipeline at Bayovar to Lima
and, to a lesser extent, iron ore to supply the SIDERPERU steel works at
Chimbote.
40.       Domestic river traffic, although growing, is still much smaller than
coastal traffic and is mainly composed of diversified dry cargo. This traffic
is carried entirely on the extensive river system of the upper Amazon River
and its tributaries, which provide a natural transportation network for the
whole of eastern Peru. The Amazon River within Peru is navigable year round
bv ships of 20 ft. draft up to Iquitos. Further inland, the Amazon's tribu-
taries constitute a vast network navigable by smaller vessels. However, since
this river system is oriented toward Brazil and the Atlantic and connections
with the Costa are poor, it has been largely underutilized. It was with the
idea of utilizing this potential network more fully that the Lima-Amazon
transport corridor concept, financed under Loans 1025 and 1196-PE, was devel-
oped. This calls for a highway link from the coast to the Amazon head-waters
at Pucallpa and a series of river ports to serve the Selva.
Railroads
41.       Peru has never had an integrated railway system.  Most lines run
east-west to link the mining industry in the Sierra with the Costa. In the
1930's, the railway system consisted of about 4,200 km of track; at present,
after the closing of several lines (the latest badly damaged by the 1970
earthquake), the system has been reduced to 2,150 km. Studies are now under-
way for an expansion of the system in the southern Sierra to improve connec-
tions with Bolivia and for a major new system to serve the Costa.
Pipelines
42.       In 1977, the 900 km North Peru pipeline was opened to connect the
potential oil fields of the Selva with a terminal at Bayovar on the north
coast. The pipeline, and a branch line serving the area which has been the
principal producer to date, were built at a cost/of about US$900 million.
The main pipeline has a capacity of about 210,006 barrels per day. Because
of much slower than expected development of the Selva oil fields, however,
it operated well below capacity for the first few years. Production has now
increased and the pipeline now operates at about 65 percent of capacity.



- 10 -
Civil Aviation
43.        Civil aviation in Peru has long been important as a means of inte-
grating isolated areas of the country into the national economy. In fact,
one of Peru's main domestic airlines, Faucett, was founded in 1928 and is one
of the oldest in the Americas. Passenger traffic is the most important ele-
ment of domestic operations. Air freight consists mostly of high value cargo
to areas with poor land transport connections.
44.       In addition to the privately-owned Faucett Airlines, the other prin-
cipal carrier is the State-owned national airline, AEROPERU, which was created
in 1973 in a reorganization of the military airline, SATCO. Faucett and
AEROPERU roughly share domestic passenger traffic, which totaled about 1.5
million in 1979. AEROPERU has most of Peru's share of international traffic
but Faucett has recently established a route to Miami via Iquitos. Together,
these airlines have an unduplicated route network of about 48,000 km. Since
1972, the number of jet aircraft in domestic service has grown from one
three engine Boeing 727-100 to four such aircraft and six two-engine jets.
AEROPERU has also acquired two wide-body aircraft for its international
routes.
45.       Domestic passenger traffic in Peru grew rapidly through 1976.
It then slowed because of the country's economic difficulties but picked up
again in 1979. Over the 1971-1979 period, the average annual growth rate in
passenger traffic was 9 percent. Domestic air cargo traffic, which amounted
to over 100,000 tons in 1979, grew at 11 percent per year in the 1971-79
period. It is expected to continue growing rapidly in the future, particularly
for areas where land transport is unavailable or unreliable.
46.       Because of the slowdown in passenger growth, the airlines' rapidly
rising operating and fuel costs were not covered by revenues, despite tariff
increases. As a result, both airlines have shown operating losses over
the past few years. AEROPERU has been particularly affected since--as the
Government-owned airline--it is required to serve routes which are not always
profitable. These losses have been partly offset by profits on AEROPERU's
international operations.
47.       The route  structure developed by AEROPERU and Faucett is of the
"hub and spoke" type, with Lima as the center and all main routes radiating
out to the various cities of the country. The most important airports in
terms of traffic were Lima, Cuzco, Iquitos and Arequipa, with 67 percent of
domestic and all international traffic. In addition to these, there are 52
other airports. Some of these, however, are small strips with little traffic
and only about 24 serve more than 5,000 passengers per year. A number of
airports where traffic has been growing rapidly were not designed to handle
larger and more efficient aircraft. This limits passenger growth for the
airlines and an expansion of efficient air service for these cities. In
addition, on a national level communications and navigational equipment is
15-20 years old and is rapidly becoming obsolete. This inadequate equipment
makes airline operation more costly and undependable.



- 11 -
48.       Institutions.  The General Directorate of Air Transport (DGTA) of the
MTC has responsibility for planning the development of civil aviation and for
its regulation. DGTA has, until recently, been the principal entity responsi-
ble for designing and constructing airports. The DGTA has competent staff but
a lack of financing has impeded the expansion of aviation infrastructure.
49.       Peru's commercial airports are owned, operated and maintained by the
Peru Airports and Civil Aviation Authority (CORPAC). CORPAC, which was
created in 1943, is an autonomous public enterprise under the MTC. With res-
ponsibility for operating the nation's commercial airports and air traffic
control system, it is the largest entity in the aviation sector and has about
2,700 employees. CORPAC was recently granted authority to undertake the
airport construction to be financed by the proposed loan. It is a well-managed
and technically competent organization with a salary structure that has
enabled it to retain the qualified personnel necessary for its operations.
CORPAC's financial management is good but would be further improved through
the installation of a cost accounting system, which would be financea under
the proposed loan. The tariffs for CORPAC's operations are set in dollars and
have generally kept pace with inflation in Peru. As a result, CORPAC's overall
financial situation is good. Its financial position is discussed in detail in
paras 69-73 below.
Previous Bank Activities in Transportation
50.       The Bank has made 12 loans for US$219.3 million for transportation
development in Peru. Four loans, totaling US$20.2 million, have been for
ocean ports, including the first Bank loan to Peru in 1952. There have been
seven loans totaling US$186 million for road construction and/or road mainte-
nance, including the most recent loan for the Lima Amazon Transport Corridor
(Ln. 1196-PE of May 1976), which also has a river port component. Finally,
there was a US$13.1 million railroad rehabilitation loan in 1963.
51.       The two most recent transportation projects (Lns. 1025-PE of 1974
and 1196-PE), which have been carried out by MTC, have encountered implementa-
tion problems. The Lima Amazon Corridor projects financed by Loans 1025-PE
and 1196-PE have both faced substantial delays because of topographic and
climatic problems. As a result, there were cost overruns on both projects and
the loans were eventually restructured to eliminate sections which could not
be completed within a reasonable period. Financing for road maintenance
activities was increased under Loan 1196-PE given the high priority of this
operation. Loan 1025-PE is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.
All road sections and ports under Loan 1196-PE have either been completed
or are under construction. This project is expected to be finished in
mid-1982.
52.       There have been Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) on three
Peru transportation projects. The first (SecM 75-567 of August 1, 1975)
covers the Port of Pisco Loan (Ln. 446-PE of 1966). The PPAR concludes that
this project, completed with some two years of delay, helped the Bank to play



- 12 -
an important role in strengthening the sector's institutions, including the
establishment of a National Port Authority in 1970. However, by the time the
project was completed, the Government had not taken any action to provide
housing for port workers and to readjust port tariffs to reflect costs -- both
conditions of the loan. The second PPAR (SecM 76-292 of April 23, 1976)
prepared in connection with the Second Road Construction Loan (Ln. 425-PE of
1965) concludes that the project's primary objective -- the construction of a
paved road between La Oroya and Aguaytia -- was not achieved. This was mainly
because of large cost overruns -- caused by extraordinarily difficult topo-
graphy, inclement weather and landslides -- and the shortage of counterpart
funds triggered by a fiscal crisis in Peru in the late sixties. Nevertheless,
a revised, scaled-down project suggested by the Bank was completed with a
delay of three years. The Government generally complied with loan covenants,
including those concerning a user charge study, and axle load control. The
third PPAR (SecM 80-590 of July 29, 1980) dealt with the Road Reconstruction
Project (Ln. 706-PE of 1970). The loan was made to assist Peru in overcoming
the emergency caused by the 1970 earthquake in the Huaraz Valley. The PPAR
concluded that approval of the loan -- because of the emergency -- before
project preparation was completed resulted in serious delays in project
execution. Preparation of the aviation project will be substantially com-
pleted by the time of signature of the proposed Bank loan so as to avoid this
problem. The PPAR also concluded that because of the Bank's limited ability
to act quickly in urgent situations, the project did little to alleviate the
emergency. Comments received from the Government share this view. However,
the project contributed to regional institution building, and the roads now
provide better land access to the Huaraz Valley, thus opening up the region to
economic development.
PART IV -  THE PROJECT
53.       Feasibility studies of six Lima Amazon Corridor airports were financed
under Ln. 1196-PE. Three of these airports were found in need of upgrading; a
fourth required reconstruction. The communications equipment component is now
being prepared with financing from the German Government and this study should
be completed by April. The remaining equipment components were prepared by
CORPAC. The Bank made a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of US$800,000
to finance the engineering of civil works so execution could begin promptly
after loan approval. Cost estimates for the civil works are based on this
engineering.
54.       The project was appraised in February-March 1980 but negotiations
were delayed until firm project cost estimates were available. Staff Appraisal
Report No. 2960b-PE entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Aviation Development
Project" dated February 25, 1981 is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. Supplemental data is contained in Annex III. Negotiations were
held in Washington from February 3-6. The Peruvian Delegation was headed
by Mr. Nicolas Hurtado, Vice President of the Board of Directors of CORPAC.



- 13 -
Project Objectives
55.       The objectives of the project would be to increase the efficiency
and security of civil aviation in Peru and improve service to regional centers
in the Selva and Ceja de la Selva regions, which currently have inadequate
transport links.
Project Description
56.       The project would consist of:
(a) upgrading, including equipment replacement, for airports at Pucallpa,
Tarapoto and Huanuco and the construction and equipping of a
new airport for Tingo Maria;
(b) installation of navigational aids and communications systems at
32 other locations throughout Peru and the provision of
a flight inspection aircraft and other airport equipment; and
(c) final engineering for a new airport at Cuzco and for the four
airports being improved/reconstructed under the project as well
as technical assistance to improve CORPAC's operations.
Airport Improvements
57.       The airports to be financed under the proposed loan -- Tarapoto,
Tingo Maria, Huanuco and Pucallpa -- serve rapidly growing regional centers
in the Selva and Ceja de la Selva (jungle highlands). The population in
the areas to be served by these airports is close to 900,000, ranging from
about 385,000 in Huanuco to 85,000 in Tingo Maria. Aviation carries a high
percentage of total long distance passenger traffic to these cities and
such traffic is projected to grow at 7-10 percent per year in the future.
Aviation is particularly important in transporting cargo for Tarapoto, where
road transport is very difficult. The project airports were built years ago
for small aircraft at minimal construction cost (Tingo Maria and Huanuco have
gravel runways) and they cannot handle larger, more economical aircraft.
Also, their communications and navigational systems are obsolete. As a
result air service is erratic and costly, thus limiting the growth of these
areas. A principal objective of the proposed project is to correct these
problems.
58.       The airport improvement component represents 43 percent of total
project costs. In order to eliminate access problems created by nearby
mountains, realigned paved runways with better approaches would be constructed
at Tarapoto and Huanuco and new navigational and other equipment would be pro-
vided. This would enable Huanuco to handle jets and the Tarapoto airport to
operate in conditions of poor visibility and to serve as an alternate for
Iquitos when planes cannot land there. For Pucallpa, the existing paved runway
would be strengthened with an overlay so it can support larger aircraft. Equip-
ment and facilities would also be improved.



- 14 -
59.       The problems of terrain at Tingo Maria cannot be resolved by a re-
alignment of the runway. A new airport with clear approaches would, there-
fore, be constructed and equipped at a location about 25 km north of the city.
The new airport would permit larger aircraft to serve Tingo Maria and the
airport to operate in conditions of poor visibility.
Equipment
60.       In order to improve the efficiency and safety of CORPAC's air traf-
fic control operations, the project includes the installation of navigation
and communications equipment on a nationwide basis, including the replacement
of obsolete equipment. CORPAC would also purchase a flight inspection air-
craft (probably a small two-engine airplane) and related equipment to calibrate
the navigational aids. New aircraft handling equipment would be provided,
including tractors, baggage and cargo loaders and carriers, forklifts, etc.
Finally, the project would include electric generators and crash, fire and
rescue equipment for various airports. The equipment component would repre-
sent 52 percent of total project costs.
Technical Assistance
61.       The present airport at Cuzco, Peru's third largest city and a major
tourism center, cannot handle planes larger than 727-100s and is frequently
shut down because of poor weather conditions. A feasibility study for
a new airport was financed by the IDB. This study shows that a new airport
is technically and economically justified. The project would include the
preparation of final engineering for such an airport. This is expected to
require about 370 man-months of consultants services at about US$7,500 per
month.
62.       Final engineering for the four project airports, which is being
done under the PPF Advance mentioned in para 53, requires 200 man-months of
consultants services at US$7,500 per month. An additional 48 man-months of
technical advisory services for CORPAC at $6,000 per month would be required
for supervision of the design and construction of these airports. The project
would also include about 24 man-months of consulting services at US$6,500 per
month to design and install a cost accounting system for CORPAC. The consul-
tant for this work would be engaged by March 31, 1982 (Section 3.03(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement). CORPAC would discuss with the Bank the recommendations
of the cost accounting study and would adopt a plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
to put into effect those that are mutually agreed upon (Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
63.       Altogether, the technical assistance component would represent five
percent of total project costs. For all consultants, the qualifications,
terms of reference and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 3.03(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
Project Execution
64.       The project would take about five years to complete.  CORPAC would
be responsible for carrying out all project components. Tt would enter into
an agreement with COPESCO, the Cuzco regional tourism development corporation,
under which COPESCO would hire consultants to prepare the final design of the
Cuzco airport. CORPAC would make available loan funds on a grant basis and
provide technical support to COPESCO for this purpose. Execution of an
agreement between CORPAC and COPESCO, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of loan disbursement for this component (Section 3.01(b) and para-
graph 4 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
CORPAC's Financial Situation
65.       CORPAC's financial performance has been good since 1977.  Its
tariffs are linked to the dollar and have generally kept pace with infla-
tion in Peru. The Company has been able to cover all operating expenbes from
operating revenues (primarily charges for airport services and duty free shop
operations in Lima) and to carry out a limited investment program. Its after
tax rate of return on revalued assets rose from 0.8 percent in 1977 to 12.4
percent in 1979.
66.       CORPAC's liquidity situation is also satisfactory.  Its current and
liquid ratios for 1980 are estimated at 1.2 and 1.0 respectively. The ratio
of its accounts receivable to annual operating revenues is currently a satis-
factory 25 percent and CORPAC has agreed to maintain its ratio of accounts
receivable to operating revenues at no more than the present level (Section 5.05
of the draft Loan Agreement).
67.       In order to help CORPAC generate sufficient revenues to carry out
the major investment program represented by the project, in March   1980 the
Government reduced the applicable income tax rate for CORPAC from 45-55
percent to 10 percent for 1979 and thereafter. If CORPAC is to generate
sufficient cash to finance its portion of the investment program it will also
require a real increase in its tariffs of 15 percent by 1983. With this
action and the tax reduction, CORPAC's cash generation would cover its borrow-
ings and investment program, while maintaining good liquidity. It has been
agreed that CORPAC would apply and maintain tariffs and other charges as
necessary through the closing date of the loan to cover operating expenses,
debt service and the local cost of its investment program, including its share
of the local costs of the project (Section 5.06(a)(i) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Government agreement to permit tariff increases or to take
other measures to enable CORPAC to meet this obligation is reflected in the
provision of the Guarantee Agreement by which the Government guarantees the
punctual performance of all to Borrower's obligations under the Loan Agree-
ment (Section 2.01 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Finally, CORPAC has
agreed that it would earn at least an 8 percent return on revalued assets
(Section 5.06(a)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
68.       Because it has made few investments over the past ten years, CORPAC
has done little borrowing. It had almost no debt in 1980; with heavy bor-
rowing for the investment program its debt equity ratio would rise to an
acceptable 25/75 by 1985.



- 16 -
69.       During the next five years, while CORPAC is undertaking a substan-
tial investment program, it should be careful in initiating additional projects.
To this end, CORPAC has agreed to maintain a five year capital investment
program and would, not later than November 1 of each year until the Closing
Date of the Loan, update this program and promptly provide a copy to the Bank
for its comments (Section 5.07(i) of the draft Loan Agreement). Until the
closing date of the loan, CORPAC would also not undertake any investment of
more than US$1.0 million a year at any single airport (except for investments
included in this project) unless the investments were technically and economic-
ally justified (Section 5.07(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement). Finally,
CORPAC would not, without the Bank's agreement, incur any long term debt
unless it could maintain a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.5 (Section
5.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
70.       Total project cost (including US$10.0 million in taxes and duties)
would be US$127.6 million of which US$77.0, or 60 percent represents foreign
costs. The Bank loan would be for US$58.0 million, US$800,000 of which, in
accordance with usual Bank practices, would refinance the PPF advance (Section
2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Bank loan would be made to CORPAC
and would finance the foreign cost of all project components except the
communications system. The German Government, which is financing a feasibility
study of this system, has indicated that it is prepared to consider financing
the foreign cost of the component. The Bank has been advised that, if the
study is satisfactory, a loan -- most likely to be made by the Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau -- would be considered by end-CY1981 or early in 1982.
71.       CORPAC would finance US$49.4 million of the project's US$50.6
million local costs. The Government would finance the remaining US$1.2
million in local costs for the engineering of project airports, which is being
carried out by the DGTA, and for the final design of the Cuzco Airport which
will be carried out by COPESCO.
Procurement and Disbursement
72.       All contracts for civil works and equipment to be financed by the
Bank would be procured under international competitive bidding procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Qualified local suppliers of equipment
produced in Peru and those from Cartagena Agreement member countries parti-
cipating in international competitive bidding would be accorded a margin of
preference of 15 percent or the prevailing custom duty, whichever is lower.
73.       The Bank loan would finance:  (i) 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures for equipment; (ii) 60 percent of total expenditures for civil works;
and (iii) 70 percent of total expenditures for local and foreign consultants,
except for the technical advisors for CORPAC to supervise the design and
construction of project airports; 100 percent of foreign expenditure for
these advisors would be financed.



- 17
Benefits and Risks
74.       The lack of adequate infrastructure and facilities has restrained
the growth of Peru's civil aviation and reduced its efficiency. Airports are
frequently shut down because of poor operating conditions and many cannot
handle the most economical aircraft for existing traffic volumes. Also there
has been a growing safety problem because of the inadequacy of the communica-
tions and navigational aids systems.
75.       These problems not only make airline operations more costly, but
also hamper the Government efforts to promote regional development. Cities,
such as those included in the project, have poor land transport links and rely
heavily on air service. The Government's programs to stimulate regional
growth, therefore, depend in part on the adequacy of this service.
76.       The improvements in the existing airports at Tarapoto, Pucallpa and
Huanuco and the new airport at Tingo Maria would permit these towns to be
served by more cost-efficient aircraft and would reduce the number of cancelled
or delayed flights. Cost savings would produce an average rate of return of
22 percent (13 percent for Huanuco and Tingo Maria and 22 and 42 percent
respectively, for Tarapoto and Pucallpa). These are conservative estimates
based on fuel and operating cost savings through increased efficiency. They
do not take into account such factors as savings from the elimination of
flight cancellations due to bad weather and the use of Tarapoto rather than
more distant cities as an alternative landing site for flights which are
diverted from Iquitos or Pucallpa.
77.       The average rate of return on the equipment to be provided under
the project is about 18 percent. The benefits of the equipment component of
the project are reflected in reduced maintenance costs for new transistorized
equipment and aircraft time savings because of improved flight procedures.
Fuel savings through a reduction in aircraft time losses because of replacement
of inadequate equipment have been calculated on a conservative basis. Benefits
to foreign aircraft would be recaptured through a proposed 15 percent tariff
increase for enroute navigation services.
78.       The project's overall rate of return is 20 percent.  Sensitivity
analysis indicates that with a 15 percent increase in costs, the overall rate
of return would drop to 18 percent and no component would have less than an
11 percent rate of return. With a 25 percent decrease in benefits, the rate
of return would fall to 16 percent and only the flight inspectior. aircraft and
the Huanuco airport (with rates of return of 7 and 9 percent, respectively)
would have a return below 10 percent.
79.       This project faces no special risks.  CORPAC is a well-managed
company which should be able to carry out project construction in a timely
manner. The project should improve the environment in the four cities,
as noise from aircraft operations would be reduced and safety improved.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Loan Agreement between CORPAC and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Repubic of Peru and the Bank, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separatelv.
81.       These draft agreements conform to the normal pattern for loans
for aviation projects. The main features of the draft Loan and Project
Agreements are referred to in the text and are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A condition of loan disbursement for the final design of the Cuzco
airport would be the execution of an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank
between CORPAC and COPESCO (para. 64). Newly adopted legislation in Peru
provides that all agreements for foreign loans to Government entities (except
the Development Finance Corporation-COFIDE) must be registered with the Office
of Public Credit of the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce. Such
registration will be a condition of loan effectiveness of the proposed loan
and all other Bank loans to Peru in the future.
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
March 4, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-19-                                                                   Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL INNSCArOPS DATA SIFFT
PERU                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WFIGHTED AVFRAEPS
LAND AREA (THOUSAND      M.)                                                          - HO?ST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            1285. 2
AGRICULTURAL      305.5                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE IIICCIE           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE ft    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAII            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPtTA (U_S                    230.0       410.0      730.0                1562.9                     2749.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CArTTA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQLIVALESrPJ     445.0        619.0      649.0                1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOPULATIN, MID-TEAi (MILICIOhS)      10.2         13.5       16.8
LRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.3          57.4       65.6                  63.4                       53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIOSS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         29.0
STATIOIIARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          57.0
YEAR STATIONARY PUPLLATION IS REACHED                    2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. S1t.                        8.0         11.0       13.0                  28.1                      77.2
PER SQ. EM. ACRICULTURAL LAND      33.0         44.0       55.0                  81. 7                    1 9.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (-NRC17T)
0-14 YRS.                          44.2         45.0       42.9                  41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                          52.0         51.9       53.4                  54.7                      61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.8          3. 1       3. 7                  3.9                       8.2
POPULATION GROTH RLATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.6          2.8        2. 7                  2. 7                       1.6
URBAN                               4. 7/C       5.0        4. 5                  4. 1                      3. 3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0         43.0       39.0                  34.8                      22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0         15.0       12.0                   8.9                        8.9
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3. I/d       2.9        2.8                   2.5                        1. 5
FAMILY PLANIENC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUITRITION
INDEX OF FuOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0        102.0      85.0                  106.9                     113. 1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    95.0         99.0       97.0                 107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           62.0         61.0       59.0                  65.6                      91.0
OF WHICH ANSIMAL AND PULSE       27.0         25.0       24.0                  33.7                      39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      28.0         20.0       16.0                   8.4                        4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    48.0          53.0       56.0                  63. 1                     67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       122. 0fe      ..                  66. 5                     55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         35.0       47.0                  65.9
URBAN                                ..         58.0       72.0                  80.4 
RURAL                                *.          8.0       15.0                  44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         36.0         ..                  62.3
URBAN                                ..         52.0         ..                  79.4
RURAL                                           16.0         ..                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2251.Of    1859.0    1556.0                  1849.2                    1030.1
POPL1LATION PER NURSING PERSON     2205.0/f      738.0      745.0                1227.5                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             424. O°i     470.0      547.0                 480.3                     289.7
URBAN                                ..        425.0
RURAL                                ..       3144.0
ADIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         19.0         ..                    *-                       17.0
ROUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.9          4.9/h
URBAN                               4. 8         S. 17h
RURAL                               4. 9         4. 7/h
AVERACE NUMBER OF PLNSONS PUR RO81
TOTAI.                              2. 3         1. 9!L      .
URBAN                               2.0          1. 7/h
RURAL                               2. 7         2. 42h
ACCESS T1 ElFCTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DW/ELLINGS)
TOTAL                              26.0         32. 1        ..
URRAN                              50.7         54. 3        ..
RURAL                               L2 7/h



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                                     Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PERU - SOCIAL IE1ICATORS DATA SHEET
PERU                          REFERENCE G5ROUPS (WEIGIITED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT FSTIMATZ)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 83.0        107.0      110.0                  99.7                     105.9
MALE                  95.0        114.0     115.0                  101.0                    109.3
FEEIALE               71.0         99.0     106.0                  99.4                     103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  15.0        30.0       52.0                  34.4                     64.0
MALE                  18.0         34.0      56.0                   33.5                     71. 1
ERALE                13. 0        26.0      48.0                  34. 7                     56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  20.0           17.0      23.0                  38.2                      28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             34.0        40.0       40.0                  30.5                     29.4
SECONDARY                           12.0        23.0       23.0                  14.3                     26. 1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         61.0 .                72.0                  76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          8.0         17.0       18.4                  43.0                     84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATTON                         110.0       137.0      131.0                 245.3                    192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0        30.0       38.0                  84.2                    118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..       124.0       96.0                  63. 3                    93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                    ..                       5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       3187.8      3909.3    4980.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.0         20. 7      23.9                  22.2                     30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              53.0         45.0       39.0                  37. 1                    37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.0         20.0       21.0                  23.5                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.3        29.1       29.2                  31.5                      40.9
MALE                                  49.2        45.8       45.3                  48.9                     55.9
FEMALE                                13.2        12. 1      12.8                  14.0                     26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1. 7      1.6                   1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   39. 0/i
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  64.4/i        61.0/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOLSEHOLDS    2.5/i         1.9/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    8. I/i        7. 0/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTDIATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      235. 0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      180.0                 190.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      293.0                 474.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      200.0                 332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOIE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       49. 0
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are populatlon-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on avallability of data and is not uniform.
Lh   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, berween 1974 and 1978.
/c   1956-61;  /d 1960-65;  /e 1970-75;  /f 1964;  /a 1962;  /h 1972;  /A  Personal income within labor
force.
Most recent estImace of GNP per capita is for 1979, all ocher data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANMEX I
- 21-                                                                                                    Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF 1OCIAL1 MIC1ATO6S
te-e    hith-uh the data a-e dtae   Ire  tnf re   teeas injude   h   as   ahrtat.adcl t .t  hudea he netedh-that theyTmay na  be  eter-
nannal  asaab-      tert  i   helck..tatarie  dtniien   n  caepeuedb  dtere   eutie   ntabntn   tedta    hedtdae  tns
t     -ls    nfu1 Ic denc.th  oresll  mantue   indicate-tend, and  c-ar            -le   etin m Jat d11ff.  i..ce.ett             atries
The tnierentetrauptate ID he              1 tse -cttsgcnc   the tab jIct ce.tnirsd (2) acusr   gupithtnmnhstthigh.,aergeiic-etheth.eina..tey geaup
it the ecojctinancry  (scepi let ' apia   uea    i  bacte                h-gi0   ot  "Mtiddle  I-o  Nc-th Attc   adMiddle LEst  It chosen benanee If etroegee
entle-cataral ailnities  .In thl -efeenc   g-ip dat  thel ..e..g. are pepalatinn neithIed arthmet,c teens fc teh indic-t- aed shse  ..b  chat en
let   ai   tth   enoltm                   grs   itdt   c   ta   niau            Inc  th  rnesec  cutltana,h oicnr   eedea                               -h nilebility  If
deteh and   f taaultntn11il ,       cu Ai nat  lhe  secldi cdarnbat        tgt        hi  a    -n-iatu    c --Ithn .  Tbe.a.  tg.ae..yneu  icmaig  h    ea
cfInneindic--nit atnnnaani.g thecI.cunttundte-ft-nc gluapa.
LAND AiEu  (,hnuad nqkn)                                                                          ypnsic  crc P'hysoin 1         Ipua        diulacs ny ea-nes  at pl.tertitsg phy-
Ocal-ina  nun si   racstehgln    raadtaidatr.sican   oulitid fcac std ical echnal at anieesinylni
Egiclutl - iimt  at aniculunl-         -   - aren .aged  innai y atptarti             P~lIa    t   asa    etn    auaindiside   by ca,:het a                       .t pe inig
""h.. g-dIb.                                           f-Il Pnpbancipy Oe-da-ted Inel ura.sdram       eseme    tti
c~-utaceid ho naeaue-     ic rhud an  atid lank utiun  (19717-7  baninl; 19h0,                   enteteifuli   n    eiaegres   ndaetlie    nptti,.  bedye
1910, aid  ha-  '.i.b.>i  Pnaii                                                                                   blinneaer.d pltti-aeteenhletm               erserlysafe
hy  i lastte  phatnan.Eaahhshmet  pherdte Prtanially  nesmedi
itORti IONSLttPTION PER 00170T  - Annua I..a...nptia_  ci  bny                                            Iia tg   cd  aear   o   Iedd.    te  hepnes .ene,idriad i eeit11  ead mdical
and thnine,  enrutes. netral gis and  ydra-.nudestand gethetnsl then           cennec,n       i prtasnedly gmifIed b  siphyboise-     htn bys madial dms daiemt
tlIt)In kIltg-em   at anal  q.i--len   pet capita; 1OhI, 1970, and 19708are  niata. et.) aity  niter b tepetteen armedtt                                      tan  payd
data.                                                                                            liitdrse a1 mad- e hischltfe.    Par stdt tialpaseeura  beed
POPTLOIOO slat00101IitilMtIP
dOUATa.  N  VT_  TAITC                                                                            .I.  hn- ptidt  diO,ided  hy tie nube  it teds.;l.dh it.,-                     t1
Tondcont        tt;tol  10,ad97dAi. f                                                         Onet1IO   17,.d  98a, nPiit   at. Iatenl  hr.tn p ei nahli-tea.ahc   e   e
Papulatint tnI ceninne                                            beseehald  cnsiats nO atrACy no unIfiul edbn share.  liing  -ettet
lOEse    sad .eat 20e   necetc  ateiln-nba-7 .1  et.  be.d-18 Pa-                             dAlId gt         . cenpecIiselo       ieiotetdeant~annatrs
tetih    scatdig  e   a          -nr  te.. sad Dent tasul  plnigptttai  .               Ocni ...ili  ptet  ldrlnsy.  nl.aht adma
aa   erlui   red I-d   rf enie   pup-ra                                                     n  tca,  rbn,an  rca-d-iinadapc-sey
the blci  tact I  eqnsl  a tic dest ca I, sabie  h   g 7 ttuiucee-         ooc fppt    ..pl                                                             -
mintltne'h                                           -eutint-e nlth-anlirn Ia eduatn    atietmysre    i   en
Dean niatiasry nneultiie is r   pahed  - Th  Cts   be   itsmrb-ultn                    inc -nm  papiStaehgeb             nabs   h  nitcta  suen  ag.l.
tuehin been reahed.                                                  gec-nareacnnt d  -uta1 ache                                  .g an   nal-epa         ashn;aendr
Pra.h . sstiealtuhalland-T-ma_ed  asebeertuc-asri-lGu...lnsd                              enaludtd
Pny    I---n:leeelei srca    i eeda')-_natna  Cntthin
P ieal hcien he    't:u ",hn Irerc Pnt  J -_thidre 0-4yc)siCn-g   (1-lsfdnehnnt.idatihi   tahncaem  oihnesriapr
04sas)   n    itdI(5yIr adnet  at pelltncar  oh  idyer..                         D d.nty a  asdyRirnen tna tysiutet
letien, t0. 17,an   98  aa                                                                     Pua-recenrai  f- drifacy,1-  tecgtdhrI- PIntel snd...a IIestiedi
east pnashne  n b l   195-60,i COh-bld  saTd 190-79h.                                           eneni-ynpending  letrhit      d
p   kuait;10,190   n  197  data.                 l ..E0                                                                   .d  .df5 _T-d  .   .V;  ...OOb
CrdeDeth  ae(r  hnn1-Anuldah    e  t--atnd  e hl-yr-nr                                       P    ..ten ..r tern (see th .s.n epIenina; -  PIf ee  er   npee               an
psyalaiec,  960,  970, ad tIl  data                                                   cars neetingi_  lest.d  l   tha  siht  ancnt;cnnad      g umbtenta,'d fearta -se
he   eml  pedu-citte(6 petind  it a 1bs eyra-   pbl- etAg~   age-s_eciti  ten-         adn Oesst   crtnrn    srlt l-61tpse  retainer                                   ....red
ii it   196;uelt0        layaraeae  a  iga  11,17,  n    9) b1nd7nreagrrrldphia1pr7b8uee                                                            ..t D tpia...Ine nne   et
at  tll-6aain   age6-7,  119704y  78rt  nOpt-tc-asta.gsetta                       T'Oeeec         (      Ire tru ts 1  dnultetn p..t-    g1 d crelr  tar- hndca  en
£501d dtD-tTlIth                                                                                   it npunitlesd end. Il  yeart stan-.   rdgietthetdtnt-it   To-g  trim  ass he   -
loden eL Fnad Praduntlan ret Ca.c ..99-tId )    Idennhpe  capita, Ieua                    tine al "aly   reabneeterppn,dtnlassidclpb
pradctun ttallPon    ,,meItIles. trnantnt  e lode   teedan P ire    n                  Rdasi n  dri nted iptiaiyi  r              lggAlrl  ceypa. If   is ...       dre
ha nc calendar yea   h   yCe   ...cdihe  cater primary g60d 1 e.g. suacd      e          e  ha b "da-it"  It.. hi aprbain at lathtnnttled          nek
bl ae  nl- dd       ugIgtfpnun    n ti rae   ce -cty  pis hted s                            nicke--n n--d-duing  --i- en .nld iagadIsa t-E In dtina-Ifrlnama
enryrqiart  Ier  adeip_ssslhrisnstrietspt                                                    no   oc
reant   a  cbat11ligr  ic aten44 Net)  h.plr -bnclod        I anma  L_e,_ srd,            acdOrt   n   tepae    uteouighusle                              net.el
dutiucue   ntn    rot  tg,adln                    ndsebto.RqIte                       TV liletC  sanest caungd Ppleti Ir ta TVeanbi;fOO, b197.  ard.   
LOD_Nit   n   elhtsinIgeotartltmraue   oyuthe   s                                             lema,  )erc        d II- Female lsh-  _atin  asl penatg         Ct   abrfra
I td aetbFld lesa.t;i196-61, 197, and t97 data -laingat  eroItfe n  itat.pbot.ee;  960.190 ed 178_eta
ne.opl   ymd per day   SetJappi   I(n  i   ete   a   to.l-                          n    lcrii          serddgta pR Ienag   of  cl   laht  fares i91
qurnnc   s  allatactisasanhitda   h                     -Ihpnod   e  midsteud        1970-sod. d97td iptis.       yt     -ti,gg..                                  
alessan   h  iras  ttna  pondint pe  day and.t 11 etact  gl anea  ad            PrIclrin "d lacy       (aiet If  - ecet mat. ard teal -_erk              hptaa
tbas   neet   s  t                  deran   ntineld pI aph ted-y IPal- In b.hr                190,k  197d ad  t975Ih ysets.Th ce areitO  .i.   ..ptein dp i-ietcsaeflrn_et
_ond  oa _2roey;16-, 1970 an  197  date.                       d111 
tn   eiscrnh arlyta    ema  n   nt  - ProI teh - nplly   at (sad. Or-                       sAt-sCEa  rntr   itepptcn.ndlt   heted                                   e    a
A, i   btd_tid~~~~~~~~~~mts  r  Ie  nsneientt
rie    cs  ast  sad .pu lles i t grmi e  dy    91li   91sddO    aa.                fnnt lnarc il-tn-            - t1latC1.Eal.nenPt...ada .itan  NIt adroa
I'll i                                                           I  I..~~~~~~~~~~5pecen  ..hetl pI_ et  pa.Itet dl  p-btant, landpars 197    perne
llytetaectnc  anIl birt  )ycsre  -I-lb. - hoerag- achetyai  ra-nFaI hIe teogaoing              of huneholda
as.hitch; 1900,   1971 ned   1970 dat.d197dt._f-tyhtg d
e.tagpe  thousand I    s f   iehs                                                           ishete  hnnue nRg  lon-  Iee     00  p t cets) -abrhe  end. r9r0
peorour-    a  thetCr repecilc   papahatIdass .-    p..b.Isa  ahn Tehplhc                      Naalre ledporo   Ite_ts  IrN   iee-hr                         Illan rag   partpit
dont -aat  soesd ed pdllarDtleaaa   part at the da,sP           ro g h;n rurald                       - FeRnent o       Ropsisa Ifaphaa sad rua-d       a   r      alaepn'
1cem  t  4Nort lianltysal l (s Puatd thra-atd    - Ata-I daihac  and                            lt.              .t
r   -pta4l-tat tbahIl1-apt        tthti, aban   sedteel   fetnsb   eanrat1e.   ..-
sisnl.  as ti. ferseege  laftei           1960t 197 tin  d p 197C7a d~tenac  dIN-COMEe   saItacaR  ateDtnaOa
nesal  ay Inlude  he nalattie  tedSisrasl, ani or  ittnuteeaceee.                  ineeni  haslals ad Pin-rtbas Deyr hse                  t
iALt-hama -ncrtasdasti           scrhlter..bn-eesysc -  If thease                   .             ,p1b,  ih.t2    -.t   -  .  at                 perbithe   19p11     .  4   .l
pn'i    lee   and altla  hoa...lA"tIinnhad.






2 22 -
ANNEX I
Ppge 4 of 5
PERU
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMlENT DATA
A C T U A L                                                                   P R O J E C T E D                              GROWTH RATE (# p.a.)                Nof
1965           1970          1975           1976          1977           1978 p/       1979 Z/       1980           1985                       1965-76   1976-78    1978-85              GDP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(illons of OR dollars at 1977 pi.ces)
Grors Do-etic Product                        9046.7         10759.9      13403.2        13718.9        13639.6       13795.6        14247.6       i4685.5       18695.9                        3.9        0.3        4.4               l00.0
GaAs. fro  Terms of Trods                    -610.9           130.0       -246.9         -179.4            0.0        -186.3          467.9        0C1' J         501.2                         .          .          .                  0
Gross Domsetic Income (GDY)                   8435.8        10889.9      13156.3        13539.5        13639.6       13609.3        14715.5       15489.9       19197.1                        4.4        0.3        5.0               100.0
Imports                                      1840.2          2190.1       2985.4         2697.7         2706.8        1868.3         2135.4       2742.2         4240.8                        3.5      -16.8       12.4                19.8
Ecports                                      2314.3          2616.8       1906.9         1908.8         2129.5        2355.1         2646.8        2655.3        3136.9                       -1.7       11.1        4.2                15.6
Exports, Tern of Trado Adjusted               1703.4         2746.8       166o.o         1729.4         2129.5        2168.8         3314.6        3459.7        3638.1                        0.1       12.0        7.7                15.6
Resource Gap,Terui of Trade Adjusted (-:euspl-m) 136.8       -556.7       1325.4          968.3          577.3        -300.5        -1179.2        -717.5        -602.7                                                                  4.2
Total Cossu=ption                            6605.5          8735.3      11339.7        11766.6        12172.2       11505.3        11588.3       12392.3       15183.5                        5.4       -1.1        4.o                89.2
Investmnt                                    1967.1          1597.9       3142.0         2741.2         2044.7        1803.5         1947.9       2380.1         3410.9                        3.1      -18.9        9.5                15 .0
Domestic 6evings                             1830.3          2154.6       1826.6         1772.9         1467.4        2104.0         3127.2       3097.6         4013.6                       -0.3        8.9        9.7                10.8
d/ prelimAnary
PRICES IN US DOLLARS
(1977 c 100)
Euport Price lmdec                             32.9            46.5         87.4           90.6          100.0         101.3          142.4
Import Price Index                             44.7            44.3        100.4           95.7          100.0        110.0           122.3
Terms of Trade Iden                           73.6           105.0         87.1           94.7          100.0         92.1           116.4
Annual Average Eauoangs RGte (Gales per S)     26.8            38.7         40.8           57.4           83.81        156.3          224.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVIUY IN                                GNP by Sector                                                          Labor Force                                                   Labor Productivity
1970 PRICES                                In Mil. of US Doll-ro       Perce-t of Total                Gro-th Rate      ID Thousende              Percent of Total             Grovth Rate                   An US Dellarm        # of Average Growth Rats
19'70           L979       1970            1979              1970-79        197G        1979          1970            1979           1970-79             2970            1979         1970   1979   1970-79
Agriculture                                 1534.2          1536.6       17.3           13.9                0           2011.9      2222.4         48.o            40.8            1.1                762.6            691.4       36.1   31.9   -1.1
InduStry                                   3226.3           4476.5       36.5           38.0                3.7          769.1      1005.3         18.4            18.5            3.0               4194.9          4452.9       198.6  205.4    0.7
Srvices                                    4084.8           5780.6       46.2           49.0                3.9         1407.6      2212           33.6            407             5.2               220             2612.2       137.4  120.5   -1.2
Total/Average                              345.3           11793.7      100.0          100.0                3.2          16         5440.         100.0           100.0            2.9               2111.8          2167.7       100.0  I 7        0.3
CENTrAL GODERNhENT FINANCE                                                                                                                                      Projected
(us percent of Currrnt rDP)                1965             1970       1975            1976                1977         1978        1979          1980            1981             1982
Current Revenue                              13.2             14.6       14.0           13.4               13.5           14.5        16.6         19.4            19.4           19.5
Corrent Enpeoditore                           12.4            12.1       14.4           i4.8               16.9           15.7        i4.o         i6.0            16.7           17.2
Current 6arirgs                               o.8              2.5       -0.4           -1.4               -3.4           -1.2         2.6          3.4             2.7            2.3
Capital Expenditure                           3.9              3.7        4.5            4.5                3.5            3.1         3.9          3.9             3.9            3.9
External Assistasce (Net)                     1.0              0.5        2.3            1.8                3.0            0.4        -0.2          3.4             n.a.           n.a.
CU4RENT EXPENDITURS DETAILS-                                Actal                                                      DETAIL ON                               1977l/82 DveS  ent Plan
(e4 percent of total Current Expend.)      1968             1975       1976            1977                1978        PUBLIC SECTOR                           US SHillon     Total
INV250MENT PROGRAM
Educ-tion                                     30.6            27.9       22.9           18.1               16.1
en.lth                                        9.0              6.3        6.2            4.7                6.0         Agriculture                              1262.2           19.6
Agriculture                                   3.6              4.4        1.8            1.3                3.4         Tndustry, To-ris and MiAnig              1375.1           21.3
Other Econo ic oSrvice.                       3.2              4.0        5.2            3.2                2.7         Energy                                   1794.4           27.8
Genoral S-rives (inc. defence)               46.4             42.7       46.9           54.1               45.2         Tre-mport and Coasonicstiun               892.4           13.8
Interest on Debt                              5.4             11.3       10.8           15.1               24.1        2Scic1 ad Local Interect Projecto         1128.3           17.5
Other                                         1.8             3.3         6.2            3.5                2.5
Total Current Expenditures                 100.0           100.0      100.0          100.0              100.0         Totel                                    65.              1500
MONEY AND CREDIT                            1973            1974       1975            1976                1977          1978       1979
ThRll-o=  of Soles cutotnuding
at the end uf period)
loney and Quosi-1onuy                       98268          119996      141766         166296              220453       321200      615699
BRak Credit to Public Sector               27234            26896      49711          101399              198854       287700      212129
Beck Credit to Privats Sector              73189            84512      108234         134536              173772       239300      379509
MOcuy cc percent uf GOP                     25.0             24.3        22.4           20.0                1.           07          10
Coxucuer Price cIdsx in Soles (1977=100)    37.5           43.9        54.3           72.4               lOO10         157.8      284.7
Ancual perceutage uhacge in:
Conoser Pice Index in Sles                9.5            16.9        23.7           33.5                38.0          57.8       67.7
BRnk Credit tu Public Sctor              53.7            -1.2        84.8          104.0                96.1         44.7       _26.3
Scok Credit to Private Sector           27.7             15.5        28.1           24.3                29.2         37.7        58.6
torc 4, 1981



- 23-                                                                                                              fee   5t
A C T UAL                                                                                         PROJ 00700 D
40101101OP ORIAOO OP PRTUS                     1922        1973        1974         1975      1976          1977         1972        1979                             1910            1985            1990
0000rt5  icain   I                                   1152.9      15  17.     o828. a     1674c1     179.6        7157.8       2399.9      4066c                            6507.            874'.           1948.6
I.,:,t  (icodt  97)                                   129        214.0.      212.3       3-02.      268.          264.        200.        2619.2                           3915.8,         788,5.2          13985.4
Assoro ..iac  (deficit =)50.0                                      57.1      -634.,     -347.9    -834           -566          39.8       0447.2                             590.381,-03.
is   atc   -ccs(ic                         -12.9       -10.        -28.5       -2t0.3    -366.4         -426. 4       577.7      477.3                            -793.6         -1201.7          -187  1.
litIneet Pesste                               74.2      -0107       -,175.8     -214.0    -324.0        -370.9        -563        -6335.                                            800             34.
cc sicci cc poll12 8817 Iceco        - ~~~~~50.      31       -(.         -186.6     -98.6         248.0       -707.2       456.                            -487.           -668 .5         -1228.:1
iecIcotsiIcc-e                            .6.7        -  0.2      - 42.7      - 26.3     -4o2.4       - 36.5       - 61.t      -064.                            -347.9          -517-729.7
Net Oc--et Ircafer                                     39.2        42.1        45.1        19.1       57.9         56.8         56.0)       94.0                            132.3            16.2             209.2
tasc cC-re   Icocit                            -391.7       091. 6      a.875      _153696    -090.9       -926.         -00.          63.9                           - 70.0          -243.3          -288.9
list Diret  -eli, Occtt-t                              24.2        49.4       ic3.8       505.7      170.8         54.1         25.0        62.0                           - 20.7            76.0             155.0
Disiccoseec                                       280.0        667.4      0980        i0.        144.4         028.-.       841.0      1540.3                           1401.8          1970.1         14725.
1,tttc.ti-                                     .104        -0. -        338.       -29.4    -354-.                       -26.        -67.2-85c.                                     -1546.0          -991.0
set ttrrcetcg                     049.6       362.9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:  77.6  830.8  890         620.0         595.8       694.1                            596.6           424.0          2735 .2
lOclaresesat                           20.1~      ~~~~ ~ ~~~~             ~~~ 67.  805  84.5,  87.9  74.3       61.8        81.4                             93.9           187.            301.5
Rcatissa                                       - 30.8      - 38.3        478      _- 567         5.2       - 74.        - 73.         78.2                           -29.1819                        -3.
lid  troia-3.7                                                   9.3        32.7         78        1.            0.1       - 0.2          3.2                              40536.
Oitrt-tsce Otpltal                       25.~~~~~~~~~~~~17  -124.7  263.5  -150-.0    -350.0       - 975        -75.5        110.9                            350.0      0                      0
Oc.s Cepilte  (let)                                   848       - 916       - 15        -  5.6        0            0         -8.           85.2                              0               09 -            06
cis,s  It Reot   -iac--s) 2/                          - 5.4      -1.3        -281.6      350.1       520 .4       349 .7      - 20       -589                              -859.98         -28203          -27.5
Iscel of Oors(cc .l cf 110 penil p/                   c1          476         897.        165.1    -355.3        -705.0       -627.        995.9                           11.              04349.
P01090710     Orceti Rtes 18 p...)           Pecsta Totel
eE -caOtbP  tR9cI42                                              i922        1974        1975       1976         /9ZZ         1978        3W9                              1980-           -1905    1972-76      19-78-70      1970.05~ Z              al
OttO                                         ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~75.1  83.6   96.4       185.5      219.3        183.0        182.9       1596.1                           276.            80566.     07         -1.            22.        .           .
Ote0    att trdial                                     13.9        43.3        4i.4        84.5      126.4        051           91.1       157.7                            149.040.                  67.9           17.6        24.0      5.6         9.
Petr-lss  oa.-sa - -ric-l..a                           37.3        t71         99.4       267.4      260.8       2"68.9         39.0         I                                0                         6.6       -63.4             .     100          0.
acer    ..esocd                                336.6       339.        564.1       962.6      60.o         626.9        532.7        7991099.8                                      2504        15.8        - 5.9          24.8    23 .2        31.8
OspItod coals                     097.4       307.7       469.2       750 .0       7.         4606    1.6  65           8789                              150           2103.9     36.0        -17.6          23.8     17.4        25.
Rd3dateectc sad caa-scceierc tall       ~~~~151.7    19.         638.5       160.1      216.9        673.0        501.4       310.3                            50.5            8600       9.3          21.8         33.1     17.6        18.9
ota geaRs 6P.a.0.b                                    81.0       1032.9      0908.9      2391.1    21100         oo64.o       0610.5      2052.7                           3035.8          6484.6    26.8         - 1.7          22 .1    80.3        82.0
tHa-ftar  -olce                                       291.9       367.        553.6       631.9      528.0        530.4        469.6       566.3                            8100           1420.6     161            57           7.      19.7        i8.o
Tall stdssodttsfatarserkee111.9          111.0        8623       3220       2628.0       2694.4        2070.1      2615.                           3915.8          7105.   22   :          -  1.          2.    11.0          11.1
FisOsel                                               219.5       137.7       2018        153.8      177.5        179.0        191.        23.                              180.            283.7    - 5.2           4.0          5.8      84          7.3
C  foe                                                 69.         63.6        34.8        53.       101.0        16.3         168.2       246.8                            163.4           280.4     19.8          29.0          6.4      9.30
81sk    ciat-cc  1al                                   98.6       203.7       357.1       385.8      20.           76.6        158.6       2116                             219.5           650.7      0.?          11.8         22.3      8.3         7.9
Dipper                                  r88.o       525.0       500.0 ~~~~~~~~8155.7   2270         592.3         408.6       875707.3                                        1341.       o.            4.2         18.5     18.4        15i4
slte                                                 61.2         79.5       140.9       183         651         125          21.         392                              5.8862.8    26.1                        19.4         22.8      8,o         9.9
1111cr slcerale                         ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~189.3  225.0  282.9  250.3   548.6        335.:7        296.6       100.0                            403.            757.6    03.93- 35                   16.3     15.7         8.
Drts.1s, cradeaoRrsle                                 6.5        15.0        28.2        37.3       53.3         52.         17.         645.7                            797.87/        1589.97/   69.2          85.7         345.5     2.4        07.3
saaol-s  cods                                       32.          65.2       1560.5      10.        I3.0         221.         330.0       677.2                            775.2          1869.0     42.0          57.5         28.      10.         21.4
Ttali  od                                             945.       1111.8      15303.2     129.       1399          75.6        o9A.        3074.0                           7838.           7536.0 ..55                           2.        07         8.
N           -i...t sccte                              207.9       239.4       325.0       385.5      385.         412.2        '159.3      591.8                            4670.6         0168.4    16.7            9.2         16.7     89.3        113.4
cocci cccl.sad cca-foctr cerc..e             1152.9     1307.2       0628.2      1670.1     17846.6      203~7.8      2549.9      1066.4                           6507.1          8710.t    10.9           07.3         20.2   1100          00.
1Wm                                                 1950500  33  19l2        1974    1975      4976     1977      0978        1979                                                                             -1os
8972           1973         1974                1915  178       1977     1970-  1979
1011                                                              49.0        26.0       0     174.1     80.0       8.8       171.0(. -   .1 
wa                                                    0            00                            0                                         10W16  B5-5t   OLWc00    mlrs   o)~
04t-  ad10tce                                                      86         25.9      t2.0 113.4    42.11  ~33.              73.4                               M  
locersasctt                            210~~ ~~~~~~~           ~~~~~.1  358.5  541.3  586.7  845.3    45.  262    5258       Ucos Dell Oatt-ll147og (0010 sad.3                                                              441.  ~30    99
sopplies                   85.o        17.2        a3.8       80.1 139.1    39.5         733        216.6         of tie  srloll                  047.0          130.0      221.13318.8               366.3    4411365863.   9031.
S.                                      85~~~~~~~~~~6.24 5.      8.        3.      9.       8.        0.          6.          alll   olied13.                                  51        3434           40202      555991   6437.6  8742.9   70.
Fi-.~~l 1-t-ti-                        161.2       05.           08.     03.    908        1.3         000ulcDilI6cc                                           182.46-508.0    -031.9                 -440:7      - 453.0-   653.3  -749.5  -918.4
Tat.  811. 4.sa4617                                             1297.4      1318.2    947.6  1862.7  1118.4       501.8      1891.3       Iatss                              52.          -93.1        - 13.2       - 16.9    - 19907.       6.   375-3.
a0is  861  Ics  (a cecisie                                   -                 -                                                          108  00001  (oblic  taut)
(alTiOl   000 D0icrssd  aclc8                                          0-=tcito cof te.3,1979                                             aetlrieRta  108OO)                 1.              29.5        23.6          26.3        26.1      38.6    31.2    22.8
oaon  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~         ~        ~             ~ ~ ~                                              0011 Direice                                        3.9         5.6           0.9         7.1       6.8      6.3      6.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bt-i    -- (=  OO 15  48  .3 6.
teal Ircuop                                           234.7           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.0             411 -eri-e/Gat. Isoo-              15.5            28.9        24.4          20.7        23.4      35.6    43.4   .37.3
Ots  otisn-l-                                                                 96.8             1.6                                        Prso          Dii
Oa- -teol                                                                    2407.9          40.6                                         196766j11tall10                      .              6.5         5.1           6.2         5.4       5.3      5.9      7.4
Ooppllera                                                7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'02.  11.8                                                             '                            q14.6                    12.4      13.9    13.9    45.5
8,Pi-sca   ctltcs(60.bo                                                       488            4.                                           TotalDl   soc/ot  0                17.6             7.8        095
Tals  -clOic . 7D                                                            5971.5          1100                                         T9 014/ecl  (1I           .tO       544.                       43.8          36:.8       33.       48.2    40.7    42.45
OIter 811. sat                                                                c..84taas/eot   oa,c0                                                                            .8            19.         2632.                      65       23.9      45       7.5
Bet fratrOos4ioreat                5.9            40.4        86.0           80.2        48.9      49.7    11.0      1.
807 N0 It P010  008
0210 0111./cross 1156=    7.3:5            1.            8.          i4          2.2       2.       3.0      5.5
Isaic cr007 lIi./Oroac Dial. 3.            1.3         o.8           1.4         2.2       2.5      7.0      5.5
00101002000               12~~     ~     ~~~.5  92     59            4.6         4.c       3.:6     34       4.0
00 Rroa  .oR/DOD                  12.5             9.            9           4.6         40         3.6      3.4      4.0
01001  oecle1t     1  Rerics       8.6             90           4.09         4.          4.3       3.4       3.6      3.3
san  Dsa   111lr/08   eo       .6             0.          4.1           4.2         4.3       3.       3.6      3.
ttieaoo  il04   ie  slos   cta"losof Paytete  Mslo.                                                                                                                                                                                              sri4, 1981



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PERU
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at January 31, 1981)
--- US$ million ---
Amount
Loan                                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year            Borrower             Purpose              Bank     Undisbursed
25 loans fully disbursed                                          268.2
949      1973       Republic of Peru         Education             24.0          8.6
1025     1974       Republic of Peru         Roads                 26.0          0.7
1196     1976       Republic of Peru         Transport             76.5        48.4
1215     1976       Republic of Peru         Power                 36.0         11.2
1281     1976       CENTROMIN                Mining                39.7         23.3
1283     1976       Banco Vivienda           Urban Dev.            21.6         13.6
1358     1977       COFIDE                   Industry              35.0         15.8
1403     1977       Republic of Peru         Agriculture           25.0         24.1
S-ll     1978       Republic of Peru         Preinvestment          8.8          4.1
1693     1979       Republic of Peru         Program Loan         115.0         0.7
1771     1980       Republic of Peru         Irrigation            56.0        56.0
1806     1980       Petroleos del Peru       Petroleum Prod.       32.5         32.1
1812 1/  1980       Republic of Peru         Rural Dev.            15.0         15.0
1888     1980       Republic of Peru         Preinvestment          7.5          7.5
S-19 1/  1980       SIDERPERU                Technical Asst.        5.0          5.0
Total                                                      791.8        266.1
of which has been repaid                                160.9
Total now outstanding                                      630.9
Amount sold                            18.3
of which has been repaid           18.3                   -
Total now held by Bank                                     630.9
Total undisbursed                                                       266.1
1/   Not yet effective.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1981)
Type of        Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                      Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1960       Industrias Reunidas, S.A.          Home Appliances  0.3                0.3
1960       Luren S.A. and
Ladrillos Calcareos, S.A.       Bricks            0.3               0.3
1960       Durisol del Peru, S.A.             Building
Materials         0.3              0.3
1960;1962  Fertilizantes Sinteticos, S.A.  Fertilizers          4.1               4.1
1962;1968  Cemento Andino. S.A.               Cement            2.2      0.2      2.4
1964;1967  Cia. de Cemento Pacasmayo          Cement             1.1     0.5      1.6
1975       Southern Peru Copper Corp.         Mining           15.0              15.0
1978       Cia. de Minas Buenaventura         Mining            2.0      0.5      2.5
1980       Cia. Minera San Ignacio
de Morococha, S.A.              Mining            2.7      0.5      3.2
Total gross commitments                              28.0     1.7    29.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                            13.9      0.4    14.3
Total commitments now held by IFC                    14.1     1.3    15.4
Total undisbursed                                     2.2      -       2.2



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 11
Loan 949-PE: Education Project; US$24.0 million Loan of December 5, 1973;
Effective Date: March 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project has experienced serious difficulties and is now about
40 months behind schedule. In the first 3-1/2 years after effectiveness,
there was little progress owing to delays in establishing and staffing the
project unit, weaknesses in the unit itself and a long delay in adopting the
educational reform which was to determine curricula. This last difficulty was
resolved with the reform's implementation in 1977, but project execution was
still hampered by weaknesses in the project unit and cumbersome bureau-
cratic procedures.  In order to resolve these problems, the project has been
modified to reduce its scope, increase the Bank disbursement percentage,
create a revolving fund and improve administrative procedures (see President's
memorandum R79-59 of March 27, 1979). As a result, the pace of project
execution has improved noticeably in recent months and disbursements now stand
at about US$15.4 million.
Loan 1025-PE: Sixth Highway Project; US$25.0 million Loan of July 1, 1974;
Effective Date: August 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan 1025-PE finances improvement of the Lima-Pucallpa highway which
connects the Amazon basin to the Pacific Coast. In view of the unusually
difficult terrain and limited Government implementation capacity, the works
was divided into two stages which were financed by separate loans, 1025-PE and
1196-PE (see below). Because of initial delays and substantial cost increases,
the scope of the project was reduced in February 1978 (see President's Memo-
randum R78-360 of February 17, 1978) and the Closing Date postponed. Construc-
tion has been completed and studies are being finished up. Since the loan is
almost fully disbursed, we do not anticipate any extension of the closing date.
Loan 1196-PE: Lima-Amazon Transport Corridor Project; US$76.5 million Loan of
May 27, 1976; Effective Date: August 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the project's river ports component is almost completed,
although with some cost increases because of start-up difficulties. There have
been serious delays in contracting for civil works under the road component
because of slow procedures and limited Government implementation capacity.
These problems now appear to be largely overcome and construction is underway
on all project components. The project has been modified so as to increase
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Fxecutive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
the financing for urgently needed road maintenance and eliminate improvement
of those road sections which cannot be completed within a reasonable time
(see President's memorandum R79-88 of April 27, 1979).
Loan 1215-PE: Fifth Power Project; US$36.0 million Loan of September 20, 1976;
Effective Date: November 18, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The slowdown of demand in ELECTROLIMA's market in the wake of the
recent economic difficulties, as well as procurement problems, have delayed
the project's power distribution component and completion is expected
about a year behind schedule. Serious delays were also experienced in
getting the technical assistance program of the loan underway; however,
most consultants have now been retained, and with strong support from the
current staff in the Ministry of Energy and Mines the program has begun to
progress normally. Because of the delays, the closing date has been extended.
Loan 1281-PE: CENTROMIN Mining Project; US$40.0 million Loan of December 6
1976; Effective Date: May 24, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Initiation of the copper mining component, which the IDB is co-
financing with the Bank and which amounts to about 90 percent of total project
costs, was delayed by about two years because of the lack of local counterpart
funds. The Government is now proceeding with the project with support from a
supplementary IDB loan which will help cover part of the financing shortfall.
Engineering, procurement and mine development activities on this part of the
project are well-advanced. Construction of the mine-water treatment plant
is now almost completed.
Loan 1283-PE: Urban Sites and Services Development Project; US$21.6 million
Loan of October 12, 1976; Effective Date: January 10, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Administrative difficulties, particularly the need to reconcile
Peruvian procedures with Bank guidelines for procurement, delayed the
project by about one year. All components are now moving ahead well, but
because of past delays, the closing date has been extended.
Loan 1358-PE: Industrial Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan of January 28,
1977; Effective Date:  March 30, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30,
1981.
Peru's economic recession led to a contraction of investment
and to lower than anticipated demand for the loan. In view of this, the
Borrower--the National Development Bank (COFIDE)--has agreed to finance
projects identified by commercial banks and other financial institutions,



- 28 -                          ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
which would also guarantee these loans and provide some loan servicing.
With this action and improving economic conditions over the past year,
demand for the credit line has increased and it is now over 91 percent
committed, with full commitment expected by early 1981.
Loan 1403-PE: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
May 20, 1977; Effective Date: August 2, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
DEPERTC, the executing agency, has completed the design for civil
works in the six valleys where irrigation systems are to be improved and
construction has started. The project's implementation is behind schedule
because of delays in completing designs but is now accelerating as construction
gets underway.
Loan S-11:     Water Supply and Power Engineering Project; US$8.8 million Loan
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: June 27, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
Consultant's studies have commenced and are proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1693-PE: Program Loan; US$115 million Loan of May 17, 1979; Effective
gDate: May 24, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The economic recovery program supported by the program loan was
concluded in a generally satisfactory manner and $114.3 has been disbursed.
The Closing Date was extended to December 31, 1980 in order to permit addi-
tional technical assistance which is now being finished up. No further
extension of the Closing Date is anticipated.
Loan 1771-PE: Lower Piura Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; US$56 million
Loan of February 4, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project execution is now getting underway.
Loan 1806-PE: Petroleum Rehabilitation Project; US$32.5 million Loan of
April 28, 1980; Effective Date: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
This loan was signed April 28, 1980 and project execution has
commenced.
Loan 1812-PE: Puno Rural Development; US$15 million loan of April 28, 1980;
Effective Date:                              ; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
This loan was signed April 28, 1980. Start-up of project activities
has been satisfactory but there has been a delay in satisfying the condition
of loan effectiveness in regard to approval of the bylaws for the Project Unit.
We expect this to be completed shortly.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1888-PE:  Bayovar Engineering and Technical Assistance Project, US$7.5
million loan of August 21, 1980; Effective Date: December 22,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan was signed August 21, 1980. Consultants have been
contracted and project execution has commenced.
Loan S-19:      SIDERPERU Technical Assistance Project, US$5.0 million loan of
December 15, 1980; Effective Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The conditions of effectiveness are now in the process of being
satisfied.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
SECTICN T: TIMETABLE OF KEY EVENTS
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: Three years
(b) Project prepared by: MTC, CORPAC and Consultants
(c) First presentation to the Bank
and first Bank mission
to consider project: January 1978
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: February 18, 1980
(e) Completion of Negotiations: February 6, 1981
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 1981
SECTION II: SPECIAL BANK IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
SECTION III: SPECIAL CONDITIONS
It has been agreed that:
(a) CORPAC would engage the consultant for the cost accounting study
by March 31, 1982 and CORPAC would discuss the recommendations of
this study with the Bank and adopt a plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
to implement those recommendations that are mutually acceptable
(para. 62);
(b) CORPAC would maintain its ratio of accounts receivable
to operating revenues at no more than 25 percent (para. 66);
(c) CORPAC's tariffs and other charges would be maintained and applied
so as to cover operating expenses, debt service and the local costs
of its investment program until the Closing Date of the Loan and it
would earn at least an eight percent rate of return on its net
revalued assets (para. 67);
(d) the execution of an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between
CORPAC and COPESCO under which COPESCO would contract consultants
for the final design of the Cuzco airport, would be a condition
of loan disbursement for this component (para 64);



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) until the closing date of the loan CORPAC would maintain a five year
capital investment program and would, not later than November 1 of
each year, update this program and promptly provide a copy to the
Bank for its comments. Until the Closing Date of the loan, CORPAC
would not undertake any investment of over US$1.0 million at any one
airport, unless such investment were technically and economically
justified (para. 69);
(f) CORPAC would not, without the Bank's agreement, incur any long term
debt unless it can maintain a minimum debt service coverage ratio
of 1.5 (para. 69);
(g) the PPF advance of $800,000 would be refinanced by the proposed
loan (para. 70); and
(h) a condition of loan effectiveness would be the registration of the
Loan Agreement with the Office of Public Credit of the Ministry of
Economy, Finance and Commerce (para. 81).



0i                                                                                  75                                                         I     r
' ^E:p j:       ~ >:10 y7P  E  R  U                                               - 
ol2 r AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  <                                                                                                                                  N
COMPONENT LOCATIONS
C     O      L    0      M      B      I    A
-.   New or improved orports                    ==..           ..-, 
±    VASI
V    VOR
B    NOB-N
;i =    .: .                    ~~~~~D DME                                   "           
C    COM-STATION                                          Ke                                                                         /
ti   ;:-:; -  |                  ~~~~E ENGINEERNG WNORK                                       :Vei12
- Esistiog airports
-     Asphrlt roads
PosAll-w erroads -d,                                                                                                     . '  
. .; 8 y X ~~~------ DOr -ods 3  
'    <                                R~~~~~~~~~~~~el,, ef in -ef ...                   +"" "                  0       ; A M    ;4   '        /O
,<7 N 11 2~~~~~~~2000 - 4,000                                                                              C  
500 -<                                rdtg A                          O      t000:4                . t       1        7         K
0 500 0
_tOv                                                                            :    '47                u.      
MttES   o  50 1Ot 15c 200 250 Vl /fT-                                                                                 B       R        A        z       I_     e; L\
0     ftPl:  :s                                                                                                                                                                                   5-DP2    sS2X1   'P    @ >   rneurtU52r-  20
*f I   !    ,   T   '   .   '   .9  \  ''  
~~~~~~~~~/V ~ ~ ~ ~   ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~          ~          ~        ~          /
FA
BiLOMEIERS 0    50   100   iSO   200   220   300   320   4000
rItEs 0,       50         720       liS        200       250                                                                                                                                0
T7,,~oaoa.o0rrW-.540aOfr0.r






02'oo                                          76> Gueppi7                                     72.
AParotoi\o    Co  L O  MB  I A    x*
PERU                                                       Ho                                                      i
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  \|
DOMESTIC AIRLINE ROUTES
. ' S    led td t    'U.           /                   / f6I 
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
2aroporo   ,, Mo'o        ~                 B       R      A      7             L
0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
Non-rzr oguilor taxi servs  <                                   L
2 *000   4,000 -ieP                                                                 i         i SN>r
KtLOMETERS 0       600        200)      3f00       400L
Mt/OS O      50      100      150)    200      2000                                                                       t      >        
in,, rat habeeaepa,eO y    We/b Jri AEafOP/oRa/ooat,St.-6112conwan,em
or t hr reavJers of tha apedG to oh/t,S 5It .attac8t,r f fikt ns ,aooa/n fla arl 10
hom,fheas shOws ona ,sls ntrP t doR mf I05 in 0 mteaiSle  lie / =Of ad Is
0- 500~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Str,ettactao.anftigmsstv,  80- lega Stoy,o any n,50 oI L'5 aOdO,oe    OrO
N.,'                                                                                        0



