Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2960b-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERU
February 25, 1981
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
1 Peruvian Sol                                 =   US$0.00286
US$1.00                                        =   350 Soles (January 1981)
System of Weights and Measures
Metric
1 kilometer (km)                               =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                                        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilogram (kg)                                =   2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton                                       2205 pounds
1 metric ton-kilometer                         =   0.69 short ton-mile
I passenger-kilometer                          =   0.62 passenger-mile
Fiscal Year of CORPAC
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AM             Amplitude Modulation
APS            Aviation Planning Services Ltd.
CAIM           International Airport Consultants of Montreal Ltd.
CFR            Crash, Fire, Rescue Buildings and/or Equipment
COFIDE         Corporacion Financiera de Desarrollo
COPESCO        Comision Especial para Coordinar y Supervigilar
el Plan Turismo y Cultura
CORPAC         Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y Aviacion Comercial
CPV            Compania Peruana de Vapores
DGTA           Directorate General of Air Transport
DGTT           Directorate General of Land Transport
DCGIT          Directorate General of Water Transport
DME            Distance Measuring Equipment
ENAFER         Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles
ENAPU          Empresa Nacional de Puertos
ENATRU         Empresa Nacional de Transporte Urbano
FFI            Facility Flight Inspection Aircraft
HF             High Frequency
ICAO           International Civil Aviation Organization
ILS            Instrument Landing System
INP            Instituto Nacional de Planificacion
LAGESA         Laboratorio Geotecnico S.A.
LLN            Lainez - Lozada, Navarro Asociados SCRL
MEF            Ministry of Economy and Finance
MOA            Ministry of Aeronautics
MTC            Ministry of Transport and Communications
ORDEZA         Organismo Regional para el Desarrollo de la Zona Afectada
ORETT          Transport Tariffs Regulatory Agency
OSP            Oficina Sectoral de Planificacion
PETROPERU      State Owned Petroleum Company
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
SIDERPERU      State Owned Steel Company
SIMA           Servicio Industrial de la Marina
SSB            Single Side Band
UHF            Ultra High Frequency
VASIS          Visual Approach Slope Indicator System
VHF             Very Xigh Frequency
VOR            Very High Frequency Omni Directional Radio Range



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERU
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT  SECTOR  . ........ ...... . .  .................... .            1
A.    General  ......... ........         so......   *..........so................. oo 1
B.    Highways  ...        .....................................               2
C.    Railways  .......................................... ............        2
D.    Water Transport  ....................               .............        3
E.    Aviation  .......................................... ............        5
F.    Pipelines  .......................................                       5
G.    Coordination and Planning  ................*.......                      5
H.    Bank Operations  in the Transport  Sector  ..........                    6
II.    THE AVIATION  SUBSECTOR  . .............  ... * . ............. .               6
,A.    General  ... * ................... a............... o ... ..... .....   6
B.    The Aviation Traffic  and Network  ................                      7
C.    Commercial Airlines  ....... . . . . .  ........ . .  ...... . . . .     7
D.    Traffic  Projections  ................ ............ .                    8
III.    THE EXECUTING AGENCIES                   ...............................         9
A.    Aviation Administration              .........................           9
B.    Laws and  Statutes  Governing  CORPAC                ..............      9
C.    Operations and Administration of CORPAC  ...*......    10
D.    Proposed  Executing  and Financial Responsibilities                     11
IV.    THE PROPOSED  PROJECT                        ........... . .......... .    12
A.    Objectives  ...           ...................................           12
B.    General Description   . ................ ............                   12
Co    Cost Estimate  ..........................             ......     ..    12
D.    The Project  Components  .....  .....................    14
E.    Execution .           .......................................           17
F.    Procurement               .....................................         18
G.    Financing  and Disbursement  ........................    18
H.    Ecology  ............................ ....................    18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Peru in February/March 1980. The mission comprised Messrs. B. Bostrom (Senior
Transport Economist), John R. Bowlin (Financial Analyst) and W.B.R. Zetterstrom
(Senior Aviation Engineer). The report was edited by Miss Virginia R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.   ECONOMIC EVALIJATION ......................     ..........   19
A.   Project Selection ..............    ...............       19
B.   Project Evaluation ..............................   20
C.   Project Airports ......      ....21
D.   Total Project Return ..... .... ...                ..   22
E.   Project Fisks ..................................    23
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ...........................   23
A. Existina Situation .....  23
B.   Financial Objectives .        . .........................    25
C.   Financial Plan         .....................   26
D. Financial Projections .                .                    26
VII.   AGREEIENTS REACHED AND RECOMIENDATION ...............    29
TABLES
1.1  Port Traffic 1979 .31
2.1       Airport Passenger and Cargo Traffic 1971-1979             32
2.2    Airport Traffic Forecasts ...    33
3.1  CORPAC Airports ...    34
4.1       Detailed Cost Estimates (3 pages) ...                    35-37
4.2       Navaids and Communications Installations (4 pages) 38-41
4.3       Apron Equipment .................................   42
4.4       Electrical Generation Fquipment .43
4.5       Crash, Fire, Rescue Equipment ...................   44
4.6       Supportive Aircrafc Apron Equipment (2 pages) ...  45-46
4.7       Disbursement Schedlile ...........................   47
5.1        Quantified Benefits and Costs of the Project
Airports ......                                        48
5.2       Quantified Net Benefits and Costs for Equipment
Investment ......  49
5.3       Detailed Calculations of Benefits (2 pages) ......  50-51
5.4       Economic Return and Sensitivity Tests .... ..    52
6.1        CORPAC Income Statements 1976-1979 .....           .     53
6.2       CORPAC Balance Sheets 1976-1979 ......    54
6.3       Projected Balance Sheets ........................         55
6.4       Summary of Projected Income Statements .56
6.5       Tarapoto Airport Projected Income Statement  ....   57
6.6       Pucallpa Airport Projected Income Statement  ....    58
6.7       Huanuco Airport Projected Income Statement ....    59
6.8       Tingo Maria Airport Projected Income Statement  ..  60
6.9       CORPAC Projected Cash Flow Statements ...........   61
6.10      CORPAC Infrastructure Investment Program .......    62
6.11      CORPAC Projected Balance Sheets .63



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.        Bank Operations in the Transport Sector .... .......  64
2.        Terms of Reference for Consultant Services
for Airport Final Engineering ...................  67
3.        Financial Assumptions .............................   73
4.        Ratio Statement .................................   76
5.        Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File   . .77
CHARTS
World Bank 21676   CORPAC Organization..   78
World Bank 21677   Implementation Schedule ................   ..   79
World Bank 21722   Implementation Schedule (Continued) .......   80
MAPS
IBRD 15020    Air Transport Route Structure
IBRD 15019    Airport and Equipment Locations
IBRD 15021    Pucallpa Airport Plan
IBRD 15022    Tarapoto Airport Plan
IBRD 15024    Huanuco Airport Plan
IBRD 15023    Tingo Maria Airport Plan



I



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Peru, with an area of 1.3 million km2, is the fourth largest country
in Latin America. It has a population of almost 18 million. The Andes,
which closely parallel the Pacific coastline of Peru over its entire length,
divide the country into a narrow coastal region (Costa), a mountainous region
(Sierra) and the eastern Amazon plains region (Selva). The Costa is the most
densely populated and economically developed part of the country. Six out of
the ten largest urban centers in Peru are located in that region, including
Lima, the country's capital.
1.02      Peru's topographic, geological and climatic conditions make the
provision of transport facilities extremely difficult. The transport network
reflects these difficulties and has shaped the country's development accord-
ingly. Since the nineteenth century, several isolated railways have been
built by private interests to connect mining areas in the Sierra with coastal
ports. Even today, railways and ports are highly specialized and operate
mainly as transport systems for minerals. Only highways and, more recently,
civil aviation have played a role in integrating the country, but the lack of
an adequate transport network is still one of the most difficult problems
confronting Peru. Highways and road transport are the country's basic movers
of domestic freight and passengers.
1.03      The transport system in the most developed parts of the Costa
is broadly adequate. Here lies the backbone of the Peruvian road network,
the 2,750 km long Pan American Highway. From this road, several major secon-
dary roads and two railroads link with laige towns in the Sierra, while a
handful of roads, mostly unimproved, lead into the Selva. Of these roads,
the Bank-financed Trans-Andean Highway from Lima to Pucallpa constitutes the
only all-weather road connecting the three regions of the country. Expansion
and improvement of the transport network, particularly in the Sierra and
Selva, by road, air and river, are necessary to meet the growing transport
requirements and, particularly, to give access to areas of the country presently
isolated and undeveloped.
1.04      The latest objectives for the transport sector were formulated in
the 1977-1986 Transport Plan (Plan Director) which recommended: "the provi-
sion of a rational transport system which would (a) efficiently contribute
to the socio-economic development of the country, its integration and its
national defense; (b) satisfy transport demand requirements; (c) support
foreign trade and strengthen the balance of payments; (d) connect different
regions and permit popular access to social services; (e) promote the welfare
of workers in the sector; (f) promote adequate transport technologies; and
(g) facilitate integration with the Latin American Region."



-2-
B.   Highways
1.05      Peru's highway network totals some 58,000 km, of which about 6,000
km of the roads are paved, 16,000 km have gravel surfacing and 36,000 km
are earth roads. After the heavy emphasis on highway contruction in the
mid-1960s, road development has been concentrated on paving and improving
some of the more heavily used roads and slowly extending the system. The
highway system is still in a very early stage of development. Peru's road
density is half that of its neighbors, Ecuador and Chile, partly due, perhaps,
to the large undeveloped areas in the Selva and the high concentration of
economic activity in the Costa. The roads connecting the Costa with the
Sierra and the Selva are generally rudimentary, the roads in the Sierra are at
best passable, and the roads in the eastern piedmont and in the Selva are
mainly dry-weather tracks. The development of the highway network since the
early 1960s has been based upon a program of construction of primary roads as
well as the extension of the secondary system. These ambitious road programs
have run into a number of difficul-ties arising from inexperience and underesti-
mation of the problems involved in building roads in the Andes, and, since the
early 1970s, with the country's growing financial difficulties, only the
international financing agencies have permitted Peru to keep any momentum in
construction.
1.06      The development of the road transport industry followed the improve-
ment and extension of the highway network. The Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC) estimated that over 75% of the vehicle-km on roads are on
the Pan American Highway and the ports roads, and the remainder are on the
rest of the network, including the Lima-La Oroya Central Highway. The compo-
sition of traffic by vehicle type shows a larger proportion of heavy vehicles
on the roads with lower standards, with heavy vehicles accounting for about
20% of the traffic on paved roads, 40% on surface-treated roads and 50% on
gravel roads (of which 15%, 32%, and 46% respectively are trucks). Traffic
levels are estimated to have increased by about 6% per year in the last
decade, with a somewhat faster growth at yearly rates of 7-8% before 1972.
The vehicle fleet has shown a similar growth.
1.07      The General Directorate of Land Transport (DGTT) of MTC is respon-
sible for planning (in consultation and coordination with MTC's Sectoral
Planning Office), constructing, and maintaining the country's road network.
DGTT is also responsible for the State Railways.
C.   Railways
1.08      Peru has never had a fully integrated railway system.  Several
separate east-west railway lines developed, largely as part of the mining
and export of mineral deposits in the Sierra. These lines still serve that
main objective. In the 1930s, the railway system consisted of about 4,200 km
of track; at present, after the closing of several lines (the latest badly
damaged by the 1970 earthquake), the system has been reduced to 2,150 km.



- 3 -
1.09      The Central and Southern Railways are by far the most important in
the country, and they have an important role to play in their respective
areas of influence. The Central Railway links the mineral-producing area of
Cerro de Pasco and La Oroya with the port of Callao. It also hauls some
agricultural products from the Sierra to Lima and general cargo in the opposite
direction. It is the highest standard gauge railway in the world (4,829 m)
and one of the most difficult to operate because of the steep grades (over
4%), the many switchbacks and the sharp curves.
1.10      The couthern Railway connects the Pacific port of Matarani with
Puno in the Sierra and, by ferry over Lake Titicaca, with Bolivia. From
Puno, another line goes to Cuzco over the main plateaus. Although the grades
of the Southern Railway are not as steep as those of the Central, they are
quite -evere when compared with those of normal railways. The Huancayo-
Huancavelica and Cuzco-Santa Ana narrow gauge lines constitute natural
extensions of the Central and Southern Railways respectively.
1.11      Centromin, a large state-owned mining company, owns and operates
two standard gauge railway lines: Cerro de Pasco-La Oroya (132 km) and
Canucha-Pachacayo (GU kin).  Both li.es feed traffic to the Central Railway,
supplying it with more than half its total freight tonnage as well as
passengers.
1.12      The Empresa Nacional de Ferrocarriles del Peru (ENAFER), created
in 1972, owns and operates the Central and Southern Railways following their
purchase from private interests. ENAFER has, since its creation, almost
continuously needed Government subsidies, primarily because depreciation
allowances have been insufficient for necessary renewal of assets, but also
because operating revenues have not been consistently sufficient to cover
direct operating expenditures. Although there has been a substantial upgrad-
ing of track and rolling stock, particularly in 1974-1975, large investments
are still required for track rehabilitation, rolling stock and spare parts, and
an investment plan, mainly for rolling stock, is now funded by the Government.
D.   Water Transport
1.13      Domestic coastal and river shipping plays an important role in
the overall movement of cargo traffic in Peru. Coastal shipping is concen-
trated in the movement of bulk cargo, particularly crude oil and oil products
and, to a lesser extent, iron ore to supply the SIDERPERU steel works at
Chimbote. PETROPERU, the state oil company, ships crude oil from its loading
installations at Bayovar, terminal of the North Peruvian pipeline, to the
refineries near Talara and Cailao, as well as products, including natural
gas, from Talara mainly to Callao. Domestic river traffic, although growing,
is still much lower than coastal traffic, but more diversified, and is mainly
composed of dry cargo rather than petroleum products.
1.14      The extensive river system of the upper Amazon River and its
tributaries provides a natural transportation network for the whole of eastern
Peru. The Amazon River within Peru is navigable year round by ships of 20 ft.
draft up to Iquitos. Further inland, the tributaries provide a vast network
navigable by vessels of 10 ft. and 4 ft. draft, respectively, for distances of



650 and 7,944 km during the wet season. However, since this system
is oriented toward Brazil and the Atlantic and does not connect with the
populated and developed regions of the country, it has been largely under-
utilized.  The lack of ports and the general underdevelopment of the region
are contributing factors. It was with the idea of utilizing such an extensive
transport network more fully for the development of the region that the
Trans-Andean transport corridor concept was developed, calling for a highway
link from the coast to the Amazon headwaters at Pucallpa and from there, by
river, to cover vast areas of the Selva.
1.15      A stated objective of MTC is to promote a wider participation
of Peru's transport services in the international market in order to reduce
the amount of foreign exchange spent in the transport of goods to or from
Peru. At present, Peruvian shipping lines, principally the Compania Peruana
de Vapores (CPV), carry about 22% of Peru's imports and exports; the objective
is to capture 50% of both imports and exports. To implement this policy,
Peru is expanding CPV's fleet. CPV is a Government-owned autonomous shipping
line that, like the port authority, Empresa Nacional de Puertos (ENAPU), is
part of MTC.
1.16      PETROPERIU with two tankers, and the Navy Ministry with five tankers,
complete the list of Government-owned shipping lines. In turn, six private
owners have a total of 15 ocean-going vessels. PETROPERU's tanker fleet is
old and in need of replacement by larger and more modern units. CPV needs
more bulk carriers. Such vessels are built by Servicio Industrial de la
Marina (SINA), a self-supporting entity within the Ministry of the Navy.
1.17      The overall traffic development in Peruvian ports reflects the state
of the economy in recent years. The country's ports have experienced a net
decrease in traffic since 1972, which now may change. With the exception of
iron ore exports handled at San Nicolas private port, ENAPU handles most of
the country's port traffic, with total tonnages about evenly balanced between
imports and exports (Table 1.1). The main commodities handled, in addition to
iron ore and oil, are general cargo as well as exports of zinc concentrate
and other minerals from Callao, sugar from Salaverry and fishmeal from Chimbote
and Pisco. The single most important import commodity is wheat, handled
mainly through Callao.
1.18      The financial impact of overall traffic decline on ENAPU has been
lessened, partly by the fact that the substantially reduced bulk iron ore
exports are handled by the private San Nicolas port. Also, since most port
charges are quoted in dollars, the effect of local inflation has been lessened.
1.19      The management and the planning of the port sector have been some-
what impaired by the dualism of ENAPU and MTC's responsibilities. This problem
is being studied under Bank Loan 1196-PE. MTC keeps for itself all planning
and construction responsibilities, and ENAPU, which will ultimately be respon-
sible for operating and maintaining the facilities, has often not been consulted
by MTC. While construction at Iquitos, which is an existing port (on the Amazon)
under ENAPU responsibility, is complete, ports at Yurimaguas and Pucallpa (on
tributaries), under MTC are still under construction; all of these ports are
also being financed under Bank Loan 1196-PE.



-5
E.   Aviation
1.20      The aviation subsector is presented in Chapter II.
F.   Pipelines
1.21      A major event affecting the Peruvian economy since 1977 was the
opening of the 900-km long North Peruvian pipeline from the oil fields in the
Selva northeast and across the Sierra to the coast at Bayovar. The pipeline
and a branch line to the main oil field were built at a cost of US$900 mil-
lion and have an installed capacity of 200,000 barrels per day (b.p.d.) of
crude oil. However, they are operating below capacity, at an average level of
about 120,000 b.p.d., because of insufficient production in the fields and
inadequate capacity of branch lines.
G.   Coordination and Planning
1.22      The creation, in 1969, of MTC by incorporating the former Ministry
of Development and Public WkTorks with agencies in the various transport modes,
and the installation of its Sectoral Planning Office (OSP), strengthened the
institutional basis for rational coordination and planning in the transport
sector. MTC has three Directorates through which it directs and controls the
various modes: DGTT, responsible for road and rail transport; DGWT, respon-
sible for shipping and ports; and DGTA, responsible for civil aviation. Six
agencies, including operating companies for railways (ENAFER), shipping (CPV),
ports (ENAPU), airports (CORPAC) and the public transport agency which serves
metropolitan Lima (ENATRU), as well as the Organismo Regulador de Tarifas de
Transporte (ORETT), come under the Ministry.
1.23      Under the supervision of MTC, ORETT is responsible for reviewing and
proposing tariff structures for the fixed facilities such as airports (CORPAC)
and ports (ENAPU) as well as the public transport operators such as railways
(ENAFER), both airlines and the various bus and truck companies. In recent
years, ORETT has kept tariffs for air transport, as most other modes, at a
reasonable level in spite of inflation. ORETT's tariff policy has resulted in
incomes sufficient for almost all of the independent transport agencies to
cover their normal operating expenses. The most important exceptions are
ENAFER and ENATRU, whose operating revenues are insufficient to cover adequate
replacement programs.
1.24      Communication and coordination among the agencies and the corres-
ponding MTC directorates are generally deficient. An excessive number of
legal and accounting controls, reviews, and clearances are involved in MTC's
routine operations and normal activities. The preparation and approval of
terms of reference, selection of consultants and contractors and the signing
or approval of contracts and payments demand excessive time.
1.25      OSP is responsible for the preparation and formulation of transport
policy and planning, under the general guidelines of, and coordination by, the
National Planning Institute (INP). OSP has prepared the sectoral parts of
the national budgets for the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) since 1973.



- 6 -
More recently, OSP has embarked on more ambitious planning (started under
a UNDP-financed technical assistance project for transport planning) by
producing a Ten-Year Draft Transport Master Plan (Plan Director) now updated
until 1990, followed by six preliminary regional plans for the various develop-
ment regions into which the country is divided.
H.   Bank Operations in the Transport Sector
1.26      The Bank has a long established relationship with the transport
sector of Peru, strengthened through its 12 lending operations covering the
most important modes (Annex 1). The Bank's contribution to road development
has been substantial, ranging from institution building and maintenance to
construction of feeder roads and main highways. In particular, the cons-
truction of the key east-west penetration route of the country, the 700 km
long La Oroya-Pucallpa road, has been a large and time-consuming task. This
ambitious undertaking proved to exceed the Government's managerial capacity.
Imperfect engineering design caused by the extreme geological variations of
the region contributed to the problem. Projects in the area have run into
difficulties, and, although much has been achieved and completed, parts of the
projects eventually have had to be reformulated. The other Bank operations
have been in sectors in which, although the requirements are not as high as
for highways, the Bank has had a long and fruitful association with sound and
justified projects, i.e., ports, and to a lesser extent, railways. Projects
now contemplated by the Bank address basic problems confronting Peru in the
transport sector, such as meeting the needs of highway maintenance and
rehabilitation.
II. THE AVIATION SUBSECTOR
A.   General
2.01      Peru, for reasons of topography, has long relied on air transport
as one of the means of regional integration. As is the case with other Andean
countries, aviation has been particularly useful to overcome the difficult
crossing of high mountain ranges. One of the two main airlines, Faucett,
which is privately owned, was founded as early as 1928 and is, therefore, one
of the oldest in the Americas. The other important carrier, Aeroperu, was
created by the Government in 1973 as the result of a reorganization of SATCO,
the airline element of the Peruvian Air Force, which had operated since 1960.
These two carriers have had about equal shares of the domestic traffic, with
Aeroperu dominating the international traffic. On the ground, the Governmental
agency, Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y Aviacion ComerciaL (CORPAC), izs
charged with operating and maintaining airports and enroute facilities.
CORPAC now administers 56 airports, or almost all the airports for commercial
air transport in Peru. About 110 civil aircraft are registered in Peru, of
which about half are used for air taxi and crop-spraying operations. The
major employer in aviation has been CORPAC, with about 2,700 employees, com-
pared to about 1,100 for Faucett and 1,400 for Aeroperu.



- 7-
B.   The Aviation Traffic and Network
2.02      The most important part of the domestic traffic is the movement
of passengers with air freight significant for high value air cargo and
movement to isolated areas of the country. Passenger traffic at the CORPAC
airports increased from about one million in 1971 to more than 2.0 million in
1979, an average growth of 9% per year.  Sustained growth has been aided to a
great extent by the provision of improved and expanded air services. Since
1972, the number of jet aircraft in domestic services has grown from one
three-engine Boeing 727-100 to a total of four such aircraft, three two-engine
BAC-1-11 and three two-engine Fokker F-28 aircraft. For air cargo traffic,
the development from 1971 was more rapid, growing at an annual average of 11%
to over 100,000 tons handled by CORPAC airports in 1979. However, as road
transport develops, air-freight transport on some routes and for certain
commodities will undoubtedly decline. Nevertheless, air cargo will continue
to grow rapidly at specific airports, particularly in areas where surface
transport may remain unavailable or unreliable for several years. The total
number of domestic passengers transported by the two main airlines was about
1.5 million in 1979, divided equally between Aeroperu and Faucett. Private
aircraft moved some 60,000 passengers, and military aircraft another 30,000.
Military aircraft transported a large share of domestic air cargo, or some
20,000 tons, compared to Faucett with about 15,000 tons in 1979.
2.03      The route structure developed by Aeroper4 and Faucett is of the "hub
and spoke" type, with Lima as the center and all main routes radiating out to
the various cities in the country.  See route structure map IBRD 15020.  The
majority of flights using jet aircraft are non-stop to and from a city. The
most important airports in terms of traffic were Lima, Cuzco, Iquitos and
Arequipa, with 67% of domestic and all international traffic. For the proposed
project airports - Tarapoto, Tingo Maria, Puanuco and Pucallpa - traffic is
more limited, but aviation's share of total transport is high, particularly
for long-distance passenger travel. For Tarapoto, about 92% of passenger
travel by air goes to destinations which lack scheduled service by any other
mode of transport. For Pucallpa, this proportion is about 32%, and, for Tingo
Maria, it is about 27%.  In addition, a very substantial share of travel in
areas where road services exist is nevertheless undertaken by air. The share
of air transport of total travel to TRuanuco, Tingo Maria and Pucallpa from
Lima ranges from 53% for Pucallpa to 14% for Quanuco. For air cargo, the
situation is different in that air cargo has an important share only in the
traffic to and from Tarapoto. Growth of international traffic in recent years
has been slow compared to the early years in the 1970s, given an average of 3%
passenger growth per year for the period 1971 to 1979.  With improved economic
conditions and strong tourism growth, a 7-10% vearly growth for the next five
years can be expected.
C.   Commercial Airlines
2.04      The two commercial airlines, Aeroperu and Faucett, have both suffered
from inadequate airport infrastructure which has limited them to aircraft
which are relatively costly to operate on many routes. The airlines, as most
other transport enterprises, have also suffered in Peru from the economic
difficulties of the last few years. The effect on domestic traffic has been
slower traffic growth; rapidly rising operating costs have not been covered by
increased revenue despite a number of air tariff increases. Both companies



- 8-
during the last four years have therefore shown losses on their operations
after including depreciation. More timely domestic tariff increases could
have alleviated part of this problem, but the main reason was the slowdown
in traffic growtl-h Now, with .ilore favorable economic conditions, traffic is
improving. A, a Government-ovmed airline, Aeroperu is forced to serve more
locations in Peru than Faucet: along routes which do not always recover
even marginal cost. On the other hand, Aeroperu had good growth in 1979
on its international routes as a result of its purchase of two new three-
engine wide-body L-1011 aircraft. Also, Faucett has been helped by its new
passenger route, Iquitos-Miami, which began in mid-1979. The future, there-
fore, appears more promising, since both airlines in the past have had suffi-
cient cash generation from operations. This cash generation, however, has
been insufficient for an optimal fleet replacement program.
2.05      In 1978, the last full year with available data, Aeroperu produced
355 million passenger-kilometers in domestic traffic compared to 453 million
for Faucett. To this figure should be added 634 million passenger-kilometers
in 1978 for Aeroperu international traffic, which increased substantially in
1979, as mentioned. The unduplicated route network for the two airlines was
47,760 kilometers in early 1980.
D.   Traffic Projections
2.06      Domestic air traffic in Peru grew rapidly in the early 1970s as
a result of the introduction of jet aircraft by both Faucett and Aeroperu.
This growth then tapered off because of economic problems until it restarted
in 1979. Traffic growth has generally been rapid for the project airports
despite the airport limitations, but at high cost to the users. Passenger and
cargo traffic from 1971 to 1979 is shown in Table 2.1 for these airports and
the country as a whole. An average yearly growth of 15% was recorded at the
project airports during 1971-1978 and continued in 1979, whereas cargo traffic
growth was more uneven as a result of the opening of new road connections.
2.07      The consultants (CAIM, APS, LAGESA, LLN) who carried out the feasi-
bility studies for the airports selected for improvements (Pucallpa, Tarapoto,
Tingo Maria and Huanuco) generally relied on three methods for traffic fore-
casting for passenger and cargo traffic at these airports: analysis of histori-
cal series (trend projection), projections of traffic by city pairs summed up
for each airport and projection of population and travel propensities as a
function of population.  Generally, the most conservative of these forecasts
(historical time series) has been selected. This is quite similar to the five-
year city-pair forecast done by the airlines. The consultants' forecast,
despite being conservative, has generally been the one adopted for the economic
and financial evaluation, with some adjustments for individual years. Generally,
long term passenger growth ranges from 7 to 10% per year (Table 2.2). On the
basis of the passenger and cargo forecasts, projections of flights have been
established. These differ somewhat from the consultants' forecast since
transit passenger traffic has been incorporated. Separate projections have
been used for the overall financial forecasts for CORPAC, as further explained
in Annex 3.



- 9 -
III. THE EXECUTING AGENCIES
A.   Aviation Administration
3.01      Since March 1969, MTC, in accordance with Law 17526 which created
this Ministry, has been responsible for civil aviation in Peru. Specifically,
within MTC, the Directorate General of Air Transport (DGTA) has been charged
with the responsibility to plan, direct, coordinate, execute and control
the activities of air transport and civil aeronautics as well as to construct,
maintain and administer the use of the corresponding infrastructure. These
last responsibilities, transferred from the much older Corporacion Peruana
de Aeropuertos y Aviacion Comercial (CORPAC) by that law, have now been
reassigned, giving CORPAC additional responsibility for constructing airports
requiring foreign financing. Another Government office associated with air
transport is the Ministry of Aeronautics (MOA), which is one of the three
Ministries governing the Peruvian Armed Forces. MOA has been the primary
governing Ministry for the Government-owned airline Aeroperu since its creation
out of the Peruvian Air Force transport operation SATCO in 1973 (para 2.01).
3.02      DGTA was originally formed out of the previous Directorate of Civil
Aviation in the Ministry of Aeronautics. DGTA now consists of two director-
ates, the Directorate of Air Navigation and the Directorate of Air Infrastruc-
ture. The latter is generally responsible for design and construction of
Government-financed airports, whereas the former is charged with most of the
Government's responsibilities for air safety and other regulatory functions.
Exceptions are various functions assigned to other entities of MTC, such as
the Sectoral Planning Office, ORETT, and advisory councils and offices:
Superior Councils of Transportation and Communications, General Administration,
Office of Documentation, Inspector General, Office of Investigation and
Development, Legal, Organization and Methods, and Public Relations.
B.   Laws and Statutes Governing CORPAC
3.03      CORPAC was created in 1943.  However, with the establishment of MTC,
certain responsibilities were transferred to DCTA but partially reassigned to
CORPAC under the Budget Law for 1981 (para 3.01). In September 1972, Decree
Law 19527 was approved by the Ministerial Council which formally set forth the
organization and functions of CORPAC, which had been in operation since 1969.
Briefly, this Law established CORPAC as an autonomous administrative and
financial entity having legal person, which carries out policy, as determined
by the Minister, in the planning, organizing, directing, coordinating and
controlling of activities in the operation and maintenance of commercial airports,
including the services and installation of equipment required. CORPAC also
undertakes the same functions for air navigational aids, aeronautical radio
communications and other technical services necessary for the safety of air
operations in the country. Furthermore, CORPAC is responsible to DGTA for
information and technical assistance in the subsector and for air traffic
control. The law also established its domicile in Callao, which is the location
of the Lima Airport, where the administrative offices of CORPAC are located.
3.04      A provision of this law also established the initial capital of
2,000 million Peruvian Soles, which was approximately the amount of existing



- 10 -
assets within CORPAC at the time this law was promulgated. The amount of capital
that CORPAC may have is redetermined each year. In 1979, it was increased by
Supreme Decree No. 22577 to 10,000 million Peruvian Soles. The funds of CORPAC
are to be derived from its own internal cash generation, funds from the Govern-
ment and loans approved by law. CORPAC funds may be used for acquisition of
required assets, for CORPAC operations and for the undertaking of any contracts
for goods or services as may be required.
3.05      The law also established a Board of Directors which consists of
a President, presently a General from the Air Force, who has been named by
the Minister of Aeronautics, one Director from each of the Ministries of
Economy and Finance and Industry and Commerce, and four Directors named by
MTC, one of which is named the Vice President. These members are approved
by a Supreme Resolution for a term of three years. The General Manager is
selected through a ballot by the Board of Directors. He meets at least once
a week with the Board to review matters of importance, but he has no vote.
3.06      Finally, the law provided for the formalization of the Statutes of
CORPAC, which was accomplished under Supreme Decree No. 031-73-TC in October
1973. This document essentially restated, in more detail, those areas of
responsibility covered in Decree Law 19527, with some additions such as
providing for the approval of tariffs presented by the Board of Directors
to MTC and approval by the Board of Directors of all persons named to the
positions of General Manager, Mianagers and Division and Department Chiefs.
The statutes also set out the organization with four managers - operations,
technical services, maintenance and administration - and gave the general
responsibilities of each.  The organization and areas of responsibility under
each manager have been reviewed and found to be satisfactory. The organization
of CORPAC is shown in Chart 21676.
3.07      The Statutes also provide for the presentation of financial state-
ments, which have been audited by a Public Accountant, to the Board of Directors
for its review and approval not later than March 31 of the following year.
The financial statements must then be presented to MTC, MEF and the Controller
General of the Republic. A more detailed discussion of the financial perfor-
mance of CORPAC is covered in Chapter VI.
C. Operations and Administration of CORPAC
3.08      The number of commercial airports managed by CORPAC has grown from
about 25 in 1967 to 29 in 1970 and 56 at the present time (Table 3.1). Some
are small air strips with little traffic; as of 1979, only about 24 airports
had more than 5,000 passengers per year. In order for CORPAC to carry out its
responsibilities, it is staffed with a total of 2,662 employees, of whom 695,
or 26%, are in operations, technical services, maintenance and security. The
staff for the operation of the airports totals 1,504, of whom 650 are assigned
to Lima Airport and 854 are located in airports throughout the provinces of
the country. The remaining 463, or 17%, are responsible for staff and adminis-
trative functions in CORPAC's administrative offices. An analysis of the
total employee complement by function shows that 4% of the staff hold manage-
ment and professional positions, while 44% fulfill secretarial and clerical
functions. The remaining 52% are engaged in semi-technical and non-technical
positions. This indicates that, on the average, there are about 25 employees



- 11 -
for each professional position (professionals are normally university graduates).
Given the nature of CORPAC operations, this relationship is reasonable. A
review of CORPAC's salary structure shows that its employees are relatively
well paid for the environment in which they operate. A review of all the
major divisions and departments shows that, in general, they are adequately
staffed in terms of quantity and quality of employees. However, a few areas
deserve additional comment.
3.09      The planning office is staffed with employees who have been with
CORPAC for many years and are qualified to fulfill its functions. Presently,
the planning office, in coordination with the managers for operations, tech-
nical services, maintenance and administration, develops the operating and
capital investment budget for the coming year and the capital investment
budget for the next five years, 1981-1985. Since the redefinition of CORPAC
responsibilities in 1972, the planning has been restricted to capital invest-
ments in equipment and minor civil works at existing facilities. However, on
certain occasions, CORPAC is specifically authorized by MTC to perform major
construction of civil works. For 1980, about 22% of total capital investment
for airport civil works was in CORPAC's budget. CORPAC is also doing certain
works financed in the MTC budget for 1980, and, therefore, its effective
participation is even higher. MTC has now transferred responsibility for
foreign-financed airport construction to CORPAC. Since CORPAC was responsible
for airport construction for 26 years prior to 1969, it is perfectly capable
of carrying out this additional responsibility. With the change of these
responsibilities, there will be a budget and employee transfer from MTC.
Given the magnitude of future investment plans, it was agreed, during negotia-
tions, that CORPAC would update its five-year capital investment plan on a
yearly basis and, not later than November of each year, through the closing
date of the loan, would provide the Bank with a copy of the next year's plan
and an opportunity to comment on it.
3.10      The financial accounts of CORPAC have been reviewed and found to be
in order, and the auditing arrangements are satisfactory (para 6.07). However,
there is a need to improve the cost accounting system. Funds are included in
the project to engage an accounting consultant for this purpose, and agreement
was reached during negotiations regarding this matter (paras 4.18(c) and 6.07).
The construction and maintenance capability of CORPAC is adequate. However,
given the magnitude of the planned capital investments, assistance would be
provided under the project to strengthen this area (para 4.18(d)).
D.   Proposed Executing and Financial Responsibilities
3.11.     CORPAC would be the proposed borrower.  The recent change placing the
responsibility for foreign-financed airport construction with CORPAC will be a
major step toward placing the collection of revenues and control of expenditures
in a single organization. It will permit CORPAC to operate the airport system
on a self-financing basis and eliminate the subsidy that the Government has, in
the past, given to aviation through constructing airports at no charge to CORPAC.



- 12 -
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.   Objectives
4.01      The project is designed to:  (a) allow more economical aircraft now
within the commercial fleet to be used at additional existing airports on a
regular service; (b) improve the flow and security of air traffic within Peru;
and (c) reduce the aircraft ground handling time. To do so, it would consist
of improving three airports, constructing one, replacing obsolete navaid and
communications equipment and providing additional aircraft handling and
airport electrical equipment. These airports, supporting development in the
eastern part of Peru, were constructed for much smaller aircraft many years
ago, at minimal construction cost. In addition, the project would provide
final engineering for the replacement airport at Cuzco and strengthen the
technical and administrative sections of the airport operating agency.
B.   General Description
4.02      The project, to be implemented by CORPAC over a five-year period,
would consist of four parts: Part I, pavement overlay at Pucallpa, reconstruc-
tion of runways at Tarapoto and Huanuco and construction of a new airport for
Tingo Maria; Part II, provision of communications at these sites and navaids
at these and other sites throughout Peru with equipment to calibrate them
(Map IBRD 15019); Part III, provision of aircraft apron handling and airport
electrical equipment; Part IV, provision of technical assistance in the form
of engineering consultants for the final design of Cuzco, accounting consultants
for CORPAC and airport engineering advisors (from ICAO) for CORPAC; and Part V,
provision of communications equipment throughout Peru.
C.   Cost Estimate
4.03      The total estimated project cost, including contingencies and import
duties, is about US$128 million. The foreign exchange component is about
US$77 million, or about 60% of the total project cost. The cost estimate
(in prices experienced at the end of January 1981) is summarized on the next
page. A detailed itemization of the project components is given in Table 4.1.
The exchange rate for that period was SI. 350 = US$1.00.



- 13 -
Peru (S/. (millions)              US$ (millions)
Local     Foreign      Total      Local  Foreign   Total
Part I
Land                          3          -            3          1/      -         1/
Civil Works              5,145       6,440      11,585       14.7    18.4       33.1
Equipment                   455       1,015       1,470        1.3     2.9       4.2
Part II
Navaids                   1,365       1,575      2,940        3.9      4.5       8.4
Communications              245         385         630       0.7      1.1       1.8
FFI Aircraft                490       1,995       2,485        1.4     5.7       7.1
Part IlI
CFR and Aircraft Apron
Handling Equipment        315         945      1,260        0.9      2.7       3.6
Electrical Equipment        140         420         560       0.4      1.2       1.6
Part IV
Technical Assistance        455       1,225       1,680        1.3     3.5       4.8
Contingencies (Parts I-IV)
Physical 10%                805       1,260      2,065        2.3      3.6       5.9
Price                     7,906     12,300      20,206        9.2    14.4       23.6
Sub-Total
(Bank-Financed Portion)   17,324        27,560     44,884       36.1    58.0       94.1
Part V
Communications
Equipment (Costs
Subject to the
Final Design)         3,407       4,540       7,947        9.7    13.0      22.7
Contingencies (Part V)
Physical 10%                341         454         795       1.0      1.3       2.3
Price                     2,858      3,518       6,376        3.8      4.7       8.5
Sub-Total (Non Bank-
Financed Portion)            6,606       8,512      15,118       14.5    19.0      33.5
GRAND TOTAL                   23,930      36,072      60,002       50.6    77.0    127.6
1/   Less than 0.01.



- 14 -
4.04      The cost estimates for the construction portion of the project were
developed by the airport engineering consultants, CAIM, APS, LAGESA and LLN,
following the economic and technical feasibility study prepared by the same
firm. The unit costs were checked during appraisal against similar construc-
tion costs in Peru and updated to reflect costs of January 1981. They were
later verified as being correct for that period. The estimates for the
electronic and other equipment were prepared by CORPAC and are based on cur-
rent manufacturers' quotations. These estimates were also updated to January
1981. All costs are considered reasonable. Land required at Tingo Maria and
Tarapoto is in the process of being acquired. All other land in the construc-
tion areas is already owned by CORPAC. Land acquisition is not expected to
delay the project.
4.05      The cost estimates for the construction portion of the project
are based on final engineering; the estimates for the equipment are based
on actual manufacturers' quotes. Thus, an average of only 10% of all construc-
tion and equipment items has been included in the cost estimates to allow for
physical contingencies.
4.06      Price contingencies measured in US dollars were estimated using the
assumption that prices would increase 12% per year throughout the period of
project execution. It was considered that the relationship between dollars
and soles would reflect local inflation. The 12% rate is higher than that
generally used in Bank-financed projects, but it reflects recent experience
for this type of project and equipment.
').  The Project Components
4.07      The project would consist of the following five components, only
the first four of which would involve Bank financing. The fifth component
would be financed by a proposed loan through German bilateral aid.
(i) Part I
(a) Pucallpa
4.08      The existing 2,500 x 30 m runway, taxiway and aircraft apron pave-
ments, now being served by BAC 1-11 and F-28 aircraft, are too weak to support
the B-727 aircraft planned to be used in the future. The air navigational
aids and communications equipment are poor; the crash, fire, rescue (CFR)
equipment and visual aids are inadequate and the meteorological equipment is
obsolete or non-existent.
4.09      The project would provide an asphaltic concrete overlay for all
pavement and replacement or new equipment of the following types: visual
aids, distance measuring equipment (DME), telecom equipment, meteorological
equipment and CFR equipment. The project would also renovate the existing
terminal building and the CFR/maintenance shed (Map IBRD 15021).
(b) Tarapoto
4.10      The existing paved runway can be operated in only one direction
because of mountainous terrain in the other approach/departure path. In



- 15 -
addition, the runway is headed toward the town, and noise sometimes is a
problem. Because of the orientation, the airport cannot be used during
periods of low clouds or at night. The existing omni-directional radio
range (VOR), non-directional beacon (NDB) and communications equipment is
old and unreliable, and the CFR and meteorological equipment is obsolete.
4.11      A new 2,500 x 45 m runway with flexible pavement would be constructed
on a new alignment crossing the existing runway at its threshold but being clear
of the close-in mountainous terrain at the far end. This alignment would also
clear the town. The existing runway would be used as a taxiway to get to the
existing apron and terminal building. New runway edge lighting, Cat I approach
lighting and visual approach slope indicators (VASIS) would be provided for
the new runway. The existing VOR and NDB would be replaced, and a new DME
would be added. In addition, an instrument landing system (Cat I ILS) would
be installed so that landings in poor visibility, low cloud and/or at
night could be made, and the airport could be used as an alternate for Iquitos.
The communications and meteorology equipment would be replaced, and new CFR
equipment would be provided. The existing terminal, cargo and maintenance
buildings would be expanded (Map IBRD 15022).
(c) Huanuco
4.12      The existing gravel strip is located at the foot of a range of
mountains adjacent to a river. Both approaches and departures to either end
of the runway must be curved because of terrain obstructions. As a result,
operations by large aircraft or during anything other than visual conditions
in daytime are not allowed.
4.13      A new 2,600 x 30 m runway with flexible pavement would be constructed
on a new alignment crossing the touchdown point of the existing runway but having
a straight approach to one threshold and a large radius curved approach to the
other. This arrangement would allow large aircraft to operate at the airport,
but would not remove the problems associated with night or poor visibility
daytime operations, which is not a major limitation at this site. A paved
taxiway to a new paved apron would be provided as well as new meteorological
and CFR equipment (Map IBRD 15024).
(d) Tingo Maria
4.14      The existing gravel runway heads directly toward a mountain and is
located adjacent to the town across the Puallaga river. Mountains in the
approach to the other end of the runway require a shallow "S" turn across the
center line of the runway for aircraft landing or taking off. The mountain
at the end makes "missed approaches" difficult and precludes any operations
from this end of the runway. The close proximity of the runway to the town
causes a noise problem. Operations other than daytime and visual conditions
are prohibited. Large aircraft may not use the airport.
4.15      An entirely new airport with clear approaches would be provided at
a location approximately 27 km north of Tingo Maria in an open valley along
the same Huallaga river. A 2,600 x 30 m runway with flexible pavement, a
taxiway and an aircraft apron would be provided. Terminal, cargo and mainte-
nance CFR buildings would be provided. Runway lighting, VASIS, VOR/DME, NDB,
communications, meteorology, CFR equipment and a short access road to the
highway would also be provided (Map IBRD 15023).



- 16 -
(ii) Part II
4.16      The proposed project would provide the navaids and replacements
needed over the next four years at about 26 locations throughout Peru
listed in Table 4.2. The equipment would consist of VORs, DMEs and NDBs.
The project would also provide an aircraft equipped to calibrate the various
navigational aids, including lighting and communications and the ground
laboratory necessary to keep the electronic flight equipment in calibration,
and would provide the necessary training for ground and flight technicians.
(iii) Part III
4.17      With the introduction of larger aircraft at many of the airports,
new aircraft apron handling equipment is required, consisting of tractors,
baggage and cargo loaders and carriers, fork lifts, etc. The project would
provide such equipment, as listed in Table 4.3. Throughout the airport system,
there is a requirement for prime and standby electrical power. The project
would provide electrical generation sets as listed in Table 4.4 and CFR equip-
ment as listed in Table 4.5. Table 4.6 lists supplemental apron equipment.
(iv) Part IV
4.18      The project would provide technical assistance in the following
four areas:
(a)  Final engineering for the four project airports, at an estimated
cost of US$1,540,000, covering about 200 man-months at US$7,500
per month. An advance of US$800,000 has been extended under the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to finance estimated foreign
exchange cost for this item.
(b)  A technical and economic feasibility study has been completed
which shows that a new airport would be justified at Cuzco.
Tn order that construction of this airport could be under-
taken in a timely and orderly fashion, final engineering of
the new airport project is required. The project would
include funds to cover the foreign cost element (estimated to
be about 70%) of engaging consultants for such engineering.
(See Annex 2 for Terms of Reference.) The estimated cost for this
engineering contract is US$2,800,000 and would cover about 370
man-months at about US$7,500 per month.
(c)  To assist CORPAC in designing and installing a modern
commercial cost accounting system, the project would
include funds to cover the foreign cost element (estimated
to be about 70%) of engaging accounting consultants for
such purpose. This contract is estimated to cost about
US$160,000 and would cover 24 man-months at about
US$6,500 per month.



- 1 7 -
(d) To assist CORPAC in supervising the design and construction
of the Part I airports, the project would include funds to
cover 100% of the foreign cost element of obtaining two
airport engineering advisors from ICAO for a period of two
years (four man-years). It is estimated that the cost would
be about US$286,000 and be about US$6,000 per month for the
48 months.
(v) Part V
4.19      A final engineering design is now under way for communications equip-
ment, original installations and replacements needed over the next four years
at about 33 locations throughout Peru listed in Table 4.2, funded by German
bilateral aid. The results of this work are expected by June 1981. Administra-
tion of this contract is being handled by CORPAC, as would any forthcoming
communications procurement contracts. It is expected that bilateral aid from
Germany would finance the equipment recommended by the final design.
E.   Execution
4.20      CORPAC would be the borrower and would therefore carry the foreign
exchange risk of the loan. Parts I, II and III of the project would be
executed by CORPAC. The contracts for the consulting engineers for the Cuzco
design would be administered by a committee consisting of representatives of
COPESCO, CORPAC, DGTA and the Ministry of Finance, but technical supervision
of the consultants' work would be carried out by CORPAC. It would be a
condition of disbursement for the design of the Cuzco airport that an agree-
ment satisfactory to the Bank is executed between CORPAC and COPESCO. The
accounting consultants would be engaged by CORPAC. The airport engineering
advisors from ICAO would be provided under a UNDP/Government project agreement;
however, CORPAC would be the executing agent for that agreement.
4.21      The final engineering for the project airports is to be financed
by funds from the PPF. To reimburse the PPF, an additional US$800,000 is
included to cover the foreign cost component of the engineering contract under
this proposed loan. The contract would be administered by DGTA, but technical
supervision of the consultants' work would be carried out by CORPAC. The
final cost estimates were received in January 1981.
4.22      A portion of the Part II navaid installations would be carried out
by CORPAC's own forces and is expected to take about four years to complete.
The airport construction is expected to take one-and-one-half years each at
Tarapoto and Huanuco, three years at Tingo Maria and one year at Pucallpa. At
the peak, the airport construction would employ about 400, 300, 500 and 200
men respectively. The equipment installations would employ about 10 men each.
4.23       Construction and procurement contracts would begin to be issued by
the middle of 1981. The first construction contracts would be for the air-
craft movement areas. They would be followed four or five months later by
the building contracts. Last would come the visual aids, water sewerage and
electrical distribution contracts. All equipment procurement would be completed
by the end of 1983. All construction would be finished by the end of 1985.
During negotiations, the project implementation schedule was established
(Charts IBRD 21677 and 21722).



- 18 -
F.   Procurement
4.24      Nine different types of contracts would be issued, namely:
(a) aircraft movement areas; (b) terminals and other buildings; (c) visual
aids and electrical distribution; (d) water and sewerage distribution systems;
(e) navaids, meteorological and/or communications equipment procurement and/or
installations; (f) CFR equipment procurement; (g) apron equipment procurement;
(h) electrical generation equipment procurement; and (i) aircraft equipment
and training procurement package, all of which would be awarded after inter-
national competitive bidding by prequalified contractors. It is estimated
that local contractors would win more than 75% of the construction contracts.
However, since suitable navaids, visual aids, communications equipment, apron
handling equipment, flight inspection aircraft and associated calibration
equipment, etc. are not manufactured in Peru, it is expected that contracts
for equipment would be awarded to foreign contractors, but, on any equipment
contract, local bidders (and those from Cartagina Agreement member countries
or from any other such grouping acceptable to the Bank) would be granted a
margin of preference of 15% of the CIF value of foreign bids or the applicable
customs duties, whichever is lower.
G.   Financing and Disbursement
4.25      The proposed Bank loan would furnish the funds to cover the foreign
exchange component of Parts I-IV, US$58.0 million. The foreign exchange
component for Part V would come from a proposed German bilateral loan. CORPAC
would furnish the local component for all parts of the project, except that
required for Part IV(a) and IV(b), from internally generated funds (para 6.13).
The Government would furnish the local funds for the first part of Part IV(a)
and IV(b). The local component would include about 25% of the foreign component
for equipment as taxes or about S/. 2,992.5 million.
4.26      Disbursement of funds from the loan would be on the following
basis:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for equipment and its
installation;
(b)  60% of total expenditures for civil works (exclusive of
land); and
(c)  70% of total expenditures for local and foreign consultants and 100%
of foreign expenditures for technical assistance and principal and
interest on the PPF advance (para 4.18(a), (b), (c) and (d)).
Disbursement would be made against standard documentation. A schedule showing
the estimated rate of disbursement is given in Table 4.7. The closing date of
the loan should be December 31, 1986.
H.   Ecology
4.27      The ecological and environmental effects of the construction of the
project components were taken into account during the siting and preliminary
design studies for each project airport. Except for Tingo Maria, the new work
would take place on land already impacted by airport operations. At Huanuco,



- 19 -
there might be a slight increase in noise because of the increase in opera-
tions permitted by the expansion, but, at Tarapoto and Tingo Maria, this effect
is offset by operations being directed or taking place at a further distance
from the populated areas. Operations at Pucallpa do not affect the town in
either case.
4.28      Because of runway reorientation or relocation, low flying aircraft
would be rerouted away from the densely populated areas. While at Tingo
Maria, certain farmland would be taken out of production, more desirable
flatland would be released for urban development. At none of the project
sites would it be necessary to relocate people. None of the new sites contain
houses. Because of the extensive regrading of areas, drainage would be
affected; however, in general, it would be improved. Stagnant pools would be
eliminated, and existing water courses would be cleaned and straightened.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Project Selection
5.01      Air transport in Peru has developed over a long period of time,
with an almost continuing limitation being a lack of adequaLe infrastructure.
This limitation has constrained, and still prevents, the use of the most
economical aircraft for present traffic volumes. In the selection of the
highest priority project airports, the relatively more developed airport
conditions in the south and along the coast formed a main consideration.
Taking into account ongoing construction, since mostly completed, at Arequipa,
Iquitos and Puerto Maldonado, six airports along the Lima-Iquitos corridor
were selected for feasibility studies in 1975. The results of these studies
indicated that improvements or new construction were required and justified at
this time at four of the airports: Huanuco, Pucallpa, Tarapoto and Tingo
Maria. These airports constitute one of the major parts of the proposed
project. They are all close to towns supporting areas with promising develop-
ment at considerable distance from Lima. The ongoing decentralization by the
Government into regional development organizations increases the need for
communication to these towns with countrywide expertise available only in
the capital or in regional centers such as Iquitos. Because of the lack of
surface transport, travel between Tarapoto, Tingo Maria and Pucallpa on one
side and Iquitos and Cuzco on the other will continue to be almost exclusively
by air for many years to come.
5.02      Another large part of the proposed project is a badly needed equip-
ment replacement program for CORPAC. This program relates particularly to
the aeronautical communications and navigational aids systems, which, in
the essential parts, are now 15-20 years old and rapidly becoming obsolete.
This factor, together with a justified requirement for improved coverage by
the navigational aids, would considerably reduce the cost of air transport in
the whole country and be partly paid for by increased user charges reflecting
improved service from foreign airlines on flights to, from and over Peru.
Within Peru, and particularly in the Sierra and Selva, these investments would
also improve the regularity of air transport and would have an impact on
traffic growth similar to the introduction of jet aircraft in the early 1970s,
or some 14% growth per year (Tables 2.1 and 2.2).



- 20 -
B.   Project Evaluation
5.03      Progress toward the main project objectives of regional integration
of a large country and fundamental changes to urbanization trends cannot
readily be measured. Reduced transport costs and less costly equipment
operations have therefore been used to determine the direct quantifiable
results of most of the project components. This analysis considerably under-
estimates the advantages of various subprojects, since relatively small-scale
improvements to a system which already handles substantial traffic normally
produce effects well in excess of the direct cost changes. The economic
evaluation has used cost data for January 1981 as the foundation for benefits
and costs.
5.04      The quantified economic benefits for the airports consist primarily
of cost savings by changing from older jet aircraft to newer, more cost-effi-
cient aircraft. The largest immediate beneficiary in this case would be the
Government-owned Aeroperu, which operates services to all these airports, and,
to a lesser extent, the privately owned Faucett, now with services to three of
the airports. Benefits have been calculated for both normal traffic and
generated and/or diverted traffic; for the latter, benefits have been taken as
only 50% of the cost saved. A large part of the cost savings relates to fuel,
which otherwise could be exported, or to a smaller requirement for imported
equipment and spares.
5.05      In the equipment portion of the project, the benefits for replacement
of old navaids and communications equipment are partly based on reduction of the
high maintenance and operating cost of obsolete equipment compared to that for
new transistorized equipment. For navaids established at new sites, aircraft
time savings due to the improved flight procedures possible have been evaluated.
This has also been the main saving for the aeronautical communications network,
which enables a reduction of average flight time both for domestic and inter-
national flights. In this last case, the cost saving to foreign aircraft
would be recaptured by a planned 15% increase in tariffs for enroute navigation
charged by CORPAC for these services. The costs for the aircraft required to
perform flight checks of air navigation equipment were split between existing
aids and new aids. For existing aids, the avoided costs for hiring aircraft
were used as benefits of a CORPAC-owned aircraft. For new aids, the cost of
flight checking, including the aircraft investment, was treated as part of the
cost of these aids, with the main benefits relating to reduced aircraft trip
times for domestic flights because of shorter airway distances.
5.06      Typically, the reduction in passenger-mile cost represents a rela-
tively conservative 4.P5 US cents/passenger-mile for a change from the F28
and BAC III aircraft now used to B-727-100 aircraft presently operated by
both airlines to other airports. A typical cost of about US$1,747 per hour,
representing an average hourly cost of these aircraft types, has been used
for aircraft time saved in the air because of improved aids and communications.
A cost of US$3,450 per hour was used for international flights which, at two
minutes saving per flight (or some 60-75 gallons of fuel), was equal to the
15% tariff increase mentioned. An average reduction of one minute per flight
due to improved communications and two minutes per flight for better and more
navaids provided the main saving for scheduled flights within Peru. These are
conservative reductions compared to experience in other countries, where
improved approach procedures alone would give a two-three minute saving.



- 21 -
C.   Project Airports
5.07      The population in the areas served by the Part I airports is now
close to 900,000. It is expected to grow to 1.2 million by 1990, or about
5% of the Peruvian population. Huanuco has 385,000, but is the least isolated.
Tarapoto has 240,000, followed by Pucallpa with 185,000 and Tingo Maria with
85,000. The most important presently in terms of traffic are Tarapoto and
Pucallpa, followed by Tingo Maria and Huanuco. Of these airports, only
Tarapoto has significant cargo traffic, about 10,000 tons, compared to 3,000
tons for Pucallpa and less for the others.
5.08      In terms of investment, Tarapoto is the highest cost airport.
There, also, the economic impact of better air services is likely to be
highest. This area was connected to the coast by a gravel road essentially
finished in 1979. The distance to Lima by road is some 1,550 kilometers,
which means that virtually all passenger traffic and a substantial part of
cargo traffic goes by air. Several agricultural projects in the area and
others such as a new vocational training school make Tarapoto a natural
regional center. It will have an even greater growth potential when road
links up the Huallaga valley and to the new port facilities (financed under
Loan 1196-PE) at Yurimaguas are improved. This potential, in all likelihood,
will concentrate high value production such as cattle raising in the Tarapoto
area.  Air cargo in this area is going through various development stages.
The first stage, now more or less concluded, occurred when the area depended
on air transport even for low value basic commodities such as corn and cement;
the second stage has begun through the use of mainly Peruvian Air Force
aircraft at Tarapoto and surrounding air strips to move industrial commodities
into the area and meat from the area. A third stage will develop as soon as
Tarapoto infrastructure permits the use of scheduled airline aircraft with
competitive cost levels for air cargo and as the road system in the area
continues to be improved. A further and long-term stage will take place when
the road to Tingo Maria, which is part of the edge road of the Selva, has been
improved to a standard permitting transport by refrigerated trucks. Until
that stage, air cargo will remain competitive, particularly for perishable
commodities.
5.09      Another aspect of the importance of Tarapoto is its position as an
interchange point between regular scheduled air services by the two airlines
and air taxi services to a large number of air strips in the north, some in
support of oil exploration in a large area where Tarapoto is the closest
airport. Consequently, this airport, despite its present limitations, is
one of the busiest in Peru in terms of aircraft movements. A third aspect
is Tarapoto's role as the closest alternative to the only airport with paved
runways, Iquitos, in an area as large as a quarter of Peruvian territory.
The present conditions of the airport and runway orientation preclude its
being named an alternate for Iquitos under bad weather conditions and, thus,
in effect, exclude its use completely. The weather and lack of aids such as
an ILS system also lead to a number of flight cancellations which, because of
the traffic volume, is a serious constraint. The airline cost savings due to
the use of Tarapoto as an alternate for flights to Iquitos and Pucallpa instead
of distant airports such as Chiclayo or Lima have not been possible to quantify.
Nor has a value been obtainable relating to the cost of bad weather flight



- 22 -
cancellations. A benefit value relating only to a cost saving due to carriage
flight of passenger traffic in a more cost-effective aircraft omits not only
such indirect development effects as better regularity of the air services but
also the direct effects on aircraft operations. Despite these shortcomings,
the estimated economic return reaches 22%.
5.10      Pucallpa is, in some respects, in a situation similar to that of
Tarapoto as a regional center for a large geographic area with an interchange
to air taxi services. It is, however, located at a lower altitude, which,
in the Amazon basin, implies a much less diversified agricultural base and,
therefore, more limited growth prospects. Pucallpa is also connected to Lima
by an all-weather road and has a thriving port (both improved under Loan 1196-PE).
More cost-effective passenger travel is therefore a most immediate objective
for the improvement which, at the existing airport, can be achieved at much
lower cost than at Tarapoto since the present runway needs only to be overlaid.
The economic return, on the same limited basis mentioned for Tarapoto, there-
fore reaches 42%.
5.11      Tingo PMaria is another airport close to a small university town
with secondary economic effects similar to those of Tarapoto. Relocation
of the airport to a new site will achieve much improvement in flight regular-
ity under safe conditions and will extend the area of influence of the airport
to several nearby communities in the upper parts of the Huallaga valley.
Traffic, consequently, has similar growth prospects as for Tarapoto except
for air cargo. The economic return is 13%, not including the value of the
existing airport land, which, because of its close proximity to the town,
would be valuable for urban development purposes.
5.12      Huanuco, closer to Lima, along the road to Pucallpa, has considerable
air traffic despite present airport limitations, because of a relatively large
population base. A relocated runway, at low cost, would enable much safer use
of larger aircraft in daylight and good weather. Since weather conditions at
this altitude are much better than those at the other airports, weather-related
limitations to regularity are not likely to become a serious problem. A shift
to more cost effective aircraft could take place, and present aircraft damages
resulting from the present unpaved runway could be avoided. The area of in-
fluence would be limited to the present densely populated valleys close to
Huanuco with somewhat less growth potential than Tarapoto and Tingo Maria.
Based on aircraft-related cost improvements only, the economic return reaches
13%.
D.   Total Project Return
5.13      The weighted average project return for the four airports above is
22%, with good first year returns, and, for the total project, is 20%. For
the various parts of the equipment program, the return varies from 13% to 21%
with first year returns as high as, or higher than, those for the rest of the
project (Tables 5.1-5.4). As stressed earlier, these estimates have been
biased in a conservative direction since the real losses in aircraft time
because of the inadequate network of communications and navaids (particularly
in the less developed eastern part of Peru) are higher. This factor is of
critical importance since the area relies almost exclusively on air and river
transport.



- 23 -
5.14      A sensitivity analysis for the project components indicates that
almost no rates are likely to fall below 10%. The first year returns are
normally high, with the lowest being 11% (or the estimated opportunity cost
of capital in Peru) (Table 5.4). Considering the fact that the traffic
forecasts are conservative in view of the past development of domestic air
traffic, most of the economic rates may, in fact, be higher than the best
estimate. Loss of that generated traffic would be equivalent to 15%-20% lower
traffic benefits. Economic returns in such a case are still 12% or higher.
E.   Project Risks
5.15      The most serious project risk is that higher-than-anticipated airport
construction costs may not be compensated for by similar inflationary cost
increases for the various benefits. The sensitivity test above indicates
that, with a 15% increase in construction costs, in real terms, all of the
economic returns are still acceptable.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Existing Situation
6.01      In 1976, CORPAC was able to cover all of its working expenses from
operating revenues. It was not able to cover total operating expenses,
resulting in a net operating revenue deficit of S/. 15.9 million (Table 6.1).
This was the result of generally depressed economic conditions and associated
slow traffic growth and low tariffs being charged for its services. However,
the financial position of CORPAC has improved significantly since 1976. In
the period 1977 to 1979, CORPAC was able to cover all of its operating expenses
from operating revenues, which resulted in a rate of return on revalued net
fixed assets of 0.8 in 1977, increasing to 12.4 in 1979. This improved perfor-
mance was caused primarily by increases in traffic and aircraft size and
tariff levels.  In October 1979, CORPAC received approval to increase its
tariffs in general by 30%.
6.02      In addition to its operating revenues, CORPAC has a source of revenue
which flows primarily out of sales in the duty-free shop in the airport at Lima.
This revenue source is significant for CORPAC since it makes a contribution
toward any of its capital investment or debt service needs. The result of the
contribution from non-operating revenues is that CORPAC has been able to cover
all operating expenses and limited capital investment and debt service require-
ments in recent years without subsidy from the Government. However, there
have not been sufficient funds for CORPAC to make significant investments in
telecommunications, navigational aids, and general apron service equipment,
which are now badly needed.
6.03      By law, CORPAC must pay certain taxes on its operations.  In addi-
tion to taxes on salaries and rentals, it must pay a tax on revalued capital
investments. As may be seen in Table 6.1, these taxes represent about 8% of



- 24 -
operating expenses. CORPAC had been required to pay tax on its net income at
a rate of from 45 to 55%, depending on the amount of the net income. However,
the Government, in realizing the major investment requirements of the aviation
subsector for the coming years, issued Law No. 22921, dated March 4, 1980,
which reduces CORPAC's tax rate to 10% of net income. The income which
remains will be used for capital investment and the principal of debt service.
6.04      Almost all of the tariffs of CORPAC are based on US dollars
(Annex 3). As a result, most revenues adjust automatically for devaluation
of the Peruvian Sol. The current Government policy is to permit CORPAC to
increase its tariffs as necessary to cover operating expenses. The procedure
for granting tariff increases is based on the presentation of revenue and cost
data by CORPAC staff to the General Manager, who submits it to the Board of
Directors. After Board approval, the proposed tariff increases are submitted
to the Ministry of Transportation and Communications for approval. Within the
Ministry, the Organismo Regulador de Tarifas de Transporte (ORETT), the entity
which reviews requests for tariff increases, performs an analysis of the cost
data and proposed tariff increases (para 1.23). If it is satisfied with the
justification, its approval is given and the Minister issues a Ministerial
Resolution approving the new tariffs. Since the process is carried out entirely
within the Ministry, it usually takes only one month to obtain approval.
6.05      The CORPAC balance sheets for the years 1976 through 1979 are pre-
sented in Table 6.2. From them, it may be seen that net accounts receivable
represent about 23% of operating revenues, except in 1979, when they were
approximately 14%. In 1979, CORPAC carried a provision for doubtful accounts
amounting to S/. 690 million (US$2.76 million) in its balance sheets. This
represents an amount which has accumulated over the past few years for service
provided primarily to Aeroperu. In order to relieve this account, the Govern-
ment has agreed to pay CORPAC the past due amounts from Aeroperu in 1981.
Accounts payable represent about 15% of working expenses, which is a satisfac-
tory relationship. The balance sheets reflect revaluation of assets, which
are revalued annually in accordance with the law. The amount by which they
are revalued is determined by the Government, and this amount is a reflection
of annual inflation in the construction industry. In accordance with existing
law, the financial statements of CORPAC must be prepared and audited by an
external certified public accountant no later than three months after the end
of the fiscal year, which ends December 31 (para 3.07).
6.06      The financial accounts of CORPAC are kept in the central adminis-
trative office of CORPAC at the airport in Lima. All revenues are collected
by. CORPAC and retained by it for payment of working expenses and other ex-
penses, including investment and debt service. The taxes based on operations
(para 6.03) are paid to the Government on a monthly basis. The tax on net
income is paid when the final financial statements have been prepared. In
accordance with recent legislation (para 6.03), the remaining net income
may be used only for capital investment and the principal of debt service.



- 25 -
6.07      The manner in which the accounts of CORPAC are kept and audited
has been reviewed and found to be in order. However, the present system
does not keep the accounts in sufficient cost center detail so that CORPAC
may know the actual cost of providing each of its services. CORPAC recognizes
this deficiency and has requested assistance in improving the cost accounting
procedures. It is recommended that a financial consultant be retained, on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, by March 31, 1982, for a period
of two years to assist CORPAC with the improvement of its cost accounting
system (paras 3.10 and 4.18(c)). It was agreed during negotiations that
CORPAC would implement the measures recommended by the consultants which are
satisfactory to the Bank and CORPAC.
B.   Financial Objectives
6.08      The current Government policy is that CORPAC should generate suffi-
cient revenues to cover its operating expenses, investments and debt service.
In recent years, CORPAC has been able to meet these objectives, but capital
investments and debt service requirements have been relatively small. However,
with the planned capital investment program for the next five years and its
associated debt service, it will be necessary for CORPAC to increase its total
revenues annually to continue to meet these established objectives. Therefore,
in the financial projections, which are stated in current US dollars, all
revenues have been increased annually for traffic growth and estimated US dollar
inflation (Table 6.3). Because of cash flow requirements in the year 1983, an
additional real term increase of 15% in operating revenues is required on
January 1 of that year. This increase has been made in the tables and is
carried throughout the projection period. The financial assumptions are set
out in Annex 3.
6.09      During the projection period, it should be possible for CORPAC to
achieve a rate of return of at least 12% on revalued net fixed assets achieved
in 1979. However, in order to allow for the possibility of changed financial
conditions, it was agreed, during negotiations, that CORPAC would increase its
revenues in such an amount that it would be able to meet its operating expenses,
local cost of capital investments and debt service requirements and generate
an annual rate of return on net fixed assets of no less than 8%. It was also
agreed that the Government would take necessary steps concerning user charges
to permit CORPAC to raise user charges to the extent necessary to provide funds
to carry out the project. The annual rates of return are shown in Annex 4.
The implied high rates of return in Annex 4 result from the significant amount
of works in progress which will not be taken into Gross Fixed Assets until
1986. When this is done, the rates of return will be lower.
6.10      While CORPAC has exercised prudent management over its accounts
receivable and accounts payable in recent years (para 6.05), it was agreed
during negotiations that CORPAC's accounts receivable would be no more than
25% of operating revenues.
6.11      While it is the current practice of CORPAC to have its financial
statements audited by an external auditor (paras 3.07 and 6.05), it was
agreed during negotiations that certified copies of the audited annual
accounts, satisfactory to the Bank, would be prepared by independent auditors
and furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the end of each
calendar year.



- 26 -
6.12      For many years, the combined four project airports would not be
able to cover total operating expenses. However, the four project airports
would be able to cover their combined working expenses beginning in the year
1983. A summary and individual income statements for the project airports
are shown in Tables 6.4 through 6.8.
C.   Financial Plan
6.13      The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$127.6 million,
of which US$58.0 million would be in the form of a Bank loan to CORPAC. An
additional amount equivalent to US$19.0 million would be in the form of a
co-financing loan assumed to come from German bilateral financing. These
amounts would represent approximately 60% of total project costs. The
balance equivalent, US$50.6 million, would be provided by: CORPAC, US$49.4
million; MTC, US$0.4 million and COPESCO, US$0.8 million.
1981-1985
Peruvian S/. million       US$ million
(a)  Bank loan                 27,274                     58.0
(b)  Co-financing               8,934                     19.0
(c)  CORPAC                    23,231                     49.4
(d)  MTC                           188                     0.4
(e)  COPESCO                      375                      0.8
60,002                   127.6
6.14      Since it is expected that the planned investment program would
strain CORPAC's internally generated revenues in the early years of the
project, it was agreed during negotiations that CORPAC would consult with
the Bank on, and not undertake, any investment of more than US$1.0 million
at any one airport unless it is economically and technically justified.
D.   Financial Projections
(i) Operating Results
6.15      CORPAC revenues and expenses by category for 1980 and projected
through 1985 are set out in the projected income statements, Table 6.3.
Summarized forecast results for the project years are as follows:



- 27 -
CORPAC
(Current US$ million) 1/
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Operating Revenues                      28.0   33.8   41.0   57.1   69.1    83.6
Working Expenses                        18.7   22.9   27.4   33.2   41.7    50.2
Depreciation                             2.1    2.5    2.9    4.1   10.6    13.4
Net Operating Revenues                 7.2    8.4   10.7   19.8   16.8    20.0
Non-Operating Revenues                   5.6    6.8    8.3   10.0   12.1    14.7
Non-Operating Expenses                   3.8    4.6    5.6    6.8    8.2    10.0
Net Non-Operating Revenues             1.8    2.2    2.7    3.2    3.9        4.7
Net Income Before Interest and Taxes  9.0   10.6   13.4   23.0   20.7    24.7
Interest                                  .2      .2    1.9    4.0    6.4       8.1
Taxes                                    2.1    3.1    3.6    5.0    5.7        6.9
Net Income After Interest and Taxes   6.7    7.3    7.9   14.0    8.6           9.7
Rate of Return (Before Taxes)           27.5   27.4   28.3   40.7   17.9    14.1
1/   May not agree because of rounding.
6.16      In every year during the projected period, CORPAC would be able to
cover all operating expenses from operating revenues. It should be agreed
during negotiations that CORPAC would prepare its operating and five-year
capital investment budget by not later than November of the preceding year
and would furnish a copy to the Bank for its comments (para 3.09).
6.17      The summary and individual project airports projected income state-
ments are set out in Tables 6.4 through 6.8.  Only one of the airports, Pucallpa,
covers all working expenses in all the projected years, and two others, Tarapoto
and Tingo Maria, begin to cover working expenses in the years 1983 and 1986
respectively. The airport of Huanuco never generates sufficient revenues to
cover all working expenses during the projection period to 1990. After the new
investments are put into service and their associated depreciation, which is
based on revaluation, is taken into account, none of the project airports
cover their operating expenses. However, the combined income statements for
the four project airports show that, as a group, they would be able to cover
all working expenses by 1983 with a working ratio of 81, gradually decreasing
to 55 in the year 1990. Since these four airports are part of a total system,
they generate a like amount of revenues at other airports, primarily Lima,
which are not considered in their individual financial projections.
(ii) Cash Flow
6.18      A projected cash flow for CORPAC, based on the assumptions contained
in paragraph 6.08, is shown in Table 6.9, and the supporting detailed invest-
ment program is set out in Table 6.10. In order for CORPAC to accomplish its



- 28 -
investment program, it would be necessary for it to make the increases to
revenues indicated in paragraph 6.08. While the cumulative cash surplus would
be adequate, a movement of any of the major investment components in the first
years of the project to an earlier or later year than presently planned would
result in significant cash deficits for any given year. A summary of the cash
flow for 1980 through 1985 is set out below:
CORPAC
(Current US$ million) 1/
19_8    1981   1982   1983   1984   19 5
Sources
Internal Cash Generation                 11.1   13.1   16.2   27.1   31.2    38.0
Proposed Bank Loan                         -       -    22.0   16.5   15.0         .4
Other Foreign Loans 2/                     -      -      1.7   17.3   11.8    13.0
Total Sources                      11.1   13.1   39.9   60.9   58.0    55.4
Applications
Proposed Bank Project                      -       -    35.9   27.2   23.2        7.9
Other Capital Investments                 5.4      .8    1.7   31.8   19.7    21.7
Total Capital Investments           5.4      .8   37.6   59.0   42.9    29.6
Total Loan Repayments                      .1      -      -       -       -       2.2
Total Interest Payments                    .2      .2    1.9    4.0    6.4       8.1
Taxes                                     2.1    3.1    3.6    5.0    5.7        6.9
Total Applications                  7.8    4.1   43.1   68.0   55.0    46.8
Cash Surplus/Deficit                3.3    9.0   (3.2)  (7.1)   3.0         8.6
Cumulative Cash Surplus             3.3   12.3    9.1    2.0    5.0    13.6
1/   May not agree because of rounding.
2/   Other foreign loans include a German Bilateral Loan for communications
equipment of US$19 million and a total loan for the new Cuzco airport
of US$63.0 million, or about 64% of the total estimated costs, which
have been computed using the same terms and conditions as the proposed
Bank loan.
6.19      The projections indicate that CORPAC might require minor additional
debt financing in 1983 and 1984 when liquid ratios (Annex 4) are less than
one. In order to ensure that such borrowing would not adversely affect CORPAC's
ability to carry out the project, the Bank should be consulted before additional
debt is incurred. Therefore, it was agreed during negotiations that CORPAC
would not incur any long-term debt unless its net revenues for the fiscal year
next preceding such incurrence, or for a later 12-month period ended prior to



- 29 -
such incurrence, whichever amount is greater, shall not be more than 1.5 times
the maximum long-term debt service requirement for any succeeding fiscal year
on all long-term debt, including long-term debt proposed to be incurred.
6.20       Projected balance sheets for 1980-1985, which reflect revalued assets
and stated current US$, are presented in Table 6.11.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was obtained from the Government
and CORPAC regarding the following:
(a)  that CORPAC would update its five-year capital investment plan on
a yearly basis and, not later than November of each year, through the
closing date of the loan, would provide the Bank with a copy of the
next year's plan and an opportunity to comment on it (paras 3.09 and
6.16);
(b)  that an accounting consultant to CORPAC would be engaged, on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, by March 31, 1982, to improve
the cost accounting system (paras 3.10 and 6.07);
(c)  that CORPAC would implement measures to improve its cost
accounting system, recommended by the consultants, which are
satisfactory to the Bank and to CORPAC (para 6.07);
(d)  that CORPAC would increase its revenues in such an amount that it
would be able to meet its operating expenses, local cost of capital
investments and debt service requirements and to obtain a return of
not less than 8% on revalued net fixed assets (para 6.09);
(e)  that the Government would take necessary steps concerning user
charges to permit CORPAC to provide necessary funds to carry out
the project (para 6.09);
(f)  that CORPAC's accounts receivable would be no more than 25% of
operating revenues (para 6.10);
(g)  that certified copies of the audited annual accounts, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, would be prepared by independent auditors and
furnished to the Bank not later than four months after the
end of each calendar year (para 6.11);
(h)  that CORPAC would not undertake any investment of more than
US$1.0 million at any one airport unless it is economically
and technically justified (para 6.14); and
(i)  that CORPAC would not incur any long-term debt unless its net
revenues for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence, or
for a later 12-month period ended prior to such incurrence,
whichever amount is greater, shall not be more than 1.5 times the
maximum long-term debt service requirement for any succeeding
fiscal year on all long-term debt, including long-term debt
proposed to be incurred (para 6.19).



- 30 -
7.02      It would be a condition of disbursement for the design of the
Cuzco Airport that an agreement satisfactory to the Bank is executed
between CORPAC and COPESCO (para 4.20).
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$58.0 million to CORPAC. This amount would include repayment of detailed
engineering for project airports, which has been financed under the project
preparation facility. The terms would be 17 years, including a grace period
of four years.
February 25, 1981



PERU
AVIATION DEVELOP'MENT PROJECT
Port Traffic 197) Tons (000)
L O A D E D                 U N L O A D E D                COASTAL SHIPPING                 TOTAL
Dry    Liquid                Dry      Liquil                 Dry    Liquid                Dry    Liquid
Cargo   Cargo       Total    Cargo    Cargo       Total    Cargo   Cargo    Total    Cargo   Cargo            Total
TOTAL GENERAL               8,439    3,161    11,600    2,200         126      2,326       1,430  10,041   11,471.  12,070  13,327    25,397
TOTAL ENAPU                 2,162        575     2,737    2,184       126      2,310      1,010   5,701    6,712    5,357   6,402    11,759
A.  SUB TOTAL ENAPU
SEAPORTS               2,144       561      2,705    2,150       114      2,264        658   5,485    6,143    4,953   6,159    11,112
1   Cabo Blanco               -           76         76      -          -        -           -        256       256      -         332        332
2   Talara                    -         402         402        73       4          77       -      2,246    2,246          73   2,652       2,725
3   Paita                       82         5         87        53       4         57          43       15        58       173       23        202
4   Eten                       -        -          -          -         -        -           -        381       381      -         381        381
5   Pacasmayo                   18      -            18       -         -        -           -      -          -           _8    -             18
6   Chicama                     13      -            13       -         -        -           -      -          -           13    -             13
7   Salaverry                 162         20        182        85       -         85        -         350       350       2.7      370        617
8   Chimbote                   282        28        310       253       -        253         489      284       773    1,024       312      1,336
9   Besique                   -         -         -           -         -        -          -       -          -         -       -           -
10  Casma                      -        -         -          -          -        -           -      -          -         -       -           -
11  Huarmey                     14      -            14       -         -        -           -      -          -           14    -             14
12  Supe                        44      -            44        23        6         29        -        185       185        67      191        258
13  Huacho                      23      -            23       -         -        -           -      -          -           23    -             23
14  Chancay                      4      -             4         2        -          2          4    -             4        1)    -             10
15  Callao                     968        13        981    1,265       12      1,277         119      634       753    2,152       659      3,011
16  Cerro Azul                -         -         -          -          _        -           - _       _       _         _       _
17  General San Martin         133        17        150       130        -        130          1      240       241       ?t4      257        521
18  Matarani                   159      -           159       164       88        252          2    -             2       3.5       88        413
Matarani Bolivia
Transit                  88       -           88       102        -        102            -        -                190    -            190
Mollendo                  -         -         -          -          -        -          -        479        479     -          479        479
19  Ilo                        154      -           154       -          -       -           -        415       415       154      415        569
B.  SUB TOTAL RIVER PORTS    18           14         32        34       12         46        352      217       569       404      243        647
20  Iquitos                     18        14         32        34      12          46        164      217       381       216      243        459
21  Yurimaguas                -         -          -          -         -        -           -       -         -         -        -
22  Pucallpa                   -        -         -           -          -       -           188    -           188       188    -            188
23  Puerto Maldonado           -         -        -                                          -       -                   -                   -
C.  SUB TOTAL OTHER PORTS 6,277    2,586          8,863        16        -         16        420   4,339    4,759    6,713   6,925    13,638
1  Los Organos                -        -         -                                        -         - 
2  Negritos                   -         101        101      -          -        -           -         53        53      -         154        154
3  Bayovar                   -       2,485      2,485       -          -        -          -      3,887    3,887        -      6,372       6,372
4  Pimental                    94      -            94       -                                                            9-4 -               94
5  Coishco                   -         -         -          -          _
6  San Nicolas             5,835       -        5,835       -          -        -           420       95       515    6,255        95      6,.350C
7  Atico                     -         -         -                    -                    -
8  Ilo Southern               348      -           348        16       -          16        -        304       304       364      304        668
9  Puno                      -         -                                                                                                                 m
Source: ENAPU Memoria Anual 1979
January 1981



- 32 -                         TABLE 2.1
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Airport passenger and cargo traffic 1971-79
Airport Passengers                      1971        1976        1978       1979
(arriving and departing)
Project Airports
Huanuco                                11709       24391      31887       33010
Pucallpa                               52330      121578     110672      144126
Tarapoto                               43611     125738      121618      123527
Tingo Maria                            20461       38482      53719       58764
Total project airports                128111      310189     317896      359427
Cuzco                                 117259     276154      355703      380303
CORPAC
Total domestic traffic               1219386    2688062    2666580    3066115
Total international traffic           845760    1295772    1042519    1077856
Total CORPAC airport traffic         2065146    3983834    3709099    4143971
Airport Cargo and Mail
(arriving and departing tons)
Project Airports
Huanuco                                  160          98        110         111
Pucallpa                                1194         902       2003        2950
Tarapoto                                5119        6080       6932       10341
Tingo Maria                              269         281        275         331
Total project airports                  6742        7361       9320       13733
Cuzco                                   1278        1546       2264        2165
CORPAC
Total domestic traffic                 36323      47224       62419       78818
Total international traffic            10513      16826       22662       23648
Total CORPAC airport traffic           46836      64050       85081      102466
Source: CORPAC
January 1981



- 33 -                           TABLE 2.2
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Airport Traffic Forecasts
Annual Departing and Arriving Passengers
(in Thousands)         (yearly growth in brackets)
Actual        Actual                    Forecast
1978          1979          1985          1990          1995
Huanuco
Normal                    32            33            50            69            97
Generated                _               -            23            33            46
32            33 (14.2%)   73 (7.0)    102 (7.0)    143
Pucallpa
Normal                   111           144           190           248           324
Generated                                -            46            60            79
111           144 (8.6)    236 (5.5)    308 (5.5)    403
Tarapoto
Normal                   122           123           228           367           565
Generated                  -             -             -            67           103
122           123 (10.8)   228 (13.8)   434 (9)         668
Tingo Maria
Normal                    54            59            90           138           212
Generated                  -             -             -            36            56
54           59 (7.3)       90 (14.1)   174 (9)        268
Aircraft Traffic (landings)
Actual        Actual                   Forecast
1978          1979          1985          1990          1995
Huanuco Sched.airlines   312             317           485           680           950
Other flights             17            61            90           145           235
Pucallpa Sched.airlines 1275            1343          1765          2200          2750
Other flights           1265         1826           2280          3050          4200
Tarapoto Sched.airlines 1719            1716          3450          4350          5500
Other flights          5418          6584           8700         11900         16300
Tingo Maria Sched.         634           609           870          1140          1755
Airlines
Other flights            306          475            745          1095          1615
Source:   CORPAC, CAIM, APS, LAGESA, LLN Study, Mission estimates
January 1981



- 34 -
TABLE 3.1
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CORPAC Airports
R UNW A YS                 Runway       Runway
AIRPORTS    1--i  4-i   1       I           Strength  Dimensions              r=
coS       aU                              .                 4    0       -
, S- 0    >                      For:      (Metres)            ci
5      1-4   w   co4 S
1   ANDAHUAYLAS          -    -    -    -        X         DC006        2,900 x45                X
2.  ANTA                  X    -            -    -    - BAC-1 -1     3,050 x30                   x
3.  AREQUIPA              X    -B -                         -727         3,000 x 45              x
4.  AYACUCHO              X                                B -    - -  -    -727  2,800 x 45x
5.  BELLAVISTA            -          -     X               D~-  C-3      1,380 x 45
6.  C. COCHA             -      -     -    --   -     X   DC-6           2,400 x45
7,  CAJAMARCA             -    -      X    -    -    -    DC-4           1,820 x36               x
13  CAMANA                -                 -    X   D- C-3              1,OOO x 1 80
* 9 .  CIRO ALEGRIA          -                 -    X    -- DC-6            1,660 x 47
10.  Cuzco                 X                                B   ~      -727  3,400 x 45x
11.  CH-ACHAPOYAS          --    -    X                     D -   -  C-3  1,100 x 40              x
* 1 2   CFIICLAYO             X    -B               -           -727        2,520 x45    X   X      x
i3.  CHIMABOTE-                 -    X    -    -    -    BAC-1-1 I       1,800 x45               x
14.  GALILEA               -          X    -                DC-6         2,000 x45
15.  1-IUANUCO             -X                               DC- - 0-4    2,500 x 50               x
16.  IBERIA                      -           -    X    -- DC-3            1,360 x 18
17,  [LO                   X                                E) ~ -- -  C-6  2,500 x45             x
18.  INTUTO                      -          -- X    -- HERCULES    2,000 x45
19.  1,~APARI                    -                          D  C-3         960 x20
20.  IQUITOS               -                                DC   _    _ 0-8-63  2,500 x 45    X   X    x
21.  JAUJA                 X    -     -D               .     C-6          3,000 x50         X
22.  JUANJU[               --          X                    DC - 0-A      1,400 x A5              X
23.  JULIACA               --          X    -- -        - DC-6            4,000 x45               x
24.  l-IMA                 -     X                          B-- -  8747   3,507 x45    X   X    x
25.  M0LLENDO              -- -       -           -    X   DC-4           1,500 x45               X
26.  ,M0QUEGUA             -           -    -     -    X DC0-4            l,600 x45 
2     MOYOBAMBA         -      - -       -     X    -    DC0-4         130x4
218.  PACASMAYO            -. -        X    ---   -         DC0-4         1x0x3
30.  PATRIA                    x    - DC-6            ~~~~~~~~2,000 x 1 00     x
31.  PICOTA                      -     -    -     X    --  0C-3           1,080 x 30
32 .PISCO                  X    -    -    -    -    --   00-8-63          3,020 x45    x   X    x
33.  PIURA                 X    -     -B -    -    -727                   2,500 x45'    x   X    x
34.  PUCALLPA              x    -     -      -    -    - BAC- 1-1 1    2,500 x 30    X   X    x
35.  PUCACACA              -                 -    X         DC -3         I, 163 x40
36.  PTO. BERM\~UDEZ       -- -       -     -               D  C-3         850 x 1 00
37.  PTO. INCA                   -    -     X               DC--0-3       1,000 x80
30.  PTO. MIALDONADO             -     X                    DC-   0-6     2,000 x 45              X
39   PTO. VICTORIA                     -    X               DC  0-3        850 x 30
40.  QUINCEMIL             -           X          -C--0-6                 1,800 x 30              X
41.  REQUENA                     -                - X D00-3            I   ,2010 x30              X
42.  RIOJA--    X                                   -       D-C0-6      1  800 x45
-43.  S. J. DE SISA        -           - .        X    -l   -47       I 900 x 30
44.  SAN RAMON               . -      -    -      X         DC 0-3      1 1000 x1I00.
415.  SAPOSOA              -      - X    -    -- I          DC 0-3         950 x 40
46.  SATIPO                --x--                            DC 0-3        1,180 x 30
4!.  TACNA                 X                                B-- - - -  -727  2, 500" x 4 -~   
48   TALARA                X    -            - -    - 0-8                 2,450 x-15    X   X    X
45.TARAPOTO              X    -- ----.0727                             2,500 x 30              x
so1  TiNGO MARIA           -      - X                       DC- ~-6       ,100x5 
I   TOCACHE              x               DC-4        ~~~~~~~~~~~2,000 x 60
52.  1TRUJILLO             X     -      L    ..        --  BACI1-11       I,0 x AxJj    X   X    x
53.  TUMBES                -                                 C0-6        21,500 x 45              x
4.  UCHIZA                --                               D0-3          1,050, x 30
5.5.  YAUCA                                            X D-C0-3           1,4(,0 x 150I
55.  YUPIfAAGUAS           --            1        x     <    C-6          1,70 x 45 
TOTALFS               141  I213  5    17 1 iii                                    9   93.
Source: CORPAC
March 1980



- 35 -                             TABLE 4.1
Page 1 of 3
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Uetalled Cost Estimates
In US$ (000)
LOCAL         FOREIGN           TOTAL
Part I - Airports
Tarapoto
Land                                  1.2                               1.2
Cleaning and Grubbing                 6.9            9.6               16.5
Unclassified Excavation          1,245.9         1,720.6           2,966.5
Fill                             2,078.1         2,869.5           4,947.6
Drainage                               .8            1.1                1.9
Sub Drains                         145.5           200.8             346.3
Sub Base                           297.6           410.9             708.5
Base                                303.0          418.2             721.2
Surface                            422.3           583.0           1,005.3
Buildings                          598.4           767.4           1,365.8
CFR and Other Equipment            542.2        1,272.1            1,814.3
Utilities                           330.1          110.0             440.1
Sub-Total           5,972.0        8,363.2           14,335.2
Pucallpa
Cleaning and Grubbing                 1.9            2.8               4.7
Drainage                              3.6            5.0               8.6
Drain Cleaning                        2.6            4.0               6.6
Sub Drains                          25.5            35.2              60.7
Sub Base                           111.2          153.6              264.8
Base                               575.8           795.3           1,371.1
Surface                          1,036.9        1,314.6            2,351.5
Buildings                           71.4            71.4             142.8
CFR and Other Equipment            397.5           861.8           1,259.3
Utilities                          688.9           721.2           1,410.1
Sub-Total           2,915.3        3,964.9            6,880.2
Huanuco
Cleaning and Grubbing               15.0           18.9               33.9
Sub Drains                         177.6          222.8              400.4
Unclassified Excavation            268.2           336.6             604.8
Fill                                47.5           59.8              107.3
Sub Base                           403.0          505.7              908.7
Base                               386.8          485.3              872.1
Surface                            533.1          669.0            1,202.1
CFR and Other Equipment             27.5           57.7               85.2
Sub-Total           1,858.7        2,355.8            4,214.5
Tingo Maria
Land                               6.7                               6.7
Cleaning and Grubbing             32.6           44.9               77.5
Unclassified Excavation          563.2          777.7           1,340.9
Fill                           1,564.7        2,160.0           3,724.7
Drainage                         256.4          353.9              610.3
Sub Drains                         1.8            2.2                4.0
Sub Base                         419.3          519.8             999.1
Base                             437.4          603.8           1,041.2



36-                              TABLE 4.1
Page 2 of 3
Part I - Airports                  LOCAL          FOREIGN          TOTAL
Tingo Maria (Continued)
Surface                         590.5          815.3          1,405.8
Buildings                       367.7          367.5            735.2
CFR and Other Equipment         306.6          664.9            971.5
Utilities                       668.0          222.5            890.5
Sub-Total         5,214.9       6,592.5         11,807.4
Part II
VOR's                           3,011.0        2,400.0          5,411.0
DME's                             543.7        1,420.0          1,963.7
NDB's                             386.5          660.0          1,046.5
Sub-Total        3,941.1        4,480.0          8,421.1
Radio Communications (Tower)      506.4          594.0          1,100.4
Tower Tape Recorders              191.0          528.0            719.0
Sub-Total           697.4       1,122.0          1,819.4
Facility Flight Inspection
Aircraft and Spares             900.0        3,600.0          4,500.0
Flight Inspection Console         250.0        1,000.0          1,250.0
Ground Calibration Lab            200.0          800.0          1,000.0
Type Training (A/C Crew
and Ground Technicians            0.0          300.0            300.0
Sub-Total)       1,350.0        5,700.0          7,050.0
Part III
Hydraulic Cargo Lifts             108.2          309.0            417.2
Baggage Cart Tractors             158.2          452.0            610.2
Container Lifts                   179.4          512.5            691.9
CFR 1,500 Gal. Trucks             433.5        1,280.0          1,713.5
CFR Dry Chemical Exting.           52.5          150.0            202.5
Firefighting Suits                  7.0           20.0             27.0
Fire Penetration Suits               7.0          20.0             27.0
Sub-Total          945.7        2,743.5          3,689.2
Engine Generators 50-100 KVA      111.4          310.2            421.6
Engine Generators 15-30 KVA       322.0          880.0          1,202.0
Sub-Total           433.3       1,190.2          1,623.5
Part IV
Financial Consultant               46.0          115.0            161.0
Airport Engineers (ICAO)            26.0         260.0            286.0
Cuzco Engineering                 800.0        2,000.0          2,800.0
Project Airport Engineering       440.0        1,100.0          1,540.0
Sub-Total        1,312.0        3,475.0          4,787.0



- 37 -                            TABLE 4.1
Page 3 of 3
LOCAL          FOREIGN          TOTAL
Contingencies
Physical 10%                    2,307.0         3,573.2         5,880.2
Price                           9,221.8        14,375.7        23,597.5
Sub-Total         11,528.8        17,948.9        29,477.7
TOTAL
Bank Financed                   36,169.2        57,936.0         94,105.2
Source: CORPAC, Consultants and M'sSion
February 1981
Part V
Communications Equipment
(Costs subject to the
final design)
Radio Communications         8,525.3        10,000.0        18,525.3
Telephone Central (Lima)   1,116.1           2,750.0         3,866.1
Teletypewriters                 91.0           220.0            311.0
Sub-Total          9,732.4        12,970.0         22,702.4
Contingencies
Physical 10%                   973.2         1,297.0         2,270.2
Price                        3,764.9         4,716.3         8,481.2
Sub-Total          4,738.1         6,013.3        10,751.4
TOTAL
Co-Financed                     14,470.5        18,983.3         33,453.8
Source: CORPAC
April 1980
GRAND TOTAL                     50,639.7         76,919.3       127,559.0



- 38 -                            TABLE 4.2
Paee 1 cf 4
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Navaids and Communications Installations
VASI
Tarapoto 1/
Tingo Maria 1/
Pucallpa 1/ 2/
1)   VOR
Alcacocha           Urcos              Ilo                Requena
Contamana           Piura              Intuto             Tarapoto 1/
Juliaca             Talara             Marafion           Tgo. Maria 1/
Tumbes              Caballococha       Pto. Esperanza
Pisco               Casma              Pta. Pejerrey
2)   DME
Chiclayo            Vitor
Pisco               Trujillo
San Juan            Cajamarca
Tacna               Tarapoto 1/
Talara              Tingo Maria 1/
3)   NDB
Contamana           San Juan           Anticona Baja      Tarapoto 1/ 2/
Maranion            Chimbote           Pta. Roca          Tingo Maria 1/
San Ramon           Juanjui            Pucallpa 1/ 2/
1/ Project Airport,
2/ Replace Obsolete Equipment
3/ Subject to Communications Feasibility Study.



- 39 -                          TABLE 4.2
Page 2 of 4
4)   Replace Existing Obsolete Communications Equipment  3
Transmitters HF - AM - SSB - 1KW
Anta (2)                       Juanjui                   Pucallpa 1/
Cajamarca                      Moyobamba (2)            Tarapoto 1/
Chachapoyas (2)                Pisco                    Tingo Maria 1/
Chimbote                       Quincemil (2)            Huanuco (2) 1/
Iquitos                        Tumbes
Lima                           Yurimaguas
Receivers HF - AM - SSB-/
Cajamarca (2)                  Pisco (2)                Pucallpa (2) 1/
Chachapoyas (2)                Quincemil (2)            Tarapoto (2) 1/
Iquitos (2)                    Tumbes (2)               Tingo Maria (2) 1/
Juanjui (2)                    Lima (16)                Huanuco (2) 1/
Moyobamba (2)
Transmisor HF - AM - SSB - 3KW/
Lima (2)
Dual Transmitters/Receivers VHF - AM - 50W
Andahuavlas (1)                Cajamarca (1)
Huaraz (1)                     Chimbote (1)
Juanjui (1)                    Yurimaguas (2)
Rioja (3)                      Tingo Maria (2) 1/
Tumbes (1)
5)   Replace Existing Equipment with Higher Power Equipment
Transmitters - HF - AM - SSB - lKh  3/
Andahuaylas (2)                Chachapovas               Iquitos (2)
Anta                           Tumbes (2)                Pto. Maldonado (3)
Caiamarca                     Chimbote (2)              Piura



TABLE 4.2
-40 -                              Page 3 of 4
5)   Replace Existing Equipment with Higher Power Equipment
Transmitters - HF - AM - SSB - 1KW 3/ (Continued)
Talara (2)                                             Huanuco (2) 1/
Iquitos (1 tx with 2 channels)                         Tingo Maria (2) 1/
Receivers - HF - AM - SSB -
Andahuaylas (2)               Iquitos (9)              Huanuco (2) 1/
Anta                          Pto. Maldonado (3)       Tingo Maria (2) 1/
Cajamarca                     Piura
Chachapoyas                   Talara (2)
Chiclayo (3)                  Tumbes (2)
Chimbote (2)
Transmitters - HF - AM - SSB - 2KW - 4 channels -/
Chiclayo                      Iquitos
Portable Transceivers VHF - AM
27 Units for various airport towers
Dual UHF Interlock Systems with Multiplex
Arequipa
Chiclayo
6) New Complete Communication Station Installations -3/
San Ramon                     Jau'a
Caballococha                  Ilo
Bellavista                    Iberia
Pto. Bermude7                 Patria
Satipo



- 41 -                            TABLE 4.2
Page 4 of 4
7)   Dual 10 Channel Tape Recorders and Reproducers
Arequipa
Trujillo
Tacna
Source: CORPAC
February 1981



- 42 -                              TABLE 4.3
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Apron Equipment
1)    Hydraulic Cargo Lifts of 8000 lbs. to 20,000 lbs.
Piura                     Pto. Maldonado             Pucallpa (3) 1/
Chiclayo (2)              Rioja                      Tarapoto (1) 1/
Tumbes                    Moyobamba                  Tgo. Maria 1/
Trujillo (2)              Juanjui                    Huanuco 1/
Chimbote                  Huaraz                     Quincemil
Chachapoyas               Yurimaguas
Arequipa                  Ayacucho
Cuzco                     Andahuaylas
Juliaca                   Lima (10)
2)    Tractors for Baggage Carts (3,000 lbs. torque)
Talara                    Cuzco                      Pucallpa 1/
Piura                     Rioja                      Tarapoto 1/
Chiclayo                  Iquitos                    Chachapoyas
Trujillo                  Lima (4)                   Huanuco 1/
Arequipa                  Yurimaguas                 Tgo. Maria 1/
Container Lifts
Iquitos (1)               Lima (2)
1/ Project airport
Source: CORPAC
April 1980



- 43 -                             TABLE 4.4
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Electrical Generation Equipment
1)    Electro-generators 50 to 100 KW
Talara                        Pisco
Trujillo (2)                  Piura
Tarapoto 1/                   Pucallpa 1/
2)    Electro-generators 15 to 30 KW
Chachapoyas (2)               Mollendo (2)           Huanuco (2) 1/
Juliaca (2)                   Iquitos (2)
San Juan (2)                  Pto. Esperanza (2)
Moyobamba                     Intuto (2)
Juanjui                       Asia (2)
Huaraz
Oyon (2)
Chillon
Chiclayo (2)
La Joya (2)
1/ Project Airport.
Source: CORPAC
April 1980



- 44i -
TABLE 4.5
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crash, Fire, Rescue Equipment
1)    Crash, Fire, Rescue vehicles, 1,500 gallons water and 250 gallons
foam
- 3 Units for various airports
2)    Fire extinguishers of 350 lbs. dry chemical
- 15 Units for various airports
3)    Fire Fighting Suits
- J0 Units for various airports
4)    Fire Penetration Suits
- 20 Units for various airports
Source: CORPAC
April 1980



- 45 _                             TABLE 4.6
Page 1 of 2
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supportive Aircraft Apron Equipment
1)   FMC Pallet container loader
2 Units - two airports
2)   Electrical Plant of 125 KVA
2 Units for two airports
3)   Motorized Portable Stairs
4 Units for different airports
4)   Conveyor Belt Loader
4 Units for several airports
5)   Cargo Cart Tractors
8 Units for several airports
6)   Baggage Carts
2 Units for two airports
7)   Pay Loader
2 Units for two airports
8)   Highway Pallet Trailer
20 Units for different airports
9)   Container Trailer
10 Units for several airports
10)   Aircraft Towing Bars
9 Units for several airports



-46-                             TABLE 4.6
Page 2 of 2
11)   Airplane Starters
3 for several airports
12)   Sweepers
2 for two airports
13)   Water trucks
2 for two airports
14)   Sanitary Trucks
2 for two airports
15)   Air Conditioning Trucks
2 for two airports
Source: CORPAC
April 1980



47 -                       TABLE 4.7
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
US$
(in millions)
FY 82
June 30, 1982                                            8.93
FY 83
Dec. 31, 1982                                           22.04
June 30, 1983                                           30.89
FY 84
Dec. 31, 1983                                           38.57
June 30, 1984                                           48.78
FY 85
Dec. 31, 1984                                           53.57
June 30, 1985                                           57.51
FY 86
Dec. 31, 1985                                           58.UU
Source: Mission estimates
February 1981



- 48 -
TABLE 5.1
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quantified Benefits and Costs of the Project Airports
US$ (000)
Year                  Huanuco           Pucallpa             Tarapoto       Tingo Maria
Cost    Benefits  Cost   Benefits   Cost   Benefits Cost    Benefits
1982             4011         -      7559         -      9213      -        -
1983              625         -        -       2690      6556      -       3934       -
1984                -         418       -      2921         -      2539   6373        -
1985               -          486      -       3172         -      2813   2687        -
1986               -          520       -      3347         -       3066    -       1085
1987               -          556      -       3531         -       3346    -       1221
1988               -          595      -       3725         -      3643    -        1331
1989               -          637      -       3930         -      3971    -        1451
1990               -          682      -       4146         -      4328    -        1581
1991               -          729      -       4374        -       4717    -        1724
1992               -          780      -       4615        -       5142    -        1379
1993               -          835      -       4869         -      5605    -        2048
1994                -         893      -       5137         -      6109    -        2232
1995               -          956      -       5419         -      6659    -        2433
1996               -        1023       -       5917        -       7258    -        2692
1997               -        1095       -       6032         -      7912    -        2891
1998               -        1171       -          -         -      8624    -        3191
1999               -        1253       -          -         -      94C0    -        3435
2000               -        1341        -        -          -     10246    -        3744
2001                -       1453       -          -         -     11168    -        4081
2002               -        1535       -         -          -     12173    -        4448
2003               -        1643       -          -         -     13269    -        4848
2004                -        -         -         -          -       -       -       5284
2005                -        -          -         -         -        -       -      5760
2006               -         -         -         -          -       -       -       6278
Source: Mission estimates
January 1981



- 49 -
TABLE 5.2
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quantified Benefits and Costs for Equipment Investment
US$ (000)
Calibration           Aircraft
Navigation          Aeronautical            Aircraft &             Apron
Year          Aids            Communications          Laboratory            Equipment
Costs    Benefits  Costs        Benefits   Costs    Benefits   Costs   Benefits
1982   1732           -     2202           -         1435        -        1275         -
1983   2807          874   22251           -           -         -          -        271
1984   3791        1834       -          3272        4304       504         -        285
1985   1501        1925      409         3534          -       1008         -        299
1986     -          2022       -         3816          -       1008         -        314
1987     -          2123       -         4122          -       1008         -        329
1988     -          2229      -          4452          -       1008         -        346
1989     -          2341       -         4807          -       1008         -        363
1990      -        2458       -          5192          -       1008         -        381
1991      -        2581       -          5608          -       1008         -        400
1992     -         2710       -          6056          -       1008         -        420
1993     -          2845       -         6540          -       1008         -          -
1994     -          2987       -         7064          -       1008         -          -
1995     -          3137      -          7629          -       1008         -          -
1996     -          3294      -          8239          -        504         -          -
1997     -          3458      -          8899          -         -          -          -
1998     -         -           -         9610          -         -          -          -
Source: Mission estimates
January 1981



TABLE 5.3
-50-                    Page 1 of 2
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Calculations of Benefits (1986)
Tarapoto                                     $ per pass    Passengers    $ (000)
Tarapoto - Lima         388 miles x 4.85 =       18.82         90700           1707
- Iquitos      292                      14.16        48500             687
- Trujillo    215                       10.43        30300             316
- Pucallpa    182                        8.83         9900              87
179400           2797
Generated traffic  2797000         $15.59   x      .5          34500            269
179400                                  213900            3066
Tingo Maria
Tingo Maria - Lima      208 miles x 4.85 =       10.09         98100            990
Generated traffic                  $10.09  x       .5          18900             95
117000           1085
Huanuco
Huanuco - Lima          163 x  4.85-              7.91         53500            423
Generated traffic                  $ 7.91  x       .5          24600             97
78100            520
Pucallpa
Pucallpa - Lima         307 x  4.85=             14.89        135100           2012
- Iquitos      333                     16.15         50100             809
- Cuzco        396                     19.21          8000             154
193200           2975
Generated traffic   2975000       =$15.40  x       .5          48300            372
193200                                 241500           3347



- 51 -                         TABLE 5.3
Page 2 of 2
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed calculations of Benefits (1984)
Navaids
31500 flights by Faucett x .0333 hours per flight saved x
and Aeroperu                                     $1747       = $1,834,167
Costs : US$(000)       1982    1983   1984   1985   1986-95
Navaids                1404    2807   2807   1404   Yearly
Share of aircraft       328      -      984      -     Cost
97
1732    2907    701   1.4404
Communications
Domestic flights    31500    x  .01667 x  1747         -                  917,358
CORPAC maintenance cost saving                                            195,000
15% tariff increase for foreign flights to or from Lima
x  .15                                                  1,642,000
15% Tariff increase for over flights
x  .15                                                    S18,000
$ 3,272,358
FFI - Aircraft         Inspection requirements:
hrs/year/each    hrs/year
old             new
23 VOR (of which 7 new)                 40              640             280
(including 12 new DME)
3 ILS                                  140             420               -
38 NDB ( 4 new)                         10              340              40
1400             320
Cost saving    1400 hrs x ($ 1025 - 305  =  $1,008,000 per year
Apron equipment
200 hours/year of equipment rental
18 Tractors      x 200 x   $16.45             59,220
36 forklifts    x 200 x   $24.67             177,624
3 Scissorlift  x 200 x   $57.56              34,536
$271,380      per year
Source : CORPAC, Mission estimates
January 1981



- 52 -                        TABLE 5.4
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Returns and Sensitivity Tests
25% Decrease         15% Increase         First Year
Best estimate     in Benefits            in Costs             Return
Airports
Huanuco              13                 9                     11                  11
Pucallpa             42                32                     37                  36
Tarapoto             22                18                     20                  16
Tingo Maria          13                10                     12                  11
Equipment
Navaids              25                17                     22                  23
Communications       17                12                     15                  15
Calibration Aircraft13                  7                     10                  15
Apron equipment      21                14                     17                  21
Source: Mission estimates
February 1981



- 53 -
PERU                                  TABLE 6.1
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CORPAC
Income Statements
(S/ millions)
1976       1977        1978        1979 2/
Operating Revenues
Navigation and Landing Fees               260.7       415.2    1,143.0    1,946.9
Cargo Handling                             10.3        12.4        31.0        41.0
Warehousing                                88.1        90.7       120.0       158.0
Percent of Air Fares                      379.1       476.8       762.0    1,301.0
Ramp Service                              121.2       175.3       399.0       640.0
Rentals                                   106.0       117.5        91.0       158.0
Other                                       2.9         5.0        40.0        68.9
Airport Charges                            16.6        65.5       131.0       403.9
Total                                  984.9    1,358.4    2,717.0    4,717.7
Working Expenses                                 1/          1/
Salaries                                    -           -      1,316.9    2,206.8
Supplies                                    -           -         215.9      473.9
Contracted Services                         -           -         337.0       957.8
Other                                       -           -           1.9         3.8
Total                                 910.1    1,194.7    1,871.7    3,642.3
Depreciation                               90.7       138.0       217>9       363.8
Total Operating Expenses            1,000.8    1,332.7    2,089.6    4,006.1
Net Operating Revenue                        (15.9)       25.7       627.4       711.6
Other Non-Operating Revenue                  188.4       421.5       844.9    1,555.0
Non-Operating Expense                     115.1       257.3       435.9       963.9
Net Non-Operating Revenue                     73.3       164.2       409.0       591.1
Net Income Before Interest                 57.4       189.9    1,036.4    1,302.7
Interest Charged to Operations          29.6       38.6        53.9        55.8
Net Income Before Taxes                    27.8       151.3       982.5    1,246.9
Taxes
Operations                        -           -         146.9       322.9
Tax on Income Before Taxes        2.8        41.8       346.0       124.7 3/
Net Income After Taxes                        25.0       190.5       489.6       799.3
Less Revenues Not Received From
Operations                                 20.7        46.9       261.9       349.9
Net Income                                     4.3        62.6       227.7       449.4
Rate of Return on Average Net Fixed
Assets                                    Neg.           .8        13.6        12.4
1/ Comparable breakdown not available.
2/ Unaudited
3/ Adjusted to 10% of Net Income before tax in accordance with Decreed Law
No. 22921 dated March 4, 1980.
Source: CORPAC Financial Statements
March 1980



- 54 -
PERU
TABLE 6.2
AVIATION DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
CORPAC
Balance Sheets
For Fiscal Years Ending Dec. 31
(S/ million)
1976        1977        1978        1979  1/
Assets
Cash                                        57,8       139.7       323.8        176.7
Inventories                                 98.6       222.2       358.8       551.0
Accounts Receivable - Net                  232.1       288.8       641.7        643.2
Other Current Assets                        22.5        53.9        91.1        105.1
Total Current Assets                   411.0        704.6    1,415.4    1,476.0
Gross Fixed Assets                       3,676.9    5,517.6    8,532.2    9,264.0
Accumulated Depreciation                 1,255.2    1,880.7    3,000.3    3,364.3
Net Fixed Assets                     2,421.7    3,636.9    5,531.9    5,899.7
Investments                                   .3          .4         1.9          2.2
Deferred Charges                            86.1        74.6       199.8         36.1
Other Assets                                53.8        39.0        35.2         33.8
Total Other Assets                      140.2       114.0       236.9        72.1
Total Assets                                2,972.9    4,455.5    7,184.2    7,447.8
Liabilities
Accounts Payable                           127.9       281.7       331.9        514.8
Short Term Debt                             43.0        78.0        59.8         26.7
Customer Deposits                            -          31.7        12.7         20.0
Other Current Liabilities                   80.3       165.7       642.8        356.1
Total Current Liabilities               251.2       557.1    1,047.2        917.6
Deferred Credits and Other
Liabilities                             308.5       414.5       848.0    1,093.6
Long Term Debt - Local                      52.7        63.6        26.7          -
Total Liabilities                             612.4    1,035.2    1,921.9    2,011.2
Equities
Capital                                  1,037.3    1,042.5    1,068.5    4,971.1
Retained Earnings
Revaluation Surplus                      1,153.8    2,194.1    3,902.6            -
Grants                                       -            .6         2.5          2.5
Reserves                                   169.4       183.1       288.7       463.0
Total Equities                              2,360.5    3,420.3    5,262.3    5,436.6
Total Equities and Liabilities              2,972.9    4,455.5    7,184.2    7,447.8
1/ Unaudited
Source: CORPAC Financial Statements
March 1980



- 55 -                                                     TABLE 6.3
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CORPAC
Projected Income Statements
(Current US$ 000)
1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985
1. OPERATING REVENUES
NAVIGATION AND LANDING FEES                 10021.0    12121.0    14661.0    20393.0    24667.0    29837.0
CARGO HANDLING                                439.0       531.0       642.0       893.0       1080.0      1306.0
WAREHOUSING                                  1294.0      1565.0      1993.0      2772.0      3353.0       4055.0
PERCENT OF AIR FARES                         7828.0      9468.0     11452.0    15929.0    19267.0    23305.0
RAMP SERVICE                                 3595.0      4348.0      5259.0      7315.0      8848.0    10702.0
RENTALS                                      1034.0      1250.0      1512.0      2103.0      2543.0       3076.0
OTHER                                        1500.0      1814.0      2194.0      3051.0      3690.0       4463.0
AIRPORT USER CHARGE                          2304.0      2786.0      3369.0      4686.0      5668.0      6856.0
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                    28015.0    33883.0    41082.0    57142.0    69116.0    83600.0
2. WORKING EXPENSES
SALARIES                                    12910.0    15471.0      18540.0    22219.0    26627.0    31910.0
SUPPLIES                                     1057.0      1266.0      1518.0      1819.0      2180.0       2612.0
FUEL AND OIL                                  578.0       764.0       986.0      1224.0       1520.0      1889.0
SPARE PARTS                                   926.0      1078.0      1256.0      1463.0       1704.0      1985.0
UTILITIES                                     720.0       952.0      1228.0       1525.0      1894.0      2352.0
MAINTENANCE                                  1294.0      1879.0      2129.0      2755.0      5234.0       6335.o
INSURANCE                                      73.0        87.0       104.0       125.0        150.0       180.0
CLEANING                                      230.0       275.0       330.0       395.0        474.0       568.0
CONTRACTED SERVICES                           930.0      1114.0      1335.0       1600.0      1918.0      2298.0
OTHER                                          44.0        52.0        63.0        75.0         90.0       108.0
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES                      18762.0    22938.0    27489.0    33200.0    41791.0    50237.0
3. DEPRECIATION                                     2131.0      2592.0      2932.0      4111.0     10632.0     13481.0
4.      TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES (2+3)            20893.0    25530.0    30421.0    37311.0    52423.0    63718.0
5. NET OPERATING REVENUE(1-4)                       7122.0      8353.0    10661.0    19831.0       16693.0    19882.0
6. GAIN(-LOSS) ON SALE OF ASSETS
7. OTHER NON-OPERATING REVENUES
DUTY FREE SALES                              5686.0      6877.0      8319.0     10063.0    12172.0    14723.0
TOTAL OTHER NON-OPERATING REVENUES           5686.0      6877.0      8319.0     10063.0    12172.0    14723.0
6. NUN-OPERATING EXPENSES
COST OF MERCHANDISE                          3696.0      4470.0      5407.0      6541.0      7912.0       9570.U
OTHER                                         169.0       204.0       247.0       299.0        361.0       437.0
TOTAL NON-OPERATING EXPENSES                 3865.0      4674.0      5654.0      6840.0      8273.0      10007.0
9  NET NON-OPERATING REVENUE (6+7-81                1821.0      2203.0      2665.0      J223.0      3899.0      4716.0
10. NET INCOME BEFORE INTEREST (5+91               8943.0    10556.0       13326.0    23054.0    20592.0    24598.0
11.   INTEREST CHARGED TO OPERATIONS                204.0        218.0      1915.0      4010.0      6484.0      8139.0
12. NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES (10-11)                8739.0      10338.0    11411.0      19044.0    14108.0      16459.0
13.   TAXES                                        2165.3      3169.9       3686.9      5025.9      5798.0      6978.0
14. NET INCOME AFTER TAXES (12-13)                 6573.7      7168.1       7724.1     14018.1      8310.0      9481.0
Source: Mission estimates
February 1981



PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Airports
Summary of Projected Income Statements
(Current us$000)
1980   1981    1982   1983    1984    1985    1986              1987       1988        1989       1ggo
Total Operating Revenues
Tarapoto                    168.8  209.1   259.9  371.0   541.7   666.2   745.9             975.2       1180.0     1427.9      1727.6
Pucallpa                    152.3  179.8   212.6  356.0   420.8   497.4   577.3             670.2        778.2      903.4      1049.1
Huanuco                      18.5   22.0    26.4   36.4    57.2    76.9    88.0             100.7        115.6      132.7       152.4
Tingo Maria                  41.3   49.8    59.2   81.5    97.7   117.0   167.4             211.6        253.8      304.4       365.1
Total Revenues             380.9  460.7   558.1  844.9  1117.4  1357.0  1578.6            195.77       2327.6    2768.4    3294.2
Total Working Expenses
Tarapoto                    211.1  245.9   286.4  333.7   388.8   452.9   518.0              592.6       677.9       775.6      887.2
Pucallpa                    124.0  144.4   168.2  196.0   228.3   266.0   304.2             348.0        398.2      455.5       521.1       1
Huanuco                      38.1   44.3    51.7   60.2    70.1    81.7    93.4             106.8        122.2      139.8       160.0      t
Tingo Maria                  59.9   69.7    81.2   94.6   110.3   128.5   146.9              168.1       192.3       220.2      251.7      0
Total Working Expenses  433.1  504.3   587.5  684.5   797.5   929.1  1062.5               1215.5       1390.6     1591.1      1820.0
Depreciation
Tarapoto                       -       -        -       -    759.0   850.0   935.0         1028.5       1131.3      1244.4     1368.9
Pucallpa                       -       -        -   516.0   578.0   647.0   724.6           811.5        908.9     1018.0      1140.2
Huanuco                        -       -        -       -    177.0   198.0   221.7          248.3        278.1      311.5       348.9
Tingo Maria                    -       -        -       -        -   _          668.6        748.8       838.6       939.3     1052.0
Total Depreciation             -       -        -   516.0  1514.0  1695.0  2549.9          2837.1       3156.9    3513.2       3910.0
Summary Operating
Surplus /(Loss)             (55.2) (43.6)  (29.4)(355.6)(1194.1)(1267.1)(2033.8)    (2094.9)    (2219.9)   (2335.9)   (2435.8)
Working Ratio                113      109      105      81      71       68       67           62          60          57         55
Source:  IBRD Mission
February 1981
a,'



PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tarapoto Airport
Projected Income Statements
(Current us$oo00)
1980   1981    1982   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Operating Revenues
Navagational and
Landing Fees               21.9   27.1    33.6   48.1    70.3    86.4   104.5   126.4   153.0   185.2   224.0
Tariff and Cargo            85.7  106.2   131.7  188.4   275.7   338.3   409.3   495.3   599.3   725.1   877.4
Rentals and Services         2.7    3.3       4.7    5.9      8.6    10.6    12.8    15.5    18.7    22.7    27.4
Other                       58.5   72.5    89.9  128.6   187.7   230.9   279.3   338.0   409.0   494.9   598.8
Total Revenues             168.8  209.1   259.9  371.0   541.7   666.2   745.9   975.2  1180.0  1427.0  1727.6
Working Expenses
Maintenance and Repairs   11.1   12.9    15.0   17.5    20.4    23.8    27.2    31.1    35.5    40.7    46.5
Administration             200.0  233.0   271.4  316.2   368.4   429.1   490.8   561.5   642.4   734.9   840.7
Total Working Expenses    211.1  245.9   286.4  333.7   388.8   452.9   518.0   592.6   677.9   775.6   887.2
Depreciation                   -       -        -       -    759.0   850.0   935.0  1028.5  1131.3  1244.4  1368.9
Total Operating Expenses  211.1  245.9   286.4  333.7  1147.8  1302.9  1453.0  1621.1  1809.2  2020.0  2256.1
Operating Surplus/(Loss)   (42.3) (36.8)  (26.5)  37.3  (606.1) (636.7) (707.1) (645.9) (629.2) (592.1) (528.5)
Source:  IBRD Mission and Consultant Report
February 1981
LA



PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pucallpa Airport
Projected Income Statements
(Current US$000)
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     1987      1988      1989      1990
Operating Revenues
Navigational and Landing
Fees                       17.4      20.5      24.3      40.6     48.1      56.8      65.9      76.5     88.8    103.1    119.8
Tariff and Cargo              74.8      88.4    104.4    174.9    206.7    244.3    283.6    329.2    382.3    443.8    515.3
Rentals and Services           7.4       8.7      10.3      17.3      20.4     24.1      27.9      32.4      37.7     43.7      50.8
Other                         52.7      62.2      73.6    123.2    145.6    172.2    199.9    232.1    269.4    312.8    363.2
Total Revenues            152.3     179.8    212.6    356.0    420.8    497.4    577.3    670.2    778.2    903.4  1,049.1
Working Expenses
Maintenance and Repairs       11.6       13.5     15.7      18.3      21.3     24.8      28.3      32.4      37.1      42.4     48.5
Administration               112.4      130.9    152.5    177.7    207.0    241.2    275.9    315.6    361.1    413.1    472.6
Total Working Expenses  124.0       144.4    168.2    196.0    228.3    266.0    304.2    348.0    398.2    455.5    521.1
Depreciation                   -        -         -        516.0    578.0    647.0    724.6    811.5    908.9  1,018.0  1,140.2
Total Operating
Expenses              124.0      144.4    168.2    712.0    806.3    913.0  1,028.8  1,159.5  1,307.1  1,473.5  1,661.3
Operating Surplus/(Loss)    28.3        35.4      44.4   (356.0)  (385.5)  (415.6)  (451.5)  (489.3)  (528.9)  (570.1)  (612.2)
Source: IBRD Mission and Consultant Report
February 1981



PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Huanuco Airport
Projected Income Statements
(Current US$000)
1980     1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987       1988      1989      1990
Operating Revenues
Navigational & Landing
Fees                        1.8       2.1       2.5       3.5       5.5       7.5       8.8      10.3      12.2       14.3      16.9
Tariff and Cargo               9.9      11.8      14.2     19.5      30.7      41.2      46.1      51.6       57.8      64.8      72.6
Rentals and Services            .4        .5        .6        .8       1.2       1.6       1.8       2.0       2.3       2.6       2.9
Other                          6.4       7.6       9.1      12.6     19.8      26.6      31.3       36.8      43.3      51.0      60.0
Lfl
Total Revenues            18.5      22.0      26.4      36.4      57.2      76.9      88.0    100.7    115.6    132.7    152.4
Working Expenses
Maintenance & Repairs          2.8       3.2       3.8       4.4       5.1      6.0        6.8       7.8       8.9      10.2      11.7
Administration                35.3     41.1       47.9      55.8     65.0      75.7      86.6       99.0    113.3    129.6    148.3
Total Working Expenses  38.1        44.3      51.7      60.2      70.1      81.7      93.4    106.8    122.2    139.8    160.0
Depreciation                                                        177.0    198.0    221.7    248.3    278.1    311.5    348.9
Total Operating
Expenses                38.1      44.3      51.7      60.2    247.1    279.7    315.1        355.1    400.3    451.3    508.9
Operating Surplus/(Loss)  (19.6)    (22.3)    (25.3)   (23.8)  (189.9)  (202.8)  (227.1)   (254.4)  (284.7)  (318.6)  (356.5)
Source:  IBRD Mission and Consultant Report
February 1981



PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tingo Maria Airport
Projected Income Statements
(Current US$000)
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984   1985      1986      1987    1988    1989    1990
Operating Revenues
Navigational and Landing Fees      5.7     6.8      8.1    11.2    13.5   16.1      23.1     29.2    35.0    42.0    50.4
Tariff and Cargo                  20.7    24.7    29.7    40.9    49.0   58.7       84.0    106.2   127.4   152.7   183.2
Rentals And Services                .6      .7       .9     1.2     1.4    1.7       2.4      3.0      3.6     4.4      5.3
Other                             14.3    17.1    20.5    28.2    33.8   40.5       57.9     73.2    87.8   105.3   126.2
Total Revenues                 41.3    49.8    59.2    81.5    97.7  117.0    167.4    211.6   253.8   304.4   365.1
0'
Working Expenses
Maintenance and Repairs            6.3     7.3      8.5     9.9    11.6   13.5      15.4      17.6    20.2    23.1    26.4
Administration                    53.6    62.4    72.7    84.7    98.7  115.0    131.5    150.5   172.1   196.9   225.3
Total Working Expenses         59.9    69.7    81.2    94.6   110.3  128.5    146.9    168.1   192.3   220.2   251.7
Depreciation                    -       -       -        -       -       -      668.6    748.8   838.6   939.3  1052.0
Total Operating Expenses       59.9    69.7    81.2    94.6   110.3  128.5    815.5    916.9  1030.9  1159.3  1303.7
Operating Surplus/(Loss)         (18.6)  (19.9)  (22.0)  (13.1)  (12.6) (11.5)  (648.1)  (705.3) (777.1) (854.9) (938.6)
Source: IBRD Mission and Consultants Reports
February 1981
0'



- 61 -                                                         TABLE 6.9
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CORPAC
Projected Cash Flow Statements
(Current US$ 000)
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
FIGURES IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS
1980       1981        1982        1983        1984        1985
1. SOURCES
NET OPERATING REVENUE                             7122.0      8353.0    10661.0    19831.0    16693.0    19882.0
DEPRECIATION                                      2131.0      2592.0      2932.0      4111.0    10632.0    13481.0
NET NON-OPERATING REVENUE & ASSET SALE            1821.0      2203.0      2665.0      3223.0      3899.0      4716.0
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                   11074.0    13148.0    16258.0    27165.0    31224.0    38079.0
PROPOSED BANK LOAN/IDA CREDIT                                            22016.0    16536.0    14998.0       4386.0
OTHER FOREIGN LOAN - COMM. EQUIP.                                         1698.0    17286.0
OTHER FOREIGN LOAN - CUSCO AIRPORT                                                               11838.0    13021.0
TOTAL LONG TERM DEBT                                                  23714.0    33822.0    26836.0    17407.0
EQUITY INVESTMENTS-CAPITAL
GRANTS
TOTAL EXTERNAL CAPITAL
DECREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL
OTHER THAN CASH                                 1649.5                             6972.9
TOTAL SOURCES                                  12723.5    13148.0    39972.0    67959.9    58060.0    55486.0
II. APPLICATIONS
PROPOSED BANK/IDA PROJECT                                                35868.0    27167.0    23180.0        7891.0
OTHER CAPITAL INVESTMENTS                         5411.0       830.0
COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT                                                  1698.0    31757.0
CUSCO AIRPORT                                                                                    19722.0    21694.0
TOTAL CAPITAL INVESTMENT                        5411.0       830.0    37566.0    58924.0    42902.0    29585.0
LOCAL LOAN REPAYMENT                                97.0
FOREIGN LOAN REPAYMENT - BANK                                                                                2231.0
FOREIGN LOAN REPAYMENT - COMM. EQUIP.
FOREIGN LOAN REPAYMENT - CUSCO AIRPORT
TOTAL PRINCIPAL REPAYMENT                         97.0                                                     2231.0
LOCAL INTEREST PAYMENTS                            204.0
FOREIGN INTEREST PAYMENTS-BANK                                 218.0      1898.0      3478.0      4840.0     5368.0
FOREIGN INTEREST PAYMENTS-CO0M. EQUIP.                                      17.0       293.0       380.0       380.0
FOREIGN INTEREST PAYMENTS-CUSCO AIRPORT                                                239.0      1264.0      2391.0
TOTAL INTEREST PAYMENTS                          204.0       218.0      1915.0     4010.0      64S4.0      8139.0
DIVIDEND PAYMENTS
TAX PAYMENTS                                      2165.3      3169.9      3686.9      5025.9     5798.0       6978.0
INCREASE IN WORKING
CAPITAL OTHER THAN CASH                                     5152.8       581.4                 2876.0      8553.0
INCREASES IN OTHER ASSETS/PAYMENTS                3990.0
TOTAL                                           6155.3      8322.7      4268.2     5025.9      8674.0    15531.0
CASH AT BEGINNING OF YEAR                          706.8      1563.0      5340.3      1563.0      1563.0      1563.0
CASH AT END OF YEAR                               1563.0      5340.3      1563.0      1563.0      1563.0      1563.0
CASH INCREASE FOR YEAR                             856.2      3777.3    -:3777.3
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                             12723.5    13148.0    39972.0    67959.9    58060.0    55486.0
Source: Mission estimates
February 1981



- 62 -                                                     TABLE 6.10
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CORPAC
11
Aviation Sub-Sector Investment Program and Related Expenses
(Current us$ 000's)
1980          1981           1982           1983          1984           1985           Total
Local Funds
Tarapoto                                           -              -          4,690          3,639             _             _           8,329
Pucallpa                                           -              -          3,907             -              -             -           3,907
Tingo Maria                                        -              -             -           2,376           4,324        1,986          8,686
Huanuco                                            -              -          2,157            367             -              -          2,524
Navigational Aids 2/                               -              -            903          1,972            2,204       1,200          6,279
Communications (Tower) 2/                          -              -            240            523             -            319          1,082
FFI Aircraft 2/                                    -              -            464             -             1,648          -           2,112
CFR & Apron Equipment 2/                           -              -            495            794             -             -           1,289
Electrical Equipment 2/                            -              -            149            501             -              -            650
Financial Consultant                               -              -             -              46             -             _              46
Airport Engineers (ICAO)                           -              -              7             13                6           -             26
Cusco Final Design                                 -              -            400            400             -              -            800
Project Airports Final Design                      -              -            440             -              -             _             440
Sub-Total                                       -             -          13,852         10,631           8,182        3,505         36,170
Other Investments
Radio Communications - System 2/                   -              -             -          12,705             -             -          12,705
Communication Center - Lima 2/                     -              -             -           1,633             -             -           1,633
Teletypnwri' :S 2/                                 -              -             -             133             -             -             133
Sub-Total                                       -             -              -          14,471            -              -          14,471
CORPAC - Equipment & Civil Works 3!             3,147           830             -              -              -             -           3,977
New C"lsco Airport - Civil Works                   -              -             -              -             7,884       8,673         16,557
- Eputipment 2/                                          _ _ _                                         -         -
Total Local Funds Required                            3,147            830        13,852         25,102           16,066      12,178         71_175
External Funds
Bank Project (Loan)
Tarapoto                                           -              -          6,568          5,096               _           _          11,664
Pucallpa                                           -              -          5,313             -                -           -           5,313
Tingo Maria                                        -              -             -           3,003            5,468       2,510         10,981
Nuanuco                                            -              -          2,734            465               -           -           3,199
Navigational Aids                                  -              -          1,027          2,242            2,505       1,364          7,138
Communications (Tower)                             -              -            386            842               -           512         1,740
FFI Aircraft                                       -              -          1,959             -             6,960          -           8,919
CFR & Apron Equipment                              -              -          1,455          2,268               -            -          3,723
Electrical Equipment                               -              -            409          1,375               -            -          1,784
Financial Consultant                               -              -             -             115               -            -            115
Airport Engineer (ICAO)                            -              -             65            130               65           -            260
Cusco Final Design                                 -              -          1,000          1,000               -            -          2,000
Project Airports Final Design                      -              -          1,100             -                -           -           1,100
Sub-Total                                       -              -         22,016         16,536           14,998       4,386         57,936
Other Investments
Radio Communications                               -              -          1,309         13,375               -            -         14,684
Communications Center - Lima                       -              -            360          3,621               -            -          3,981
Teletypewriters                                    -              -             29            290               -            -            319
Sub-Total                                       -              -          1,698         17,286               -           -          18,984
CORPAC Equipment & Civil Works                  2,264             -             -              -                -            -          2,264
New Cusco Airport - Civil Works                    -              -              -             -            11,838      13,021         24,859
- Equipment                                                                                  -            -             -
Total External Funds Required                         2,264             _         23,714         33,822           26,836       17,407       104,043
Total Bank Project                                       -              -         35,868         27,167           23,180        7,691        94,106
Total Other Investments                               5,411            830          1,698        31,757           19,722       21,694        81,112
Total                                                 5 ;11            830        37,566         58,924           42,902       29,585       175,218
1/ Totals may not agree due to rounding.
2/ Includes a provision for Customs Duties on Imported Equipment, estimated at 25% of Foreign Costs.
3/ Includes $909 for runway overlay work at Jorge Chavez Airport.
Source:  IBRD mission, CORPAC Investment Plan, and Consultants Reports.
February 1981



- 63 -                                        TABLE 6.11
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CORPAC
Projected Balance Sheets as of December 31
(Current US$ 000)
1980        19SI       19S2         1983        1984        198S
ASSETS
CASH                                  1563.0      5340.3      1563.0      1563.0      1563.0      1563.0
INVENTORIES                           1876.2      2293.8      2748.9      3320.0      4179.1      5023.7
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                   7003.8      8470.8    10270.5    14285.5    17279.0    20900.0
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS               10443.0    16104.8    14582.4    19168.5    23021.1    27486.7
GROSS FIXED ASSETS                   41557.0    53099.0    61445.0    82297.0   164953.0   201704.0
ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION             15588.2    18180.2    21112.2    25223.2    35855.2    49336.2
NET FIXED ASSETS                   25968.8    34918.8    40332.8    57073.8   129097.8   152367.8
WORK IN PROGRESS                      5411.0       830.0    37566.0    84156.0    55420.0    69265.0
INVESTMENTS                              1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0
DEFERRED CHARGES
OTHER ASSETS                             1.0         1.0          1.0        1.0         1.0         1.0
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS                     2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0         2.0
TOTAL ASSETS                           41824.8    51855.6    92483.2   160400.3   207540.9   249121.5
LIABILITIES
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                      4690.5      5734.5      6872.3      8300.0    10447.8    12559.3
SHORT TERM DEBT                       4312.2                   535.7    10667.0       9495.8      3296.9
CUSTOMER DEPOSITS
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES           9002.7      5734.5      7408.0    18967.0    19943.6    15856.1
DEFERRED CREDITS AND
OTHER LIABILITIES                       1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0
LONG TERM DEBT
FOREIGN LOANS                                             23714.0    57536.0    84372.0    99548.0
LOCAL LOANS
TOTAL LONG TERM DEBT                                    23714.0    57536.0    84372.0    99548.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                       9003.7      57355    31123.0    76504.0   104316.6   115405.1
EQUITIES
CAPITAL                              19884.4    19884.4    19884.4    19884.4    19884.4    19884.4
RETAINED EARNINGS                     6573.7    13741.7    21465.8    35483.9    43793.9    53275.0
REVALUATION SURPLUS                   4501.0    10632.0    18148.0    26666.0    37684.0    58695.0
GRANTS                                  10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0        10.0
RESERVES                              1852.0      1852.0      1852.0      1852.0      1852.0      1852.0
TOTAL EQUITIES                         32821.1    46120.1    61360.2    83896.3   103224.3   133716.4
TOTAL EQUITIES AND LIABILITIES         41824.8    51855.6    92483.2   160400.3   207540.9   249121.5
CURRENT RATIO                               1.2        2.8         2.0          1.0         1.2         1.7
LIQUID RATIO                                1.0        2.4          1.6        0.8         0.9          1.4
DEBT TO EQUITY PERCENTAGE                                         38.6        68.6        81.7        74.4
Source: Mission estimates
February 1981



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Operations in the Transport Sector
I. Overview
1.        The Bank has made a total of 12 loans to Peru in the transport sector
totaling US$210 million, with an effective lending of US$195 million if a
US$15 million canceled railway loan is excluded. Of these loans, four were
for port operations, two for railways (one of which was canceled), five for
highways, and one for ports and highways combined.
II. Highway Projects
2.        Two highway loans were made with road maintenance as their objective
(Loan 127-PE, US$5 million, 1955, and Loan 300-PE, US$10 million, 1961). Al-
though the first road maintenance project ran into several difficulties, the
maintenance effort was continued and expanded with considerable success under
the second maintenance project. Later, the road reconstruction loan (706-PE)
of 1970 also included the provision of technical assistance to MTC for improv-
ing maintenance operations.
3.        Three highway loans have helped to reconstruct and improve the La
Oroya-Pucallpa road. The first (Loan 271-PE, US$5.5 million, 1960) helped to
finance reconstruction and paving of about 166 km of the Aguaytia-Pucallpa
road, the most eastern section of the 800-km road linking Lima with Pucallpa
in the upper Amazon River system. Because of extremely difficult soils and
climatic conditions, lack of experience, and poor engineering preparation,
the road was only 80% completed when loan funds were exhausted in 1976; at
that time, the Government was unable to raise funds to continue the works.
Subsequently, extensive failures occurred in the Aguaytia-Neshuya section,
which were later corrected by MTC. This section was included for upgrading
under Loan 1196-PE, but would be deferred under the proposed reformulation
of the project.
4.        The second La Oroya-Pucallpa loan (Loan 425-PE, US$33 million, 1965)
was for the La Oroya-Aguaytia section of the road. In November 1969, the
Government and the Bank agreed, after large cost overruns, partly due to inade-
quate engineering, had occurred, to reduce the scope of the project in order
to match the available funds; consequently, the remaining works were post-
poned to a second phase. The scaled-down project was completed in January
1973, 18 months after the original Closing Date. See Project Performance
Audit Report Sec M 76-292, April 23, 1976.
5.        The third La Oroya-Pucallpa loan (Loan 1025-PE, US$26 million, July
1974) financed the remaining works (second phase) in the most critical part
of the La Oroya-Aguaytia section, i.e., the 219-km Huanuco-Aguaytia section.
The project included paving of the entire section, except for about 55 km of



- 65 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
highly unstable terrain, which was deferred until further geotechnical studies
included in the project were carried out. It also included the purchase of
a portion of the maintenance equipment required for proper maintenance of the
Lima-Pucallpa road and a double surface treatment for the 61-km Neshuya-
Pucallpa section. In addition, 200 km of feeder roads to be improved and two
transport-related studies were included in the project. Because of initial
delays and substantial cost increases, again resulting from insufficient
engineering work, the scope of the project was reduced in February 1978.
Construction is now well advanced and should be completed in 1980.
6.        In addition to the highway loans for the La Oroya-Pucallpa road, a
road project (Loan 706-PE, US$30 million, September 1970) was quickly approved
by the Bank in order to help reconstruct the access roads to, and within, the
Callejon de Huaylas, an area struck by a violent earthquake in May 1970. The
loan financed the necessary studies and, later, construction of roads. The exe-
cuting agency in this case was not MTC but ORDEZA, an autonomous agency charged
with the reconstruction work. The project had been identified only at the time
the loan was made, and a preliminary study of alternative routes for the access
road, a feasibility study, and detailed engineering still had to be carried
out. Although the Bank acted rapidly to approve the loan, the time required
for the studies was underestimated at the time of appraisal, and a number of
difficulties developed with the consultants engaged to prepare them; the rate
of disbursement, therefore, was slower than forecast. Once the preparation
was completed, however, construction under ORDEZA proceeded satisfactorily and
was completed in 1977.
III. Multimodal Project
7.        The latest loan (Loan 1196-PE, US$76.5 million, December 1975) was
for a combined highway and river port project for the Lima-Amazonas Transport
Corridor. It consisted of a further stage in the development and upgrading
of this corridor, including completion of construction, improvement and paving
of four road sections (389 kin); construction and improvement of about 110 km
of feeder roads leading into the corridor; and construction of port facilities
in the river ports of Pucallpa and Yurimaguas, expansion of the port of
Iquitos and purchase of cargo-handling equipment for the three ports. Several
transport studies were also included. Progress of the port component has been
slow, and disbursements on the road project have been seriously delayed. Con-
tracting of civil works has been exceedingly slow because of MTC's cumbersome
procedures and limited implementation capacity. However, most contracts have
now been let. A restructuring of the project, concentrating on its most
urgently needed components, particularly on road maintenance, and eliminating
improvement of those road sections which cannot now be completed within a
reasonable time, was done in 1976.



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
IV. Port Projects
8.        Two port loans (Loan 57-PE, US$2.5 million in 1952, and Loan 208-PE,
US$6.575 million in 1958) were made for expansion of the port of Callao.
Although delays were encountered because of difficulties with contractors,
the projects were completed satisfactorily. Two further port loans were
made (Loan 373-PE, US$3.1 million in 1964, and Loan 446-PE, US$9.1 million
iri 1966) for the ports of Paita and Pisco respectively. Both projects have
been completed successfully. See Project Performance Audit Report Sec M 75-567,
August 1, 1975, for Loan 446-PE.
V. Railway Projects
9.        Finally, two loans (Loan 190-PE, US$15 million in 1958, and Loan
334-PE, US$13.25 million in 1963) were made to the Peruvian Corporation (PC),
a private company which owned and operated the country's most important rail-
ways. The first loan, however, was canceled by mutual agreement before it
became effective; the second was successful from both the physical and the
economic points of view. In 1972, the Government purchased PC's assets in
Peru and created ENAFER to malnaae the railways.
February 1981



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Consultant Services
For Airport Final Engineering
I.   Introduction
1.        The Republic of Peru recognizes the importance of aviation in
the overall development of the country and plans to stress airport and
aeronautical communications development in the coming years. It also
recognizes the impo.tance 3f Cuzco as the center of attraction in Peru.
The first phase of the aeronautical development for the country, in recog-
nition of the potential of this area, will be the construction of an all-
weather 24-hour large aircraft airport to service Cuzco and its immediate
surroundings. The project described in these terms of reference consists
of engineering consultant services to provide the final engineering design
and contract documents for the construction of this airport, including its
buildings, air navigational aids and communication systems; to evaluate all
tenders for the proposed construction and to recommend specific contractors
for the award of the various contracts.
II. Objective
2.        The objective of this project is to assist the Government in awarding
contracts to construct a complete new airport at Cuzco at a combination of
price and quality that would be most advantageous to the Government. In order
to achieve this objective, engineering consultants shall be engaged to provide
a complete engineering package for each component of the airport, including
final design plans and specifications and all necessary contract documents,
construction schedules, foreign and local component cost estimates and finan-
cial schedules, international advertisements of proposed work, programs for
assistance in setting up prequalification and ultimate selection of contractors,
a review of all requests for prequalification and ultimate selection of
contractors, and to distribute tender documents, receive and evaluate all
tenders and make recommendations for awards.
III. Scope of Consulting Services
A.   General
3.        The consultants shall perform, with the approval of the Direccion
General de Transporte Aereo (DGTA), which shall act as the contracting agency
for the Republic of Peru, the services required to attain the objective
outlined in Section II herein. The Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y
Aviacion Comercial (CORPAC) will act as the technical supervisor of the



- 68 -                       ANNEX 2
Page 2
consultants' work. In the conduct of their work, the consultants shall
cooperate fully with DGTA and CORPAC, which shall provide the data and
local services outlined in Section V herein. The consultants shall coordinate
their work with studies and surveys being carried out by other consultants
which would bear on the conclusions of the consultants concerned with this
project. The consultants shall, however, be solely responsible for the
analysis and interpretation of all data received and for their conclusions
and recommendations.
B.   Final Engineering
4.         The consultants shall review the site selection, master plan and
preliminary engineering for a new airport at Cuzco presented to the Govern-
ment in the report prepared by CAIM, APS, LAGESA and LLN, dated March 1978.
They may recommend changes, but any deviations from the physical develop-
ment recommended by that report must be fully explained and justified except
for any components specifically changed by these terms of reference. The
final design shall be based upon the above site selection, master plan and
preliminary engineering as modified by approved changes. The consultants
shall prepare all documents necessary to present their designs for the
construction of tl-h  airport, air navigational aids and communications system
to the internatic'-3l  construction industry for competitive tendering.  The
contract documents shall consist of final engineering and/or architectural
plans and specifications, bills of quantity, forms of contract and tender
documents. The consultants shall also prepare final cost estimates accurate
to within plus or minus 10%, separated to show both foreign and local com-
ponents and the effects of inflation on each over the course cf construction,
presented in a form to slhow the annual financial requirements for the con-
struction.
5.        The nominal size of the runway shall be 4,000 x 45 m, and the use
of the airport shall be for all-weather, 24-hour operation. A review of
the potential users of this airport and their first stop destination shall be
made to determine the likely aircraft type and weight (stage length distance)
which would be the most critical for pavement design. An analysis shall be
undertaken to determine the most economical pavement material to be recom-
mended. An additional study shall be undertaken to determine the size of
the fuel storage facility required and the most economical method of fuel
distribution (apron hydrants, tank trucks, combinations of each, etc.).
6.        The size of the terminal building shall be restudied in light of
the findings of the potential users study and the critical aircraft and
numbers of passengers, visitors and pieces of baggage expected to use the
terminal building during peak periods of activity for each component of
the building. It should be noted that the critical aircraft for the pave-
ment design is not necessarily the same aircraft that will be critical
for the terminal building. All aspects of the terminal design shall be
in balance regarding peak flows (i.e., apron size and numbers of aircraft
positions; access road dimensioning; automobile parking areas; electricity,
water and sewerage requirements, etc.).



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
7.         The height and location of the control tower shall be checked
to assure an unobstructed line of sight with adequate depth perception from
the controller's eye while sighting to all operating areas of the airport,
but especially to the centerline of the runway at both runway ends. This
line of sight shall make an angle of no less than 0035' measured in the
vertical plane between the line of sight and the angular slope of the
runway surface along the centerline.
8.         The air navigational aids and communications shall be as recom-
mended by the master plan except that the consultants shall assure that
point-to-point communications will be able to occur between this airport
and the destinations of all aircraft using the airport. This may be direct
or through existing stations for relay, such as the communications center
in Lima. Whichever system provides the best combination of practicality
and cost shall be recommended.
9.         The soils underlying all construction shall be carefully studied
to determine their load-carrying ability and the designs adjusted accordingly.
If the study indicates the need for subsurface drainage (runway edge drains),
it shall be included in the designs.
10.        General airport design standards and construction specifications
to be used for the aircraft operating areas shall be those of ICAO and
USFAA. Whichever is the more stringent shall apply in each case. Construc-
tion codes for all other components oif the work shall be as specified by
Peru law or by internationally recogniLzed industry organizations (i.e.,
electric codes, plumbing codes, concrete, wood, or steel standards, etc.),
whichever is the more stringent.
11.        Contract drawings shall be made in the quantity and on the scale
necessary to depict the design in the detail necessary for complete clarity.
The drawings, all of the same sheet si ze, shall be grouped in the various
work disciplines (i.e., drainage, gracling, paving, architectural, structural,
electrical, etc.) individually identif-ied by letter and consecutive number
within each group. The metric system shall be used for all dimensioning.
Specifications shall clearly explain all construction processes (where a
particular process is necessary in orcder to assure meeting other requirements),
standards of construction, tests, methods of measurement and payment and type
and physical properties of materials. Name brands shall be used only to
indicate level of quality desired.
12.        The general and special conditions shall explain all legal aspects
of the contract including, but not limited to, methodology for prequalifica-
tion and selection of contractor, requirements for tendering, payment and
performance bonds, rights and responsibilities of contractor, rights and
responsibilities of DGTA and CORPAC, arbitration, force majeure, time and
place of tender opening, time of contr act award, schedule of construction,
required guarantees, protection of work and size and length of time of
payment holdback.



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
13.       The bills of quantity shall show all items or components with
quantities required for the complete construction of the airport.
14.       The language to be used on all contract documents shall be Spanish.
All material developed by the consultants for this project (drawings, sketches,
working papers, etc.) shall become the property of the Government upon com-
pletion of the project.
C.   Contractor Selection
15.       The consultants shall prepare programs, to be approved by DGTA
and CORPAC, of the timing and criteria to be used for contractor prequalifica-
tion and for tender evaluation. After such approval, prequalification forms
shall be prepared. Along with these, appropriate advertisements shall be
prepared to be placed in international publications or newspapers of wide
distribution to inform the international construction industry of the pro-
posed construction and to solicit requests from interested contractors for
the prequalification forms. After executed forms are received from the
contractors, the consultants, using the approved criteria, shall recommend
to DGTA and CORPAC those contractors thought to be qualified and those who
are not (along with the reasons for qualification or disqualification).
Following agreement by DGTA and CORPAC, invitations to tender shall be sent
to all qualified contractors. Upon receipt of a bonafide request from an
invited contractor, complete sets of tender documents shall bc furnished.
When the tenders are received, they shall be opened in a public ceremony
in accordance with Peru law. The consultants shall then evaluate the tenders
using the approved criteria, list them in progressive order and recommend
for contract award the proposal which is the most advantageous to the Gov-
ernment, together with a report giving the reasons for the evaluation and
selection.
IV. Time Schedule for Consulting Services and Reports
16.       The project shall, unless otherwise decided by DGTA and CORPAC,
be completed 24 months after the starting date. During the course of the
project, the consultants shall submit the following reports at the time
intervals indicated below. All reports shall be submitted in Spanish.
(a) Inception Report: Due within two months of the starting date,
stating consultants' proposed work plan for the project and
pointing out any required deviations from these terms of
reference determined after their initial findings in Peru.
(b) Progress Reports: Due every other month after submission of
the Inception Report, listing the consultants' field staff,
work performed during the reporting period, tentative conclu-
sions, difficulties and/or delays encountered, and the con-
sultants' proposed remedial action and work plan for the
following two-month period. DGTA and CORPAC may also request
the preparation of specific studies within the scope of the
project, to be included in the Progress Reports.



- 7 1 -                    ANNEX 2
Page 5
(c)  Aircraft Report:  Due two months after submission of the Inception
Report, providing reanalysis of market potential, listing critical
aircraft to determine aircraft weight and wheel configuration and
critical aircraft for sizing terminal building and apron.
(d)  Paving Reports:  Due four months after submission of the Inception
Report, giving soils analysis, analysis of subsurface drainage
requirements, comparison of pavement types, and recommendation of
pavement material and thickness.
(e)  Fuel Distribution System Report:  Due four months after submission
of the Inception Report, listing the various alternative methods
of storing and distributing aircraft fuel, comparing these alter-
natives for practicality and cost and recommending the optimum
for construction.
(f)  Control Tower Report:  Due four months after submission of the
Inception Report, giving results of sight perspective studies
and height of tower.
(g)  Air Navigational Aid and Communications Report:  Due eight months
after submission of the Inception Report, giving reconfirmation of
the types of navaids required and an analysis of the methods of
communicating between the airport and the aircraft destination
points with a recommendation of the number, type and destination
of all point-to-point communications.
(h)  Programs for Prequalification and Selection of Contractors:  Due
14 months after submission of the Inception Report, giving timing
and criteria for each of thesed procedures.
(i)  Reports for Prequalification of Contractors:  Due 18 months after
submission of the Inception Report.
(j)  Report for Recommendation for Award:  Due 22 months after sub-
mission of the Inception Report.
V.   Data and Local Services to be Provided by the Republic of Peru
A.   Data
17.       DGTA and CORPAC shall provide the consultants with all available
data and reports relevant to aviation in Peru and give the consultants free
access to Aeroperu and Faucett and such other sources of information as
may be necessary for the proper execution of the project. Such information
not required for inclusion in the various reports shall, during the project
and after its termination, be treated as confidential by the consultants.



- 72 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 6
B.   Cooperation of Governmental Agencies
18.       In connection with work by the consultants requiring the coopera-
tion of the Government, local governments and other public agencies, DGTA
shall provide liaison and ensure that the consultants have access to all
information relevant to their tasks.
C.   Local Services Provided by CORPAC
CORPAC               shall provide the Consultants with the following:
office space                  sq. m.
___________________ drafting tables and stools
typewriters
desks and chairs
files
survey equipment
4-wheel drive field vehicle
This equipment shall be returned to CORPAC upon completion of the
project.
April 1980



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Assumptions
1.   Revenues
(a)   The 1980 CORPAC budgeted revenues have been converted to US dollars
at the rate of S/. 296.
(b)   The operating revenues have been increased for projected traffic
growth and estimated US dollar inflation consistent with the
rates used throughout the Appraisal Report. Additionally, on
January 1, 1983, all revenues have been increased by the equivalent
of 15% in real terms. The effective annual impact over the prior
year of traffic growth, inflation and real term increases are
as follows:
1981         1982          1983          1984          1985
21%          21%           39%           21%           21%
(c)   The non-operating revenues have been increased for projected traffic
growth and estimated US dollar inflation consistent with the rates
used throughout the Appraisal Report.
2.   Expenses
(a)   The 1980 CORPAC budgeted expenses have been converted to US dollars
at the rate of S/. 296.
(b)   Salaries, supplies, insurance, cleaning, contracted services, and
other expenses have been increased for volume at 7% p.a. and by
estimated US dollar inflation consistent with the rates used
throughout the Appraisal Report.
(c)   Fuel and oil and utilities expense was increased in accordance with
projected traffic growth andl estimated price increases as follows:
1981         1982          1983          1984          1985
32.2%        29.1%         24.2%          24.2%        24.2%
(d)   Spare parts expense was increased for volume at 4% p.a. and by
estimated US dollar inflation consistent with the rates used
throughout the Appraisal Report.
(e)   Maintenance expense was calculated at 3% of revalued replacement
cost per year.



- 74 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(f)   Depreciation on revalued assets employed is in accordance with
the depreciation policy established by the Government, which is
a reflection of annual inflation in the construction industry.
(1)   Civil works - 3%, commencing when the facilities are expected
to be in use.
(2)   Machinery and Equipment - 10%, commencing when the facilities
are expected to be in use.
(3)   Vehicles and ramp service equipment - 20%, commencing when
the facilities are expected to be in use.
(4)   FFI aircraft - 12.5%, commencing when the equipment is
received in use, with 20% residual value.
(g)   Non-Operating Expense
(1) Cost of Merchandise: It was assumed that CORPAC would
continue to maintain the same profit margin percent in the
duty free store; therefore, this item was increased in the
same manner as non-operating revenues.
(2) Other expenses were assumed to maintain a similar relation-
ship to the cost of merchandise.
(h)   Interest Charged to Operations
(1) CORPAC local debt: In accordance with stated current debt
of CORPAC.
(2) Proposed Bank Loan: Based on terms of 17 years, including
4 years grace, 3/4% commitment fee and 9.60 p.a. interest.
(3) Communications Equipment Loan: Assumes a loan from KfW at
terms of 40 years, including 10 years grace, and 2% p.a.
interest.
(4) New Cuzco Airport Loan: The same terms were assumed as those
for the proposed Bank loan.
(i)   Taxes
(1)   Tax on operations - 9.3% of total operating expenses.
(2)   Tax on net income - 10% of net income after tax on operations,
in accordance with Decree Law No. 22921, dated March 4, 1980.



- 75 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
3.   Capital Investments
(a)   Bank Project:  The consultants' estimates of January 1981 were
converted to US dollars at the rate of S/. 350 and increased
for inflation at 12% p.a.
(b)   Communications Equipment (CORPAC System):  CORPAC estimates were
adjusted for inflation to January 1981 prices and then converted
to US dollars at the rate of S/. 350, and increased for inflation
at 12% p.a.
(c)   New Cuzco Airport:  Consultants' estimates were adjusted for
inflation to January 1981 prices and then converted to US
dollars at the rate of S/. 350, and increased for inflation at
12% p.a.
The cummulative effect of 12% p.a. inc:reases are as follows:
1981        1982        1983        1984         1985
1.12        1.25        1.40        1.57         1.76
February 1981



-76 -                                       ANNEX 4
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ratio Statement
1980-1985
1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1988
WORKING RATIO PERCENTAGE                             67.0        67.7        66.9        58.1         60.5        60.1
OPERATING RATIO PERCENTAGE                           74.6        75.3        74.0        65.3         75.8        76.2
INTEREST COVERAGE                                    43.8        48.4         7.0         5.7          3.2         3.0
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                                36.8        60.3         8.5         6.8          4.8         3.7
RETURN ON AVERAGE NET FIXED ASSETS IN USE
BEFORE TAXES                                  27.5        27.4         28.3        40.7        17.9        14.1
AFTER TAXES                                   25.3        23.5        20.5         28.8         8.9         6.7
CURRENT RATIO                                         1.2         2.8         2.0          1.0         1.2         1.7
LIOUID RATIO                                          1.0         2.4          1.6        0.8          0.9         1.4
DEBT TO EQUITY PERCENTAGE                                                    38.6        68.6         81.7        74.4
Source: Mission estimates
February 1981



- 77 -
ANNEX 5
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. CORPAC - Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y Aviacion Comercial -
Boletin Estadistico, 3er Trimestre 1979
2. CORPAC - Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y Aviacion Comercial -
Memoria '78
3. CORPAC - Corporacion Peruana de Aeropuertos y Aviacion Comercial -
Presupuesto 1980
4. CORPAC - Publicacion de Informacion Aeronautica - 3era Edicion
5.  CORPAC - Ley de Organizacion y Funciones (Law of Organization and
Function)
6.  "Ley Organica del Sector de Transportes y Comunicaciones" -
Decreto Ley No. 17526
7.  Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones Sistema Sectorial de
Planificacion - OSP - UP; Plan Sectorial de Transportes a Largo
Plazo - 1979-1990
8.  Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones Oficina Sectorial de
Planificacion - OSP/UPP; Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1980-1981
9.  Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones Oficina de Estudios
de Trafico; Transito 1978
10.  Instituto Nacional de Planificacion, Republica Peruana; Plan Na-
cional de Desarrollo para 1980-1981. - Version Preliminar
11.  Instituto Nacional de Planifi,a.i()mo, Republica Peruana; Plan
Nacional de Desarrollo a Mediano Plazo 1978-1982 - Plan Global
12. Ministerio de Transportes y Comunicaciones; Feasibility Study
for Six Airports Lima-Amazonas Transport Corridor
13. Ministerio de Industria y Turismo, Direccion Ejecutiva del Plan
Copesco, Republica del Peru; Feasibility Study for the Cuzco
Airport
July 1980



- 78 -
PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CORPAC ORGANIZATION
Approved December 16, 1976
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
President
LEGAL ADVISOR                    Vice-President                INTERNAL AUDITOR
5 Directors
General Manager
l PLANNING     l
I
SECRETARIAT-L                                                      LEA|
SECURITY                                                     PUBLIC RELATIONS
TECHNICAL
INDUStRI L  .SUPERVISION
INDUSTRIAL
RELATIONS
OPERATIONS           TECHNICAL SERVICES]               ADMINISTRATION]            MAINTENANCE
|INTERNATIONALAIRPORT                     OTHER AIRPORTS
World Bank - 21676



PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1J A J                       1 9 5 2                       1 9 8 3                       1 9A 4                         1 98A                       1 9 8 6                       1 9 97             J9A           J
N  4                 i a           0 J   A                                           a              A o                      JiA JO                          JA S             0         JA JO0                         JA    J O J
PalARsst   ,}]|TTXTT  I -~IRIIP0I TS  T  T                                                       J      AO                 JJ
Tv.-P'_'.w      '_                                                      _                      _ ,
LAPd
Sob Dra-                                                                               -- 
Sub Ra..
CFAR ad OtheA EWoqrl -, -t
Utilitie
Clea,g& DeoIbbing
Drai Cleanig
Sub Dromta
Sub ea.e
CFR end Other gisneq nt
Clenn ...    GbbMnh
Dub Drai-
Sub See
CF R an 0tR5i bsinEn--
TgoMari
Sib Drains-
SOS Rare
PLANNEDC 
CONSTRUCTION OR PROCUREMENT
ACTUAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WrdRn-  tS



PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
(Contin-ed)
981                    ~~~             ~~982          1983                             1984                            1985                            1986                             1987                             99
41k        A       .10                JA                 i O0        i      A                               A       1       0        1      A       1       0         1      A       1       0        1      A        1       0        1      A        1       0 
PART If-T-1111                                                                                                                                                                                                                               - 1    II            - I             I  II      I            
T.-,r Tap R4n-d-r
Fallic  Fligh., Inepctio                                                 A
Ai-Ofl -ad Spa-
lirght In-pecion Consol
Gro-d Cfib-itro  Lab                                                                                    .........
lTpe Training IA/C C-e
and Groud T.oh~orcanl
PART III
Hcad-hro C.rgo LiftS-                                          -      
13.mee Ca- Tracor                                        --      - 
CnaerLiflt.-
CFR DR, Ch-micl F tnonhr
FireliqI,tm,, S.juits--    
Finra Pac.ra..  Suir
EngmneG-n....... NO-100 KVA                              -  
E.,,i-G---aor 15-30 KVA.....
--rOin Eogi--er /ICAOI                                       .- -...     
PARTPoetior8yapir- V.. 
TOoPh-n In-tra IiU-ol
P LN NE8
-.-.-TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONSTRIUCTION ORl PROCUREMENT
......INSTALLATION
ACTUAL-
World Rank- 21722



7 Gepppi                                      71
P E R U                        '1<  ~~~~~~~~~C  L  M B I A 
PERUPot1                                                               CO          L         MA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-
DOMESTIC AIRLINE ROUTES
ii-   Z,                                                                            ",ft
v 58g,W/ /
A~~~~RLIN1BS ROUTES:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                             R       A         
C-OEER        0       200  00 40 00                                              - P,nco                                                                 X
y
MILES 0       50       130       150      200      250tl                                                                                      ,              '-
ma ,n.he eeaocnocn.ae patcr/o whicn h kp otcffcchmdr S.dotmyr IS, O,tccotcoo,e                                                                  + 5    
nteattdaressn tvntotth,co m ,dinoalocho TphaptSbtitO,,ot,le ada,,tdit5 ln jt
tncdforirts oloatiyd  th,ot bitrap I ot 001 0 rOnYe p00t oe orln d Baotomnt _n to
aco,optonea of suCI . bo,todanrn 
L~~~~ Bts;                                                                    7b                                             72                     C HI[L E                 6Y     O






: ;: : !n-:0 E 0 0 ;'                                7>                          7''                          0' 75.                                                 7
P E R U 
-" AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT " .
COMPONENT LOCATIONS                                                            C
Project Icco -o                                                      c    O      L    O      M            I    A
2    New or improved -irporto                   -           '7.'
V    VOR                                          '7'
B    NOR                                      77
D    AME
C    COM-STATION                                      -,                 -I
E    ENG NEERINGC WORK                                    At
-7rr           r                 4___  AII-wethe o prs                                    '-fL 7o0                                                            /
A sp h olt  - dl 9                                     -                         -
r-w rooes                                                      -, ,i>                                                 /
.   -\ r <           -------- Di,loot s                                                       '-d<
--"      l ,i++ +   y ferry                                                                                           /       A'-
Iet.e-*notioeo bo.u,dries                       0                      t-  -             -                 / |                     -
Relef,r,, tes: )                               +V                             A -j - 4  72                           -      7         -  _     -
'VD                             4, oCnd,0 -I oe I.
2,0   00 -    4,0   rsGl    a                                                                          b C5  +.00  to ___>   E R  A  Z  I  L
t" ~          -                  LZ   0-ROD' '                              "         sc 
..C            I    F- I                                                                                ' c
9               ;               )99':   %7O 7   77,r'~ i'o,,                                 -  72"  t-'    "   >|                                                                   -
0  0 0   0  ;   0  i              t               S     '  zr: /:        '             L                                          b. ., \~~~r. C-
IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -C-*
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MEtER5 C       50        0   2      50      20350   250 VC "     7                                                            B       B        A       Z       I       C
-1Rv9tse7o6 D6'                                                           -                                  h 1 LCE
; d; f ; 74 "; g 7 : r -,, - 5fB I sS rs n0 \ tQ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~xi "7  'D_






PERU
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                         ,
PUCALLPA AIRPORT
TYPICAL AIRPORT LAYOUT a
| __  jPro cc, ro,k                                                                                     dO/,t             Poo;   >
-.A  rporr pr  Perry  smlrs,-Ju,61vr/UA '    i
=    A_rFro-kd
_  _Errtrr ng o,nr,ood_/                                                                                                           ntRos   9
Secondary roan                                                                    '/0:Sneo                               WnhEoO a- 
astor:K Jc JU> o                   500                                                                           /                      ''
K-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
37 _ _
2 ~ ~ ~ ~   ~        ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      so --,1 
\ . _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2






IBRD 15022
i ~~~~~~~<,>?                                    PERU ~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 1980
--. \   ,          \         \ ;               AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TARAPOTO AIRPORT
K>            <          = --z- Existing runway
-  Proposed runway
TARAPOT    ~~~3j~Approach and departure paths
_( Obstruction lights
>'>   7'                                     1  ; ffi ff X ::i< TTowns
_ _Roads
RRivers
0                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Elevation contours
)                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(appro~iiiate delineations
in aetws)
PROPOSD     EITN
| RUNWAY                                                         RUNW                         MILES 0                                2
'lo ~  ~     ~     '
thecoscniesneot the readersf 01\ V   <<        K(%mtg0             -/       g      X     v FX             >tJ          CJ
the report to which it, isttached                l            
The denominatos usd nd the
boundaris how - thi -ap
do ot imply, on the pad of the    \
WoHd Bank anddto Nyineco, any
1udgmento the legal statusof 
auny territory or any endsrsement \       _<S0    t<\  G
or accptance ef-suh bous.d-ribu
77                                 C76.                                             0V%A   l%    2/
Yurimaguas
"oyobamba 6
L~~~S osoa                      sos                               0W              S   
KILOMETERS 0       25        50                 I jj          j;S            
MILES 0    25                   Y7 ii/~
\ToHcsanoca~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~f f6( 






BERD 15024
PERU                    JNE 962
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
w                                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HUANUCO AIRPORT
A~~~~~~~~~~~~Apoc ond deatr path                                                                                                                                                                     - -a -0 F0AA 
  F3F                          '  i~~~~~~~suc-  Elevation contours, meters           Ml               
~~~~ lr t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Built-up areas  .. .. *.tw vosi ......... +} eI-
5  =                                                                                                  CX ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-  Pro1oct development  eMailn roaids      N
7 _~  Future deco lopmeot                 ____Secondary roads                  <
--- Fu  t    u    rc    roads R
J,  E                      ;;   t000    th''t02                                                                         ;,  X,Xi W  X,  P    ,,;,;
L ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      2 SF20u .:;  noor                                      p                                         C,Iwllqui=-=     >-   /
HOANUCO \                   -            -   ,        -                                                                                / __/ "                       H                 M e Taru10
\ )uX ,~~~ii                        -                                          -I                                                                                                     Muleri  0 P0 0060aoolnuo/ /
\-< <   >                           Feet O          1000          n 00         30290         /0a/2 FNc
1                                              5 
Ri9-                                                                                                       AmIno
B.ilt-Up                                                                   .. .M...r..200 400 000 500.00..
-   - -------- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  _____________________________________'
__  ,-                               Fnnr c          r~~~~~~~~~~-lE.oo           00Huraal '
___ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ ___  __  __  ___  __  ___   __  __-t4np               PnPr-u,nPrru-'






IBRD 15023
To Tarapoto\ 7  '                                                        P E R U                               JUNE 1980
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TINGO MARIA
/,7\ t     j e. rrpor-                                    Roads
,  /y   ef \Rivers
0 Towns
CHEMATIC DRAWING: ROAD
DELINEATIONS AND AIRPORT
W A, X ;; / = 9 L C ATI   ON S AR E AP P ROX IMAT E!
\\t
0          1         2          3         4          5                                                Naranjillo  >
KILOMETERS                                              I;'
0                1                2                 3
MILES
|                                      ~~~~~~~~~Existin      \Z        l
This map has been prepared by the
GO                            ~~~~~~~~~~Worldi Bank's staff e,,ciusively for
MARIA                                          the convenience of the readers of
MI ARIA                            ~~~~~~~~~~the report to which it is attached
The denorninat,ons ssed and the
o uda es shown on th,s mp ra 
do not r;mply, on the part of the
World Bank and it affilates, any
any err'oryor any endorsement
oracceptance of such boundaries



