OFFP~    ~LOAN NUMBER 1963 PE
fCU  TS
Guarantee Agreement
(Aviation Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PERU
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                                , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1963 PE
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       vd-Kj       19       , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF PERU (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and CORPORACION PERUANA DE AEROPUERTOS Y AVIACION COMER-
CIAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make
to the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to fifty
eight million dollars ($58,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as


﻿-2-
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
Section 2.03. (a) The Guarantor hereby irrevocably assigns
to the Borrower any contract or agreement entered into by the
Guarantor in furtherance of the purposes of the Project Prepara-
tion Advance.
(b) The Guarantor and the Bank hereby agree that as of the
Effective Date: (i) the Borrower will assume all obligations of
the Guarantor in respect of the Project Preparation Advance; and
(ii) any obligation of the Guarantor in respect of repayment of,
and payment of interest accrued and payable on, the Project
Preparation Advance shall be discharged in the manner specified in
paragraph (b) of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost to the


﻿-3-
Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating
or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express
provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any
constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made
with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political
or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and
at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets.satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take
any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance
by COPESCO of its obligations contained in the contract referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement and will take all
reasonable action necessary or appropriate to enable COPESCO to
perform such obligations.
ARTICLE IV
Representatives of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Economia, Finanzas y Comercio
of the Guarantor and the Director General de Cr&dito Pfblico
of the Guarantor's Ministry of Economy, Finance and Commerce are
severally designated as representatives of the Guarantor for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-4-
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio de Economia y
Finanzas
Avenida Abancay, 5ta Cuadra
Lima
Perd
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINDEF                             20187 PU MINDEF
Lima, Perd
For the Bank:
International Bank ±
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (IT
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of
Lima, Perd, as of the day and year  rot above written.
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By   /s
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Senior Vice President, Operations


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this /2.     .day of ,     -, 198 L.


