D-omit o
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6333
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
PIDER II INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1462-ME)
June 30, 1986
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Acronyms
BANPESCA    National Fisheries Bank
BANRURAL    National Rural Credit Bank
CFE         Federal Electricit5 Commission
CIDER       Research Center for Rural Development
CONAFRUT    National Fruit Development Commission
DGCSA       Directorate General of Soil and Water Conservation
DT          General Directorate of Rainfed Distrihts
FIRA        Guarantee Fund for Development of Livestock
and Agriculture
GOM         Government of Mexico
PIDER       Investment Program for Rural Development
PRONDAAT    National Program for Extension in Rainfed Areas
SAHOP       Secretariat of Human Settlement and Public Works
SARH        Secretariat of Agriculture and Hydraulic
Resources
SPP        Secretariat of Planning and Budget
SRA        Secretariat of Land Reform



FOR OMCIAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dwictar-Cwral
Oportimn Evakiatiof
June 30, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Mexico PIDER II
Integrated Rural Development Project
(Loan 1462-ME)
Attached for information is a copy of a report entitled "'ronect
Completion Report on Mexico PIDER II Integrated Rural Development Project
(Loan 1462-ME)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office. Under the modified systemr for project nerformance auditing,
further evaluation of this project by the Onerat!3ns Evaluation Department
has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipier.ts only in the performance
nf their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
PIDER II INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1462-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contants
Page No.
PRE FACE   G. GGG......... G    . GGGGGGGGGGGGGsoo.GG  GG   GGGGGGGGGo   GGGG     G   G           G
BASIC DATA SHEET .        ............... .   ........ .......G .. G... .,,,,.   ....G a.,.. ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....... ....................... , .                  ...........   iv
I  BACKGROUND ................................. .........................             1
II. PROJECT FORMULATION  ...................................... *.                   2
A.   Identification, Preparation, and Appraisal                 ................  2
B. Board Approval ........... .....   2
C.  Objectives and Discription  ................................                  3
D.  Project Costs and Financing G ........ .........es................            3
E.  Project Risks . ..         .. G .... G .......          ...... G,.......    3
III. IMPLEMENTATION  ............................................................       4
A.  Project Components            .. ....      ........ .  . ....    4
B.  Productive Support Cou.ponents .............................                  8
C.  Social Investments  .            , ..............                  ... se,,,,.    10
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation ,              .......      ................    11
E.  Disbursements ................ a.... .    11
F.   Procurement                           . ...........    12
G.  Reporting and Auditing                           , ,                         13
H.  Adherance to Covenants .......             ..... .........-........ .        ,, 13
IV. ECONOMIC AND AGRICULTURAL IMPACT ...................                  ......   14
A.  Project Benefits and Incremental Output ...................    14
B.  Economic Rate of Return                     ............................. . .   15
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE            ..    ...........         ..       ....      15
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE  .... .** ....... *a.  ...            , ,  .. ........... ,  16
This document has a mtricted dbisribution and may be used by meipients only in the performance|
of their offici*l duties Its contents may not othe.rwise be disclosed without World Barlk nuthorizntion.|



Page No.
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ............................              17
Annex I    -   Project Investments              .........................  19
Annex II   -   Operational St.atus of Sample of Productive
Investments ..................................       20
Annex III  -   Schedule I - Withdrawal of Proceeds of the
Loan ..................................              21
Annex IV   -   Rate of Return Analysis              .....................    22
Annex V    -   Assumptions for Benefit Analysis .............            23
Appendix I -   Comments from the Borrower              ..................    25



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
PIDER IT Integrated Rural Development Project
(LOAN 1462-ME)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) of the PIDER II
Integrated Rural Development Project in Mexico, for which Loan 1462-ME was
approved on June 16, 1977 in the amount of US$120.0 million and fully
disbursed on September 23, 1983.
The PCR was prepared by the Latin America and The Caribbean Region,
Agricultural Division C after a fielA visit in May 1985. The PCR is based
upon a special report prepared by the Borrower, which was started in 1983,
but not completed until March 1985. The PCR is also based on a review of the
Staff Appraisal Report dated May 31, 1977, the Loan Agreement, Bank
supervision reports, project-related Bank files and the Project Performance
Audit Report of PIDER I, dated June 30, 1983.
The project was not se'e._ted for audit by QED as its most important
findings and lessons are similar to those noted in the PPAR of the first
project.
The PCR was sent for comments to the Borrower on April 18, 1986.
Comments rece ved have been attached to the PCR as Appendix 1.
The assistance provided during the preparation of this report by
the Government of Mexico and the project staff is gratefully acknowledged.



- ii -
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - FIDER II
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal                              Actual as % of
Estimate              Actual          Appraisal Estimate
Proljct Costs (US$aillion)                    255.0               255.0                1002
Credit Amount (US$million)                    120.0               120.0                1002
Date Board Approval                                               6/16/77
Date Effectiveness                                               10/08/77
Date Physical Components Completed          1/31/81               9/31/82
Proportion then Completed                    682                  1001
Closing Date                                7/31/81               1/31/83
Economic Rate of Return                       23.7                 6.4                  27%
Financial Rate of Return                      20.7                                      na.e
Number of Direct Beneficiaries               46,000               29,000                63%
Number of Credit Beneficiaries                12,000              10,000                832
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY78      FY79       FY80      FY81       FY82
Appraisal Estimate (US$'000)               7.0       34.0       82.0     120.0
1/
Actual (US$million)                        9.5       20.8       30.8      82.0      120.0
Actual as 2 of Estimate                     136       61         38        68       100
Date of Final Disbursement                September 23, 1983
Principal repaid to (mo./day/yr.)(USSmillion)
1/ As revised 1/31/83



- iii -
MISSION DATA
No. of      Mandays   SpecialiZatlotwN flerforlwtuc.           Types of
Mission        Date      Persons    in Field   Represented ./ natlp*  1/  Trend 3/  Problems 4/
(Tlo./Yr)
Identification   6/75         6            160      a,b,c _______________
Preparation                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-
Appraisal         8/76        9            231     a(4), _   k j             -J  _
Supervision 1    7/77         2             20     a(2)                1          2           MP
Supervision 2    1/78         4             44     a(2),b,d            2          1           MP
Supervision 3    6/78         2             20     a(2)                1          2           MP
Supervision 4   12/78         3          _6        a(2),b              2          2           MP
Supervision 5    6/79          5            50     a(3)bLc             2          2           MP
Supervision 6   1 2/79        4             56     a(2),b,c2                     2            MP
Supervision 7    7/80          1             8     a                   2          2           PH
Supervision 8    4/81          3            30     e,b,a               2          1           MT
Supervision 9      /81        3                    eb                  2          1           MT
Supervision 10   5/82         3             45     e b(2)              2          1           MT
Supervision 11  10/8?         3             24     b(2),a              2          1           MT
Special Reviews/ 6/78                       30   Included in activities of PIDER I mid-term review
Partial SPNs    12/78          1            56     f                                             mission
10/80        1             5     a
10/81        4            16     e,g.h,a  Review mission onfarm lending and M&E
6/82        1            12      i
Total (SPN)                                912
Borrower             NAFINSA
Executing Agency   SPP
Fiscal Year         January 1 to December 31
Name of Currency (abbreviation)
Currency Exchange Rate:
A praisal Year Average                                        USS 1.00 -   23
Intervening Years Average                                     US$ 1.00 -   38
Completion Year Average                                       US$ 1.00 -  140
Follow-on Project:
Name                        PDR Integrated Rural Development Project
Loan/Number                 1462-ME
Loan/Amount (US$million)  120 m
Date Board Approval         6/16/77
a/  Economist                             /   Livestock Specialist    m/  Nutrition/Marketing
b/  Agriculturalist                      h/  M&E Specialist                 Specialist
c/  Agro-industry Specialist             i/  Fisheries Specialist    n/  Soil and Water
d/  Sociologist                          J/  Highway Economist              Conservation Specialist
ei  Rural Development Specialist         k/  Highway Engineer           o/  Forestry
f/  Rural Industries Specialist          I/  Agricultural Credit
1 - Improving; 2 - Stationary; 3 - Deteriorating
F - Financial; M - Management; T - Technical; P - Political; and 0 - Other
1/ - Problem-free or minor problems; 2/ - Moderate problems; 3/ - major problems.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXI CO
PIDER II Integrated Rura.'. Development Project
(LOAN 146i2-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The project, the second of a series of three, was part of one of
th most ambitious integrated rural developwent programs to be supported by
the Bank, through the seventies and eighties. The first PIDER project (Loan
1110-ME) was approved in May 1975 and closed in August 1980. The Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) concluded that the productive investments of
the project had marginal economic returns, but that better success was
obtained with social and production-support investments. This second project
was approved in June 1977 and closed in 1983; a third loan was approved in
March 1982 and is expected to be fully disbursed in December 1987.
Objectives
The project was the continuation of a national rural development
program and consisted of: (i) directly productive components (70% of project
costs): livestock, small-scale irrigation, soil and water conservation,
fruit production, rural industries and agricultural credit; (ii) production-
support components (20% of project costs): feeder roads, rural electrificat-
ion, agricultural extension, farmers' organizations and rural markets; and
(iii) social infrastructure (10% of project costs): education facilities and
water supply. Total project costs were estimated at US$255.0 million, to be
disbursed over five years.
Implementation Experience
Investments for livestock and irrigation were higher than antici-
pated while those for soil and water conservation, orchards, rural industries
and agricultural credit were lower. More roads and electric systems than
expected were constructed. Agricultural extension services were weak.
Implementation of education facilities was satisfactory, while the water
supply program was not completed. When the loan was closed in January 1983
(a 48% time overrun), the project was not fully completed, but total project
costs were the same as expected at appraisal.
Results
Many of the productive components failed to become operative or opera-
ted poorly, mostly because of inadequate beneficiary participation and poor



- v -
extension and agricultural credit services. By contrast, production-support
and social programs performed relatively well. The project ERR is now esti-
mated at 6.4% (23.7% at appraisal). The project was more successful in
achieving its institution-building objectives, by creating a decentralized
framework through which the problems of rural poverty in Mexico could be
addressed more effectively.
Sustainability
Based on past experience, the Secretariat of Planning and Budget
(SPP) is taking a number of measures to redress the shortcomings of the PIDER
program while: retaining its positive aspects. The decentralization policy of
the Government, actions taken by SPP to rehabilitate the productive invest-
ments which are not operating effectively and the technical assistance
provided for production investments are part of the measures adopted by the
Government to improve the sustainability of the project.
Findings and Lessons
A number of lessons have been drawn from this project and recently
applied in new rural development projects in Mexico:
(a) The project was over-ambitious and too dispersed geographically.
Coordination between numerous line agencies responsible for project
execution proved more difficult than anticipated.
(b) The project confirmed the findings of other complex rural develop-
ment projects in Mexico (Papaloapan Basin and Tropical Agriculture,
OED Reports 5760 and 5997 of June and December 1985) that a series
of smaller projects, implemented by different line agencies, might
be more effective than one large, multidisciplinary project.
(c)  Heavy Bank supervision (four man-years) was effective in detecting
promptly the major shortcoings of the project, but was unable to
bring about changes to remedy these shortcomings;
(d)  The early establishment of an effective monitoring and evaluation
system is crucial for this kind of project.



MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER IT 'LOAN 1462-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      In the early seventies a significant shift occurred in Mexico's
agricultural policy with concerted eftorts made by a number of Government
agencies towards improving the lot ef Its large population of rural poor.
Programs to accelerate the provision of essential infrastructure and social
services, and to increase output fromn small farming lands were given much
greater attention than before. The need to coordinate and focus these
efforts soon became evident. A special Investment Program for Rural
Development (FIDER) was established for this purpose in the Eresident's
Office and a goal set to develop 100 micro-regions I/ for a capital
expenditure of US$1.7 billion. With the change in presidential
administration in December 1976, a new Secretariat for Planning and
Programming (SPP) was formed and responsibility for executing the PIDER
program was transferred to SPP.
1.02      In 1973, with the establishment of the PIDER program, the Mexican
Government (GOM) turned to the Bank fe,r assistance in the preparation of a
PIDER project for Bank financing. In discussions with the Bank, the focus of
the program was expanded from that of a basic rural infrastructure program to
one with a directly productive emphasis. In May 1975, PIDER I (Loan 1110-ME)
was signed.
i.0      In the early PIDER years, substantial amounts -f basic
infrastructure, primarily roads and electrirication, were constructed in
PIDER micro-regions, poor rural areas often untouched by prior public sector
involvement. In addition, important advances were made in decentralizing the
decision-making and implementation of PIDER activities from Mexico City to
that of the federal agency representations at the state level. State and
municipal governments, previously not included in such federal programs, also
began to play a more active role.
1.04      Problems were identified early in the implementation of PIDER I.
It was clear that credit and extension services required substantial
improvement and PIDER's control over the various executing agencies was
1/ Micro-regions comprised an average of 50,000 poor persons located in two
to seven _ontiguous rural muncipalities within a state. They were
selected using criteria that balanced poverty levels with potential for
income increasing productive activities.



-2-
insufficient. Also, beneficiary participation, while greatly improved as
compared with prior programs, was still inadequate. Nevertheless, program
implementation seemed sufficiently positive to warrant optimism about the
potential effectiveness of the PIDER program, particularly if the requisite
changes could be made.
1.05      The project completion reDort for PIDER I (March 1982) and the
project audit report (June 19o3) indicated that the performance of the
productive investments financed under PIDER I continued to be problematical.
The reports differed, however, in their interpretations of the effectiveness
of these investments. The absence of an adequate monitoring and evaluation,
system and the corresponding lack of good impact data left these differences
essentially unresolvable in quantitative terms.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
A. Identification, Preparation, and Appraisal
2.01      Following Board approval of PIDER I, a mission was sent to Mexico
in June 1975 to begin preparation of a second PIDER project 2/. This
project was appraised in July/August 1976 by a nine-member Bank mission.
Although questions were raised in the Bank about proceeding with a second
loan before the first one was properly under way the Bank staff responsihle
for PIDER argued that a second PIDER loan was important for two reasons:
iirst, to consolidate, strengthen and assure the continuation of the program
by the new Presidential administration which was to assume office in November
1976; and second to increase Bank participation in implementing the strategy
evolved under PIDER I to reduce significantly investment in the construction
of infrastrcuture per se in favor of integrated prodctive investments.
B. Board Approval
2.02      A major issue during negotiations was cost recovery, particularly
regarding productive investments. The Agreements required beneficiaries to
contribute to investment costs in accordance with their ability to pay and to
meet ali operating and maintenance costs through cash or in-kind payments.
The Project was approved by the Board on June 16, 1977. The Board expressed
concern about project risks because of the comprehensive nature of the
project and the unreliable rainfall in many marginal areas.
2/ The first supervision of PIDER I was also carried out at the same time.



-3-
C. Objectives and Description
2.03      The principal objectives o; the PIDER II project were to reinforce
the PIDER program's efforts to raise incomes, production and employment
levels, and to improve social services for the rural poor in the 20 PIDER II
micro-regions and in PIDER micro-regions throughout the country. Other
objectives were to consolidate and strengthen the overall PIDER program, help
make improvements program-wide, and to assure the continuance of the program
into the incoming Administration.
2.04      It was clearly recognized that for the project to be successful,
extension, credit, and farmer organization services had to be improved and
that the existing project infrastructure had to be properly operated and
maintained. It was also assumed that the expected increases in farm incomes
and improved services would slow urban popula ion migration.
2.05      The project consisted of:  (a) directly productive components
(70%); (b) productive support components (20%); (c) social infrastructure
(9%); and (d) monitoring and evaluation activities (1%).
2.06       PIDER, originally part of the Ministry of the Presidency but which
became part of the Secretariat of Planning and Budget (SPP) following SPP's
creation in early 1977, had overall project responsibility for coordinating
the activities of the numerous line agencies which directly implemented the
sub-projects financed under the project. The most important of these line
agencies were Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Reources (SARH), Guarantee
Fund for Development of Livestock and Agriculture (FIRA), National Rural
Credit Bank (BANRURAL), the Secretariat of Land Reform (SRA), National Fruit
Commission (CONAFRUT) and Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
(SAHOP).
D. Project Costs and Financing
2.07      Total project cost at appraisal was US$255 million.  The US$120
million Bank loan covered the foreign exchange costs of US$46 million and
local costs of US$74 million. Government's contribution amounted to US$129
million while the direct cash contribution of beneficiaries was about US$7
million.
E. Project Risks
2.08      Low and irregular rainfall was a risk which would be addressed by
the project by: (i) introducing irrigation, pasture improvement and
conservation works along with crops with lower water requirements; (ii)
improved field demonstration; and (iii) intensified extension efforts.



-4-
2.09      The variable quality of staff and leadership, particularly at the
State and micro-region level, was also perceived as a risk which the project
proposed to solve through: (i) providing training for technicians and
beneficiaries and (ii) emphasizing self help activities and the development
of local leadership capabilities.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
3.01      The loan was approved in June 1977.  It became effective in October
of the same year. A supervision was carried out just prior to effectiveness
in July 1977 and the first post-effectiveness supervision mission was mounted
in January 1978. The SAR assumed a four year implementation period, with
project completion expected by July 31, 1981. Actual project implementation
was about 54 years. The project was closed on January 31, 1983. Fifteen
st;pervisions and one special performance review were carried out over this
period involving about 912 field mandays. Table 3.1 shows estimated targets
and actual accomplishment by major project components. Investments for major
categories by years are shown in Annex I.
A. Project Components
3.02      Livestock.  Some US$34.3 million were invested in livestock
activities (about double the appraisal estimate). These included investments
for beef, dairy and dual purpose cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, poultry and
bees. Until very recently, performance was generally poor. Based on a 1984
sample survey (Annex II), about 50% of all livestock enterprises financed
under the project either did not operate or operated poorly. The completion
mission generally confirmed these findings, but noted recent improvements.
3.03      The mission found that beneficiaries from areas with a tradition of
livestock grazing were more successful than those with no previous livestock
experience. A further problem was that many investments created intensive
animal production units normallv operating with slim profit margins which
required significant management capability. Because success was closely
related to the quality of preinvestment planning and the level of technical
assistance provided, the best units were those for which the credit
institutions were directly involved in planning and execution. Technical
assistance provided by consultant Production Directors financed through the
credit component of the program (para 3.20) seem a particularly effective
recent development. Even with direct involvement from the credit
institutions, however, performance of these intensive livestock units was
generally still only fair. There were problems associated with involving
beneficiaries in the management of their units as many viewed the unit merely
as a source of employment. A sense of ownership was lacking ard many
considered the government or the banks as the owner. Also, insufficient
att-ntion was given at the planning stages to the importance of feed supplies



MAN 1464-M (PMn II)
PEr3an r
D AND AHEVEH D 0W
_ Ihit    ____s_ cal                        Bea fliarir           1nint   (Us$)
Projected Addeved    2    Pr o        h tedA  sdd               d
I. HWJCMLVE  INV
(a) Irrigation    ha        34,000      17,300    51       14,000     7,500    54    33.9        27.7    82
(b) S&W Conserm   ha        80,000      89,000    112       na      286,000      -     10.4      13.4   129
(c) LLvestodL                                              10,000    12,000    12D   17.6        31.4   178
() Cattle  no units        142         106    74         -          -        -       -        -      -
(ii) Pig                     27          3D   111         -          -        -       -        -      -
(iii) Goat /
SheV                    12          11    92          -         -        -       -        -      -
(iv)Niultry    ..            36          19    53         -          -        -      -         -      -
(v'* ,o                    189         114    60         -          -        -       -        -      -
(vi) Fruit,
Forstry    ha        7,900       6,100                        88,00             9.2 1/   7.3 1/ 1.9
1I. EixDJIV
SUPHEr  INV.
(a) Abal loads    km         2,010       4,140   206      131,000   265,000    2D2    15.9       2D.7   79
(b) EJ
1nsrtllaUa   villages      300         148    49       131,000     as         -      7.3      9.1  125
(c) Qrinstor      silos         65          S6    86          -          _        _      0.8      3.4  425
(d) 4ric.  E        ha     125,000     116,000    93          -          -        -     10.0      18.5  185
(e) Proiier Org  EjiAk       1,000       1,200   12)       50,000    48,000    96        5.5      6.4  116
(f) S_d-                       -           -      -           -          -        -      3.6      3.5   97
III. SOCIAL
INE;DSM
(a)Ecai            roa       1,500       1,080    74       60,00D    51,000    85       5.3        5.4  102
(b)haral Witer   Vil           -           -       -      214,000    96,000    45    10.3         7.2   70          oX
(c) Self Help     People   92,000       78,600    85          -          _  .           3.9        3.3   85                   n
1/ Illudes fisheri e



-6-
and prices, marketing outlets and product prices. As a result, many units,
particularly pig and poultry, operated with very precarious margins or were
forced to close down partially, further eroding beneficiary participation and
confidence.
3.04      Early in the implementation period, both PIDER and the Bank
recognized that the livestock component required serious improvement. It was
not until December 1981, however, that an agreement was reached that rather
than continue to invest in new livestock infrastructure, emphasis was to be
given to assuring the operation of the existing units. The completion
mission noted a marked improvement, apparently the result of such changes, in
the last three years.
3.05      Aside from the issue of performance, neither PIDER nor the Bank
explicity questioned the suitability of such livestock uniLs for achieving
rural development equity aims.  Except for bee units, investment costs per
unit were high and the number of direct beneficiaries relatively few.  Except
during the construction phase, the amount of labor generated was not large.
Also the selected beneficiaries when successful, stood to become relatively
much wealthier than their peers.  Nevertheless, many examples of highly
productive and profitable large units were noted by the completion mission.
The completion mission, using very conservative assumptions (50% of units
operating and low technical coefficients), calculated the component rate of
return at approximately 9%.
3.06      Irrigation.  Some US$35.8 million were invested in small-scale
irrigation (about 8% above the appraisal estimate). However, the area
irrigated was only about 50% of the appraisal and per beneficiary costs
(US$3,400) and per hectare costs (US$2,100) were considerably above the
4ppraisal estimate. By late 1984, sample survey data indicated that slightly
less than 50% of all units were operating satisfactorily with the operation
of another 28% considered fair (Annex II). The main reasons for the
unsuccessful subprojects were:  (a) inadequate planning, particularly with
respect to agronomic aspects; (b) inadequate extension services; (c)
inadequate production oriented research and demonstration; (d) poor land
leveling; (e) insufficient credit and failures to provide credit in a timely
manner; (f) poor coordination in the installation of electrical power and;
(g) lack of commitment oi ueneficiaries. The completion mission, using very
conservative assumptions (full development incremental income of US$401 per
hectare on 75% of the hectares i:-rigated under the project) calculated the
rate of return on irrigation investments at just below 10%.
3.07      Soil and Water Conservation.  Although appraisal estimates were
exceeded for areas covered and funds invested, sample survey data (Annex II)
show that the performance of 60% of the investments in two of the major
activities, subsoiling and destoning, was unsatisfactory. With respect to
the third activity, raised terrace construction, the effectiveness of
significant number of subprojects was low due mainly to design errors and the
lack of maintenance. Bank supervision missions questioned the
appropriateness of these activities in many situations. Much subsoiling and



-7-
destoning was considered unncessary or of marginal benefit as was the
selection of costly raised terracing in preference to cheaper broad
terraces. The Directorate General of Soil and Water Conservation (DGCSA),
had sufficient experienced staff to enable it to carry out the program
envisaged at appraisal but this was not done. PIDER management, however,
lacked the expertise to question the execution of the program.
3.08      Fruit, Forestry and Fisheries.  Of these three activities, more
than 85% of investment were for the development of fruit production
operations by the National Fruit Development Commission (CONAFRUT).  PIDER
was an important source of funds for CONAFRUT accounting for some 25% of
CONAFRUT's budget. These funds helpea expand national fruit production and
provid opportunities for some 8,800 new small scale producers.  Over the
first few years of pro.iect execution, performance of this activity was
generally unsatisfactozye CONAFRIJT resources were insufficient and it was
not able to provide enough technical assistance to ensure success. There
were also major problems with credit which was often insufficient and not
provided when required. Also, no credit was available for short term
activities to provide farmers interim income from intercropping for the first
three to four years until their orchards startid to produce.  Although these
problems were never completely solved, a marked improvement was achieved in
subsequent years and by December 1985 only about 30% of the investments were
either not operating or operating poorly (Annex II).
3.09      A small number of reforestation programs were implemented
satisfactorily. The small, but important, fishery program, located in a
number of coastal micro-regions, was generally unsatisfactory. Supervision
missions found that planning was weak, technical assistance lacking and most
of the equipment financed was either repossessed by the fisheries bank
(BANPESCA) or became inoperative due to lack of maintenance.
3.10      Rural Industries.  Although this was considered an innovative
component at appraisal and considerable effort as made by project management
to prepare a rural industrial pre-investment plan, no funds were disbursed
under this category. Efforts by SPP to coordinate the execution of
investment activities were not successful and no line agency appeared willing
to accept responsibility for this component.
3.11      Agricultural Credit.  Development credit to complement PIDER
financed on-farm investments was considered essential for the success of the
productive components. As with PIDER I, a specific credit component was
included in the project. FIRA was the agency responsible for channelling
project funds to farmers through public and private banks, as in the Bank
financed general credit projects. The objective was to: (a) ensure
effective coordination between FIRA and PIDER; (b) have FIRA review PIDER
subprojects with respect to their financial feasibility; and (c) have FIRA
guarantee that credit (long and short-term) would be made available as and
when needed.



- 8 -
3.12      At project initiation, coordination between PIDER/SARH and FIRA was
weak but in mid-1978 through Bank intervention a formal agreement was reached
between PIDER and FIRA. Under this agreement, FIRA was to give priority to
providing credit to project beneficiaries for approved on-farm investments.
In addition, FIRA coutld also claim reimbursement under the loan for subloans
made to all low income producers in the project area irrespective of whether
they received assistance from PIDER/SARH. As a consequence more than 50% of
project funds disbursed by FIRA were for operations unrelated to specific
PIDER investments. Although the 1978 agreement led to improvement in project
credit, the level of coordination at the working level between PIDER/SARH and
FIRA varied considerably between states. Problems relating to credit
remained one of the most important reasons for poor performance of about 35%
of all productive investments financed under the project. The principal
problems were: (a) insufficient long-term credit; (b) no provision for
short-term credit; (c) poor timing; (d) ineligibility of borrowers; and
(e) insufficient training of borrowers.
B. Productive Support Components
3.13       Feeder Roads.  In physical terms the feeder roads program was very
successful with 4,140 km constructed compared to an appraisal estimate of
2,010 km (Table 3.1). Furthermore this doubling of the original target was
achieved for an additional cost of only US$5 million (i.e., some 33% of the
appraisal cost estimate of US$15.9 million). This achievement is even more
striking considering the difficult terrain in the isolated areas where much
of the work was done.
3.14       Because annual budget funds were generally not allocated un-til May
or later, there was intense pressure to complete the program to ensure -hat
all funds allocated were spent by the December 31 cut off date. Also, the
availability of funds generally coincided with the oaset of the wet season
when on-farm labor demands were high. Thus, in order to simplify and
accelerate road construction there was a trend to use capital intensive
instead of labor intensive methods although it had been envisaged that labor
intensive methods would be used whenever possible.
3.15       Rural Electrification.  The performance of this category was also
satisfactory with actual investments being about 35% above those originally
programmed (Table 3.1). The Federal Electricity Commission's (CFE) long
experience in rural electrification development was responsible. With
respect to electricity charges, a Bank supervision mission (June 1978) noted
that while 96% of individual consumers paid regularly, public lighting was
often not prid. This situation persisted over the life of the project.
3.16      While the project was successful in expanding electrical coverage
to the rural population, problems were experienced in the provision of power
to newly developed small-scale irrigation systems. In many cases, there were



-9-
long delays before irrigation systems became operative. These delays were
frequently due to poor coordination between CFE and SAKR, the agency
responsible for the small irrigation program.
3.17      Extension and Field Demonstration.  The key role of effective
extension was recognized at the inception of the project. To improve the
quality of extension, the project proposed to continue with the PRONDAAT 3/
methodology adopted under PIDER I and that full PRONDAAT extension coverage
to all 20 project micro-regions would be achieved by 1980. However, this
never materialized. In 2977 a new General Directorate of Rainfed Districts
(DT) was established with responsibility for providing extension services
countrywide in rainfed areas. The DT considered the PRONDAAT methodology too
costly and it was dropped, while the National Extension General Directorate
was also disbanded with DT assuming responsibility for extension. Under the
DT each District Chief was responsible for extension in his district
(including PIDER activities). The quality of extension was thus directly
related to the capabilities and previous experience of the District Chief and
varied widely between districts. PIDER extension programs soon lost any
distinct characteristics in servicing the poorest farmers. The extension
personnel funded by PIDER ceased to work specifically on PIDER activities.
They were merged into the general operations of the DT, under the District
Chief and were financed through a block budget allocation each year to SARH
from SPP.
3.18      The Bank, while expressing concern that these changes might be
insufficient to meet the special extension services needed in the project
micro-regions, had little option but to accept the assurances that the DT
would provide adequate extension services in the project areas. With few
exceptions, however, agricultural extension services provided under PIDER II
by DT were weak. There was generally no shortage of staff. However, they
were poorly organized, trained, equipped and paid, and Inadequately
backstopped. This was a major reason why some 40% of all productive
investments made under the project never became operative, or operated badly
(Annex II).
3.19      Although project management was aware of the lack of effective
extension in most project micro-regions it was unable to influence SARH to
take measures to improve the situation. Moreover, SARH tended to give
priority to those programs funded through its normal budget over PIDER
activities.  PIDER was generally regarded by SARH field staff as merely a
source of funds (often of last resort). However on the positive side, there
were a number of successful efforts in providing technical assistanc3 to
ejidatario groups receiving credit. Banks (both private and public) provided
3/  PRONDAAT was an extension methodology developed by Mexican technicians
in the mid-70's based upon the highly successful PLAN PUEBIA experience,
The system integrated field demonstration cum research to the delivery of
technology to farmers who were organized to take full advantage of the
new technology.



-10-
assistance to help the groups draw up viable investment programs and for
follow-up assistance, to ensure the programs were implemen ed. In some
instances full-time technical directors were financed as part of the credit
package. Unfortunately the number of such programs was insufficient to have
a significant impact on project outcome.
3.20      Farmers Organization and Land Titling.  This component provided
finance to expand SRA operations in PIDER micro-regions for two purposes:
first, to provide project beneficiaries with organizational and development
assistance; and second, to resolve land tenure and ejido organization
disputes, a prerequisite for the provision of both short and long-term
credit. PIDER expected that SRA would orient communities to development
opportunities, to reorganize ejido committees, and to ensure beneficiary
participation in a jointly agreed development program. While some 1,172
ejidos received asAistance under the project, most assistance was
for land tenure issues and for the resolution of internal ejido problems.
Organizational assistance was sporadic and farmer groups were often ill
prepared to maintain and manage the various on-farm investments.
Beneficiaries often felt that the projects belonged to the executing
agencies, and were not their own, and thus simply waited for the agencies to
make investments operate.  It should be noted that in the recent pre-PIDER
past, public sector investments tended to be operated by the agencies or by
public banks, with beneficiaries limited to serving as laborer employees in
the project.
3.21      It should also be noted, however, that PIDER made unprecedented
efforts to try to get agencies to incorporate beneficiaries in the
programming and executing process. Because SRA was seen as the responsible
agency, however, no other agency actively took responsibility, even in the
face of SRA inaction. The Bank continually raised these matters and
considerable staff time was directed at bringing about greater
participation. In spite of these efforts, and those of CIDER, a Mexican
consultant group, participation remained more a goal than a reality.
3.22      Rural Marketing and Nutrition.  There was little activity in this
component of which only 20% of projected funds were spent, mainly because
there was no agency (inside or outside of SPP) prepared to take
responsibility for approving the execution of this component.
C. Social Investments
3.23      The implementation of this component was satisfactory for education
facilities and self help programs both of which achieved only slightly less
than appraisal goals. However, it was less satisfactory for rural water
supplies for which only about 60% of the planned target was achieved. SAHOP
which assumed responsibility for rural water supplies in 1977 proved to be
less effective in organizing these activities than it was with rural roads.
Some 30% of the water points established became inoperative after a few years



-1 1-
due to inadequate follow-up maintenance because the beneficiaries'
orgarLzations failed to collect funds from the users. Little follow-up
information is available on how the social infrastructure, completed under
the project, was put to use. It appears that most schools were constructed
and teachers being appointed on time.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.24      During negotiations, considerable emphasis was given to t'e
establishment of an effective monitoring and evaluation (M and E) system. It
was envisaged, at appraisal, that CIDER, the independent evaluation and
research unit set up concurrently with PIDER I, would undertake evaluation of
the project. However, before the project started the role of CIDER was
changed and it ceased to be responsible for project evaluation and by late
1977 PIDER had established an in-house M and E unit.
3.25      The Bank, keen to see that this new unit was fully functional, paid
close attention to its acti' ties. However, for about three years, little
success was achieved in broe ening the units focus from measuring progress of
current investments to incli e impact evaluation. In 1981 some positive
steps were taken to correct   Is.  A centralized data gathering system had
been created and a local cons, tant firm was hired to help PIDER design a
monitoring system for measurir. project impact, which by 1982 SPP proposed to
introduce gradually into all of the 140 PIDER micro-regions. However this
did not occur and at project closing, no data were available to enable an
assessment of project impact. This situation was exacerbated during 1983 as
a result of the change in presidential administration and the consequent
extensive organizational and staff changes in SPP. In May 1984, after
prompting by the Bank, consultants were employed to assist SPP staff to
monitor and evaluate project impact, using a stratified sampling technique.
This study, which was completed in February 1985, formed the basis of the
completion report.
E. Disbursements
3.26      The loan of US$120 million was fully disbursed by the revised
closing date of January 31, 1983 (Annex III and Basic Data Sheet). Although
this was 18 months later than the appraisal estimate, GOM disbursement
procedures were generally satisfactory.
3.27      Disbursements were 136% of the appraisal estimate over the first
six months of the project. They slowed significantly however from early 1978
to mid-1980 to 38% of appraisal estimates. The main reasons for this were:
(a) The planning and execution of project activities in the newer,
more isolated, miQro-regions took much longer to initiate than
anticipated;



- 12 -
(b) There were serious delays in authori.ing project funds by SPP
during 1978-79 because change in economic policies and
investment priorities, brought about by the new government
administration that took office in 1978; and
(c) A change in policy by SPP to concentrate on consolidation of
existing activities rather than expansion during 1979-80.
3.28       In complying with the Loan Agreement, the Bank agreed to a request
in July 1981, to extend the closing date to July 31, 1982 and in mid-1982, to
a further six-month extension to January 31, 1983 to allow time for
disbursement requests to be finalized by GOM.
F. Procurement
3.29       International competitive bidding (ICB) was not applied to any
procurement since all packages were less than the minimum US$250,000 set
under Schedule 2 of the Guarantee Agreement. Individual project activities
were too small, too diverse and too dispersed, making bulking impractical.
Because local contracting resources were often limited, and contractors
outside the immediate area were generally too busy to be interested in the
predominantly smaller scale works financed under the project, most works were
done through direct negotiation or force account with an undetermined
smaller number executed under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. At
least three Bank supervision missions were satisfied with these arrangements,
which were in conformity with local law (Ley de Obras Publicas 1980), and
commented favorably on the quality of the documentation. It was considered
also, that the costs of works done were more than reasonable by Mexican
standards.
3.30       ICB was clearly not appropriate for this project.  There is not
evidence on file, however, that LCB could have been applied more widely. No
contracts were sent by GOM to the Bank for review in spite of a requirement
to do so for all contracts as a condition for Bank disbursement (Guarantee
Agreement Schedule 2 para D2). However, in this respect the final
supervision mission noted that, while this was a technical breach, the
condition was unraasonable given the large number of small works involved.
Also, since previous missions had checked bidding/procurement procedures and
were satisfied with them, the review of all documents by the Bank would have
achieved little other than to delay disbursements.



-13-
G. Reporting and Audit
3.31      Project reporting procedures were the same as for PIDER I.  Reports
were sent on a quarterly basis, but were not satisfactory. Physical progress
was given in financial terms and it was not possible to compare these readily
with the physical goals (areas, numbers, units etc.) established at
appraisal. The failure to keep a continuous account of physical progress was
an important reason for the long delay in preparing the PCR. Although most
of the physical and financial data was available, particularly at the state
level, SPP did not assign high priority to reporting. However, this appears
to have been ignored by the Bank since SPP continued to not provide this
information over the projects entire disbursement period.
3.32      Prnject Accounting.  Separate accounts for PIDER II were not kept.
This was noted by various Bank supervision missions, but no changes were made
by SPP.  SPP was nevertheless able to account for project related
expenditures for reimbursement purposes. Similarly, each participating
agency recorded their respective PIDER II activities only within the
framework of their general accounts and failed to maintain separate
accounts. Although SPP and the other executing agencies accounts were
audited internally according to local procedures acceptable to the Bank, no
audit reports were sent to the Bank specifically on the PIDER project in
spite of repeated requests to do so.
3.33      With respect to credit, FIRA did maintain a separate project
account and audit reports were sent to the Bank regularly. However, data
were inadequate to enable determinating of what portion of FIRA operations
in the micro-regions were linked to PIDER financial investments (see para
3.12).
H. Adherance to Covenancs
3.34      Apart from procurement, credit, reporting and evaluation
requirements, the Guarantee Agreement included a number of clauses which
warrant comment. Their implications and compliance by the Borrower can be
summarized as follows:
(a)  Cost Recovery.  Water charges for operation and maintenance
costs of small irrigation works (Section 3.05 and Section
3.15) were satisfactory once the works became operative. The
specific recovery of a minimum of 10% of investment costs of
irrigation subprojects specified under section 3.05 of the
Guarantee Agreement was met as beneficiaries did contribute
about 30% to the investment activities in the form of labor
and credit. In the case of rural potable water supplies
problems were frequently encountered with users being
reluctant to pay anything towards operation and maintenance of
the systems. As a result many systems were inoperative after
a few years;



-14-
(b)  Rural Industries.  Although a general plan for rural
industries development was submitted by PIDER and reviewed by
the Bank (Section 3.09) only a minor part of the plan was
carried out; and
(c)  Agricultural Extension.  Under section 3.13 GOM agreed to
extend its sucessful PRONDAAT technical assistance program to
all project micro-regions by 1980. However, with the creation
of rainfed districts (DT), the Directorate General of
Extension was abandoned in 1978 and all extension, including
that for PIDER activities, was channeled through DT. The DT
decided to drop PRONDAAT and give assurances to provide an
equally effective technical assistance in the project
micro-regions. As noted in Section 3.19, this was not done.
IV. ECONOMIC AND AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
A. Project Benefits and Incremental Output
4.01      Data provided by PIDER, by sample surveys, and by Bank Supervision
and Completion missions indicate that while overall project production has
been less than expected at appraisal, it still has been quite significant in
terms of both incremental output and incremental income. Direct economic
benefits resulted primarily from: (i) small-scale irrigation (17,320 has.),
livestock development (96 beef and dairy units and numerous smallstock
units), soil and water conservation (89,373 has.), fruit development (6,083
has.) and development credit ($23 million); (ii) increased employment; and
(iii) substantial agricultural (115,000 ha) and livestock extension.
Indirect benefits resulted primarily from the development of access roads
(4,140 km), rural electrification (148 communities), as well as land
tenure, marketing and nutrition, and social (e.g., education, drinking water)
services. (see Table 3.1).
4.02      Incremental output from increased yields and from new
project-related production, net of farming expenses, is the measure of direct
project benefits used in this report. Given the large number of individual
sub-projects and the wide geographic dispersal of project investment and
activities, precise data on incremental income was not available. However,
on the basis of extensive sample surveys, data on pre- and post-project
yields and production coefficients, as well as data regarding the opera.ional
status of project investments, have been obtained providing the basis for
making incremental benefit estimates. On this basis, the following full
development annual incremental income has been assumed: (i) for irrigation,
on 75% of the area irrigated under the project (12,990 has. of 17,300 has.)
at US$401 per ha., or US$5.2 million; (ii) for rainfed production, on 25% of
the rainfed area reached by extensionists (24,420 has. of 97,680 has.) at
US$50 per ha., or US$1.2 million; (iii) for livestock, incremental income was
assumed on 50% of completed project cattle and dairy units. For the
assumptions made in estimating net incremental benefits, see Annex V.



-15-
B. Economic Rate of Return
4.03      The completion mission calculated economic rates of return (ERR)
using both current dollar and constant peso flows. Despite high levels of
inflation and major devaluations, the rates were similar: 6.3% and 6.4%
respectively (See Annex IV). The SAR estimate was 23.7%. The ERR was low
because only a relatively small number of productive sub-projects operated in
a fully satisfactory manner. With very little additional investment,
however, most of these could still become fully operational, which would tiave
a cons'.derable positive economic impac7. Two important actions have been
taken recently by GOM which improve the prospects for this to materialize:
(i) SPP has decided, with Bank support under PIDER III, to give priority to
rehabilitation of old productive subprojects which are not operating
effectively instead of investing only in new works and (ii) SARH is in th.e
process of reorganizing and improving its extension services country-wide
with particular emphasis on assisting low income farmer groups.
4.04      Production models, representative of project ejidos, were
constructed for 11 of the 20 original project micro-regions. The rates of
return (financial) for these models varied from negative to 30% and average
15.6%.  At appraisal, the financial rate of return calculations were based on
similar data from representative ei!do models for each project micro-re&ion.
The average rate of return for these models was calculated to be
approximately 23.0%.
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
5.01      The PIDER program was highly successful in developing an
institutional framework through which the problems of rural poverty could be
more effectively addressed. It pioneered the decentralization of rural
development planning and developed an effective budget process to fund social
and productive packages in target areas, countrywide. This framework has
been a key element in the implementation of the new decentralization policy
of GOM, in which the states have been given major responsibility for the
inter-sectoral public investment programs funded by GOM. In addition, the
project, was important in ensuring continuity of the program. The
institutional developments which occurred under PIDER have also contributed
significantly in the formulation of various complementary rural development
programs (e.g., COPLAMAR, SAM, etc) as well as the 1985-88 National Plan for
Integrated Rural Development (PRONADRI) which has been developed by SARH and
recently initiated by the President of the Republic.



- 16 -
5.02      On the other hand, PIDER was less siuecessful in ensuring that its
funds were put to the most effective use.  it failed to establish and M and E
system and thus had no means of measuring the impact of its investments of
knowing the operational status of these investments. Equally important,
PIDER was not able to achieve the close collaboration and coordination with
the line agencies, responsible for execution and supervision of these
investments, which was initially envisaged. Tnis lack of coordination had a
serious effect on the implementatiorn of the production investment program,
with the result that 38X of productive components failed to become operative
or operated poorly (Annex II).
5.03       In retrospect it iE clear tht .he initial concepts about the role
of PIDER as the overall coordinator were overlv optimistic. The line
agencies directly involved with project execution had their own normal
prgrams to implement, and PIDER activities generally tended to be given
lower priority. This made it extremely difficult for SPP to resolve in its
favor any diffrfrences of opinion on1 project strategy it might have with the
line agencies. In particular, the lack of an effective extension service to
replace PRONDAAT, which was discontinued by SARH, inadequate beneficiary
coordination involving SRA and SARH, and insufficient focus by FIRA and
BANRURAL on the special credit needs of the project were the main
institutional shortcomings over which SPP was able to exercise little
control.
5.04      Based on past experience, the SPP is taking a number of measures to
redress the shortcomings of the PIDER program while retaining its positive
assets, as follows: (a) it has established a national Program for Regional
Development (PDR) combining PIDER to other SPP poverty-oriented programs to
make the SPP Regional Development program more responsive to the needs of the
states under the decentralization policy of GOM; (b) measures are being taken
to rehabilitate the productive investments which are not operating
effectively; (c) technical assistance for productive investments is to be
given as part of credit packages; (d) the establishment of effective M and E
has been given priority; and (e) SPP is now making budget allocations
directly to the States, rather than to the central executing agencies.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
6.01       Bank performance was mixed.  Important contributions were made both
in PIDER I and PII)ER II in giving a production emphabis to what had been
originally a basic infrastructure program. The Bank also actively supported
GOM efforts to decentralize rural development efforts through PID'R and in
other programs throughout the country.  In addition, the Bank was sensitive
to the political reality that a second PIDER loanl was crucial for assuring
the continuance, consolidation, and improvement of the PIDER program in the
context of a change of Presidential Administration. As such, the Bank made a
major contribution to the institutionalization of rural development and
played an important role in focusing the attention of GOM on the issue of
rural development.



-17-
6,02      Despite a substantial field supervision effort of b.out four
man-years (see Basic Data Sheet), Bank performance was less successful in
significantly improving execution of the key components. (See para 5.03).
rhe overall quality of the investments s-fered from a lack of in-depth
supervision of particular subprojects or ricro-regions, and in retrospect, it
is hard to see how this could have been done effectively with so many
components spread out over such a large area. Because of this Bank missions
concentrated upon assisting PIDER coordination teams develop a project
supervision capability rather than working directly with the line agencies.
However, the Bank did not change its supervision strategy when it was
apparent that SPP was not achieving the close level of coordination needed
with these agencies to ensure effective implementation.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The oroject was part of one of the most ambitious integrated rural
development programs to be supported by the Bank through the seventies. It
is likely that without PIDER II the incoming administration in 1977 would
lhave either ceased to support the PIDER program or reduced its scope
significantly. By involving itself in the appraisal and negotiation of the
project, the new GOM had a better opportunity to look closely at the PIDER
program early in its administration than it might have done otherwise. As a
result it recognized early the value of PIDER which it adopted as part of its
overall policy.
7.02      However the project was overly ambitious given the technical and
institutional inexperience. While this may vindicate those in the Bank who
raised these points during appraisal and loan processing, it should be
realized that the administration before 1977 (which identified and prepared
the project) wah not interested in accepting a smaller, less ambitious, pilot
project. It was proceeding rapidly to extend PIDER to target areas
country-wide and it had requested considerable support from the Bank. If
this support had not have been forthcoming GOM would have "gone it alone".
In this context the decision by the Bank to proceed with the project was on
balance correct. Although implementation was less effective than it could
have been, the project did increase production and brought about social and
economic changes to the benefit of a large number of low income families. A
major feature was that it helped SPP build a decentralized institutional
framework which now forms the basis for all major rural and regional
development programs in SPP and elsewhere.
7.03      The Bank's supervision was effective in that it detected promptly
the major shortcomings in project execution. However, it was generally
unable to bring about changes to remedy these shortcomings. Too much time
was spent working directly with SPP and not enough with the executing
agencies. The Bank should have focused more sharply on implementation



- 18 -
including the operational status of productive investments, credit,
extension, beneficiary organization and M&E.
7.04       However, it is doubtful if there would have been enough resources
to permit a fully effective and continuous supervision of each project
activity even if the Bank had so desired. The project was too dispersed
geographically, and given the large number of productive, productive support
and social investment categories, it is clear that the Bank would have had to
allocate considerably more to it than the large amount of time it did, to
supervise the program effectively provided to be optimistic. While the
complexity of supervision was discussed during the appraisal process, the
Bank should have looked more seriously into the possibility of having a
number of Bank project divisions involved in the program. A series of
smaller projects, with each division responsible for its own field of
expertise, might have been more effective than one large multi-disciplinary
project. With each Project Division responsible for its own subproject, and
with Mexican executing agencies having direct responsibility and
accountability for the project, it would be easier to focus on the
organizational and technical aspects of each project component aid to
influence the executing agencies to make appropriate and timely changes and
reforms.  Recently, the Bank had adopted this approach in assisting GOM in
financing regional developments in the state of Chiapas.
7.05       A number of lessons listed below can be drawn from this project
which can be reflected in future rural development programs:
(a)  project design should be simplified to include only similar or
complementary support components; this would make the project
more transparent to the borrower, improve clarity of goals and
responsibilities, and facilitate supervision;
(b) the early establishment of an effective M and E System is
crucial to focus project management on project impact as well
as to measure regular physical and financial progress; and
(c) supervision which concentrates on organizational policy
matters may be ineffective in ensuring efficient
ituplementation by paying less attention to technical goale
that need to be achieved.
7.06      The experience gained by SPP with PIDER projects is being used Li
its regional programs to simplify subproject designs, improve coordination
among executing agencies at the field level, and to establish an effective
M and E System for investments. Furthermore, first priority has been
assigned to rehabilitation of productive investments which are not operating
effectively and to train beneficiaries to take full responsibility for the
operation and maintenance of those investments.



-19-
Ann~ex I
.MEII
PFROMCOVECN REFPRT
Project InvtOnts ($000,000)
(1984 Mom)              1977     1978      1979     1980     1981    1982    Total
Irriptlio               909.3  1,120.0  1,433.0  1,370.9  1,296.1   424.8  6,554.1
Soil & Water Con.erv.   572.2    632.1    511.7    396.9    725.3   239.0  3,077.2
lvestock                597.4  1,135.7  1,583.2  2,169.3    527.9   654.2  6,667.7
RonIs                   879.5    967.8    936.1    821.2    556.8   150.6  4,312.0
Elwtrificatiom          336.0    369.1    541.1    424.8    346.5   149.3  2,166.8
Extension               321.1    299.4    204.0    168.7    147.6   240.5  1,381.3
Agarain Refonr          206.4    278.8    267.7    258.1    232.3   120.6  1,363.9
Marketlzg                51.6      51.0     77.5     57.1     32.9    56.6    326.7
Total Imnvestmet       3,873.5  4,853.9  5,554.3  5,667.0  3,865.4 2,035.6  25,849.7
(1984 Mex$)
Total Invewt            337.8    494.5    680.6    893.7    775.4   658.4
(alrent Mex$)
Tot Investant            14.9     21.8     29.9    38.4       29.6     6.8    141.4
(aJrst 'II$)



MEXICO
LOAN 1462-ME PIDER II
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OPERATIONAL STATUS OF SAMPLE OF PRODUCTIVE INVESTMENTS
(December 1984)
Not                    3+4
Activity               Satisfactory      Fair      Poor      Operating      Total        5
(1)           (2)       (3)          (4)          (5)
(I) Small Scale Irript1on              27            16        6            8            57        25
(II) Livestock
(a) Dairy                           3             3        4            -            10        40
(b) Beef                            b             6        7            2            21        43
(c) Dual purpose                    2             1        4            -             7        57
(d) Pig                             3             2        4            3            12        58
(e) Poultry                         1             -        1            3             5        60
(f) Sheep                           2             2        1            2             7        43
(g) Goats                           -             -        -            2             2       100
(h) Bees                            3             2        2            -             7        28
Subtotal Livestock                 20            16       23           12             71       50
(III) Fruit, Forestry
and Fishery                        12            12        9            2            35        28
(IV) Soil Conservation                    3             2       6             1            12        58
TOTAL                              62            46       44           23            175        38



MEXICO
LOAN 1462-ME (PIDER II)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule 1 - Withdrawal of Proceeds of the Loan
Amount of the             Amount Actually            Actual Disbursment
Loan Allocated               Disbursed                Amount Allocated
(US$ Equivalent)          (US$ Equivalent)
(1) Irrigation                             21,100,000                 18,257,500                      86
(2) Soil and Water
Conservation                          7,770,000                 8,007.100                      '03
(3) Livestock                              11.000,000                 17,493,400                      759
(4) Ag. Credit                             23,900,000                26.611,400                       '1'
(5) Ag. Ind. Credit                         4,300,000                      6,100                       72
(6) Family Industries                         500,000                   496,500                      g9
(7) Technical Assistance and
Training for Industries                  30,000                    30,100                      !Cr)
(8) Fruit, Forestry and
Fisheries                             7,000,000                 7,092,600
(9) Feasibility Studies                     3,700.000                 3.803,300                       103
(10) Rural Roads                            11,800,000                 11,671,800                      99
(11) Agr. Extension                          6,400,000                  7.432,900                      116
(12) Farmer Organization and
Land Titling                          3.700,000                 3,640,100                       98
(13) Rural Electrification                   5,700.000                  5,602,800                      98
(14) Storage Marketing and
Nutrition          I                    900,000                   889,700                       99
(15) Education Facilities                    3,600.000                  3,092,600                      86
(16) Rural Water Supplies                    4,200.000                  3,954,000                       94
(17) Self Help                               2,100,000                  1.917.900                       91
(18) Unallocated                             2,300.000                -_     _
TOTAL                               120.000;000                120,000,000



-22-
Ane  IV
MEIOD
PKr=   CO       C  REPOFC
Rate of Return Analysis
(Constant 1984 MexMSLOOO)
Net          Net          Net           Ne-t
Increlental  Increnntal Incremetal  Incremetul
Total      Irrigatim    Livestock       Rainfed     Bere1ts
8wetment   Benefit        Beneft       Berfit        (ton)
1977          t2,783)                                               (2,783)
1978          (3,655)                                      40       (3,615)
1979          (4,346)          71                          60       (4,215)
1980          (4,638)         172                         120       (41,346)
1981          (3,M8)          328                         18D       (2,577)
1982          (1,668)         545            520          220         (383)
1983                          785           720           240        1,745
1984                          874           92G           240        2,034
1985                          950         1,000           240        2,190
1986                        1,032          1,060          240        2,332
1987                        1,042          1,080          240        2,362
1988-199%                   1,042         l, lOX          240        2,382
ERR - 6.4Z



-23-
Annex V
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
PIDER II
COMPLETION REPORT
Assumptions for Benefit Analysis
In estimating incremental income streams, technical coefficients
are taken from sample survey data. In addition, the following assump3Cions
are made.
(1) Rainfed Production. Of the 97,680 rainfed has. estimated in
the sample survey to have been reached by agricultural extension services
under the project, agricultural change, and hence incremental income, is
assumed on only 25% of that area. Incremental income is assumed exclusively
from increases in corn yields.
(2) Irrigated Production. Production increases are assumed on 75%
of newly irrigated areas. This is to account for the estimated 25% of
irrigation works not properly operating. Benefits from these areas are
phased in accordance with the rhythm of irrigation investment. Further
assumptions are that: (i) net incremental income begins in year 3 of
operation of each irrigation unit; (ii) for the first rhree operational years
of each unit, half of the producing hectares are planted to one cycle of
corn, with the other half planted to cash crops (note: cotton, a moderate
value crop, is used as a proxy for the average cash crop); (iii) beginning in
the fourth operational year, the assumed mix moves to 25% corn and 75% cash
crop; (iv) labor is shadow priced at 50% of the official minimum wage. Note
that neither double cropping nor full cash crop production is assumed. The
rate of return for the irrigation component was calculated to be 9.8%.
(3) Livestock. It is assumed that 50% of beef and dairy units
produce no net incremental income. For funtional units, no net incremental
income is assumed until year 3 cf the unit's operation (year 6 since
construction on the unit was begin). It is further assumed that it takes 6
years, following the completion if construction, to reach the levels observed
in the 1984 sample survey. Therie levels are considered to be 'full
development" for the purpose or calculating incremental income. It is
expected that over time, wi!h increased experience and improved technical
assistance, more units would enter production, and already producing units
would cecome more efficient and more productive. These expectations are
however not assumed in this analysis. All other livestock units (e.g.,
chickens, pigs, bees, etc.) are assumed to make no contributions to net
incremental income (i.e., investment costs are included, but there is assumed
to be no incremental income stream).



-24-
Atlex V
Page 2 of 2
(4) Other. The annual amortization of development credit is taken
into account in the calculation of the aet incremental benefit streamws. For
soil and water conservation, no net incremental income is assumed (i.e.,
investment costs are included). Fruit and forestry development data were not
available. While qualitative observation indicates that the net incremental
income streams are positive, the lack of data makes any estimates difficult.
(5) ERR Investments. All productive and productive support
investments were included in the investment flows in the ERR calc%lation,
however, adjustments were made for roads, electrification, extension and SRA
expenditures: (i) 252 of road expenditures were included as much of the
benefit accruing to the project area from the road investmnts were not
included In the benefit stream (i.e., benefits to persona other than those
receiving livestock or irrigation infrastructure or other productive support
under the project); (ii) 50S of electrification expenditures were included as
much of the electrification was of social, rather than productive utility;
(III) 50% of extension was included, as under the DT systes such of the
extension expenditure was for actions outside of the project area; (iv) 502
of SRA was included as substantial parts of SRA activities were either
outside the specific micro-region or for purposes with no directly productive
result.
(6) Dollar and Real Peso Calculations. In calculating dollar and
real peso flows, current peso investment and income streams were converted to
real 1984 pesos usintg GDP deflators as follows:
Pesos
1980 - 100
1977             55.3
1978             64.6
1979             77.7
1980            100.0
1981            127.2
1982           205.1
1983            394.1
1984           634.1
Dollars
(US$1.00    No. of Mex$)
1977             22.7
1978             22.7
1979             22.8
1980             23.3
1981            26.2
1982             96.5
1983
1984           200.0



Appendix 1
Page 1 of 6
- 25 -
E-981/96 June 18, 1986
SPANISH (Mexico)
OED/1        JVS:cc
P 'INSA
Subdirectorate of International Organizations
CEC-938-VI-86
June 11, 1986
Mr. Otto Maiss
Acting Director
Operations Evaluations Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 10433
Dear Sir:
I refer to your letter of April 17 requesting comments on the
Project Completion Report on the PIDER II Integrated Rural Development
Project (Loan 1462-ME).
The report contains most useful observations which will most
certainly help to improve the execution of future programs undertaken in the
rural sector with World Bank participation.
I should point out that the report was very largely based on the
Project Completion Report prepared by the executing agency, which in a
thoroughly self-critical spirit drew attention both to achievements and to
shortcomirgs, as well as their causes.
In general terms the document prepared by the World Bank covers all
aspects of the implementation of the project. Nonetheless, in order to
clarify certain issues and enrich the content of the report I have annexed to
this letter certain observations which we think could usefully be included in
the final version.



Appendix I
Page 2 of 5
- 26 -
These observations represent the comments and opinions of the
executing agency, the borrower and the guarantor of the project, who jointly
reviewed the report.   Yours, etc.
(signed)
Arturo Galan de la Barreda
Subdirector
Attachment
cc: Pedro Saenz Zepeda - Director of Projects, Regional Programming
and Budget Directorate.
Jose Luis Flores Hernandez - Director for International Financing
Organizations
Raul Obregon del Corrall - Director for International Affairs and Finance
Hector Flores Santana - Director for World Bank Financing



Appendix 1
Page 3 of 6
- 27 -
Comments on Project Completion Report for the PIDER II
Integrated Rural Development Project (Loan 1462-Me)
1.        Page ii states: "The experience gained with PIDER
was adopted widely by the Bank in many countries in which
integrated rural development projects were established."
"The project was successful in achieving its institutional-
building objectives by creating a framework through which the
problems of rural poverty could be addressed more
effectively."
The Government of Mexico is particularly pleased
that the experience obtained by the Bank through PIDER has
been used in other countries, which confirms that the
developing countries share certain common problems.
It should also be stressed that the project did        See paragraph of
indeed help to resolve the difficulties facing the rural          results, page iii
sector in Mexico in those years, by substantially increasing  and iv.  The esti-
agricultural production and producer's incomes.                   mated ERR does not
support a statement
PIDER in fact assisted a wide range of rural           of substantially
communities, which because of their size could not obtain         increasing agricul-
access to other sources of funds, and which thus benefited    tural production and
considerably from the production, support and social              producer's income.
components. This should be stressed when we consider the
project in the :ontext of the rural sector in Mexico, which
faces very complex structural problems.
2.        Page ii states: "The project was innovative but
ambitious given the technical and institutional experience in
running such a .roject," while paragraph 5.03 states: "in
retrospect it is clear that the initial concepts about the
role of PIDER as the overall coordinator were over
optimistic."
Here it must be observed that project preparation
began before the first stage had been set on the proper
course and therefore before any initial evaluation of that
phase could establish the executing agency's capacity to
coordinate all the activities satisfactorily. Furthermore,
during the appraisal mission for this second phase the Bank's
own staff also agreed that the project should be executed
under the above-mentioned circumstances.



Appendix 1
Page 4 of 6
- 28 -
However, and as noted in the report, the experience   See page iv,
gained during implementation enabled the Secretariat of              paragraph of
Programming and Budget to aa  - various measures designed to    sustainability
overcome the shortcomings of the program, including the
establishment of the Regional Development Program and of a
monitoring and evaluation unit exclusively responsible for
project-related activities, which have invariably had
beneficial results.
3.        Paragraph 5 on page iii states: "However, it has
recently applied this lesson in its financing of only part of
the Chiapas Rural Development Plan...."
This new approach, i.e., toward more specific and
homogeneous activities, as in the Chiapas Rural Development
Plan, has already been used in the PIDER III loan, in which
US$10 million will be reassigned to support the establishment
of citrus fruits in the State of Yucatan, as part of its
Henequen Reorganization Program.
4.         In paragraph 3.06 the main reasons for the lack of
success with subprojects are identified as, among others,
inadequate credit, planning, extension services, research,
etc.
On this point, which is closely linked to our             New paragraph
observations in paragraph 5, it should be noted that steps are  7.06 in page 18
currently being taken under PIDER III to make the works
operational. For instance, the strategy adopted by the
current management attaches top priority to the
rehabilitation, completion and complementing of unfinished
works.
5.        Paragraph 3.12 states:  "As a consequence of weak          This is not a
coordination more than 50% of project funds disbursed by FIRA   correct interpre-
were for operations unrelated to specific PIDER investments."   pretation of para-
graph 3.12. It
It must be recognized that better coordination is         states that coordi-
needed between FIRA, PIDER and SARH, in order to finance             nation between
eligible operations; to this end the Government is taking the   PIDER/SARH and
necessary measures to ensture that financing targets in the          FIRA improved after
project area are met.  Furthermore, it should be pointed out    the formal agree-
that there are no documents or records establishing the              ment o.: mid-1978;
accuracy of this figure, for which reason the reference to 50%  although problems
should be eliminated.                                                related to credit
affected about 38%
of productive in-
vestments.



Appendix 1
Page 4 of 6
- 29 -
6.        An examination of the table on page 8, regarding
projected and achieved goals, shows that the investment
program was very satisfactorily completed; although the works
in qom of the sub omponents fell short of the targets, in
others these targets were largely exceeded, as in the case of
rural roads.
Leaving aslde the economic impact of the project in  Mentioned in para-
increasing agricultural production and raising the incomes of  graphs 5.04 and 7.0
beneficiaries, the Government of Mexico has begun to use funds
from the third stage of the loan to improve the effectiveness
of wotks which currently are not performing adequately.
7.        Paragraph 3.26 states:  "The loan of US$120 million
was fully disbursed by the revised closing date of January 31,
1983. Although this was 18 months later than the appraisal
estimate
It should be pointed out that the agreements             See changes in
themselvea provide for the closing date to be postponed so          paragraph 3.28
that the full amount of the loan may be disbursed; this was    in page 12
what occurred in this case.
8.        Paragraph 3.27 states:  "....disbursements
slowed significantly, however, from early 1978 to mid-1980
It should be noted that thls slowing down was also   See changes in part
due to: (1) a change in administration, which entailed a            (b) of paragraph
review of investment priorities, in order to adjust them to    3.27 page 12
the new government's economic policy; (2) the devaluation of
our currency in 1976 and the budgetary restrictions to which
this gave rise.
9.         Paragraph 3.27(b) states:  "There was serious delay
in authorizing project funds by SPP during 1978-79 ..."
This paragraph must be eliminated, since an              See new part (b)
observation of this kind is an internal matter and therefore   of paragraph 3.27
one for the Mexican authorities only.
10.       Paragraph 3.30 states:  "ICB was clearly not appro-
priate for this project." It also notes "The review of all
documents by the Bank would have achieved little other than to
delay disbursements."



Appendix I
Page 6-ofF 6
- 30 -
Bidding competitions always complied strictly with
the regulations laid down by the Government of Mexico, as the
Bank was able to verify whenever it wished to do so. It would
be useful for the flexible approach used by the Bank in this
case to be applied to other projects with similar features,
since this would accelerate disbursements and therefore
implementation.
11.       Paragraph 3.31 states:  "...SPP did not assign high
priority to reporting, However, this appears to have been
ignored by the Bank...."
Although there were no annual reports on the              Mentioned in the
physical progress of the project, preparation of the PCR was    preface page i
made possible by the study produced for this purpose by the
executing agency between 1983 and 1985. It should also be
pointed out that the consultants who helped SPP personnel to
identify and evaluate the repercussions of the project can
confirm the veracity and objectivity of the said study.
12.       Paragraph 5.02 states:  "Lack of coordination
unsuccessful project.."
On this point, we be'. eve that the phrase                See changes of
"disappointingly large" should be eliminated since it does not  paragraph 5.02 in
in any way reflect reality.                                          page 16



