Report No. 1480a-ME
Appraisal of an Integrated
Rural Development Project - Pider 11
Mexico
May 31, 1977
AgriulIture and Rural Development Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                                Mex$22.5
Mex$l                               US$0.04
Mex$1 million        =              US$44,444
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)        =          2.47 acres=10,000 m
1 kilometer (km)   2             0.62 miles
1 square kilom. (km   =          0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)       =          2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)           =          0.26 gallons
1,000 kg =1 metric ton=          0.98 long ton
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANRURAL       -        National Rural Credit Bank
BANXICO        -        Bank of Mexico
CAPFCE         -        Administrative Committee of the Federal Program
for Construction of Schools
CFE            -        Federal Commission for Electricity
CIDER          -        Research Center for Rural Development
CONAZA         -        Arid Zones Commission
CONAFRUT       -        National Fruit Development Commission
CONASUPO       -        National Company for Popular Subsistence
FIRA(FONDO)    -        Guarantee Fund for Development of Agriculture,
Livestock and Aviculture
Hacienda       -        Ministry of Finance
IDB            -        Inter-American Development Bank
INI            -       National Institute for Indian Affairs
INIA           -        National Institute for Agricultural Research
NAFIN          -        National Financiera
Patrimonio     -        Secretariat of National Patrimony
PIDER          -        Investment Program for Rural Development
PRONDAAT       -        National Program for Extension in Rainfed Areas
SAG            -        the ex-Secretariat of Agriculture
SAHOP          -        Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
SARH           -        Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SOFE           -        Sub-Department of the Ejidal Development Office
SPP            -        Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
SRH            -        the ex-Secretariat of Water Resources
SRA            -        Secretariat of Land Reform
SSA            -        Secretariat of Health and Social Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .............            ...i - iv
I.  INTRODUCTION .........1...... e ..............................
II. BACKGROUND                       .....2
A.   Development of the Rural Sector. . .                     2
B.   The PIDER Program        3...                 . .        3
C.   Progress Under PIDER I. .                   .    ..      4
III. THE PROJECT. . .                                                6
A. General. .                                                 6
B. Brief Description  ...                                     7
C.   Detailed Features.........                               8
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ......   ........................    18
A.  Organizational Levels ...............................  18
B.   Evaluation .     .........................................    21
V.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCES ...............................  22
A.   Cost Estimates .......    .............................    22
B.   Financing       ...........................................   24
C.  Disbursements .... ...................................  24
D.   Procurement       .........................................   24
E.  Accounts and Auditing ......     .........................  25
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMER BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL
RESUTS  .............................................   25
A.   Production, Yields and Marketable Surplus . ..........  25
B.   Markets and Prices ..................................  27
C.   Producer Income and Benefits ........................  27
D.   Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact   . .....................  28
E.   Ecological and External Effects .................... .   29
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ........................................  29
A.   Economic and Financial Analysis ....      .................  29
B.   Project Risks .......................................  30
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................................  31
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Mexico in July-August 1976, composed of A. Schumacher, D. Lindheim, C. Lindahl,
N. Barry, S. Draper, B. Mitchell and R. Skolnick (Bank) and C. Chisholm,
E. Cifuentes,L. Jarvis and G. Schramm (consultants). Messrs. Schumacher and
Lindheim visited Mexico with J. Austin (consultant) in November 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authorization,



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Development of the Rural Sector
2.   Performance under PIDER I
3.   Directly Productive Activities
a.   Development Credit
b.   Rural Industries
c.   Irrigation
d.   Livestock
e.   Soil and Water Conservation
f.   Forestry
4.1. Productive Support Activities
a.   Extension
b.   Agrarian  Reform
c.   Marketing/Nutrition
d.   Rural Electrification
e.   Feeder Roads
5.   Social Infrastructure
a.   Water Supply
b.   Education
c.   Self-Help
6.   Organization and Management
a.   The Organization and Management System of PIDER
b.   The Evaluation System of CIDER
7.   Financial Aspects
a.   Cost Estimates and Investment Phasing
b.   Disbursement Estimates
c.   Fiscal Burden and Cost Recovery
8.   Economic, Financial and Technical Analysis
a.   Agricultural Yields and Technical Specifications
b.   Marketing of Project Output
c.   Economic and Financial Analysis
MAP
IBRD 12783 Rural Development Project - PIDER II



MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
SUMMARY
i.        Mexico has requested further Bank support for its ongoing national
rural development program (PIDER). PIDER, established in 1973, is one of a
number of Mexican efforts to raise incomes and improve living standards of
its rural poor. To date about US$471 million has been invested through PIDER
in 86 micro-regions 1/, about 1.8% of the total public investment budget dur-
ing this period. A further US$700 million is programmed for the 1977-1982
period making the total investment about US$1.2 billion over the full 1973-
1982 period. A considerable number of the approximately 4 million persons
who live in these regions have already benefited directly or indirectly from
PIDER investments. The Bank PIDER I Project (Loan 1110-ME) provides US$110
million in support of development programs in 30 micro-regions; an IDB loan
provides US$40 million in support of a further 15 micro-regions. Disburse-
ments from these loans financed the equivalent of about 12% of the PIDER
budget in 1975 and 1976. The second Bank loan now proposed would raise the
level of external support to the PIDER program to about 25% over the 1977-
1979 period.
ii.       PIDER was initiated as part of a wider Mexican effort to address
the economic imbalances created during the past decades. Mexican agricul-
ture achieved a 4% annual rate of growth between 1940-1965 - among the high-
est in Latin America. Since 1967, however, the growth rate in agricultural
production has slowed markedly to about 1.8 percent per year. Even during the
period of rapid growth, the bulk of the rural population was little affected.
Most growth came from larger farmers, many with irrigated holdings, among whom
agricultural investment and services were largely concentrated. The productive
potential of smaller producers especially those farming rainfed plots in more
isolated areas, was largely ignored. The PIDER machinery was created to
integrate and expand government rural development activities to develop this
smaller producer potential. Actions under PIDER now encompass productive
infrastructure, credit, inputs, extension, all-weather roads, and marketing
facilities, together with education and other amenities, such as safe drinking
water supplies. The basis for investment programming is a micro-region plan.
Eighty six plans are currently being implemented, a number expected to increase
to 100 by the end of 1977.
iii.      PIDER has been instrumental in securing considerable institutional
change. A major accomplishment was the reform of the agriculture extension
service that PIDER succeeded in introducing in its micro-regions. This re-
form is now being institutionalized as a pilot program for the entire Mexican
extension service. Further institutional reforms include: strengthening of
the federal level Secretariat in which PIDER operates; decentralization of
resource control to the state level; improved inter-agency coordination at
1/   Micro-regions comprise an average of 50,000 persons located in two to
seven contiguous rural municipalities within a state. They are selected
using criteria that balance poverty levels (per capita incomes averaging
below US$100) with potential for income increasing productive activities.



- ii -
the local level; the creation of a professional evaluation agency (CIDER);
and the increasing participation of local communities in the investment
decision-making process. PIDER has also supported various technical inno-
vations designed for small farmer use including trickle irrigation systems
(with buckets), maize silage storage units, and small stock programs.
iv.       Despite PIDER's early success, there is scope for improvement.
PIDER management and staff are aware of the deficiencies and are taking
actions to remedy them. The Bank has established and maintained an effec-
tive dialogue on the PIDER program through project preparation of PIDER I
and PIDER II and through supervision of PIDER I. The proposed project
would strengthen the basis for this dialogue with the new Administration
and help introduce a number of further reforms in PIDER.
v.        The proposed project would help finance programmed investment and
associated requirements in some 20 micro-regions additional to those 30 whose
development is already supported under PIDER I. The programmed investments,
and the development plan for each micro-region, were prepared by PIDER for
Bank appraisal. The scope of the proposed project is in line with support
provided under PIDER I; however, a rural industry element has been added.
For institutional reasons, and poor performance under PIDER I, it is not
proposed to support investments in the rural health system under this PIDER
II project. The major part (70%) of the project would be channeled into
productive investments in livestock, irrigation, rural industries, fruit
production, soil and water conservation, and associated farm development
credit. Support would also be extended for the development of feeder roads,
markets, extension services, electrification, and farmer organization efforts
(20%). Investment in social infrastructure (9%) would include construction
of primary education facilities and drinking water facilities, and provide
materials for self-help projects on a local initiative basis. The Project
would also include evaluation and training of project management.
vi.       The project would be carried out by some 14 federal and state
agencies. At the Federal level, PIDER policy is developed and coordinated
through the Directorate of Promotion and Regional Operations of the Secretariat
of Programming and Budgeting (SPP). This Directorate is supported by a
Sub-Directorate for Rural Development (i.e., PIDER) with a staff of some
95 technicians responsible for: reviewing investment plans, management
operations, and investment monitoring. At the state level, coordination of
the PIDER program is handled by a Coordinating Committee consisting of the
state level directors of the participating agencies under the chairmanship of
the state governor. Management is the responsibility of the new state level
SPP representative who is the technical secretary of the State Committee. The
SPP representative is assisted by a technical secretariat of professionals
including a state level PIDER Coordinator and resident Coordinators for each
of the states' micro-regions who work closely with local elected officials and
community leaders.
vii.      Total costs of the project are estimated at US$255 million equiva-
lent, including US$46 million of foreign exchange component. The proposed
loan of US$120 million would finance the full foreign exchange costs plus
US$74 million in local currency, equivalent to 35% of local currency re-
quirements. International competitive bidding would be restricted to single



- iii -
contracts over US$250,000. Local competitive bidding, negotiated contracts
and force account would be applied for individual works below this amount in
accordance with established government procedures which are satisfactory.
viii.     The project would benefit areas with a total rural population
of about 1 million. Beneficiaries targeted for project support have family
incomes ranging from US$250 to US$750, placing them in the lower 50% in
the rural sector. Under the proposed project, about 46,000 farm families
would benefit from directly productive activities. Some 32,000 farmers
(190,000 people) would be expected to achieve a near doubling of income over a
period of eight years. The incomes of an additional 14,000 farmers benefiting
from the 34,000 ha to be irrigated would be expected to triple from present
levels at full development. Some 200,000 people would have access to improved
rural infrastructure; about 65,000 man-years of temporary employment and
30,000 permanent jobs would be created. Annual production increases resulting
from project investment have been estimated as follows: maize (200,000 tons),
beans (40,000 tons), beef (25,000 tons), honey (200 tons) and fruit and
vegetables (10,000 tons). About half of the increment of maize and bean
production would be consumed by the producers, the remainder being marketed
for internal consumption in Mexico. Typical village development models in
representative micro-regions show financial rates of return on directly
productive activities averaging 21%, varying from 11% to 33%. Economic rates
of return on productive investments average 24%, and from 13% to 36%. Social
infrastructure such as schools and drinking water would improve basic literacy
and health levels. Beneficiaries would contribute between 10% and 30% of
investment costs for the productive investments in cash, labor or kind, 15% to
drinking water supplies, and would meet all operation and maintenance costs.
Contributions would be made toward the cost of education facilities. In all,
some 39% of total project cost would be recovered from beneficiaries.
ix.       The project has risks.  First, while the estimated micro-region
rates of return embody reasonable expectations about outcomes, the caliber
of state and local leadership and staff involved under the program bears
importantly on these outcomes. This conclusion is based on PIDER I experi-
ence where results varied between regions. Second, after only two years of
experience since program inception, farmer response to the new technological
packages is still not definitive. In some micro-regions under the ongoing
program, response has exceeded expectations; in others not. Improved field
demonstration, closely tied with strengthened extension efforts, would help
improve farmer response rates and would be supported under the project now
proposed. These risks are substantially reduced, however, by strong management.
Experience to date indicates considerable PIDER management capability to
respond to problems and to take appropriate actions. Also, CIDER, the Rural
Development Research Center, will continue to undertake a substantial evaluation
effort. The Government has shown a high degree of flexibility in the execution
of the program.



- iv -
x.        The expanded PIDER program represents a reinforcement of Mexico's
commitment to raise levels of living among a relatively large number of
rural poor. Major new efforts towards increasing small farmer productivity
have been initiated, with PIDER taking the lead in generating improvements
in the key agencies dealing with the rural poor. The Government is expected
to continue this commitment to improving conditions of the rural poor through
PIDER and other rural development programs.



MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mexico continues to give priority to raising
the productive capacity of many of its 12 million rural poor (per capita
incomes less than US$100) who make up over 50% of the rural, and 20% of the
total population. Emphasis is being given to making investments in regions
where there are large numbers of small farmers and where sufficient productive
potential has been identified for raising farmer incomes. A program to
integrate and focus agency activity on specific micro-regions of rural poverty
is being implemented. This program, PIDER (Investment Program for Rural
Development), was initiated in 1973 and is now in operation in some 86 micro-
regions.
1.02      Early in PIDER's development (1973), the Government requested IBRD
support to the PIDER program. A loan for US$110 million was approved by the
Bank in May 1975 to assist activities in 30 micro-regions (PIDER I). 1/ The
Government has now requested a second loan to support activities in an addi-
tional 20 micro-regions (PIDER II). With this loan, a total of 65 micro-
regions would be receiving external assistance. The Government would continue
to provide the major resources required, however, as external support provided
by the IBRD and IDB covers only a small proportion of the PIDER program's
overall costs. PIDER's 1973-1976 total investment was US$471 million of which
external agencies provided US$30 million or 6%. For the 1977-1980 period,
with the Project, the external share in the overall PIDER program would rise
to about 25%. The IBRD share in the 1973-76 program was 5.7%. For 1977-1980,
with the proposed loan, it is projected at 20%.
1.03      Fourteen IBRD projects totalling US$904 million have been pre-
viously approved for agricultural and rural development projects; 35% of Bank
lending in Mexico. The bulk of these loans have been for the development of
irrigation and the provision of agricultural credit. Performance under these
projects with two exceptions has been satisfactory.
1/   The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is supporting the program in an
additional 15 micro-regions.



II. BACKGROUND
A.   Development of the Rural Sector
2.01      Mexico's efforts to develop its rural areas have featured two
major themes in recent decades: growth in agricultural production and con-
solidation of land reform efforts begun following the 1910 revolution. In the
period from 1940 to 1965, Mexican agricultural production more than tripled,
making its growth rate among the highest in Latin America. In addition, more
than half of all arable and pasture lands were distributed to previously
landless families. Income inequalities widened, however, as the economy was
unable to provide employment for the poorer sectors of the rural population,
particularly those living in rainfed agricultural areas. Since 1967, the
growth rate in agricultural production has slowed markedly to about 1.8% per
year despite a continuing increase in internal demand. Mexico has become a
major importer of milk powder and dairy stock and, over the last three years,
a net importer of basic grains, especially corn.
2.02      In 1973, when the last full survey was undertaken, the average family
income in Mexico was estimated at US$2,700. Over 50% of the rural, and 20%
of the total population, however, had incomes of less than US$500 per fam-
ily. 1/ At least one half of the agricultural labor force is now landless,
with many others having rights in ejidos 2/ too small to provide an adequate
living. 3/
2.03      In the early 1970s, the Government began to reassess its rural
growth and development strategies. As a result, government budgets were
re-programmed to provide substantial increases in allocations for technical
assistance, research, infrastructure and credit toward the rural sector.
Producer price incentives were also substantially increased.
1/   Government estimates that a minimum acceptable living standard for rural
families requires the equivalent of US$960 per family per year.
2/   The term is derived from the Spanish equivalent of the village common,
based on the concept that the land reform returned the usurped village
lands to their rightful owners - the farmers, called "ejidatarios".
3/   Government will not resolve the rural employment problems through PIDER
or related rural development programs. The potential for the expansion
of arable land is limited. Current estimates indicate that Mexico can
only increase its land under cultivation from the present 22 million ha.
to 30 million ha. (rainfed), and from 4 million ha. to 8 million ha.
(irrigated). Over the longer term, off-farm rural or ultimately urban
employment is required. The project includes a pilot program for rural
industrialization (para. 3.19).



- 3 -
2.04      The major efforts were undertaken by five groups:  (i) the Presi-
dent's office commissioned task forces to develop policies for achieving self-
sufficiency in basic grains and for investments to assist the rural poor.
These study groups were later institutionalized as major coordinating entities
(COCOSA and PIDER) within the office of the President; (ii) the Secretariat of
Public Works (SOP) began implementation of a nation-wide program of labor-
intensive feeder road construction in 1971. Five years later some 70,000
miles of roads had been constructed, giving temporary employment to some
190,000 rural persons; (iii) the Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources (SRH)
further extended its major program to develop the irrigation potential of
substantial numbers of small farmers. SRH developed new criteria and adapted
technologies for small scale irrigation; (iv) the Agrarian Reform Department
undertook a complete review of legislation affecting ejido farming and reviewed
its own procedures affecting the granting of titles. A new Agrarian law was
passed in 1971 and a new Secretariat of Agrarian Reform (SRA) was created in
1974; finally, (v) the Bank of Mexico, operating through its agricultural
credit agency, FIRA, following a study of credit systems oriented to small
farmers, promulgated new regulations to encourage the banking system to
intensify its actions with smaller farmers. Other agencies, such as CONASUPO
(food marketing) and CFE (Federal Electricity Commission) also reworked their
investment and operating criteria to increase their efforts in poorer rural
areas. In summary, creative talent in many agencies was released to focus on
the problems of rural development.
The PIDER Program
2.05      To coordinate and focus these efforts in the most needy areas, a
new rural development program was developed. Micro-regions 1/, with a high
concentration of the rural poor, were chosen and specific micro-regional plans
and investment programs prepared. A goal was set to develop 100 such regions,
and a capital expenditure of US$1.2 billion was programmed. By 1977, invest-
ment programs were being implemented in 86 micro-regions, and expenditure had
amounted to US$471 million; this represents about 1.8% of Mexico's public
investment budget during this period. These investments cover a variety of
activities, principally directly productive and productive support activities,
but also including social infrastructure. In total, some 6,500 communities,
representing some 4 million persons, are in regions already benefiting under
the program. Over the period 1977-1982 an additional US$700 million of public
investment is to be allocated to further develop the microregion program.
Some 5 million rural persons are expected to benefit when the program is
complete: about 25% of the rural population.
1/   Micro-regions comprise an average of 50,000 poor persons located in
two to seven contiguous rural municipalities within a state. They are
selected using criteria that balance poverty levels (per capita incomes
averaging below US$100) with potential for income increasing productive
activities.



- 4 -
2.06      PIDER has been instrumental in bringing about far reaching and much
needed institutional change. The implementation capacity of the many agen-
cies involved under PIDER was increased and activities were directed towards
improvement in the productivity and living conditions of the rural poor. The
program is now well known and is viewed as highly successful both at local and
federal governmental levels. Its continuation under the new Administration
is assured. Applications are pending from municipalities and states for the
creation of substantial numbers of additional micro-regions. PIDER, however,
has now embarked on a period of consolidation with expansion of micro-region
programs to be halted at the 100 micro-region level. As a result of PIDER,
for the first time inter-agency coordination is occurring at the local level;
both for PIDER and now also for the traditional agency programs. Control of
PIDER funds has been decentralized to the state level increasing flexibility
in program execution and making the program more responsive to local farmer
needs. The success of PIDER decentralization led the new administration in
early 1977 to decentralize control over the execution of most public invest-
ments. In addition, as a result of initial PIDER experiences, agencies have
undergone internal reorganization. For example, the reorganization of the
national extension service was initiated in response to PIDER efforts. PIDER
has been a vehicle for facilitating the testing and introduction of a variety
of new technical packages developed for small farmer applications including:
(i) the PRONDAAT 1/ extension system, now underway in 15 micro-regions; (ii)
improved farm storage, irrigation, pasture development and soil management
techniques in drier areas; and (iii) wider introduction of small stock,
especially rabbits, chickens, goats and beekeeping on project farms.
C.   Progress Under PIDER I
2.07      Assessments of PIDER I performance are interrelated with assess-
ments of the performance of the entire PIDER program. With few exceptions,
actions taken to improve on PIDER I micro-regions have been applied program-
wide. Similarly, improvements in program-wide actions directly affect the
PIDER I micro-regions. Moreover, the intent of the PIDER I Project was not
only to achieve success in the 30 PIDER I micro-regions; but also to bring
about improvements in the program as a whole.
2.08      Since loan signing in May 1975, three Bank supervision missions
have reported on project progress. These have deemed progress satisfactory,
though various factors external to the Project (elections, budget reduction,
devaluation) caused a slowdown in 1976. The perception of PIDER at both
community and governmental levels is positive and the program's role in the
new Administration is assured with a substantially increased budget from Mex$2
billion in 1976 to Mex$3.3 billion in 1977.
1/   PRONDAAT is a National Program for Development of Agriculture in
Rainfed areas.



- 5 -
2.09      Thus far, with project implementation only half completed, over
14,000 ha have been irrigated. Over 100 cattle and smallstock units have been
constructed including the establishment of 5,000 ha of improved pasture.
Additionally, some 220 beekeeping units have been provided. In the majority
of cattle units assisted through the project, additional pasture development
and infrastructure are being financed directly through credit - public expendi-
tures being limited to an initial pilot area of about 4 ha of pasture per
family. Over 1,700 km of feeder road have been constructed; 270 villages
electrified; and 260 villages provided with drinking water. Infrastructure
investments in many areas have provided considerable temporary rural employment
and in some cases have also resulted in substantial wage increases.
2.10      In general, it is too early to assess the full impact of the pro-
ject on farmer production and income; only two years of an estimated eight-
year period to full development have elapsed. In areas where the reformed
extension service (PRONDAAT) is in operation, production and income increases
are apparent and generally above appraisal estimates. In areas still served
by the traditional extension systems, progress is slower - in many cases the
PIDER supported services represent the first contacts small farmers have had
with technical assistance. However, these efforts - and the PIDER investments
they generate - are creating the basis for the organization of small farmers
to enable them to gain a greater share of the value of their production.
In a number of instances, farmgate prices and farmer incomes have substan-
tially increased following feeder road investments.
2.11      Despite early PIDER success, there is scope for further improve-
ment. The program has given primary attention to establishing new micro-region
programs and to implementing investments in these regions. Less attention has
been given to the participation of communities in the decision-making process,
and less still to the operation and maintenance of investments once construc-
tion is finished. Insufficient emphasis has been given to the marketing
aspects of the expected production increases resulting from PIDER investments,
especially for products other than the traditional corn and bean crops.
Credit made available through the banking sector needs to be better integrated
with PIDER investment activity.
2.12      PIDER and CIDER staff are aware of the deficiencies and recognize
that continued improvements in the organization and training of the extension
and agrarian reform staff are needed to achieve full use of PIDER-financed
physical investment. Important changes are being made in the operations of
both SRA and SAG Extension, the principal groups responsible. Allocations
to these agencies are now contingent on PIDER approved annual work programs
and projections of expected results. CIDER has also recommended that commit-
ments be made by community beneficiaries for the operation of both production
and social infrastructure investments prior to construction. CIDER insists
that the root cause of poor operation and maintenance is the lack of small
farmer participation in the early stages of programming. They also insist on



- 6 -
the need for formal participation of FIRA in PIDER programming and execution
to ensure the availability of credit for the operation and expansion of
productive investments.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   General
3.01      The principal project objective is to reinforce PIDER efforts to
raise income, production and employment levels of the rural poor living in 20
selected micro-regions. 1/ The project would also improve social services and
facilities for persons living in these regions.
3.02      Under the project, attention would focus on reforms which affect
the PIDER program as a whole, including: (i) increasing effectiveness of
extension, credit and farmer organization services; (ii) improving the
operation and maintenance of existing infrastructure; (iii) strengthening
PIDER capability to address specific sectoral issues; and (iv) providing
resources for feasibility studies for productive investments and evaluation
services. In addition, as compared with the first PIDER project, the pro-
posed project would include a larger portion of directly productive invest-
ments, a rural industries component would be included, and soil conservation
efforts would be strengthened.
3.03      Micro-region Selection Criteria and Programming.  For selection and
support under the Project, micro-regions are required to be poor, have produc-
tive potential, and lack basic infrastructure for exploiting this potential.
PIDER uses various threshold levels involving population density, poverty,
unemployment, and productive potential in the selection process. Selection
of the 20 micro-regions to receive Bank support was based on a number of
factors including: the quality of the micro-region investment program (i.e.
the nature and composition of the programmed investments); quality of micro-
region staffing and organization; the potential for innovative yet replicable
programs within and between micro-regions; and the expectation of acceptable
economic returns to investments.
1/   PIDER started operations in 17 of these regions during 1975 and 1976.
Three are being started in 1977. None have received external financial
support to date. All were reprogrammed or programmed in 1976 to qualify
for such support.



-7-
3.04      The micro-region plans involve inputs from local and federal tech-
nicians and from the local communities. Detailed baseline surveys are under-
taken by agency staff involving socio-economic data, technical data and
surveys of resources and existing infrastructure. During visits to the
village communities, the relevant data are checked and refined. At the same
time PIDER objectives and strategies are explained and local priorities
established. The investment program is then assessed through analyses of need
(income, employment, and basic services) and available resources, both human
and natural (e.g. existence of groundwater, soils, etc.). After review,
the village programs are aggregated to form the micro-region development
program.
3.05      A number of improvements in programming methodology have been
made with CIDER assistance during the first PIDER project. CIDER is now
training PIDER field teams in a revised programming methodology which gives
more local control to determining the annual investment programs. As part
of PIDER II, more frequent reprogramming of micro-region plans would be
undertaken and additional emphasis given to detailed project feasibility
studies.
B.   Brief Description
a.   Directly Productive Investments (70%)
3.06      The project would intensify support for infrastructure for livestock
units (including smallstock development), small-scale irrigation, soil and
water conservation, fruit production, forestry and fisheries development, and
rural industries; and through development credit support to on-farm develop-
ment, especially relating to livestock, fruit production and irrigation
investments.
b.   Productive Support Investments (20%)
3.07      Investments are included to reinforce improvements in the agrarian
reform and extension services (including field demonstration plot develop-
ment), marketing, store construction and electrification. The project would
also support funds for feasibility studies for further project development.
c.   Social Infrastructure (9%)
3.08      Improved drinking water supplies, materials for self-help village
improvement projects and construction of primary schools would be provided.
d.   Evaluation (.4%)
3.09      The activities of CIDER would be supported.  CIDER would carry out
inter alia project-related evaluation, field research, and field staff train-
ing.



-8-
C.   Detailed Features
1.   Directly Productive Activities
3.10      Irrigation (16%).  Currently, some 50% of Mexico's crop production
and between 90-95% of such basic food crops as wheat, soybeans and tomatoes
depend on irrigation. About 60% of total public agricultural investment has
been allocated to irrigation.
3.11      The project would develop 34,000 ha of irrigated land at an average
cost of US$1,400 per ha (see Annex 3c) and would directly benefit some 14,000
families. Construction would be carried out mainly by SARH, using the special-
ized OHDR (Rural Development Irrigation Works) Department. The principal
activities to be supported include small dam construction, tubewells, pumps,
and distribution facilities. In some cases, existing facilities are to be
rehabilitated, old gas engines replaced by electric powered pumps following
village electrification, and earth canals lined with concrete for improved
water efficiency.
3.12      Prior to construction, technical and socio-economic feasibility
studies would be carried out for each proposed irrigation project in accord
with existing SARH guidelines, which are acceptable. Assurances that these
procedures would continue to be followed by SARH would be sought at nego-
tiations.
3.13      Under PIDER I, irrigation investment criteria were developed to
avoid expensive investments and to ensure an equitable distribution of project
benefits. For small irrigation projects up to 25 ha., investment was limited
to the peso equivalent of US$4,000 per family with total project costs not to
exceed the equivalent of US$32,000 with a minimum of eight family benefici-
aries. The average investment cost for irrigation under PIDER I was US$3,600
per family (equivalent to US$1,200 per ha with an average hectarage per family
of three hectares).
3.14      Under the project a total cost ceiling of US$32,000 would be con-
tinued for small-scale irrigation projects of 25 ha or less - and a US$5,000
equivalent per family limit would be imposed. For all projects a per ha
cost ceiling of US$2,500 equivalent would be introduced. Eligibility would
be limited to families with pre-project net agricultural incomes not to
exceed the equivalent of US$2,500. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions on these limits.
3.15      Maintenance would be the responsibility of investment beneficiaries
who are organized in "irrigation units" and assisted by SARH. Government
would generally recover about 10% of the investment cost of irrigation works;
and where reasonable based on beneficiary repayment capacity, Government would
seek to recover additional amounts of the investment cost: cost of pumps and
pipes, for example, would be recovered through credit.



- 9 -
3.16      Farm Development Credit (24%).  Increased lending to small farmers
has been supported under the Bank's fourth and fifth credit loans. Both
public (BANRURAL) and private banks have made loans to small farmers under
the criteria established by FIRA, and supported by the Bank. Under the
first PIDER loan these same criteria were followed. Credit was provided to
the micro-regions supported by the loan; it was not, however, restricted to
supporting infrastructure investments made by PIDER. This policy would be
continued under the proposed project. While the number of small farmers
receiving credit has substantially increased over the last four years (from
20,000 to 80,000), over 75% of Mexico's small farmers are still without access
to institutional seasonal or investment credit.
3.17      Under PIDER I, the performance of the credit component was adversely
affected by the poor coordination between PIDER and FIRA offices. FIRA was
not formally included in the monthly state-level PIDER meetings and felt
itself only a marginal participant in the program. PIDER staff saw credit as
important but not their responsibility and thus not directly related to the
PIDER program. Bank supervision missions brought both groups together on
various occasions in attempts to bring about a better mutual understanding
between the groups. Considerable progress was eventually made and, as a
result of the first PIDER loan, investment agency and bank coordination
was begun at the state level. Increasingly, PIDER has been adopting FIRA
investment criteria in the programming of on-farm directly productive invest-
ments, such as livestock projects. PIDER field staff now find such coordina-
tion indispensable for the proper operation of the program and are insisting
on the formal participation of the FIRA at the state and local levels to
ensure that investments programmed and implemented by PIDER meet FIRA criteria
for additional financing. A formal agreement, defining the obligations and
responsibilities of each group, has now been signed between PIDER and FIRA
which provides inter alia for: (i) mechanisms for formal coordination includ-
ing periodic meetings, information exchange, integration of FIRA into the
State Committees; (ii) procedures for resolving intergroup disputes regarding
investment criteria; and (iii) arrangements for training PIDER staff on FIRA
regulations and procedures. Seasonal production credit (currently at 14%
interest) would be provided under the project from existing credit lines,
but would not be reimbursable from the proposed loan.
3.18      Development credit reimbursable from the proposed loan would be used
primarily for livestock and for land leveling and associated investments
needed to support new irrigation works. Interest rate and re-discounting
arrangements would correspond to those applicable to low-income producers
under other Bank loans through BANXICO for agricultural credit. Repayments of
principal will range from 3 to 15 years and will include grace periods of I to
3 years with FIRA rediscounting no more than 90% of the original credit
amount. Interest and rediscount rates would be as follows:



- 10 -
Rediscount            Interest
Rates to Partici-    Rates to
pating Banks          Beneficiaries
Private    Public
(i) Loans to beneficiaries
receiving institutional
credit for the first           6.50%       7.50%       9.50%
time and whose net
annual family income
does not exceed 250
times the daily
minimum rural wage for
the regions where they
are located
(ii) Loans to other low
income procedures
in Project micro-              8.00%      9.00%       11.00%
regions.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained on these arrangements.
3.19      Rural Industries (7%).  The project would provide about US$14.0
million in support of the development of rural industries. Because this
represents a new component, not available under PIDER I, the funds would
be available for projects both in the 20 micro-regions financed under the
proposed project and in the 30 micro-regions supported under PIDER I (Annex
3b). About 86% of the amount would be used for financing investment through
the banks and through Government agencies. The remaining 14% would finance
technical assistance for rural industry development including financing of
feasibility studies, specialized agency staff and training. The basic
strategy would be to: (i) develop industries for exploitation of natural
resources of the micro-region in order to strengthen small-farm and ejido
production; and (ii) to finance small-scale village industry to serve local
markets and to provide employment at low cost by utilizing intermediate
technology. The strategy would support the new Government's policy for the
development of rural industries. The project would finance:
(a)  Development credit for about 50 rural industries located within
the micro-regions and owned by ejidatarios and small farmers.
Credit granted by official bank or the private banks would be
eligible for re-discounting by FIRA at the same terms as
estabished under the low-income producers component of the
Fifth Agriculture Credit Project to Mexico.



- 11 -
(b)  Investments in about 300 small scale, labor intensive
rural industries (village industries). Such investments
would be limited to US$35,000 equivalent per enterprise.
Government is preparing a plan, to be submitted to the
Bank before June 30, 1978, for village industries
specifying agencies and eligibility criteria.
(c)  Technical assistance to identify, prepare and assist
rural industries as well as to train staff of partici-
pating agencies or institutions. Technical assistance
would comprise:
(i) expansion of technical staff and training programs for
technical staff in participating agencies;and
(ii) financing for preparation of rural industry projects
in the micro-regions and for assistance to already
established enterprises.
3.20      Livestock Development (8%).  The project would support livestock
development on some 500 ejidos. Under PIDER I, in 1975 and 1976, some 250
ejidos received livestock investments with an estimated 8,000 persons likely
to benefit. The strategy was to provide a small pilot livestock unit (300
ha or about 4 ha per family) with a minimum technical package involving land
clearing, an improved pasture, minimum fencing, and a simple dip and corral.
All cattle, and any expansion beyond the pilot infrastructure package, had
to be financed by development credit. Most projects were organized on a
semi-collective basis, enabling many ejido members to benefit from the in-
vestment. In many areas the success of the initial PIDER investments stimu-
lated an expansion of the pilot units to much larger areas of the ejido,
financed solely through medium-term development credit. Beef cattle devel-
opment would continue to receive the major share of investment support under
the Project: dairying, sheep and goat raising, and pork units would also be
continued.
3.21      Under PIDER II a modified approach would be adopted under which
FIRA staff would review the viability of sub-projects and provide development
credit for the expanded unit from the outset. This approach has the advantages
(a) that credit is tied to the project from the beginning, thus serving to
increase beneficiary interest and commitment while assuming higher standards
of technical appraisal and (b) the scope of the program would be expanded,
since in some cases an expanded unit would be viable where a pilot unit would
not be.
3.22      Soil and Water Conservation (5%).  The project would support the
construction of soil and water conservation works using labor intensive



- 12 -
methods. The equivalent of US$10.4 million has been budgeted for a three
year period for conservation, sufficient to cover some 80,000 ha.
3.23      Under PIDER I, some 24,000 ha were improved at an average per
ha cost of US$130, with per ha costs varying from US$110 in Nuevo Leon to
US$180 in Oaxaca, depending on slope and erosion severity. This represents
some 40% of all soil and water conservation efforts in Mexico equivalent
to an annual average of US$3.2 million over the 1974-1976 period (see Annex
3e). Since the economic return from terracing partly eroded hills is much
greater than from erosion control on already seriously deteriorated land, the
program would concentrate on improving partly eroded slopes with simple
contouring and terracing rather than restoring totally eroded slopes.
3.24      To improve the program, assurances were obtained during negotiations
that (i) conservation works in Bank supported micro-regions would focus on
labor intensive improvement of partly eroded slopes rather than machine
restoration of fully eroded hills; and (ii) technical and economic conservation
plans would be prepared prior to construction.
3.25      Fruit, Forestry, and Fishery Production (4%).  Some US$9.2 million
are budgeted for fruit production. As in the livestock development compo-
nent, the strategy would be to provide farmers with a small pilot technical
package (2 ha per family) which would include land clearing, provision of
trees, fertilizer, sprayer and technical assistance from CONAFRUT. 1/ The
expectation is that the success of the initial investment would spur the
farmer to expand operations which would then be financed by credit.
3.26      The project would provide support to the development of orchard
infrastructure and fruit tree planting on some 7,500 ha. Under the Project,
CONAFRUT would be responsible for farmer demonstration, nursery development,
orchard preparation, plant distribution and technical extension. The types
of fruit production supported under the Project vary according to ecological
areas, ranging from apples in Nuevo Leon to avocadoes in Oaxaca.
3.27      The project would also support limited investments in beekeeping,
forestry, and fishery development. Beekeeping is a labor-intensive activ-
ity carried on by small farmers in many parts of Mexico. Under the project,
1/   The National Commission for Fruit Production (CONAFRUT) is an auto-
nomous agency operating under SARH charged with developing fruit pro-
duction in rural Mexico.



- 13 -
hive improvement and expansion, honey gathering equipment, and fencing would
be provided. Reforestation and afforestation investments on selected ejidos
would also be supported, especially where ejidos have already established
small sawmills. In one micro-region, fishery infrastructure in the form of
cold storage facilities would be assisted. SARH would be responsible for
supervising forestation and maintenance of fishery cold stores. Beekeeping
activities would be the responsibility of INI and SARH.
3.28      Feasibility Studies (2%).  The project would also include a new
component for feasibility studies for micro-region productive investments.
Currently, PIDER only supports studies by SARH. There is a need to undertake
more complex studies not only for irrigation feasibility work, but for the
identification and detailed preparation of productive projects in such areas
as livestock, fisheries, and forestry. Under PIDER II, funds would be provided
to initiate project feasibility work to be undertaken by either private
consultants or government agencies. Individual studies up to US$15,000 would
be contracted at the discretion of the state level SPP representative, while
studies over US$15,000 would be subject to the approval of the PIDER Director
in Mexico City. A total of US$3.6 million is provided - sufficient for an
average of 10 studies per micro-region. Assurances on feasibility study cost
approval limits were obtained from government during negotiations.
2.   Productive Support Activities
3.29      Feeder Roads (7%).  The project would continue support to the
innovative labor-intensive feeder road program of the Secretariat of Public
Works and Human Settlements (SAHOP, ex-SOP).  Under the project, the Bank
would provide about $15.9 million toward the construction of approximately
2,000 kilometers of all-weather roads. These are estimated to cost about
US$8,700/Km with unskilled labor accounting for an average of 60% of con-
structisn costs. Equipment is generally used where earth movement exceeds
4,000 m per km. of new feeder road. Roads are constructed to all-weather
standards, to an average width of 7 m and with drainage ditches on each side.
Rural communities would continue to play the major role in both construction
and maintenance (see Annex 4-e).
3.30      SOP directed a nation-wide feeder road program since 1970 and has
established an organization for dealing with the construction, maintenance,
and evaluation of rural roads. So far, it has supervised the construction
of 73,000 kilometers of rural roads which link 7,000 communities and over
6 million people to the national road network. In addition, SOP made road
construction and maintenance a focus for community organization.
3.31      The cost of the nation-wide rural road program from 1970 to 1976
has totaled about US$425 million and the average cost per kilometer about
US$6,000. Unskilled labor averaged about 60% of the direct construction costs
and the program provided seasonal employment for an average of 55,000 workers
per year. SAHOP monitors the costs of its program, uses-labor-intensive tech-
niques when appropriate, and trains its staff to play an active role in rural
development efforts.



- 14 -
3.32      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government
that adequate arrangements be continued for maintenance, that labor intensive
techniques be continued where technically and economically appropriate, and
that construction be scheduled to minimize conflict with agricultural tasks.
3.33      Extension Services (5%).  Under PIDER I a major effort was made
to improve the effectiveness of the extension services operating in PIDER
micro-regions. While improvements have increased the effectiveness of the
extension service, neither PIDER nor the Bank have been satisfied with exten-
sion operations. Through PIDER, the Secretary of Agriculture recognized
officially that substantial improvements were required -- something no prior
administration has been willing to accept. In a new "operational plan" 1/
finally approved by the Bank in October 1975, the government made a commitment
to extend the PRONDAAT 2/ extension system to all Bank supported micro-regions.
Progress, however, has been slow in extending the reforms in the extension
services.
3.34      In the early months of the new administration, considerable atten-
tion was given to re-organizing the extension services. With the consolida-
tion of the Secretariat of Water Resources and the Secretariat of Agriculture,
all extension services in each Secretariat were brought under a national
Director General for Extension. Two major departments were created, one to
service the extension needs of farmers in rainfed areas, the second to service
the farmers with irrigated lands. This administrative change represents a
radical change from the previously fragmented and ill-organized extension
services available to Mexican farmers.
3.35      PIDER has funded a major expansion in the rainfed extension service.
Some 1400 professionals are now being supported (Annex 4-a) - nearly half of
all personal working for the consolidated Department of Rainfed Extension.
PIDER management, early in the new Administration, drafted a far-reaching
agreement 3/ to initiate improvements in micro-region extension activities.
1/   This Operational Plan was submitted to the Bank in November 1975 as a
condition for declaring the PIDER I loan effective.
2/   PRONDAAT is a new system of extension derived from the lessons of the
well-known Plan Puebla program. Unlike traditional extension programs
in Mexico, PRONDAAT field staff support an intensive program of adaptive
research and evaluation designed to produce technical packages for basic
grain crops appropriate for the ecological conditions of each micro-
region. The new system emphasizes diagnosis, applied research, appli-
cation and evaluation of results on the farmers' own plots (see Annex
4-a). This system has already proved successful in a number of pilot
micro-regions.
3/   A formal agreement between the SPP (for PIDER) and the SARH was signed at
the Under-Secretary level.



- 15 -
Under this agreement, PIDER will not finance any extension work in PIDER
micro-regions unless extension workers are closely supervised and work to a
monthly schedule of training and visits (using essentially similar procedures
to those that are working well in Bank projects in India and Turkey). PIDER
has appointed a senior professional to supervise the execution of this agree-
ment.
3.36      To support PIDER efforts to carry out these changes, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that PRONDAAT operations be put into effect in
the 20 micro-regions supported under PIDER II no later than December 31,
1980.
3.37      Farmer Organization (3%).  Support for the expansion of farmer
organization and agrarian reform (SRA) activities in the project areas was
provided under PIDER I for: (a) organizational and development assistance;
and (b) resolution of land tenure conflicts. PIDER supported the establish-
ment of SRA teams to orient communities to development opportunities, to re-
organize ejido committees, and to ensure participation in a jointly agreed
development program. A close liaison was to be maintained with agency staff,
especially extension staff, to ensure farmer awareness of government services
and of farmer obligations during the implementation of the micro-region
development programs. The resolution of land tenure issues, a prerequisite
for the provision of both short-and long-term credit, was also considered an
important development activity.
3.38      In most micro-regions, however, the more politically urgent land
tenure issues often took precedence over the organizational activities espe-
cially in such states as Sinaloa. In December, 1975 there was a reorganiza-
tion of SRA which reduced the effectiveness of the ejido development branch
of the department. PIDER has now signed an operational agreement with the
new head of SRA which spells out the conditions under which PIDER would
continue to fund the activities of SRA organizational staff in PIDER micro-
regions. This agreement outlines the priority areas of assistance SRA needs
to provide PIDER investment recipients, both prior to investment and follow-
up, and also specifies procedures that SRA micro-region staff would need to
follow.
3.39      Rural Marketing/Nutrition.  In recent years CONASUPO has devel-
oped an improved capability for expanding and servicing its network of
rural stores and warehouses. In rural areas it pursues two basic activi-
ties: one involves buying the grain surpluses of small farmers at fixed
prices, (generally favorable relative to other market outlets); the other
provides a line of basic products to rural consumers, most of whom are
poor, at prices about 25% below those charged by the limited private mar-
keting network in rural areas. These basic products include essential
foods such as corn, beans, sugar, and cooking oil as well as nonfood items



- 16 -
such as soap, candles, aspirin, and tissues. While CONASUPO's procurement
activities have worked fairly well, its marketing of basic goods in rural
areas has suffered from a tendency to stock items suitable for urban con-
sumers. Recognizing this, CONASUPO has now organized a basic staple prod-
uct line with a better distribution system. Known as the basic staple pro-
gram, it includes only corn, beans, cooking oil, rice, and sugar. By 1975,
this program involved 5200 distribution points with sales of nearly Mex $500
million (Annex 4-e).
3.40      Under the Project, rural marketing would be developed within the
PIDER II regions so that better prices and more and higher quality food
would be made available to the rural poor. The project would support
CONASUPO activities in purchasing (warehouses) and sales (stores).
3.41      Rural Electrification (3%).  The project would bring electricity
to some 131,000 rural people living in 300 villages at a total cost of US$7.3
million (Annex 4-d). 30% of the demand is estimated to be associated with
directly productive investments, and the rest with improving the living
standards of the population. The average cost of village electrification
is estimated at US$60 per beneficiary. CFE builds, operates, and maintains
electricity generation and distribution facilities throughout Mexico and
is implementing a national six-year plan for rural electrification involv-
ing connection of villages to the existing grid. This program is now more
than 50% completed. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
installation costs would not exceed US$150 per person, and that villagers
would pay installation charges and rates for the sale of electricity as are
generally applied in Mexico which include the full cost of operation and
maintenance.
3.   Social Infrastructure
3.42      Village/Eiido-Level Educational Facilities (2%).  The Project
would improve education opportunities by renovating, constructing and fur-
nishing 1,500 primary level classrooms accommodating some 60,000 students.
New construction of each classroom would cost about US$4,800 including
furniture (Annex 5-b). CAPFCE (the school construction agency) has estab-
lished a sound system of rural school siting and construction, choosing
low cost building designs and methods, and coordinating closely with the
Ministry of Education to ensure staffing arrangements. Siting and con-
struction would continue to be closely coordinated with the Ministry of
Education to ensure adequate provision of teaching materials and staff.
In carrying out the program, CAPFCE requires benefiting ejidos and vil-
lages to provide a free site and encourages local contribution of building
materials and teacher housing. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that these facilities would be adequately staffed and maintained by the
Government.



- 17 -
3.43      Rural Water Supply (5%).  The project would provide rural water
systems for approximtely 214,000 persons at an average cost of US$45 per
person (Annex 5-a). In the past both SSA and SRH provided rural water sys-
tems, with SSA concentrating on smaller villages and SRH on larger towns.
Both agencies were also responsible for operation and maintenance. In early
1977, the new government re-allocated all rural water supply responsibilities
to the Secretariat of Public Works and Human Settlements (SAHOP). Since the
Secretariat has successfully carried out the feeder road component, there
is the expectation that major improvements in the provision of village water
supply systems will also be achieved. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that a minimum contribution of cash, labor or materials of 15%
to investment costs during construction be made by villagers, that full
payment for operation and maintenance costs be obtained, and finally that
there be a limit, except with IBRD approval, on government's share of system
costs of US$100 per person benefited.
3.44      Self-Help (2%).  PIDER has supported a number of efforts at self-
help in its micro-regions. From 1974 to 1976, some 200,000 persons have
contributed labor and local materials for the improvement of village streets,
plazas, workshops, latrines and homes. The Agencies involved, mainly SSA,
SOP and INI, supplied technical assistance, organizational help and materials
not locally available. A program ceiling of the equivalent of US$40 per ben-
eficiary was established under the first PIDER Project. The self-help pro-
gram has proved so popular that program funds have already been exhausted.
Two problems of the first phase were: (i) insufficient emphasis on latrine
and workshop construction; and (ii) overly strict eligibility criteria which
required that villages have basic water, electricity and road transport.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that eligibility criteria would
be relaxed to include villages without potable water and electricity, and that
a maximum equivalent to US$40 of materials per beneficiary would continue to
apply.
Health
3.45      Under PIDER I the Bank was reluctant to include financing for
health services infrastructure because of weaknesses in the organizational
arrangements for rural health services delivery. Financing for such facili-
ties was included only after commitments were made by the Mexican Government
to seek alternatives to the current provision of rural health services. A
verbal commitment was made to establish pilot health programs in three of the
thirty PIDER I micro-regions; and a written commitment was made to establish
a work group to study and define alternatives for health services provision
in PIDER micro-regions.
3.46      Under PIDER I, neither of the commitments was carried out.  The
programmed infrastructure was constructed generally in accord with expecta-
tions. In a few cases mobile health units were established and are working
well. In most cases, however, the health posts and centers are not providing
appropriate, cost-effective health services.



- 18 -
3.47      As a result, no funds are recommended under PIDER II.  Attempts to
introduce reforms in the rural health system will, however, continue through
the supervision of PIDER I and possibly through the Family Planning Project
currently proposed.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      Much of PIDER's early success can be attributed to its innovative
organizational approach which stresses both strong coordination of budgetary
authority, and monitoring at the top level and active planning and participa-
tion at the state and local level. Coordination is critical
since 14 agencies 1/ are involved in the program with 2,700 PIDER-paid pro-
fessionals working full-time in the execution of the PIDER program throughout
the country. Most of these are deployed either at the state or local level.
At the local level they are generally employees of the executing agencies,
carrying out specific tasks as part of a PIDER micro-region development plan.
At the top level, there is a core staff of 95 PIDER employees, within the
Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting (SPP). SPP was created under the
new administration in December 1976 as successor to the Secretariat of the
Presidency. SPP has authority over the public budget and control over in-
vestment planning and monitoring. Under the new arrangement, PIDER will
now report to the SPP Director of Promotion and Regional Operations instead of
to the Director for Public Investment. This should strengthen the operating
efficiency of PIDER.
4.02      During 1977, the new administration is moving to create a new
structure to execute federal programs at the state level. A senior SPP
official is now assigned to each state with full authority over federal
spending in his state. As the highest ranking federal civil servant at the
state level, he reports directly to the SPP Secretary in Mexico City. In
addition to planning federal expenditures, the job entails full authority to
reallocate money and to authorize payments at the state level. The creation
of this new position should facilitate coordination between PIDER and the
normal operating and investment program funded from federal sources.
A.   Organizational Levels
4.03      PIDER operates at the federal, state and local levels as follows:
1/   Federal institutions participating at the federal and state levels in-
clude: Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources, Finance, Public
Works and Human Settlements, Health, and Agrarian Reform; in addition to
the Federal Electric Commission, National Corporation for Basic Marketing,
Committee for Administration of the Federal School Construction Program,
National Arid Zones Commission, National Indigenous Institute, National
Institute for Rural Community Development and Low Cost Housing, and the
BANRURAL.



- 19 -
Federal Level. PIDER policy is developed and coordinated through
the Directorate of Promotion and Regional Operations of the SPP. This Direc-
torate is supported by a Sub-Directorate of Rural Development (i.e., PIDER)
with a staff of some 95 technicians responsible for: reviewing investment
plans, management operations, and investment monitoring.
State Level. Coordination of the program is handled by a Coordina-
ting Committee consisting of the state level directors of the participating
agencies under the chairmanship of the state governor. Actual management is
the responsibility of the new state level SPP representative who is the
technical secretary of the State Committee. The SPP representative is assisted
by a technical secretariat of professionals includng a state level PIDER
coordinator and resident Coordinators for each of the states, micro-regions
who work closely with local elected officials and community leaders.
Village/Ejido Level. Local participation, essential to the imple-
mentation of PIDER investments, is achieved through a variety of schemes
which depend on the political, social and administrative characteristics
of the sector and micro-region. In some cases such programs as feeder roads
or small irrigation works have served to launch permanent village committees
which then undertake additional PIDER activities. As a rule, SRA field
personnel take the lead in organizing communities at the start, involving
municipal chiefs, ejido presidents, teachers, or other appropriate persons.
These local leaders in turn generate community participation as well as pro-
vide an independent information link to the state-level technical secretariat.
4.04      Since the start of PIDER in 1973, major improvements have been made
in PIDER organization and management. A PIDER headquarter reorganization
was implemented in early 1976 which has led to an improved integration of
the planning, programming and supervisory functions. The new organizational
structure has two regional Departments, North and South, which combine the
former Departments of Studies and Supervision. A major change was the crea-
tion of a Special Studies Division through which PIDER will attempt to under-
take a much closer review of the criteria used by the 14 PIDER supported
executing agencies. An Authorization and Control Department is in charge
of budgeting, budget control and monitoring. Under the Deputy Manager (Co-
ordinator), special units were established for the IDB and IBRD projects.
4.05      The system described has worked satisfactorily and without undue
inter-agency friction. There are, however, areas that require improvement.
(i) Functional Staff. The total number of staff in PIDER
headquarters has now reached 95, with 40 supervisors
in the Regional Departments and 55 Administrative/
managerial staff. An attempt has been made to form
inter-disciplinary teams for each of the sub-regions,
but the teams comprise mainly civil engineers and
economists. PIDER is short of functional expertise in
agriculture and rural industries. This would not be
serious if PIDER's role could be limited to overall
micro-region programming, supervision, and monitoring.
However, PIDER experience indicates that such a role is too



- 20 -
limited. PIDER involvement in the review of rural develop-
ment policies and investment criteria of the line agencies,
particularly the weaker ones, is imperative. PIDER's
management has recognized this and has now taken action.
For the proposed PIDER II project, PIDER would appoint staff
for its new Special Studies Division withi sector and project
appraisal capability especially in the agricultural and
rural industry sectors to undertake this line agency review
process when assessing agency investment requests.
(ii) Need for Resident PIDER Coordinators in Micro-Regions.
There are resident PIDER staff in only 15% of PIDER
micro-regions while in the other 85% the coordinator
lives in the state capital and periodically visits the
regions. Those micro-regions with resident coordinators
have better records both in coordination of investments
and of operations since the coordinators take the ini-
tiative in advising on re-programming, in generating
local understanding of the PIDER approach, in super-
vising line agency operations, and in insisting on proper
operation and maintenance of completed investments. The
resident PIDER coordinator has become an effective locally-
based "change agent", whereas those who only visit the
micro-regions normally only perform monitoring functions.
It it is now PIDER policy for all micro-regions to have
PIDER appointed resident staff managers.
(iii) Staff Training. PIDER management has given insuffic-
ient priority to organizing training courses for the
three groups of staff employed under the PIDER program:
the State PIDER Directors, the State and micro-region
PIDER coordinating staff, and the persons paid directly
by PIDER in the 14 agencies working full-time in PIDER
micro-regions. PIDER recently submitted to the Bank for
review a detailed program for multi-tiered training for all
PIDER Personnel involved in executing the PIDER program.
(iv) Operation and Maintenance. PIDER has not made adequate
provision to guarantee proper maintenance of its in-
vestments. Once an agency completes a project such
as an erosion control work, a domestic water supply
installation, or an irrigation work, it turns the in-
stallation over to local committees representing program
beneficiaries for operation and maintenance. Provision for
continuing supervision after investment completion and
arrangements with beneficiary groups have been inadequate.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that new
investment commitments for individual projects would
include written agreements with beneficiaries to provide
adequate operation and maintenance arrangements.



- 21 -
(v) Reprogramming. PIDER does not have a policy for the
re-programming of its four-year micro-region plans.
Annual investment authorizations are prepared, but where
major changes occur during this process, the implications
for the overall micro-region program are not fully assessed.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
annual investment programs would be agreed upon by the Bank.
B.   Evaluation
4.06      The evaluation of PIDER luis been carried out by CIDER.  With 22
professionals, CIDER's main task is to evaluate the impact of current programs
of rural development and to develop policy recsmmendations for future efforts.
Its main focus is on PIDER, though CIDER has reviewed other rural develop-
ment programs. CIDER's other principal task is to develop rural development
training programs for PIDER federal and state level staff. CIDER began this
training in late 1976 with six regional review seminars for PIDER field staff.
4.07      CIDER, firanced through the Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
(as is PIDER), has institutional autonomy from PIDER management and freedom in
the choice of research topics. The CIDER director reports to the Secretariat
of the Programming and Budgeting and to a CIDER board comprising various Sec-
retaries. PIDER is not represented on the Board. CIDER also has an advisory
council for methodology and research design.
4.08      CIDER does not undertake on-going program monitoring, which is
done by PIDER. Instead, CIDER is geared towards the evaluation of specific
aspects of the PIDER program. CIDER has placed much emphasis on public
administrative and sociological aspects of public investment. During
supervision missions, Bank staff have urged CIDER to increase its efforts
to assess the agronomic impacts of PIDER investments and services as they
affect farmer yields and farmer income. The non-economic evaluations are
of great interest, and should be encouraged. CIDER should however strike
a better balance in its evaluation program between the economic and non-
economic aspects of the program.
4.09      Various deficiencies and problems in PIDER activities were detected
in initial CIDER evaluations. Th-e basic cauise was generally attributed to
weaknesses in the origiiial village program and programming process. Rather
than passively transmit conclusions to PIDER, CIDER has joined PIDER in re-
programming a number of micro-regions. CIDER is thus directly introducing
recommendations for improving the PIDER programming process. CIDER also
concentrates on analyses of structural changes generated by the development
program.  Two principal issues whiclh are central to CIDER evaluations, but
generally neglected in evaluations carried out elsewhere, are analyses of:
the effectiveness of institution building under the PIDER investment and



- 22 -
organization strategy, and the degree and quality of village participation
in the programming and execution of the investment program. This difference
is in part accounted for by the philosophy of the rural development program
in Mexico, and in part by the Bank's insistence on such issues as part of its
new style approach to rural development. During negotiations it was agreed
with Government that the effects of the Project on micro-region development,
including changes in crop yields and beneficiaries' income, would be evaluated.
V. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCES
A.   Cost Estimates
5.01      The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$255 million, of
which US$44 million, or 18% represents the foreign exchange costs. Cost
estimates are based on detailed plans for the proposed 20 micro-regions.
These plans were reprogrammed during the first half of calendar year 1976
and cover estimated expenditures over a four-year period.  The PIDER II
project would support investments made as of mid-1977. As the PIDER II
project was appraised before the period of major monetary adjustment in Mexico
(September-November 1976), base line project costs were increased by 30% for
the estimated inflation between mid-1976 and April 1977.
5.02      To these adjusted base line costs (expressed in dollars) were
applied 10% physical contingencies for all items except credit. Further,
expected international price contingencies were added at the rate of 10%, 9%
and 8% for the three year project expenditure period, April 1977-April 1980.
In using these price contingencies, the assumption is that over the project
disbursement period the peso/dollar exchange rate would broadly adjust itself
to the difference between domestic and international inflation. Indications
are that the peso would be allowed to float freely in response to market
forces. Details of project costs are shown in Annex 7-a and are summarized
below.



- 23 -
IEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Estimated Project Cost
Foreign    Unskilled   Baseline
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange          Labor       Cost
-------US$ million-----   ------------- %---------------
Directly Productive
A. Infrastructure
Irrigation                      25.4      8.5       33.9       25           30            16
Soil & Water Conservation        9.0      1.4       10.4       14           75             5
Livestock                       14.1      3.5       17.6       20           20             8
Fruit, Forestry & Fisheries   8.3         0.9        9.2       10           30             4
Rural Industry                   3.0      2.0        5.0       40           20             2
B. Development Credit
Agriculture & Livestock         40.0    10.0        50.0       20           15            24
Rural Industries                 5.4      3.6        9.0       40           20             4
C. Incremental Production
Credit                          11.7      1.6       13.3       12           20             6
Sub-Total                116.9    31.5       148.4       2T                         70
Productive Support
Feeder Roads                    14.8      1.1       15.9        7           70             7
Rural Electrification            5.5      1.8        7.3       25           21             3
Farmers' Organization            5.3      0.2        5.5        4            0             3
Extension & Field Demonst.       9.4      0.6       10.0        6            0             5
Rural Marketing/Nutrition        0.8       -         0.8        0           10             0
Feasibility Studies              3.6       -         3.6        0            -             2
Sub-Total                 39.4      3.7       43.1         9                        20
Social Infrastructure
Education                        4.5      0.8        5.3       15           27             2
Rural Water Supply               8.2      2.1       10.3       20           40             5
Self-Help                        3.9       -         3.9        0          100             2
Sub-Total                 16.6      2.9       19.5       15                          9
Evaluation                          0.9      0.1        1.0       10             0            0
Total Baseline Cost               173.8    38.2       212.0       18            27          100
Physical Contingencies          10.7      2.4       13.1                                   6
Expected Price Increases        24.5      5.4       29.9                                  14
Total Project Cost                209.0    46.0       255.0
N. B.  With the floating peso, peso project costs were converted to the equivalent of
US$ at a rate of US$1 = Mex$22.5.



- 24 -
B.   Financing
5.03      The proposed Bank loan of US$120 million would cover foreign ex-
change costs of US$46 million, plus US$74 million of local currency costs.
It would be made to Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFIN S.A.), one of two
Government borrowing entities authorized to borrow from the Bank. The
Government contribution of US$127.8 million would represent 50% of project
costs. Beneficiaries would contribute US$7.2 million in cash to the costs
of water, electrification and development credit. In the case of self-help
projects, up to US$40 in materials would be provided by the project, and
labor would be provided by the householder or villager. Incremental pro-
duction credit required for the Project, amounting to US$13.3 million, would
be financed by the Government. Assurances on this cost financing were
obtained during negotiations.
C.   Disbursements
5.04      The Bank would reimburse at the rate of 51% of total expenditures
for civil works, equipment, vehicles and technical services of agencies
participating in the program, against appropriate documentation, and 56%
of the rediscounts of the development credit and rural industry components
administered by FIRA, against certificates of expenditure. As agreed for
PIDER I, documentation for the Credit component and for Civil Works by force
account, would be retained within Mexico and held available for inspection by
the IBRD during the course of supervision missions. The statements of expendi-
ture, certified by the Secretariat of Finance, would reflect the expenditures
made by each agency in each approved micro-region. Any undisbursed loan funds
remaining after Project completion would be cancelled.
5.05      A disbursement period of four years is contemplated (Annex 7b).
Regional banks, selected on a state basis, act as the financing agents of
PIDER. The selected banks receive, at the beginning of each fiscal year,
comprehensive investment plans for the approved micro-regions in their com-
mand areas, on the basis of which they will disburse against vouchers from
the executing agencies. The participating banks will, in turn, be reimbursed
by the Secretariat of Finance. The recommended disbursement period for the
loan would be from mid-1977 to mid-1981, with a recommended term of 17 years
including 3-1/2 years grace, compared to a term of 25 years including 5 years
grace under PIDER I.
D.   Procurement
5.06      The Project would include a diversity of relatively small projects
in many locations throughout the country, involving at least 14 government
agencies. Thus, only a small part, if any, of the Project would be suitable
for international competitive bidding, in contracts of US$250,000 and above.



- 25 -
Contracts less than this amount, such as for construction and equipping of
classrooms, feeder roads, markets, stores and other buildings which are all
small, of varied design, and geographically scattered, would not be of suffi-
cient size to attract international bidders and would be constructed by a
combination of local competitive bidding, negotiated contracts and force
account in accordance with Government's regular procedures. These agencies
would then undertake the work themselves (force account) or select the private
contractor best qualified to do the job.
E.   Accounts and Auditing
5.07      Separate accounts for the PIDER program are kept by the SPP, PIDER
staff, the Ministry of Finance and each participating agency to ensure there
is no overlap with the normal budgetary program. In addition, the Ministry of
Finance would keep separate accounts to cover the external financing of the
program. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these separate
accounts would continue to be maintained.
5.08      To ensure that expenditures are actually carried out as programmed
and approved, separate supervision and authorization/control divisions are
established within PIDER. The supervision division is divided into three
zones, the authorization/control group into an authorization and a control and
statistics section. The supervision division staff spend considerable time in
the field, especially in checking expenditure against estimates.
5.09      Each agency has its own auditing section where all vouchers and
documents are checked and approved before payments are made. The accounts
of each agency are subject to independent auditing by the Ministry of Finance,
the SPP and the Ministry for National Patrimony.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, FARMER BENEFITS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A.   Production, Yields and Marketable Surplus
6.01      The Project would support increases in both crop and livestock pro-
duction in the selected micro-regions, including maize, beans, beef, milk,
vegetables, fruits and honey. Projected crop yields for the principal crops
at full development are based on experience in the PIDER I micro-regions and
experience under similar ecological conditions elsewhere in Mexico. Yield
increases would be facilitated by increased extension service coverage parti-
cularly with the improved PRONDAAT training for extension workers, more in-
tensive trials and demonstration of recommended practices on farmer plots,
and by provision of credit and input delivery systems, seeds, fertilizers,
etc., at the village or ejido level. In addition, development, where fea-
sible, of irrigation facilities on the semi-arid lands would permit major
improvements in crop yields. Estimated yield improvements resulting from
the Project for major crops in the categories of irrigated, 1,200 mm rain-
fall and 800 mm rainfall are illustrated below; (Annex 8-a) provides de-
tails):



- 26 -
Before               At Full 1/
Unit          Development            Development
Maize  (new irrigation in
semi-arid areas)       kg/ha              750                   2,500
Beans  (new irrigation
interplanted with
maize in semi-arid
area)                  kg/ha              200                     500
Maize  (1,200 mm rainfall)   kg/ha              1,200                  2,000
Beans  (1,200 mm rainfall)   kg/ha                500                    750
Maize  (800 mm rainfall)      kg/ha               900                  1,350
1/   Generally 6 to 8 years after project inception.
6.02      Pre-project incomes among the 46,000 farm producers benefiting
under the project from directly productive activities average around US$350
per family. At this low level of income, production for household subsistence
accounts for roughly 70% of the output on the farm.  As farm output and income
rise as a result of the Project, the marketed surplus should increase con-
siderably. Nevertheless, much of the increase would be absorbed by the
family. Experience varies greatly regarding the use of newly irrigated lands.
In many areas farmers have immediately introduced high value fruit and vege-
table crops; in other areas newly irrigated lands have been used as they were
prior to irrigation--i.e., exclusively for basic maize and beans crops. For
the purpose of the economic and financial analysis, it has been assumed
that all incremental irrigation would be used only for maize and bean crops
except where specific fruit and vegetable cultivation was being directly
supported. Thus, there is a probable underestimate of potential returns
from the irrigation investments. Base-year production, incremental production
resulting from the project, and the projected increase in marketed output of
some major crops are shown below (see also Annex 8-c) for the 20 micro-regions
of the proposed Project.



- 27 -
Incremental
Base-Year     Incremental           Marketed
Production     Production            Surplus
----------------1,000 tons------------------
Maize
Irrigated                            10             60                  40
Rainfed                              80             55                  30
Beans                                   20             30                  20
Beef                                    90              6                   6
6.03      Support prices exist for maize and beans through CONASUPO outlets.
Many farmers, however, are unable to market surplus produce through such out-
lets for reasons of distance and inaccessability and because of obligations
to middlemen and money-lenders. A common practice is for farmers to borrow
two sacks of corn for family consumption at the beginning of the planting
season then to repay at harvest with five sacks of corn plus the obligation
to sell any surplus produce to the lender or his designated agents. For
financial and cultural reasons, breaking this dependency on the middleman
is difficult, and both the incentive for increased production and the amount
of real income increase to the small farmer can be easily overestimated.
B.   Markets and Prices
6.04      Most of the maize, beef, potatoes and beans produced by the Project
would be consumed locally, either directly by the producer or in local towns.
Larger neighboring towns, currently supplied mostly from outside the micro-
region, also provide a market for extra beef, vegetable and fruit production.
Institutional arrangements and facilities relating to marketing would also be
strengthened and improved under the Project through the provision of produce
stores and warehouses. CONASUPO would undertake to purchase surplus maize
and beans at official support prices when necessary, thus providing a price
floor. Incremental project output would contribute less than 1% to Mexico's
production of maize and beans, an amount too small to affect price levels for
either crop.
C.   Producer Income and Benefits
6.05      Under the Project, some 32,000 farmers, 20% of the micro-regions'
farmer population would be expected to improve their incomes to a level of
US$700 from their rainfed farming activities based on improved extension,
seeds and better livestock activities. For those 14,000 farmers in the
micro-regions likely to benefit from irrigation, incomes are estimated to
increase to US$1,100. The baseline income is estimated at US$350 equivalent.



- 28 -
There is likely to be considerable variation in the increase attained, related
mainly to the varying agricultural potential of the micro-regions particu-
larly in regard to opportunities for irrigation.
6.06      The dramatic increase in farm incomes from investment in 2-3 ha of
irrigation reinforces the PIDER emphasis given to small-scale irrigation under
the program. Empirical data indicate that irrigation on small farms may in-
crease net incomes three times and labor requirements from one man-month per
ha per annum on rainfed plots to nearly eight man-months per ha per annum on
irrigated plots.
D.   Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact
6.07      Government would recover a total amount of US$99 million of
original investments, or 39% of Project costs, leaving a fiscal impact of
US$156 million, excluding interest. The cost of maintaining and operating
directly productive infrastructure would be borne fully by beneficiaries.
They would also be charged with the full operating costs for marketing,
electricity, drinking water and self-help projects, and would contribute to
education. At full development, the additional fiscal burden for Government
would be US$8 million per annum, a small part of which (10%) would be offset
through additional tax revenues as a result of incremental production and
income from the Project.
6.08      In PIDER II, the expansion of the development credit component and
the inclusion of rural industries will increase the proportion of the Project
investment recovered from the beneficiaries. It was anticipated under PIDER
I that repayment requirements would be based on "detailed socio-economic
studies" of the beneficiaries' post-project net income situation, but due
to administrative complexities, a more straightforward approach to cost re-
covery is being applied.
6.09      Cost recovery would thus be limited to:  (i) productive, direct
income-producing investments (credit, livestock, irrigation, fisheries,
etc.); and (ii) investments with identifiable private benefits such as
electricity. For public-goods-type investments (such as roads, soil con-
servation, schools, etc.), cost recovery would be limited to the supply of
sites and local construction materials.
6.10      For productive investments: (i) cost recovery and/or cost con-
tribution rules would be negotiated and agreed upon with beneficiaries prior
to construction; and (ii) beneficiaries would be able to defray their repayment
obligations, through labor and material contributions, by either working for
nothing, or receiving only partial wages during the construction period.
Assurances on these criteria were obtained during negotiations.



- 29 -
E.   Ecological and External Effects
6.11      A portion of the Project (9%) is geared to improving range, land
and water management. Soil and water conservation works would be directed at
reducing soil erosion, a significant problem in a number of the rural areas
of Mexico. Some of the materials for the self-help component would be used
for the construction of sanitation facilities for villages.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.   Economic and Financial Analysis
7.01      Economic and financial analysis was based on detailed micro-region
investment programs submitted to the Bank. Each report contains detailed
cost estimates of both investment and operating costs required by the pro-
gram. Each micro-region report contains financial analyses for "representa-
tive" villages (ejidos) of the micro-region. Each report also contains
an analysis of micro-region production (itemized by crop) both with and
without PIDER investments. Rates of return, both economic and financial, are
calculated and are included in each investment program report. In undertaking
the appraisal, Bank staff recalculated rates of return, both economic and
financial - based on the submitted reports, but various parameters (e.g.,
yields, prices, area reached by project activities, phasing, uptake rates,
shadow pricing of labor, etc.) were modified to meet more stringent tests of
reasonableness set by the appraisal team. Financial rates of return were
calculated only on the directly productive activities: livestock, irrigation,
fruit production, etc., plus the associated development credit. Economic
rates of return were calculated on the directly productive activities plus
the supporting productive investment and services including the feeder roads,
electrification, extension, agrarian reform, marketing, facilities needed
to achieve the incremental benefits.
7.02      While the estimated production increases require the inclusion of
both directly and indirectly productive investments and services, the calcu-
lations do not capture all the benefits arising from the availability of
these, since their use is not confined to Project investments or activities.
For this reason, the rate of return estimates may be somewhat conservative.
Costs associated with the provision of improved public amenities and social
services (e.g., education, water supply, self-help, etc.) have not been
charged against project benefits. It was not possible to construct plausible
estimates either of productive benefits resulting from these services or the
monetary equivalent of the direct user benefits associated with the consump-
tion of improved services. Thus, short- and long-term benefits to production
arising from the diffusion of functional literacy have not been allowed for in
the estimates of productivity increase among the small farmers. The impor-
tance of these services as a stimulus to cooperative arrangements and commu-
nity associations - for example, the Water Users Committees and the village



- 30 -
associations for the construction of feeder roads and soil conservation works,
however, merit special mention. The encouragement and support given to
such associations is one of the important and innovative features of the PIDER
program.
7.03      In calculating the economic cost of labor, shadow prices varying
by micro-region from 100% of the minimum government daily wage down to 52%
were used. The differences reflect mainly the relative uniformity of
officially determined wage minima vis-a-vis variations in the minimum supply
price of labor, the latter being influenced by severity of rural under-
employment. Details on methodology and assumptions used in calculating the
economic rates of return are provided in Annex 8, together with a sample
ejido budget.
7.04      The average economic rate of return is 23.7%, varying by micro-
region from 13.2% to 36.5%. The financial rate of return is 20.7%, varying
from 11.3% to 33.4%.
7.05      Cash flow models were also analyzed for "representative" ejidos
in each micro-region to ensure that incremental income expected from proj-
ect investments is sufficient to repay the principal and interest of devel-
opment loans, and operation and maintenance expenditures of directly produc-
tive and support investments.
7.06      Some 65,000 man-years of work would result from the construction
activities under the Project, a portion of which would benefit landless
groups living in the micro-regions. The Project would provide access to
basic public services in the 20 selected micro-regions. Some people would
directly benefit from improved drinking water and from rural electrification.
Furthermore, some children would obtain access to improved primary education.
The materials for self-help projects would be made available to people in the
selected micro-regions. (Annex 8c Table I provides details by category.)
B.   Project Risks
7.07      The Project has risks.  First, while two-thirds of the micro-
regions would be in the higher rainfed areas (over 700 mm annually), the
remaining third would be located in areas with less rain. In these latter
areas, the introduction of irrigation, pasture improvement and water con-
servation works along with crops requiring less rainfall, such as sorghum,
would be emphasized to reduce farmer risks. Improved field demonstration
closely tied with intensified extension efforts would be emphasized under the
Project to minimize farmer uncertainty. Secondly, while on average the
estimated rates of return at micro-region level embody expectations about
final outcomes that are reasonable and realistic, nevertheless, the caliber of
local leadership and staff involved under the program will bear importantly on
these outcomes. It would be unrealistic to suppose that staff and leadership
quality will be uniform. In some regions, expectations may be disappointed
while in others better than anticipated results should be achieved. Again,



- 31 -
however, PIDER management has demonstrated a capacity to respond quickly and
flexibly to problems of execution, and CIDER is undertaking major evaluation
efforts as a basis for ongoing adaptation of the program in the light of
changing needs and circumstances. Moreover, the Project would emphasize
self-help activities, and creation of community-based users' associations and
the development of local leadership capabilities in order to improve the
probability that the Project investments and services would eventually lead to
a self-sustaining development at the local level.
7.08      These risks are acceptable in view of the expected benefits under
the Project that would accrue to low income people. To summarize these, farm
incomes of about 45,000 farmers -- accounting for a total population of
225,000 with their family members -- would approximately double as result of
the Project. For those farmers benefitting from irrigation, their incomes may
triple from current levels.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
principal points:
(a) A ceiling of US$32,000 would be continued for small-scale
irrigation projects of 25 ha or less and the maximum
investment per family would be US$5000 equivalent;
a per hectare ceiling of US$2,500 equivalent would be
imposed on projects; to be eligible, a family's pre-project
net agricultural income would have not to exceed US$2,500
(para. 3.14);
(b) For irrigation works about 10% of investment costs would
be generally recovered; and where reasonable, based on
repayment capacity, additional amounts of the investment
cost would be recovered (para. 3.15);
(c) Prior to construction, technical and socio-economic feasi-
bility studies would be carried out for each proposed irri-
gation project in accord with existing SARH guidelines
(para 3.12);
(d) interest rate and re-discounting arrangements would be
adjusted to correspond to those applicable to low income
producers under other Bank loans through BANXICO for
agricultural credit (para. 3.18).
(e) in the soil and water conservation component, conservation
works would focus on labor intensive improvement of
partly eroded slopes rather than machine restoration of
fully eroded hills and technical and economic conservation
plans would be prepared prior to construction (para. 3.24);



- 32 -
(f) feasibility studies for micro-region productive investments
would be undertaken; individual studies up to US$15,000
would be contracted at the discretion of the state level
SPP Representative, and studies over $15,000 would be
subject to the approval of the PIDER Director in Mexico
City (para. 3.28);
(g) labor intensive techniques would be continued on road
sections where technically and economically appropriate;
and construction would be scheduled to minimize conflict
with agricultural tasks (para. 3.32);
(h) to improve the rainfed extension service, PRONDAAT opera-
tions would be implemented in the Bank supported 20
micro-regions no later than December 31, 1980 (para.
3.36);
(i) installation costs for rural electrification would not
exceed US$150 per person and villagers would pay installa-
tion charges and rates as are generally applied which
include the full cost of operation and maintenance (para.
3.41);
(j) a minimum contribution of cash, labor or materials of
15% to investment costs of rural water systems would be
made by villagers either at the outset or during construc-
tion; full payment for operation and maintenance costs
would be obtained; and there would be a limit on government's
share of system costs of US$100 per person benefited
(para. 3.43);
(k) eligibility criteria for self-help funds would be relaxed
to include villages without potable water and electricity;
and a maximum equivalent to US$40 of materials and equipment
per beneficiary would continue to apply (para. 3.44);
(1) new investment commitments for individual projects would
include written agreements with the beneficiaries that
provide for adequate operation and maintenance arrangements
(para. 4.05);
(m)  for the productive investments:  (i) cost recovery and/or
cost contribution rules would be negotiated and agreed
upon with beneficiaries prior to construction; and (ii)
beneficiaries would be able to defray their repayment
obligations through labor and material contributions
(para. 6.10); and
8.02      The Project is suitable for a loan of US$120 million repayable over
a period of 17 years.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
MEXICO
Rural Development Project - PIDER II
Development of the Rural Sector
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.        Between 1935 to 1965, Mexican agricultural production more than
tripled. This better than 4 percent annual growth rate was the highest
in Latin America during these decades. During the same period Mexico
increased agricultural land in use by nearly 30%, nearly all of which (on a
net basis) was distributed to ejidos.
2.        After 1965, however, Mexico encountered major problems in the
agricultural sector. A population growth rate of 3.5% resulted in a growing
rural population, with consequent pressure for further land redistribution.
Efforts at collective production were politically sensitive and met with
little success. Further, the growth rate in agricultural production slowed
markedly, to about 1.8% per year. Meanwhile, as a result of growing popula-
tion and higher incomes, the demand for agricultural products rose about 4.5%
annually and for livestock products at about 7%. Mexico became a net importer
of basic grains and a major importer of milk powder and dairy stock.
3.        Strategies for rural development have shifted over the years.  Land
reform dates back to the revolution in 1910, but major efforts in this field
did not get underway until the Cardenas period (1935-1941), when massive land
redistributions were made, input and credit needs of ejidatarios were recog-
nized, and ejidos were organized. After Cardenas, the emphasis shifted to
large-scale irrigated farming and industrialization. Until 1970, Government
investment in the rural sector was limited to roads and TVA-type regional
river basin development programs (Comision del Balsas, Comision del Papaloapan,
Plan Valle del Fuerte, Plan Lerma, etc.), most of which ran out of money after
large dams and other infrastructure had been constructed.
4.        In the early 1970's, the Echeverria administration began to reassess
strategies for fostering growth and development in rural areas and with finan-
cial support, encouraged a number of government agencies to step up their
efforts to improve the lot of the rural poor. Five agencies responded with
major innovations. The President's office itself commissioned staff in its
planning and coordination departments to examine ways of achieving self-suf-
ficiency in basic grains and to propose alternatives for assisting the rural
poor. These staff members were later to form the nucleus of the major coor-
dinating entities of COCOSA 1/ and PIDER. Second, the Secretariat of Public
Works drew up plans for a nationwide program of labor intensive feeder road
1/   Commission on Agricultural Planning.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
construction, and over a 5-year period constructed some 70,000 miles of roads,
giving temporary employment to some 190,000 persons. Third, the Secretariat
of Hydraulic Resources (SRH) developed a program to irrigate ejido areas of
25 to 50 hectares either using available groundwater, existing river and
stream flows, or where feasible, providing for construction of small, rela-
tively inexpensive dams. Fourth, the Secretariat of Land Reform undertook
a complete review of legislation affecting ejido-based farming as well as
a review of its own administrative procedures affecting the granting of
tiles. As a result, a new Agrarian Reform law was passed in 1972 and the
Secretariat's internal procedures were improved. Fifth, the Bank of Mexico,
operating through its agricultural credit agency, the FO0DO, commissioned a
detailed study of the credit mechanism affecting the small farmer. Credit
regulations were altered to provide incentives to the banking system to
intensify its efforts with this group. In addition, other agencies such
as CONASUPO (marketing) and the Central Electrification Federation redefined
their investment and operating criteria for supporting development efforts
in the poorer rural areas.
5.        While these different agencies were independently carrying out
innovations, the Office of the Presidency was drawing up a master plan for
the rural sector. This Plan called for the creation of homogeneous micro-
regions with populations of some 50,000 poor persons and a management area
of some 7,000 square kilometers each, encompassing two to seven municipali-
ties. The initial objective was to develop 100 such regions within a six-
year period, with a capital expenditure of US$1.2 billion, a figure worked
out in conjunction with the Secretariat of Finance. By early 1974, detailed
micro-region investment plans had been drawn up by appropriate government
agencies for 41 of these regions and increased budgets had been approved.
By mid-1976, 84 of the regions had approved plans and another 22 were in
various stages of study. Due to the substantial local demand for these
programs, the original target of 100 micro-regions is now being revised.
6.        PIDER, or Investment Program for Rural Development as this program
is called, is coordinated by a small 40-man staff in the President's office
and executed by nearly two dozen government agencies with a full-time staff
of close to 3,000 professionals. This decentralized structure, though
unusual in Mexico, evolved naturally from President Echeverria's initial
decision to encourage independent agency approaches. Each PIDER program
comprises a combination of directly productive investments, productive
support, and social infrastructure components. The productive investment
components are emphasized, and supporting infrastructure and technical
and organizational assistance are designed to make them fully effective.
7.        The Echeverria administration is using three other major approaches
to encourage rural development. In the river basin approach, efforts are
to be made to improve conditions of the poorer groups in river basins where
TVA-type projects already exist. The first project will be administered
by the Papaloapan Commission and will help finance small irrigation works,
technical services to rainfed agriculture, marketing facilities, experimental



ANNEX 1
Page 3
farms, feeder roads, potable water, sewerage, electricity, primary schools
and workshops, medical centers and community centers. In the functional
approach, separate departments of rural development have been set up in such
key ministries as Public Works, Irrigation, Industry and the Electricity
Board. In the commodity extension approach, the Government is attempting,
with external funding, to expand Plan Puebla, which was initiated in 1968
to promote rapid increases in maize production on the smallholdings of
Mexican farmers by means of a combination of communications, credit for
inputs, extension, and markets.
II.  THE RURAL SECTOR
A. Performance of the Agricultural Sector
8.        Mexico experienced a sharp decline in its agricultural growth
rate in recent years. While agricultural production expanded at a 5% annual
pace from 1939 to 1965, the mean annual growth rate between 1965 and 1974
amounted to only 0.7% (Table 1).
Table 1
Gross Agricultural Product in Constant (1969) prices
Millions           Percent
Year           of Pesos           Change
1965            19,921
1966            20,241              1.5
1967            20,165             -0.2
1968            20,484              1.6
1969            20,145             -1.7
1970            21,140              4.9
1971            21,517              1.8
1972            20,955             -2.6
1973            20,829             -0.6
1974            21,287              2.2
Source:  Comercio Exterior de Mexico.
This performance compares unfavorably with the development of the economy
as a whole, which expanded at a 6.6% annual rate. When the population
growth rate of 3.4% is also taken into account, it is evident that per



ANNEX 1
Page 4
capia agricultural output actually decreased over the last decade. As a
result of this deficit in internal production, Mexico has been forced to
increase its food imports (Table 2). By 1974 wheat, corn and rice imports
amounted 40, 29, 15 and 13%, respectively, of the domestic consumption of
these crops. The persistent deficit in corn production is especially seri-
ous as it constitutes an important part of the Mexican diet.
Table 2
Mexican Imports of Agricultural Products (tons)
Year        Corn        Wheat    Beans      Rice      Sorghum
1970      786,253         0        0       16,272      12,142
1971          0       219,000      0         0          8,819
1972      189,360    555,250       0         0        165,342
1973    1,964,317    744,975       0       37,626        0
1974    1,400,000    982,528   9,434    70,000    175,000
Source: Conasupo.
Due to price increases, the value of these agricultural imports climbed at
an even faster rate, exerting heavy pressure on Mexico's balance of payments.
In 1974 Mexico paid a total of US$506.3 million for its grain purchases
abroad which represented 8.4% of total imports (Table 3).
Table 3
Mexican Grain Imports
% Share of
Year       US$m.    Total Imports
1967       1.9           0.1
1968       4.8           0.2
1969       4.0           0.2
1970      64.2           2.6
1971      17.8           0.7
1972      82.6           2.8
1973     226.4           5.5
1974     506.3           8.4
9.        The value of agricultural exports has continued to grow but at
a much slower rate than for other export commodities or for imports. In
relation to Mexico's total exports, agriculture's share has declined from
49.5% in 1960 to only 29.6% in 1974.



ANNEX I
Page 5
10.       Although adverse weather conditions has affected crops in some
years, the main reason for the continuing slump during the last decade has
been a decline of both private and public investment in the agricultural
sector. From Mex $1,684 million in 1950, private agricultural investment
had risen to Mex $3,722 million in 1960, but 1965 it had tumbled to only Mex
$2,914 million. Public spending followed a similar pattern. While fully 20%
of all public investment in 1947-1952 was destined for agriculture, this
proportion had fallen to only 10.5% in 1971. It has since risen to 19.1%
(1975-1976).
11.       President Echevarria's administration reversed these policies,
increasing public spending in agriculture to the point that by 1976 more
than 26% of total public investment went to agriculture. Although it is
still too early to measure the full effects of these renewed efforts at
stimulating production, it appears that in light of projected increased
demand, massive governmental intervention will continue to be necessary.
It has been estimated that in the period 1976-1982 the demand for basic
agricultural products will increase at a rate of 4.3% per annum (Table 4).
Table 4
Projections of the Demand for Agricultural Products (1976/82)
Annual Growth
Crops                            Rate
(%)
Corn, beans, wheat, rice         3.5
Oilseeds                         5.6
Livestock feed                   5.7
Average for basic crops          4.3
Source: Reuniones Nacionales.
B.   Agriculture and Rural Development
2
12.       Cropland:  Mexico, with an area of approximately 2 million km , is
the third largest country in Latin America. There are great variations in
altitude and numerous ecological zones result in diverse agricultural
production. About 35% of the total is classified as range or pasture land
and supports only a small proportion of the rural population. Another 50%
is either forest land or too dry for cultivation. The remaining 15% or
about 30 million ha. are considered potential crop land of which only 14.5
million ha. or less than half are currently harvested. The other half,
however, is mainly in the tropical zones of Mexico.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
13.       Rural Population:  The population of Mexico, currently just over
58 million, is increasing at about 3.4% annually and will reach approximately
100 million by 1990. About 21 million, or 41%, are rural, and about 13% live
in the Federal District (FD). The rural population includes three main
groups: ejidatarios, 1/ private farmers, and the landless. There are about
1.5 million ejidatario families farming on 22,500 ejidos, about 1.2 million
privately-owned farms, and 1.2 million landless families. The private sector
can be broken down further into approximately 0.3 million commercial farmers,
mostly in the north, and about 0.9 million minifundistas. The rapid popula-
tion growth in the face of limited land resources has resulted in one-half of
the agricultural labor force being without land; in addition, many of the
existing ejido and private plots are too small to provide even a subsistence
living.
14.       Rural Incomes:  Since 1960, Mexico's overall rate of economic growth
has been matched by few developing countries, averaging in real terms about
7%. The benefits of this growth have been unequally distributed, however, and
the recent slowing in agricultural production coupled with increased inflation
has been hardest on those who were already the poorest. In mid-1973, the
average family income was estimated at US$2,700. However, some 2 million
families (over 50% of the rural population and 20% of the total population)
had average incomes of less than US$800. The Government estimated at that
time that an income equivalent to US$960 was required to provide the minimum
acceptable living standard for Mexican families in the rural areas.
15.       The poor quality of landholdings is the root cause for much of
this rural poverty. Despite land reform efforts, one-half of Mexico's
nearly three million landholdings are today classified as subsistence-
type producing only a negligible marketable surplus, if any; 40% are
traditional peasant farms producing cash crops with primitive methods;
only 10% use modern techniques. This top 10% in 1967-69, accounted for
40% of total agricultural income (including non-agriculture sources),
while the lower 50% had only 20% of the total income.
16.       Land Tenure:  Several steps have been taken by the Government
to carry the land reform program further and to promote a more equitable
and rational use of agricultural resources. The most important is that
some 16,000 of the approximately 20,000 ejidos have by now been given
definite certificates of usufruct, with ejidatarios being granted rights
to a holding size rather than to a particular parcel so as to facilitate
future community action. There are still about 6 million ha. of undis-
tributed state-owned land and private land in excess of legal limits
which can together help settle 100,000 to 120,000 small farmers.
1/   The term "ejido" is derived from the Spanish equivalent of the village
"common".  In present Mexican law, the ejido is basically a group of
families with joint - and thus inalienable - tenure rights to land.
The head of such a family is called an ejidatario.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
17.       About 320,000 legal title or certificates of ineffectability
have been issued for crops and 1,300 for livestock have been issued so
far, covering 8.2 million ha. The possession of these legal titles is
intended to stimulate investment and facilitate institutional financing
insofar as they would rule out the possibility of a reduction in the land
base of the concerned farmers. This process is being speeded up but about
250,000 such certificates are yet to be issued. However, until a more
permanent legal arrangement than the such "certificates" is introduced,
tenure uncertainty may continue to brake capital formation in the rural
sector.
18.       The Secretariat of Agrarian Reform (SRA) is implementing a plan
to ensure beneficiaries of land reform the supplementary services, supplies,
and credit necessary to bring the redistributed land to full productive
use. The Ministry is expected to provide technical, promotional and orga-
nizational assistance, while credit and inputs will come from the public
agricultural plan for 4,500-16,000 banks and marketing support from the
GONASUPO. About 2,500 ejidos are already involved in this integrated promo-
tional effort out of a possible 4,500. Together with the public banks, the
Ministry hopes to ensure that, by 1976, about 16,000 ejidos would receive
institutional support for developing into more efficient production units.
This strategy is being supported with an extensive educational and training
program.
19.       Land reform in MIexico, although vigorously pursued by the Gov-
ernment, remains difficult and uncertain. The principal problem arises
from conflicts resulting from unresolved legal titles to land. Apart
from issuing certificates, Government has to ensure that they do in
fact protect the beneficiary's interest in his land so that he may have
the incentive to invest. Secondly, it has to be considered whether the
limits on the size of farms, especially for livestock ranchers, should
be reviewed so as to encourage the development of unexploited areas like
the tropical Gulf Coast. Thirdly, there is need to bestow greater atten-
tion on the organizational and other needs of private small farmers
(an estimated one million families), as well as the ejidatarios on whom
most of the present developmental efforts are being focussed.
20.       In 1970, 41 percent of Mexico's labor force was in agriculture,
decline from 58.3 percent in 1950. In four of country's major regions, Center,
Gulf, Peninsula and Yucatan, 50% of the force are in agriculture and in the
South, 69%.
21.       Growing unemployment and underemployment are major problems of rural
Mexico. Between 1950 and 1970, the agricultural labor force grew from 4.9 to
5.3 million. The labor force engaged in crop production actually declined;
the apparent growth in the agricultural labor force of 0.4% per year, or a
total of 0.4 million, took place in livestock husbandry and forestry. During
the same period, agricultural employment rose from 4.0 to 4.7 million.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Thus, unemployment actually declined from 0.9 million to 0.6 million. Under-
employment in the agricultural sector also was reduced, as is shown by a
growth of productive days worked of 2.8% per year over this period. However,
much of the growth recorded during this period took place before 1965. From
1965 to 1970, agricultural employment declined at about 0.5% per year.
Although specific data are not yet available, employment in agriculture
continued to decline through 1974. The decline occurred largely as a result
of a decrease in the area farmed by certain relatively more labor intensive
crops such as cotton, corn, and beans. It appears that an increase in agri-
cultural output in 1975 and 1976 may reverse this trend.
22.       Water Irrigation is considered 1/ the most effective permanent
employment-generating instrument in agriculture, with one hectare of irrigated
agriculture providing about 8 man-months of employment annually compared to
less than 1 man-month per hectare on a non-irrigated farm. As of 1974, the 13%
of the agricultural labor force employed on irrigated lands supplied 19% of
the effective days worked in the agricultural sector. In non-irrigated rural
areas, 18% of the labor force could not find employment at prevailing wages
and 44% could not find more than three months employment.
23.       Rural Infrastructure:  Rural Mexico suffers from lack of both
basic services and infrastructure. In the poorer rural areas, there are
only 55 medical practitioners per 100,000 people (77 is the national
average); 24% of the houses have access to pure drinking water (61%
nationally); and 55% of the children in the 6-14 years age group are
enrolled at school (76% nationally) 2/. Many rural towns also remain
isolated, without adequate roads, electricity, or telephone communications.
24.       Ecological Diversity:  Three ecological zones can be distinguished
in Mexico: the Gulf coast, the Pacific Coast, and the central highlands.
Along the Gulf coast, maize, sorghum and beef cattle predominate. In the
northern part of this coastal area, cotton was important until recently,
but has now been replaced by lower risk grain crops. Natural pastures
of the dry and wet Huastecas support a large beef herd, while south of
Veracruz, the areas produce mostly beef cattle, sugar cane, rice, maize
and beans. Further south, the coastal plain narrows to about a 20-km width
and has a seasonally wet tropical climate. In Chiapas, the plain is wider,
and maize, beans, sesame, tropical fruits and beef cattle are important.
1/   Based on Presidency estimates in the Central Plateau area.
2/   Another indicator of the abysmally poor public services in rural areas
is that more than one-third of 600,000 envelopes of educational
materials mailed by SRA to ejidatarios in 1973 never arrived.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
25.       The highlands and central plateau are densely populated and were
formerly the most productive areas, but today productivity per ha. is
greater in the lowlands, mainly due to irrigation development. The arid and
semi-arid zones in the north have good natural pastures, and it is from these
areas that the bulk of the male weaners exported to the US. originate.
Irrigated areas around Chihuahua and Torreon produce cotton, wheat, beans,
alfalfa and fruits. An important dairy industry based on alfalfa is rapidly
developing in La Lagunera region around Torreon. The Central altiplano to
the south of Jalisco and Michoacan produces maize, beans, sorghum, and other
food crops for Guadalajara and the FD. Around the FD, in the states of
Mexico, Puebla, and Hidalgo, the altiplano is temperate and dry. This area
produces rainfed maize and beans, while small irrigated areas produce fruits
and horticultural crops. The dairy industry, centered around the FD, is
supplied with alfalfa from this area.
26.       Agricultural production contributed about 11% of GDP in 1969,
crops accounting for roughly 60% of the total. Major crops are made cereal
grains, 33%; fruits, 13%; cotton, 12%, sugar 6%; oil seeds, 6%; beans, 5%;
and miscellaneous products 19%. Cattle (beef and dairy) account for 80%
of livestock production, although poultry, pigs, and goats are increasingly
slightly in importance.
27.       Trade:  Agricultural production contributed about 65% of Mexico's
merchandise exports in 1960, but by 1970 the percentage had fallen to 50%,
reflecting the country's poor agricultural performance. In constant 1960 US
dollars, Mexico's net agricultural trade balance fell from US$523 million in
1965 to US$222 million in 1973, and actually was negative in 1974 at US$35
million, due in part to bad weather. Although agricultural production has
increased in 1975 and 1976, Government policy is emphasizing increase of
agricultural exports and achievement of self-sufficient in staple foods
production.
28.       In 1969, 79% of agricultural exports (total US$800 million) were
crops, in particular cotton (US$203 million); tomatoes, strawberries and
melons (US$104 million); and wheat (US$12 million). Livestock exports
consist almost entirely of live beef cattle and boned and dressed meat.
In 1969, the export of live cattle (mostly male weaners) earned US$66 mil-
lion and boned and dressed meat contributed another US$39 million repre-
senting, respectively, 4.6% and 2.7% of Mexico's total merchandise export
earnings.
29.       The pattern of agricultural commodities trade has changed consid-
erably over the last few years. Imports of grains and oilseeds increased
500% from 1972-74, accounting for over two-thirds of total agricultural im-
ports in 1974. This compares with an only moderate increase in imports such
as milk powder and skins. Principal exports were cotton, sugar and coffee.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Feeder cattle and boneless meat exports have declined drastically as a con-
sequence of a temporary decline in prices in the US market and, previously,
Government restrictions on exports. Tomatoes are still the most important
horticultural export crop but others such as melons, strawberries and chillies
have also shown good performance.
30.       Crop Farming:  Irrigated districts account for 2.8 million ha. of
i4exico's total 15.4 million ha of cropland. These irrigated areas are con-
centrated in the north and north-west. Their yields both for the domestic
and export markets have grown substantially, as compared with little progress
in rainfed areas. More than 90 percent of public investment in agriculture
has been in irrigation works. Even better yields could be achieved, however,
if water were used more efficiently and the available water were made to
serve a greater area. These goals could be met by on-farm investment in
canals, canal lining, and land levelling. Yields in rainfed areas could also
be improved through land clearing and minor irrigation works, as well as
extension and demonstration.
31.       Livestock.  Some 47% of Mexico's total land area is used for live-
stock production. Production, particularly beef, is undertaken predominantly
on unimproved native grasslands, but if increased demand both domestically
and externally are to be met, pastures will have to be improved and more
fodder produced, particularly for those herds in semi-arid and arid areas.
32.       Nutrition.  Improvements in agricultural methods and increases
in the amount of land cultivated have almost doubled Mexico's agricultural
output during the last 15 years. But the rapid population growth has kept
the per capita product at about the same level and prevented any increase
in the per capita food output during the last decade. The nutritional level
of many Mexicans is still inadequate, especially in animal proteins. Defi-
ciencies in food supply are most serious in the rural areas, where lower
incomes restrict purchasing power. Although an unusually wide range of
crop varieties, annual and perennial, can be grown in Mexico, 61% of all
cultivated land is still planted with beans and corn, grown mostly by
subsistence farmers. The average daily intake per person in these farmer
families living on a diet of maize, beans, and chili, is about 2,000
calories and 54 grams of protein per day, one of the lowest levels in
the world. Only on the irrigated areas do farms produce a wider variety
of crops such as cotton, sugar, sorghum, vegetable oil seeds, fruits and
vegetables. The urban diet is better, particularly in the Federal District
which with only 17.7% of the total population consumes one-third of all the
meat in the country as 8 grams of chicken daily against a national average of
1.5 grams.
33.       Rural Public Investment.  The proportion of public investment
in agricultural infrastructure has decreased steadily over most of the post-
World War II period, despite large absolute investments in a number of
irrigation projects. The proportion was 19.9% for 1947-52, 13.9% for 1953-58



ANNEX I
Page 11
and averaged 10.5% from 1959-1970. The decline reflected the slower rate
at which new hectares were brought into production, as well as a decrease
in improvements made to existing agricultural land. Government priorities
shifted during 1970-74, with public investment in agricultural rising rapidly
until it reached 19% of total public investment in 1975. As in the past, most
of this investment went into irrigation, including flood control and drainage,
although emphasis on benefitting low income producers has increased. Allo-
cations for supporting services have also grown considerably, primarily to
help organize the low income farmers and utilize their scarce resources more
productively. The main beneficiaries are i) Secretariat of Agrarian Reform
(SRA) whose current budget of Mex$1 billion, as against Mex$150 million in
1970, will enable it to implement the Agrarian Reform Law of 1972; ii) the
Secretariat of Agriculture (SAG), which received a fivefold budget increase,
with emphasis on agricultural research and extension as well as small irri-
gation works; iii) CONASUPO which has expanded its investment program from
about Mex$100 million in 1970 to nearly Mex$1 billion in 1975 in order to
build up an improved marketing system, including retail stores and ware-
houses; and iv) the PIDER program which now accounts for 16% of total pub-
lic investment in agriculture.
34.       The Government has taken a number of other steps to increase
agricultural production and promote a more equitable distribution of the
benefits of growth. These include the enactment of a new Federal Agrarian
Reform Law; a Federal Water law; a new National Agricultural Credit Law;
the preparation of a National Water Plan; implementation of integrated
rural development programs. Other special programs include PLAMEPA (Plan
de Mejoramiento Parcelario), the establishment of a national coordination
committee for agriculture, and the merger of the three previously existing
public agricultural banks into a single institution. (Annex 2)
35.       A number of administrative innovations have been undertaken since
1970 better to coordinate activities of the agencies working in rural devel-
opment as well as to strengthen efforts directed specifically to the rural
poor. One important step was the creation of the National Coordinating
Commission for Agriculture (COCOSA). Its job is to ensure that the many
agencies, which previously worked independently of each other, plan and
execute their policies in a coordinated fashion. Much remains to be done
in the realm of data gathering, however, to ensure rational planning. In
addition, COCOSA's mandate should be extended to include livestock and crops
other than the basic agricultural ones. In addition, special rural devel-
opment departments have been created in a number of Government agencies
which previously had directed their efforts solely to large farms.
36.       Extension:  Extension services were concentrated until recently
on irrigated areas of commercial farming, to the relative neglect of tem-
perate and tropical rainfall areas. During the last six years, however,
considerable expansion has taken place in organized extension services



ANNEX I
Page 12
provided through the SAG, SRH, State Governments, the FONDO, public agri-
cultural banks and some private organizations. SAG staff alone has gone
up from 367 extension agents in 1970 to 3,727 in 1975 and public agricul-
tural banks now employ about 1,800 technicians. The number of farmers
served by SAG technicians has increased, between 1971 and 1974, from
202,000 to 369,000 and the area covered from 859,000 ha. to 2,875 ha.
The quality of service also improved, as staff has become more mobile,
links to research have been strengthened, and staff has worked increasingly
through farmers' group. The FONDO also has built up its own technical
staff. These technicians are slowly introducing new technologies to small
farmers in rainfed areas. Although results of some of the trials and farm
demonstrations may not be apparent for some time, others are proven successes.
For example, the Plan Puebla developed maize (and bean) technology for sub-
humid areas, improved special water conservation measures, and developed
new storage techniques of maize silage for livestock feeding in semi-arid
areas. The following table shows the recent intensification of Government
activities in agriculture.



ANNEX I
Page 13
MEXICO - PROFILE OF GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES IN AGRICULTURE
/1       Increase in
1970     1971      1972      1973     1974   1975    Percent
Technical Assistance/2   n.a.       n.a.      148       661    1,078   3,727       628
Promoters
Professionals            n.a.      n.a.      188       952      442
Technicians              n.a.      n.a.      181       411      609
Extensionists              482      664        68    1,795    2,095                335
Professionals            412       566    1,826    1,202    1,459
Technicians                70       98       243       593      636
Home-Economists            289      440       487       638       719              149
Total Agricultural
Credit /3              4,604    5,601    7,239    9,667   15,072                 227
Short-term            3,316    4,174    5,243    6,434   11,031
Long-term             1,289    1,427    1,328    1,946    3,660
Other                    381                697    1,297       380
Benefitted Area         2,156    2,360    2,589    2,635    3,989                   85
Irrigation /4          65,534   81,777   97,777   70,070  160,000                   54/5
New                  49,976   68,440   60,332   53,496        n.a.
Improved             15,558   13,313   37,398   16,574        n.a.
Rehabilitation             n.a.     n.a.  66,610  112,730   50,000
/1   Programmed.
/2   Number of staff.  Includes only field staff of Secretariat of Agriculture
and Department of Agrarian Affairs. The Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources
and CONASUPO have increased their field staff at similar rates.
/3   Credit in Mex$ million, area in 1,000 ha.  Public Agricultural Banks
only: Banco Ejidal, Banco Agricola, Banco Agropecuario and FONDO.
/4   In 1.00 ha.  The average of irrigated area p.a. was 65,000 ha under the
41,000 respectively, under the two previous administrations (1965/70
and 1959/64, respectively).
/5   Average 1971/1973 compared to average 1965/70.
Source: Secretariat of Agriculture, Secretariat of the Presidency, Department
of Agrarian Affairs, Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources, Secretariat
of Finance.



ANNEX I
Page 14
37.       Much remains to be done, however.  For example, SAG currently covers
only 20% of the farm area and 14% of the farmers. Further steps have also to
be taken to overcome deficiencies in internal coordination and delays in
administrative procedures of the services; to reduce staff turnover and improve
the professional standards of the extensionists; to make greater use of crop
demonstration and extension aids and communication techniques; to derive
recommendations from region-specific production development programs; and to
promote farmer participation.
38.       Agricultural Education:  Agricultural education in Mexico has
expanded steadily over the last decade, but output of technicians still falls
short of demand. In particular, shortages are anticipated for sub-profes-
sional professional technicians whose role is critical for the extension and
promotional programs of SAG and the Secretariat of Agrarian Reform, and for
teachers to man vocational schools.
39.       Agricultural Research:  Agricultural research in Mexico has tradi-
tionally concentrated on the needs of commercial farmers in irrigated agri-
culture, neglecting both farmers using rainfed cultivation and the unexploited
areas like the tropical Gulf Coast whose development will be essential for
future production growth. An increase in the National Institute for Crop
Research (INIA) budget from Mex$44 million in 1970 to Mex$283 million in
1975 is enabling this organization to expand its staff and improve their
caliber. Much of its work has been delegated to regional centers, where
on-site efforts can be made to solve specific problems. In addition,
increased attention is being given to clearing away major bottlenecks
which are retarding Mexico's agricultural development. At the National Insti-
tute of Livestock Research (INIP), greater emphasis is now being placed on
animal-production-management problems, including pasture management and
stocking rate experiments, both of which are crucial for Mexico's livestock
industry. This is a switch away from earlier concentration on genetics and
preventive vaccine.
40.       Marketing:  The National Warehouse Company (CONASUPO), owned by
Government, helps provide storage facilities for many staples produced and
has established a network of over 1,000 marketing units for small farmers,
facilities for storage, sale of inputs and a variety of related services.
Again, however, this meets the needs of only about 10% of small farmers,
and lack of financing limits further expansion. All segments of the popula-
tion, however, benefit from CONASUPO's price support program and its buying
operations in the international market, through which it supplies the domes-
tic market with sufficient food grains and helps stabilize domestic prices.
41.       Farm Prices:  The Government uses farm price supports as a major
policy instrument. During the late 1960's and early 1970's, preference was
given to keeping prices low for consideration of urban consumers and to
increasing agricultural exports, with the result that prices remained nearly
constant in nominal terms. This policy was one of the causes of the decline
in agricultural production during those years. To redress the balance,



ANNEX 1
Page 15
the Echeverria administration moved to improve substantially agricultural
support prices, instituting minimum price guarantees for maize, wheat,
sorghum, beans and rice. The support prices for these crops during recent
years are given below.
Support prices for Agricultural Products in Pesos per Metric Ton
Year      Corn          Wheat          Beans           Rice      Sorghum      Soy
1967       940            913           1750            --         525       1600
1971       940            913           1750            --         525       1600
1972       940            913           1750            1850       525       1750
1973       940           1200           2000           1850        750-950  2700
1974     (1200          (1300          (5000
(1500          (1500          (6000           4250      1000       3300
1975      1750           1750           6000           5700       1420-1600 3500
Consumer Price Index (1970 = 100)
1971   1972   1973   1974   1975
105.7  111.0  123.5  150.7  179.3
Support prices declined in real terms between 1970 and 1972, but were
increased in 1973. Output was not substantially higher during 1973 and 1974,
principally because of adverse weather conditions, but it rose substantially
in 1975 and apparently has risen more in 1976.
42.       Mexican authorities are aware that prices affect farmers' choice
of crops. Present Government policy is to maintain the support prices at
current levels, to provide incentives for further modernization of produc-
tion methods in the irrigated areas, and to provide some income re-distribu-
tion from urban consumers in favor of poorer farmers.
43.       Market prospects are favorable for major crops not covered by price
supports, particularly off-season United States markets for fruits and
vegetables, while domestic demand is increasing for fruit and vegetable
production and for oil seeds, notably sesame. An increased market for
alfalfa to service Mexico's expanding dairy and poultry industries has also
developed.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
44.       Agricultural Credit.  To improve the flow of credit to agricultural
producers, particularly those with low incomes, the Government has introduced
several policy and institutional changes during the last four years. First,
in 1973, loans to low-income producers were facilitated as funds were made
available in the Bank's fourth agricultural and livestock credit loan. Over
the next two years, the number of beneficiaries rose from 22,000 to 77,000.
Those qualifying were defined as ejidatarios or other small farmers whose
main source of income is farming and whose annual income does not exceed
1,000 times the daily minimum rural wage for the region. A second innovation
was the establishment of FEGA, a trust fund of the Bank of Mexico, which is
provided Government funds earmarked for organizing low income producers to
receive credit and to give them technical assistance. These funds are dis-
tributed through FONDO and private and public banks. FEGA also guarantees
a substantial part of loans made by private banks to low income producers.
45.       A third step was the establishment in early 1975 of a single public
agricultural bank (Banco Nacional de Credito Rural - BNCR) to replace the
three existing official banks, Banco Ejidal, Banco Agricola, and Banco
Agropecuario. The goal was to strengthen policy management and avoid duplica-
tion. Finally, the Government ratified a new Agricultural Credit Law in
1975 providing for improved coordination between credit institutions and the
Government; the organization of farmers for joint production activity; and
new guidelines for agricultural credit policy for both private and public
banks.
46.       Other Programs.  A crop insurance scheme is available for 34
different crops. In 1969, about 460,000 farmers insured 1.5 million ha.
of crops with premiums averaging 8.2% of the insured crop value. The
farmer pays about 53% of the premium, with the Government paying the
remainder. Full or partial coverage of the cost of production is generally
provided. These added incentives are particularly important for high-risk
crops such as cotton.
47.       Various other agencies are involved in providing productive support
and social infrastructure in rural areas. Among the more important are
the Secretariat of Public Works in charge of a countrywide labor-intensive
feeder road program, the Secretariat of Health (SSA) charged with providing
health services to rural areas, the SRH which supplies rural water, and the
Federal Electricity Commission which has substantially expanded its efforts in
rural electrification.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
MEXICO
Rural Development Project - PIDER II
Performance Under PIDER I
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.        This assessment looks at three levels of PIDER I performance:
(i) what has been done--i.e., physical and financial progress; (ii) how has
it been done--i.e., organization, management, and execution; and (iii) what
has been achieved. Assessments of PIDER I performance are interrelated with
assessments of the performance of the entire PIDER program. With few excep-
tions, actions taken to improve on PIDER I micro-regions have been applied
program-wide. Similarly, improvement in program-wide actions directly
affects the PIDER I micro-regions. Moreover, the intent of the PIDER I
Project was not only to achieve success in the 30 PIDER I micro-regions,
but also to bring about improvements in the program as a whole. This view
is taken into account throughout.
2.        The overall PIDER program is in its fourth year of planning and
implementation. Some US$471 million was invested in 86 micro-regions
located in the 31 states. This represents 1.8% of Mexico's public investment
budget and 13.5% of Mexico's total rural investment during this period. The
vast bulk is invested for directly productive (58%) and productive support
(30%) activities; the remainder is for social infrastructure (12%). PIDER
staff report a total of about 5,240 communities (4.1 million persons) as
initial beneficiaries of this investment, about 46% of the total micro-region
population and 86% of the people living in villages from 300 to 3,000.
3.        Since loan signing in May 1975, three Bank supervision missions have
reported on project progress. These have deemed progress satisfactory,
though various factors external to the Project (elections, budget reduction
in 1976, recent devaluation) caused a slowdown in 1976. The perception of
PIDER at both community and governmental levels is positive and the program's
role in the new Administration is assured with a substantially increased
budget from Mex$2 billion in 1976 to Mex$3.3 billion in 1977.
4.        PIDER has had a number of major successes.  They have included:
(i) the institutionalization of the program; (ii) the decentralization of
program funds to the state level; (iii) the first real coordination of the
various public sector executing agencies at the operating level; (iv) the



AlINEX 2
Page 2
beginnings of significant community and village participation in both pro-
gramming and execution of public investments and services; (v) the estab-
lishment of an evaluation system for rural programs; (vi) the reform and
redirection of various executing agencies; (vii) the training of a large
group of now experienced rural development technicians, in addition to,
(viii) the construction of program infrastructure, the provision of program
services, the creation of temporary employment, and the increase of rural
wage levels. Despite the successes, various improvements in PIDER are still
needed: (i) PIDER should take a more active role in the analysis of the
long-term viability and successful operational needs of investments proposed
by the sectoral executing agencies, rather than acting primarily to monitor
and coordinate such investments; (ii) community participation, while increas-
ing, is still inadequate for ensuring that the programs are relevant to com-
munity needs and that they will be properly operated and maintained; (iii)
although major steps have been taken to reform the extension and agrarian
reform agencies, these changes are not yet fully apparent at the local level
and considerable effort must still be given to their proper implementation;
and (iv) FIRA-PIDER relations still require improvement. All of these
concerns have been discussed with PIDER and agency staff during the course
of PIDER I Supervisions and during the PIDER II Appraisal; real progress has
been made on each of the issues, but covenants have been included to further
this change process.
II. Physical and Financial Progress
A. Physical Progress
5.        Physical progress on the PIDER I Project appears to be running
close to estimates made at apraisal in early 1975. The table below compares
appraisal estimates for the three-year PIDER I period to works completed for
1975 and 1976 as reported by the PIDER monitoring unit for the 30 micro-
regions supported by the Bank. Only progress in soil and water conservation
works, health centers, and in fruit tree establishment appears to be behind
schedule (e.g., below 66% completed). Feeder roads, electrification, drinking
water investments, etc., all appear to be somewhat ahead of appraisal comple-
tion targets. Construction on irrigation works is substantially advanced but,
in a number of cases, works have not as yet been handed over to beneficiaries.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
3-Yr Projected    Actual       % of 3-Yr
Unit    Devel. at Appr.  1975-76         Program
Infrastructure
Irrigation                         Ha         30,000         14,349          47.8
Soil & Water Conservation          Ha         91,000         28,887          31.7
Fruit Production                   Ha           9,500          2,778         29.2
Productive Support
Feeder Roads                       Km           1,900          1,773         93.3
Demonstration & Extension   No. of Staff          400            709        177.3
Farmers' Organization        No. of Staff         250            n.a.        n.a.
Marketing                    Market/Stores         65             52         80.0
Electrification              Pers. served   160,000         138,709          86.7
Social Infrastructure
Health Center & Posts              No.            290             71         24.5
Primary Education            Classrooms         1,150            960         83.5
Drinking Water               Pers. served   170,000         131,313           77.2
Self-Help                    Persons          85,000               -            -
6.        Physical performance, overall quite adequate, has varied consider-
ably across micro-regions, states and executing agencies. These variations
have resulted from various factors including: (i) the quality and quantity
of PIDER and agency staff in the area; (ii) the priority given to PIDER by
the executing agency (generally a function of PIDER's relative importance
in the agency's annual investment program); and (iii) government-community
relations (often influenced by previous government activity in the area).
7.        Overall, the implementation of the electricity, feeder road and
much of the irrigation investment has been good (though water pump supply
problems caused delays in some irrigation works). Livestock infrastructure
works have varied greatly across states (in some cases SARH performed
excellently (Yucatan); in others (Sinaloa) it was necessary to tranfer execu-
tion responsibility to other agencies). Schools and health posts have been
constructed, though the staffing of the health posts has caused problems.
Village water supply investments also show great variation: SRH works have
tended to be better executed than those of SSA, but both have had problems
in the proper maintenance of their works. The rural stores are generally
constructed according to program, though store stocking has not always been
adequate, especially from a nutrition point of view. Soil and water conser-
vation works in some areas have been quite good; in others they have tended
to be large and visible, rather than relevant. The most important agencies,
however, for the long-term impact of the program are those of extension and
agrarian reform. Performance so far has been improving and important reforms have
been initiated in both agencies; (in part due to considerable Bank pressure)



ANNEX 2
Page 4
and agreements were signed prior to PIDER II negotiations to further ensure
the implementation of these reforms. (For more detailed description of PIDER
I performance by sector, see the respective sector annexes.)
8.        In addition to the 30 Bank-supported micro-regions, PIDER is active
in an additional 56 micro-regions. Over the 1973-76 period some 5,242 com-
munities (population: 4.1 million) have benefited by PIDER activities. The
benefits, works and communities benefited are shown in Table 1.
B. Expenditure and Financing of PIDER
9.        Overall, PIDER expenditure during the 1973-1976 period has amounted
to only 1.8% of Mexico's public investment budget. Of total rural investment,
however, PIDER accounted for 13.5% during the period on a national basis.
However, this average disguises, in a number of poorer states, the importance
of PIDER investment as a percentage of that state's investment in rural areas.
For example, in the very poor state of Chiapas, PIDER accounted for nearly 40%
of that state's federal rural investment.   (Table 2 provides the PIDER
contribution to rural investment in each of Mexico's 31 states).
10.       For much of the first four years of PIDER, expenditure under PIDER
was financed from government revenues. Some development credit under the low
income producers component of 910-ME was provided to PIDER micro-regions in
1973 and 1974 (for the Bank-supported 30 micro-regions, this amounted to an
estimated US$10 million, of which US$4.5 million was reimbursed from 910-ME).
With the signing of PIDER loan agreements with the Bank and IDB in 1975, and
with the proposed PIDER II loan, external financing averaging some 25% of
PIDER's overall program for the 1975-1978 period is estimated.
II.       Disbursements.  Submission of the first disbursement application
for PIDER expenditures was delayed by about six months as a result of cumber-
some procedures and misunderstandings between PIDER management and Nacional
Financiera, the official borrower under the loan. The first disbursement
application covering PIDER expenditures for the third and fourth quarter of
1975 was only received in June 1976. The agencies concerned (PIDER, Secre-
tariat of Finance and Nacional Financiera) have now a full understanding
of their role in applying for Bank disbursements, however, some of the cum-
bersome procedures can apparently not be avoided, and future disbursement
applications will at the earliest be made some two to three months after
the end of each quarter.
12.       Disbursements were delayed on the credit component, mainly as a
result of FIRA's lack of involvement until recently in the PIDER program.
Now that FIRA has a full understanding of its role and of the requirements
under the project, disbursements for this component are expected to be
improved.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
III.  INSTITUTIONAL CHANGE
13.       The major short-term objective of PIDER management has been to
expand the program to guarantee its existence, to administratively decen-
tralize the program, and to bring about a coordination and consistency in
the activities of the federal agencies at the local levels.
Program Expansion
14.       PIDER management was under great political pressure to expand the
program as quickly as possible. A target of 100 micro-region programs in
operation was set; 86 are now in operation. In addition to expanding so
as to reach as many as possible of Mexico's poorer rural areas, a major
objective was to enlarge the program to such an extent so as to have the
ability to influence the activities of the executing agencies. The expan-
sion period is now ending, with the priority now one of consolidating pro-
gram efforts in the already operational micro-regions. This consolidation
is closely related to the second major objective of decentralization.
Decentralization
15.       Initially, PIDER's system of programming, execution, supervision
and financing was strongly centralized. After experimenting with selective
decentralization in 1974, most of these functions have now been delegated to
the states. Programming for individual years and within the year was then
carried out by the state coordinating committees; education of the authorized
investments being given to the state offices of participating federal agen-
cies. PIDER Technical Groups at the State level supervise program execution
and disburse PIDER funds directly on behalf of the Secretariat of Programming
and Budgeting. This arrangement presented a substantial departure from the
usual inflexibility. The intention of the new Government is to further this
decentralization. In 1977, pilot efforts are being undertaken to have the
states themselves be responsible for the execution of selected investments
(water supply, roads, schools, health centers) with the expectation that this
would be expanded to eventually include all states for most PIDER (and other)
investments. It was primarily as a result of this successful earlier decen-
tralization of selected PIDER investments that the major overall decentrali-
zation program is now being developed. This decentralization is then related
to the third major PIDER objective, that of program coordination.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Program Coordination
16.       A major objective and success of PIDER was the coordination of the
activities of the various agencies operating at the local level. Prior to
PIDER, the various agencies rarely met, and even more rarely coordinated
their activities. As a result of the inter-agency programming exercise and
the monthly state PIDER committee meetings, agencies began to perform in
a more coordinated manner, not only for the PIDER program, but the normal
program as well as the implementing agencies were the same for both. With
the system proposed by the new government (see Annex 6), the state level SPP
delegate will be responsible for coordinating the programming of the various
sectors, and the state government for undertaking and thus coordinating the
actual infrastructure and service implementation.
Agency Reform
17.       In addition to coordinating the efforts of the various executing
agencies, it is becoming increasingly important for PIDER to analyze and,
where necessary, help reform the activities of these agencies. Therefore,
a significant effort has been made in initiating the reorganization and
redirection of the national agricultural extension agency. As a result of
PIDER efforts, the Secretary of Agriculture went on record as recognizing
the need to reform the agency. A special commission was established to
study the specific aspects of the required reforms and an action plan was
adopted. 1/ While the rhetoric of reform outperformed the actual reforms
instituted during the last year of the previous administration, the new
administration has analyzed and now adopted this action plan as its own.
Now, for the first time, the possibility of reform appears real with the
relevant agencies and directorates at both high and lower levels committed
to bringing these changes about. Moreover, a special agreement has been
established between PIDER and SARH Extension which gives PIDER various
powers to ensure that these reforms are implemented. PIDER should become
increasingly involved in analyzing the specific activities of the various
agencies, and this case of extension as well as new efforts in the Secre-
tariat of Agrarian Reform are promising.
1/   An extension action plan was a condition of effectiveness of PIDER I.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Community Participation
18.        There has been increasing recognition of the importance of par-
ticipation, not only to give more decision-making influence to program bene-
ficiaries, but also to ensure that the program infrastucture and services
achieve their original intention. The real participation of village groups
in investment programming and decision-making continues to be limited.
PIDER, however, is now involved in various special programs to increase
beneficiary participation in both the programming and execution of the pro-
gram. PIDER staff have become increasingly concerned that unless there is
real participation in all phases of the program, the potential for proper
operation and maintenance of the program investments will be greatly reduced.
Training
19.       One of the major indirect effects of the program is to develop an
experienced group of rural development technicians throughout the country.
Recent graduates, both in the PIDER support group and the executing agencies,
have accumulated substantial experience through working in the various
micro-regions over the period of the program. These people have a far greater
understanding of the nature of rural development issues and are already being
lured away from the program to work in the more established groups working
in rural areas. While damaging to the program in the short term, this should
serve to improve the overall appropriateness, efficiency and results of rural
development programs.
IV.  PROGRAM RESULTS
20.       In addition to the institutional results brought about through
PIDER mentioned in III above, some preliminary statements can also be made
about project impacts.
Project Impact - Directly Productive Activities
21.       The present major emphasis on directly productive activities was
only recently begun (1975). In the early years of PIDER basic infrastructure
packages (particularly roads) were given high priority. Thus it is still too
early to have output data on PIDER impact, especially since many investments
take four to six years to reach full development (breeding cattle units,
perennial fruits and extension impact on rainfed crop production). Data
from PIDER's monitoring unit, however, indicate that much of the programmed
productive infrastructure (irrigation works, roads, land clearing, fencing,
pasture establishment) in micro-regions started in 1973 and 1974 are now
in place.
22.       While no national PIDER data will be available for a few more
years on the impact of directly productive activities, IBRD missions, PIDER
monitoring staff and CIDER have observed that on ejidos receiving new or
improved irrigation infrastructure:



ANNEX 2
Page 8
(1) double cropping is occurring, particularly in the Sinaloa
region where previously poor pumps and inefficient dis-
tribution through earth-lined canals enabled only one
crop. New pumps and concrete lined canals enable existing
well capacity to serve both an expanded area and a second
crop;
(2) PIDER accompanied this investment with intensified exten-
sion on these irrigated areas emphasizing improved land
leveling, better timing of water application and, most
importantly, liaison with national credit banks to ensure
the timely availability of seasonal production credit for
seed and fertilizer supplies.
Thus, early experience with the irrigation component indicates the improve-
ment of yields resulting from available water use together with PIDER coor-
dinated extension and credit is likely to result in the production expected.
23.       In rainfed areas, however, it is still too early to assess the
impact of PIDER. Where the new extension service, PRONDAAT (See Annex 4-a)
is operating, early results look promising. In PRONDAAT's first effort in
the Zacapoaxtla micro-region in the State of Puebla, the new approach to
extension has managed to reach some 28% of the region's small farmers over
a three year period. Keeping close record of both acceptors and non-accept-
ors of a new technical package (seeds, fertilizers, some credit and improved
plant spacing), early results seem to indicate an average increase of roughly
50% in small farmers' corn yields (average holding of 2.5 ha) in the three
year program. (See Table below). As PRONDAAT staff further refine their
recommendations and the region's farmers gain more experience, with the
new packages, additional yield gains--one weather year taken with another--
equivalent to a further 25% may be achieved. Thus the PRONDAAT data seems
to confirm Bank and Government estimates that a reformed extension service,
working with the credit system, may be able to increase rainfed yields for
basic maize and bean crops up to 75% for some 25% of the farmers in a region.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
PRONDAAT FARMER PARTICIPANTS
Ecological        Average            Minimum       Maximum Yield      Number of
Zone         Yields (kg)       Yield/ha (kg)    per ha (kg)          Farmers
Lowland            2,945               617             4,367              24
Middle             3,029             1,572             5,284              17
Highland           2,030               432             3,829              23
Invierno           2,392             1,546             4,144               6
Average            2,599             1,042             4,406              70
FARMERS NOT PARTICIPATING IN PRONDAAT
Ecological        Average            Minimum       Maximum Yield      Number of
Zone         Yields (kg)        Yield/ha (kg)    per ha (kg)         Farmers
Lowland            1,681               597             4,018             30
Middle             2,313             1,088             3,587              14
Highland           1,409               462             4,016             19
Invierno           1,949               986             3,132              6
Average            1,838               786             3,688             69



ANNEX 2
Table 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Summary of Communities Benefited and Works Completed
in PIDER On-going Regions (86) from 1973-1976
No. of         No. of
Programs                     Communities      Works          Benefits
Productive Programs
Irrigation                           887          1,428          73,448 ha
Livestock                            551            676         328,225 ha
Soil and Water Conservation          674            744         246,647 ha
Fruit Development                    536            536          18,000 ha
Bee Development                      487          2,659           6,821 ha
Forestry                              54              62         25,606 ha
Fisheries                              19             19             721 families
Rural Industries                     209             213         199,880 persons
Productive Support
Agricultural Research                  18             18           1,416 ha
Feeder Roads                       1,144            961           8,628 km
Electrification                    1,087          1,050         501,916 persons
Marketing                            357            344         411,365 persons
Social Programs
Water Supply                       1,220          1,139       1,010,000 persons
Health Posts                         387            391         568,373 persons
Schoolrooms                        1,987          4,213         207,466 students
Number of Municipalities: 613
Population: 4,116,661
Number of Communiiies:  5,242
Area: 664,871 km
Source: PIDER



ANNEX 2
Table 2
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
PIDER's Share in Overall Rural
Investment, Total and by States (1973-1976)
(Mex$'000)
Total                    PIDER                      2
States               Rural Investment    L1       Inetnt           71          L
National Total          46,602,173.9       100    6,671,861.6        100      13.5
1. Aguascalientes              476,195.3       .96      114,407.7       1.71    24.0
2. Baja California Sur         525,853.4      1.06       111,487.8      1.67    21.2
3. Baja California Norte  1,662,306.6         3.35      137,920.6       2.07      8.3
4. Campeche                    636,732.9      1.28      116,816.1       1.75    18.4
5. Chiapas                     927,885.6      1.87      357,830.6       5.36    38.6
6. Coahuila                  1,116,724.3      2.25       123,070.9      1.84    11.0
7. Colima                      623,662.7      1.26       85,315.4       1.28    13.7
8. Chihuahua                 1,893,900.1      3.82       130,644.8      1.96      6.9
9. Durango                   1,370,975.3      2.76      241,845.8       3.62    17.6
10. Guanajuato                  867,521.2       1.75     257,233.1       3.86    29.7
11. Guerrero                  1,806,500.9      3.64      369,402.4       5.54    20.5
12. Hidalgo                   1,586,594.6      3.20      200,926.9       3.01    12.7
13. Jalisco                   2,245,377.3      4.53      683,876.7      10.25    30.5
14. Mexico                    2,189,387.0      4.21       58,930.5        .88      2.7
15. Michoacan                 1,608,304.9      3.24      374,094.9       5.61    23.3
16. Morelos                     363,234.4        .73     129,537.4       1.94    35.7
17. Nayarit                   1,313,291.8      2.65      136,430.0       2.04    10.4
18. Nuevo Leon                  681,477.8      1.37      234,652.1       3.52    34.4
19. Oaxaca                    1,576,339.8      3.18      504,234.3       7.66    32.0
20. Puebla                    1,036,012.7      2.09       198,961.0      2.98    19.2
21. Queretaro                   707,373.5      1.43       225,730.0      3.38    31.9
22. Quintana Roo                428,479.4        .86      137,402.0      2.06    32.1
23. San Luis Potosi           1,591,251.1       3.21      162,907.3      2.44    10.2
24. Sinaloa                   2,673,999.8      5.39       263,736.1      3.95      9.9
25. Sonora                    2,429,066.1       4.90      166,310.9      2.49      6.9
26. Tabasco                   1,065,539.6       2.15       97,598.5      1.46      9.2
27. Tamaulipas                3,257,349.7      6.57       190,147.4      2.85      5.8
28. Tlaxcala                    483,088.5        .97      176,346.3      2.64    36.5
29. Veracruz                  2,609,239.4      5.25       248,457.7      3.72      9.5
30. Yucatan                     817,597.4       1.65      139,850.8      2.10    17.1
31. Zacatecas                 1,234,440.9       2.49      295,755.6      4.46    24.0
Not geographically
distributed              7,796,400.0      15.92
/1   Column percentage.
/2   Row percentage.



ANNEX 3-a
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Development Credit and Pider
INTRODUCTION
1.        Expansion of credit availability to small farmers in the PIDER
micro-regions is an important component of the PIDER II project. This
annex reviews the development of the agricultural credit system in Mexico
and the performance and problems experienced in PIDER I. It describes the
role of the World Bank in credit activities and reviews the proposed credit
component in PIDER II.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE AGRICULTURAL SYSTEM IN MEXICO
A.   Government Credit Operations
2.        The establishment of the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la
Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura (FONDO) in 1955, as a trust fund in the
Bank of Mexico, was a landmark in the development of agricultural credit in
Mexico. It provided a combination of rediscounting facilities and technical
assistance to private and officials banks, and promoted the use of credit
among producers. It also helped train private and official bank staff and
organized continuing practical demonstrations and studies of farmers' problems.
3.        In 1965 the Fondo Especial para Financiamientos Agropecuarios (FEFA)
was established as the international arm of FONDO to channel loan funds from
the IBRD and the IDB through rediscounting operations similar to the FONDO's.
Although FONDO/FEFA has made substantial headway in increasing the number of
low income producers assisted, much remains to be done. In 1972 FONDO/FEFA
assisted 22,594 poor farmers; by 1974 the number had more than tripled, rising
to 77,159. Meanwhile, there was almost a doubling in the number of commercial
farmers aided; the increase was from 8,124 to 13,889. Many farmers, however,
remain to be assisted. Currently there are 300,000 commercial farmers,
900,000 minifundistas, and 1.5 million ejidatarios in Mexico. The Bank of
Mexico has estimated that approximately 75% of these producers receive
no agricultural credit from any source.
4.        In 1973, the Fondo Especial de Asistencia Technica y Garantia para
Creditos Agropecuarios (FEGA) was created to defray technical assistance costs
associated with loans to low-income producers and to guarantee the recovery of
loans. It subsidizes banks engaged in financing of low income producers (LIPS)
to cover the costs of staff employed to provide technical assistance to these
borrowers. This subsidy may total up to 3% (and, in special cases, 6%) of the
volume of LIPS loans. The FEGA also guarantees the recovery of up to 60% (and
in special cases 80%) of the principal balance owed on farm loans made by
private credit institutions to LIPS. Projects so guaranteed must have been



ANNEX 3-a
Page 2
appraised as technically feasible and economically viable and must be suitably
supervised. It also provides a financial subsidy to the FONDO/FEFA. By the
end of 1974, FEGA had approved payments of Mex$30.3 million to the FONDO/FEFA,
Mex$0.7 million to private banks and Mex$1.3 million to public banks for
employing technical staff to assist LIPS subloans. FEGA had also guaranteed
private bank loans totalling Mex$239.5 million.
5.        The FONDO, FEFA, and FEGA are administered by a common staff;
jointly this administration is known as Fideicomisos Instituidos en el
Banco de Mexico en Relacion con la Agricultura (FIRA). A director, assisted
by two sub-directors, is responsible for day-to-day operations supported
by a staff which numbered 1,017 at the end of 1974. The head office is in
Mexico City, supported in the field by seven Regional Offices, 35 State
Offices, and 80 Branch Offices, providing representation throughout the
country.
6.        FIRA's funds are provided by both FONDO (from domestic sources)
and FEFA (from international sources). With these funds it makes redis-
counts to private and public banks which have made development loans to
commercial and low income producers in the agricultural sector. These
operations are complemented by rediscounts for short term loans and by the
provision of subsidies for technical assistance and particular guarantees
for loans (private banks only) to low income producers.
B.   Role of the Public Agricultural Banking System
7.        The ability of FIRA to carry out its mandate of increasing credit
to low income farmers depends largely on the willingness of Mexican agricul-
tural banks to cooperate. In recent years, the public agricultural banking
system has enlarged its credit operations and its network of offices and
staff. Between 1970 and 1975, the volume of credit provided rose from
about Mex$5,800 million to Mex$13,000 million, the number of offices from
550 to 705, and its staff from 7,700 to 20,600.
8.        Until 1975, agricultural credit operations were in the hands of
three agricultural banks. Banco Agricola, created first, served all farmers;
Banco Ejidal was created later to serve ejidos; and later the Banco Agrope-
cuario was set up as a refinancing bank. The result was duplication of
activities and lack of coordination, as well as excessive centralization
in decision-making. In addition, none of the banks were doing the job for
which they were created. All had a back-log of irrecoverable and other
past-due loans and failed to mobilize rural savings, while in some cases
resources were diverted into promotional activities for social and political
reasons.
9.        In July 1975 the Government consolidated the three banks into a
single system, the Rural Credit Bank (Banco Nacional de Credito Rural - BNCR)



ANNEX 3-a
Page 3
with 12 affiliated regional banks. The Ley General de Credito Rural (LGCR),
drawn up shortly thereafter, provided a blue print of the various aspects of
rural credit.
10.       The existence of the Rural Credit Bank as one dominant public lend-
ing institution to agriculture is expected to provide consistency within the
policies of its 12 regional banks and to bring their operations in line with
national agricultural policies. The consolidation, however, is proving to be
a complex task both politically and organizationally, and the impact so far
in many regions has been occassional to slow lending.
C.   Role of Farmer Borrowing Organizations
11.       Bank activities are complemented on the local level by a variety
of farmer borrowing organizations. Since 1976, Mexico has been experimenting
with these organizations. At one extreme there have been simple grupos
solidarios in which a small group from 3 to 9 members borrows collectively
to meet individual credit needs and to purchase inputs and marketing produc-
tion. Sociedades de Credito is similar to but larger than the grupo
solidario, with 10 or more members. There is also Sociedad Semi-Colectiva,
a flexible type of organization whose members practice joint cultivation
on at least part of their land and who may enter into other collective
activities. The Government has most actively promoted a fourth type, the
ejido colectivo, in which the entire ejido is expected to evolve into a
single organizational unit, obtaining credit and undertaking most activities
collectively. Relatively few fully cooperative ejidos now operate. Finally,
there are uniones de ejidos or federations of ejidos which undertake the
supply and marketing functions for which ejidos are generally too small.
These federations may also assist in the organization of new and growing
ejidos. Group activity is becoming increasingly common in Mexico. Success
will depend, however, on overcoming a variety of hurdles. A number of
technical areas need upgrading and must have available management and
technical services commensurate with the growing scale and complexity of
their operations. Also needed are improved accounting capabilities and
internal resources to provide a cushion against possible losses and to reduce
dependence on Government. Finally, administration will have to be tightened,
and organizational allowance made for differing levels of farmers' abili-
ties. At the same time, various attitudes will need changing, in particular,
the basically individualistic attitude of the farmer and his inherent suspi-
cion of any attempt to force group activity. Farmers will also have to be
convinced that cooperative activities can be as profitable as wage labor.
ROLE OF THE WORLD BANK IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
12.       Over the last 12 years, the IBRD has provided the FIRA with US$425
million to support its development lending to agriculture. The Bank has also



ANNEX 3-a
Page 4
assisted FIRA in its efforts to upgrade the technical quality of its staff,
to decentralize and thereby make more efficient its lending operations, and
to introduce improved techniques for the analysis and evaluation of its
impact on the agricultural sector.
13.       The first three of the Bank's loans (1955-1972) went mainly to
commercial farmers. The fourth loan (1973) began a program designed to
assist ejidatarios and other low income producers, a program which was
expanded in the fifth loan (1976). The producers affected were defined as
those who are in legal possession of their land or have titles of usufruct,
whose main source of income is derived from farming, and whose net annual
family income does not exceed 1,000 times the daily minimum rural wage
for the region. The sub-loans were fewer and, on the average, larger than
expected at appraisal principally because investment costs rose with
inflation, but also because there were more group loans and groups were
also larger than anticipated. While there were some sub-loans to associa-
tions of commercial farmers, group lending accounted for the bulk of the low
income producer sub-loans.
PERFORMANCE UNDER PIDER I
14.       PIDER I represents a new approach to increasing the flow of credit
to low income producers. Begun orginally by the Government in 1973 and
assisted after 1975 by loans from IDB and the IBRD, it is designed to provide
poor and isolated micro-regions both social and productive infrastructure, as
well as increased amounts of technical assistance and producer credit.
15.       During 1974, substantial effort was made by PIDER and FIRA staff to
assess the credit needs, both seasonal and longer term, of small farmers in
the 30 micro-regions which were to be assisted by the Bank's PIDER I loan.
In 1974, Banco Ejidal representatives joined FIRA staff to work with the PIDER
Coordinating Committee to coordinate credit promotion and availability with
infrastructure investments planned under the PIDER program. A snag arose in
early 1975, just as the PIDER I structure was being formalized, when funds for
credit ran out; all funds available in the fourth agricultural and livestock
credit loan for lending to low income farmers had been fully committed. As
a result, a credit component was incorporated into the first PIDER loan, to be
administered by FIRA under the same terms as those which were to prevail under
the fifth agricultural and livestock credit loan (then under preparation).
This PIDER credit component was coordinated specifically with the credit needs
and resulting from PIDER infrastructure investment and extension support.
16.       Sixty-five percent of total PIDER I investments were planned to
be productive, and approximately half of these were expected to be financed
through sub-loans made by the participating banks, both private and official,
and subsequently discounted with PIDER. During 1975 and early 1976 a number
of organizational problems arose which inhibited the lending program within
the PIDER regions. Efforts to resolve these problems appear to be working,



ANNEX 3-a
Page 5
while the amount of credit disbursed to low income producers in the 30
PIDER I micro-regions has been nearly as high as originally projected.
17.       As shown in Table 1, the amount of long-term credit provided to
low income producers in these micro-regions (and discounted by FIRA) rose
from Mex$94 million in 1973 to Mex$207 million in 1975, an increase of 120%.
Discounting for inflation during the period, credit increased in real terms
approximately 50%. This rise is even more impressive when compared with the
much slower rate increase experienced in agricultural credit in Mexico during
these two years. Preliminary data for the first six months of 1976 suggest
that the credit discounted by FIRA this year will rise in nominal terms by an
additional 30% in these regions, or by 10-15% in real terms.
18.       Lending within the 30 PIDER I micro-regions has been concentrated
within a subset of micro-regions. Six micro-regions located in Nuevo Leon
(2), Sinaloa (3) and Aguascalientes (1) received 69% of the sub-loans dis-
counted by FIRA during the first ten months of the PIDER I loan (Table 2).
Fifteen of the micro-regions account for 84% of all credit discounted,
with the other 15 micro-regions receiving only 16%. The disparity reflects
the variations in lending opportunities and in the strength of PIDER, FIRA,
and the participating banks in the different areas. In seven micro-regions
there has been an absolute decline in the credits discounted since 1973; in
several, the appraisal mission was informed by FIRA officials that the reason
was difficulties in the official Rural Credit Bank, which resulted from the
reorganization of the three official banks into one unit.  The most important
obstacles to increased lending are being analyzed and steps are being taken to
improve the situation.
19.       The major end-use categories for development loans granted to low
income producers within the 30 micro-regions have been:



ANNEX 3-a
Page 6
Category                 Percent
Annual crops                42
Cattle:                     27
Beef   15
Dairy 12
Fruit trees                 15
Agro-Industry                9
Other livestock              4
Poultry                      2
Bees                         1
Total         100
This breakdown is similar to that which was observed in the fourth loan, but
with greater emphasis in the PIDER I loan on annual crops and fruit trees and
less emphasis on cattle. The probable reason is that many of the livestock
projects planned for the PIDER I micro-regions are at a stage where credit
financing would be premature.
20.       During the first 10 months of PIDER I, 714 credits were discounted
by FIRA, benefitting 3,572 producers. As shown in Table 4, 57% of the ben-
eficiaries were ejidatarios and 43% were small freeholders. The ejidatarios
received 26% of the funds disbursed; the small freeholders 74%. Loans made
to 183 groups of producers (grupos solidarios and sociedades de credito),
including groups of ejidatarios and groups of small freeholders, represented
85% of the total beneficiaries and 52% of the funds disbursed. The other
48% of credit disbursed was received by 535 individual small freeholders.
The loans to groups averaged Mex$524,590 per loan or, given an average of
nearly 17 persons per loan, Mex$31,500 per beneficiary. The loans to indi-
vidual small freeholders averaged Mex$170,000. The size distribution of the
loans is given in Table 5; when the amounts of each loan category are divided
by the number of respective beneficiaries, the size distribution, at least at
this level of aggregation of beneficiaries, is more or less equal.
21.       The term structure of loans is shown in Table 6.  The modal term
for the loans is three years, and 59% of the loans have a term of 3-5 years.
The remaining 41% range from 6 to 15 years and comprise mostly cattle and
fruit tree projects, whose development requires longer term repayment periods.
22.       FIRA discounted Mex$186 million pesos of long-term development loans
in the 30 PIDER I micro-regions from May 1975 through March 1976. On a
12-month basis, this would be Mex$223 million. Preliminary data indicates
that FIRA rediscounts in these same 30 micro-regions will exceed Mex$305
million in calendar year 1976.



ANNEX 3-a
Page 7
ORGANIZATIONAL PROBLEMS IN PIDER I
23.       A number of organizational problems have been inhibiting the
smooth functioning of the credit component in the PIDER I program. PIDER and
FIRA are aware of these issues and are making a major effort to resolve them.
They include the following:
Coordination of Activities between PIDER and FIRA. Neither
FIRA or PIDER have made sufficient effort to coordinate their
efforts. In particular, there has been a failure to coordinate
availability with PIDER infrastructure investments. Recently,
however, both bodies have agreed to coordinate activities more
closely. In particular FIRA has promised to play a more
central role in the planning of on-farm investments to expand
its promotional activities in the micro-regions.
Organizational problems within the official Banks. The offi-
cial Banks have been slower than expected to expand their
activities within the micro-regions. As mentioned, the con-
solidation of the three official banks slowed credit opera-
tions. In addition, the Rural Credit Bank lacks trained
staff, particularly in the most isolated regions which are
being newly opened. Here difficult working and living condi-
tions make it hard to attract and keep staff.
The organization of ejidos and communities. Probably the
most difficult element in the entire PIDER program is the
organizing of ejidos into working groups capable of soliciting,
receiving and utilizing credit. The principal responsibility
for this job falls to the Secretariat of Agrarian Reform (SRA)
whose efforts have had results. Organizationally, it has
been one of the weaker Federal departments (Annex 2-e).
The establishment of an extension service. PIDER has been
working both with the Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock
(now SARH) and with PRONDAAT (Annex 2-c) to develop extension
services in different regions. These are needed to assist in
planning, designing and implementing infrastructure components,
and also to provide advice once productive investments are
in place. Experience to date indicates that it takes about
three years to establish an effective new extension service in
a micro-region. The time is needed primarily for new agricul-
tural technicians to gain practical experience and familiarity
with the region and with producers.
Financing of directly productive investments by PIDER. In
some ejidos and communities, the directly productive invest-
ments identified by PIDER have not been found viable for credit
financing by FIRA and/or the participating banks. One problem



ANNEX 3-a
Page 8
is the short time before repayment is required. Loans are
generally given for a maximum of 15 years, with a maximum
of three years of grace, at 7.6% interest, a time too limited
for some development loans to pay out. In other cases, where
the loan may be financially viable, the participating bank may
request that PIDER contribute part of the investment as a quasi
down payment in anticipation of possible default. Finally, some
projects have been deemed socially profitable, but not finan-
cially profitable, even with improved loan terms.
24.       In each of the above cases, PIDER's practice has been to finance a
proportion of the investment package directly, usually by contracting out the
design and implementation to one of the federal line departments such as the
Secretariat of Public Works, the Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources, or the
Secretariat of Agriculture and Livestock. After the original investments are
made, the participating banks then will agree to provide sufficient credit to
complete the project, with repayment to be made by the beneficiaries for the
credit-financed portion. 1/ A number of problems arise when PIDER finances
productive investments this way. For one, delays occur frequently because
federally funded projects must be budgeted and appropriated at the federal
level with the result that funds are often not available during early spring
when working conditions are best and labor is not occupied with farm tasks.
25.       PIDER is considering a new system which it hopes will encourage
banks to offer credit at an earlier stage. The Plan would allow participating
banks, both private and official, to initiate preliminary planning and design
work for on-farm investments. It would also allow individual ejidos, in
certain cases, to initiate projects and give them the option of contracting
with FIRA agricultural technicians for help. Banks would also be given a
voice in determining when a federal contribution might be justified for a
PIDER project and what proportion that contribution should represent. Once
the proportions were determined, the federal contribution and the credit
would be combined into a working fund out of which the construction of the
project would be financed in its entirety. Private contractors approved by
PIDER, or federal line dependencies, would be eligible contractors, under
the joint responsibility of the ejido and participating banks. Ejidos and
participating banks would be made liable for a fixed proportion of the
planned project and any cost overruns.
26.       The proposed process should increase the initiative taken by
ejidos and participating banks in the planning of on-farm investments and
increase their responsibility for overseeing both the planning and the
implementation of projects. Ejidos and participating banks would be made
liable for a fixed proportion of the planned project.
1/   The Rural Credit Bank has been used as an executing agency for the PIDER
financed investments in micro-regions where the Secretariat of Agricul-
ture and Livestock was not able to undertake this work. FIRA has re-
commended that private banks also be given this authority.



ANNEX 3-a
Page 9
THE PROJECT
27.       Under PIDER I credit was provided to the micro-regions supported
by the loan; it was not, however, restricted to the support of PIDER-financed
infrastructure. This policy would be continued under PIDER II.
28.       PIDER I credit performance was adversely affected by the poor co-
ordination between PIDER and FIRA offices. FIRA was not formally included
in the monthly state-level PIDER meetings and felt itself only a marginal
participant in the program. PIDER staff saw credit as important but not
their responsibility and thus not directly related to the PIDER program.
Bank supervision missions brought both groups together on various occa-
sions in attempts to bring about a better mutual understanding between
the groups. Considerable progress was eventually made and, as a result
of PIDER I, investment agency and bank coordination was begun at the state
level. Increasingly, PIDER has been adopting FIRA investment criteria in
the programming of on-farm directly productive investments, such as livestock
projects. PIDER field staff now find such coordination indispensable for the
proper operation of the program and are insisting on the formal participa-
tion of the FIRA at the state and local levels to ensure that investments
programmed and implemented by PIDER meet FIRA criteria for additional finan-
cing. A formal agreement, defining the obligations and responsibilities of
each group, was signed. The agreement defines: (i) mechanisms for formal
coordination including periodic meetings, information exchange, integration
of FIRA into the State Committees; (ii) procedures for resolving inter-
group disputes regarding investment criteria; and (iii) arrangements for
training PIDER staff on FIRA regulations and procedures.
29.       The development credit, reimbursable from the proposed loan, would
be used primarily for livestock, and for land leveling and associated invest-
ments needed to support new irrigation works. Credit would be made available
on the same terms applied nationally by FIRA for low-income producers under
other Bank loans. Repayments of principal will range from 3 to 15 years and
will include grace periods of I to 3 years with FIRA rediscounting no more
than 90% of the original credit amount. Interest and rediscount rates would
be as follows:



ANNEX 3-a
Page 10
Rediscount               Interest
Rates to Partici-        Rates to
pating Banks             Beneficiaries
Private    Public
(i) Loans to beneficiaries
receiving institutional
credit for the first           6.50%       7.50%           9.50%
time and whose net
annual family income
does not exceed 250
times the daily
minimum rural wage for
the regions where they
are located.
(ii) Loans to other low
income procedures
in Project micro-              8.00%       9.00%          11.00%
regions.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained on these arrangements.
30.       Seasonal production credit (currently at 14% interest) would be
provided under the project from existing credit lines, but would not be
reimbursable from the proposed loan.



ANNEX 3-b
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PIDER II
RURAL INDUSTRIES
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        Small farmers in Mexico, ejidatarios and smallholders - produce
about half of the total national agriculture production but their share
in the processing and marketing of this production is less than 1%. Since
the 1950's the Government of Mexico has promoted enterprises owned by
ejidatarios and smallholders to improve the distribution of the benefits
from the production of primary products. Such enterprises are supported
so that small farmers receive a higher share of the value of the final
product, as well as to break the often monopolistic position of middlemen
and traders.
2.        In addition, the Government supports rural industries to create
off-farm employment in the rural areas and to alleviate the chronic un- and
underemployment among Mexico's landless. Among Mexico's 20 million rural
inhabitants, about 50% are landless and a large share of those owning land
have plots too small to sustain a family. These need additional off-farm
sources of employment.
3.        The Government has financed rural industries in the PIDER program
since 1973. The investments have been small in relation to the total pro-
gram. At the Government's request rural industries were not included in
the first Bank project in support of PIDER. At that time the Government had
not established a firm policy for rural industries and had not sufficiently
assessed the quality of the programs by the agencies involved. Based on the
first years of experience, the Government is now establishing a strategy for
rural industry development in PIDER which is the basis of the proposed IBRD
support to a rural industry component in PIDER II.
II.  TIE SECTOR
A.   Agro-Industries
4.        Mexico's agro-industry sector accounted for an aggregated value of
production of Mex$144 billion and a total employment of 1.3 million in 1970 1/.
Over the period 1960-70 the industry grew by 10.2% annually in output value
and by 7.2% in employment. Mexico's agro-industry is oligopolistic. A few
enterprises account for 50% or more of the total value of the production
in most sectors. There is also a process of concentration in the industry
1/   Agro-industries includes enterprises for marketing of the agriculture
products as well as industrialization.



ANNEX 3-b
Page 2
with an increasing share of the total output coming from the larger enterprises.
Enterprises owned by ejidatarios or smallholders play only a marginal role.
Some 300 ejido-owned agro-industries are estimated to account for a total
aggregated production of some Mex$150 million, i.e. less than 1% of the total
output. Only in forestry is the participation of ejido-owned industries
more than marginal.  Of the total wood production of 6.7 million m  in 1974,
ejido industries accounted for 16.5%. The Government's support to agro-
industries owned by farmers and ejidatarios have followed several directions.
Small industries for packing and conservation of fruits and vegetables,
preparation of meat, coffee grinding, etc., utilizing simple technologies with
investments not exceeding Mex$0.5 million have been promoted, as well as
larger plants such as sawmills, cotton gins, feedmills, plants for fruit and
vegetable preservation, with investments in the size of Mex$10-20 million.
The Government support has been for agro-industries owned and operated auto-
nomously by the ejidatarios as well as for enterprises jointly owned by the
farmers and the Government. The agro-industries are in most cases located in
market towns, since access to infrastructure, transport, and markets is less
restricted in towns than in more isolated rural areas.
B.   Mineral-based Industries
5.        The Mexican mining and excavation industry had an aggregated produc-
tion value of Mex$5.6 billion and employed some 60,000 in 1970. Over 60% of
the mining and excavation take place on ejido land, but with only marginal
ownership participation by the farmers or ejidatarios. Until 1975, when a
new Mining Law was passed, the ejidatarios or smallholders received few
benefits from such exploitation. Various Government agencies have promoted
ejido-owned industries for exploitation of minerals. Such enterprises have
been established particularly for exploitation of non-metalic minerals, such
as excavation of lime, stone, clay (for production of bricks, and tiles)
onyx, marmol, gravel and sand. In total some 100 industries were established
with an estimated total production of Mex$150 million, excluding very small
investments for production of bricks, tiles and blocks for strictly local
demands.
C.   Village Enterprises
6.        Small industries or artisans producing for local markets are rare
in the rural areas and small towns in Mexico. Small towns or villages with
up to 5,000 inhabitants often have no craftsmen and the needs for consumer
goods, services and agriculture implements are met in the larger regional
market towns. Only a few articles are usually produced in the small Mlexican
market towns, the most common being: tortilla, bread, cheese, ice, materials
for construction, wooden furniture, sandals and simple garments. In addition,
the small market towns usually have mechanical workshops for various kinds
of repairs.



ANNEX 3-b
Page 3
7.         The Government has actively tried to establish cooperative village
industries owned by ejidos or rural communities with the objective of creat-
ing rural employment and additional incomes for the rural population. Some
500 such small village enterprises have been financed the last few years,
involving an investment of about Mex$100 million. These village enter-
prises are usually very small, employing less than ten persons and with
investments of less than Mex$200,000. They are highly labor-intensive, with
investment per job averaging less than Mex$10,000.
III. PAST EFFORTS
A.   The Credit System
8.         Until recently the major agency for the financing of rural industries
in Mexico has been Fondo Nacional de Fomento Ejidal (FONAFE). Established in
1959 to administer Fondos Comunes (ejido funds created from expropriations of
ejido land), FONAFE developed into a Government financed agency promoting
various types of ejido owned industries. About 300 such enterprises were
directly financed by FONAFE, with a total investment of Mex$868 million,
involving over 70,000 ejidatarios and providing employment to about 12,000 of
them. The most important type of industry is exploitation of forestry --
accounting for about 50% of the total aggregated investment. Many of these
industries promoted by FONAFE have not succeeded, often due to insufficiency
in raw materials, management, and marketing. As a result of increasing
problems in FONAFE, the Government announced in late 1975 that FONAFE's role
would be reduced to its original function of administering the Fondos Comunes.
FONAFE's rural industries credit function would be transferred to a new
Government bank -- Financiera National de Industria Rural (FINIR).
9.         At the end of 1975, the Congress ratified a new law for agriculture
credit. The law includes the form under which credits will be granted to
rural industries by the official banks. Two institutions constitute the new
official bank system for agriculture credit, Banco Nacional de Credito Rural
(BNCR), with its regional offices, and Financiera Nacional de Industria Rural
(FINIR). According to the new credit law, rural industry and related invest-
ments may in principle be financed by both banks. It is likely that BNCR will
be the main financial intermediary for agro-processing industries, while FINIR
would concentrate on resource-extracting industries and tourism. 1/
10.       Banco Credito Rural (BNCR) was created in 1975 when the three
official agriculture banks in Mexico, Banco Credito Agricola, Banco Ejidal
and Banco Agropecuario were merged into one bank (See annex 3-a). BNCR is
organized in 12 regional banks, with an apex institution in Mexico City.
During 1970-74 the official banks approved long-term credits for agro-indus-
trial development amounting to Mex$469 million, which was 5% of their term
lending. Low income producers account for a majority of the borrowing.
1/   FINIR has not yet been established and is not likely to be operational
for several years.



ANNEX 3-b
Page 4
11.       BNCR's experience in assisting ejido and small farmer industries
is mixed. Problems are common due to weak internal organization of producer
groups, or difficulties relating to legal status, land tenure or rights
of access to raw materials. The bank needs to strengthen its capacity
to prepare, evaluate and supervise projects, and to provide technical and
organizational assistance to producer-owned agro-industrial projects.
Regional rural industry specialists need to be added and the present staff
in the central office and in the regional banks require training in apprai-
sal techniques as well as in methods of assistance to ejido and other
rural industries.
12.       BNCR has recently established a department for agro-industry
development with an initial specialized staff of 36 persons in Mexico City.
Similar departments will be established in the regional banks with the
purpose to strengthen BNCR's financial and technical service to rural in-
dustries. BNCR plans a lending for 1977 of Mex$250 million for rural
industries of which most would be for ejidatarios and small farmers.
13.       FIRA.  An important role in the Government's credit support to
agriculture and rural industries is played by FIRA (Fideicomisos Instituidos
en el Banco de Mexico en Relacion con la Agricultura), three trustfunds
(FONDO, FEGA and FEFA) under Banco de Mexico. (See further Annex 3-a).
Agro-industrial lending accounts for a minor share of FIRA's operations.
In 1975, FIRA approved Mex$ 175 million for agro-industrial projects which
was 4% of FIRA's total long-term lending. FIRA plans to increase its lending
for agro-industries to about 10% of its total lending by 1980. FIRA has not
specifically oriented its lending for agro-industries to benefit low income
producers or ejidatarios. Of its total portfolio, only 6% of the projects are
owned partly or in full by ejidatarios. FIRA is, however, in line with the
political priorities in Mexico, trying to increase its lending and assistance
to ejidatarios and other low-income groups.
B.   Other Government Agencies
14.       There are besides the Government banks and trust funds, some 20
Government agencies promoting development of rural industries in Mexico.
For most of these agencies, the programs for rural industries are small
and often marginal activities. The efforts have often been of mixed results
and the lack of coordination between the agencies have created duplication
of efforts. Among the more successful agencies in supporting rural industries
are: Actividades Productivas and the National Indian Institute (INI).
15.       Actividades Productivas is a program for promotion of productive
activities in the PIDER micro-regions operated since 1975 by a sub-department
of the Secretariat of the President. The program promotes and finances three
types of productive activities: (i) rural industries; (ii) rural shops, and



ANNEX 3-b
Page 5
(iii) small-scale agriculture development. The philosophy behind the
program is to foster self-reliance among the rural population to meet local
needs and to improve local capacity to operate small enterprises. "Pro-
motores" financed by Actividades Productivas stationed in the micro-regions
promote producer and consumer cooperatives and teach basic production and
management technologies. The program is designed after a highly successful
rural industry cooperative in Jalisco (Industria de Pueblo). Actividades
Productivas had in 1975 a budget of Mex$100 million and has since it started
financed about 150 small enterprises.
16.       INI is a decentralized government agency for assistance and
development for the Indian population. It undertakes integrated develop-
ment programs in the Indian areas by coordinating various line agencies
and ministries. INI presently operates in more than 800 villages, with a
target population of about 6 million. Between 1971 and 1975, INI promoted
about 200 small rural industries from which some 4000 artisans have bene-
fitted. The workshops INI promotes serve to train the local population
in vocational skills, provide basic products at low cost to the local
community, and develop handicraft tradition of the indigeneous population.
C.   Rural Industries in PIDER
17.       PIDER has supported development of rural industries since the
program started in 1973, but investments have been only about 1% of the
total program. Typical projects financed under PIDER are small work-
shops for production of construction materials, garments, foods (such
as mills for corn, tortillerias, bakeries) and handicraft development
(woodcarving, pottery, weaving), averaging about Mex$200,000 in investment.
In addition some medium sized industries have been financed (e.g. ice
factories and processing of lime) with investments in the range of
Mex$5-10 million.
18.       The enterprises are with few exceptions new and more than 15
government agencies have been instrumental in identifying the projects,
preparing feasibility studies, constructing the enterprises, training the
workers and occasionally administering the enterprises and actively market
the products. In 1975 PIDER authorized about 250 investments in rural in-
dustries and handicraft development totalling about Mex$53 million. The
table below gives the types of industries financed:



ANNEX 3-b
Page 6
No. of         Investment        % of
Type of Industry                 Projects        (Mex$'000)    Investment
Agro-industries                     57              6,297          12.0
Mineral-based industries            37             15,624          29.7
Handicraft development              17              2,810           5.3
Other Industries
(garments, shoes,
furnitures, etc.)                 132             26,813          51.0
Technical Assistance               n.a.             1,051           2.0
Total                   243             52,595         100.0
19.       Early Lessons by PIDER.  The Government considered its early
investment in rural industries in the PIDER program as a trial period.
The experience of rural industries in PIDER is mixed. Some of the enter-
prises have been viable and provided the community with additional employ-
ment and earnings, often at low investment costs. However, a considerable
number of projects have failed or have problems. The problems are mainly
due to:
(a) the groups of ejidatarios or villagers have not been sufficiently
organized, and sometimes lacked legal status.
(b) many industries have been established without a feasibility
study of the project and the industries have proved to be
economically not viable.
(c) Rural industries were often seen as infrastructure investments
by the supporting agencies. On-going support to established
enterprises was often weak or non-existent. Particularly, access
to working capital has been a major problem for the enterprises.
The problems encountered by PIDER reflect the quality of the various Govern-
ment agency programs for rural industries. These programs were often
marginal activities of the agencies. Most of the agencies lacked experience
and had not established an efficient support system.
20.       A serious shortcoming was that PIDER did not involve the credit
institutions in the program, in order to improve the quality of project
appraisal and access to ongoing credit.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   A New Strategy for Rural Industries
21.       Based on the experience of the first years of investment in
the PIDER program, the Government is now formulating a development



ANNEX 3-b
Page 7
strategy for rural industries under PIDER. The basic principles of this
strategy are as follows:
(i) The capacity for promotion of rural industries by the agencies
active in this field would be strengthened through: (a) training
of their technical staff; (b) funding of preparation studies
for new industries; (c) funding of technical assistance for
existing industries; and (d) in key agencies, expansion of
technical staff.
(ii) PIDER's direct financing of rural industries would be limited
to small village industries promoted by the more successful
agencies; all other financing would be through bank credit.
(iii) Rural industry investments for other than small village indus-
tries would be financed through credit and the banks would play
the leading role in the support. This would ensure: (a) a
more sound evaluation of the various projects; (b) integration
between agriculture and agro-industrial development; (c) util-
ization of the technical capacity of the banks for preparation
and evaluation of agro-industrial projects; and (d) access to
working capital to the industries once in operation.
(iv) PIDER would by developing its own specialized staff, take a
more active role in the development of rural industries both
in the programming stage and in monitoring during the post-
investment stage.
B.   Brief Project Description
22.       The PIDER II Project would introduce support to development of
rural industries based on the strategy outlined above. Eligible for financ-
ing under the project would be rural industries in the 20 new micro-regions
selected for PIDER II as well as in the 30 micro-regions financed under the
Bank's first loan to PIDER. The concept of micro-region would be expanded
in the case of rural industries to include urban centers and towns located
in the micro-region. Owners would however in all cases be ejidatarios and
small farmers residing in the rural portion of the micro-regions. Also,
the major source of inputs to the plant would be the PIDER micro-region.
23.       The following components would be financed under the Project:
(i) Investment credit for rural industries owned by groups of
ejidatarios, small farmers, and landless in the micro-regions.
Through FONDO (FIRA) the project would provide rediscounting



ANNEX 3-b
Page 8
for loans to such industries granted by the official
banks or the private banks 1/.
(ii)  Investments in small, labor intensive rural industries
(village industries) with total investments of less than
US$35,000 equivalent.
(iii)  Technical assistance for the promotion of and advice to
rural industries, including financing of feasibility studies,
additional staff and staff training to key agencies.
C.   Project Cost
24.       The cost of the rural industry component of the project are
estimated as follows:
--------------  Cost
% of
Component                    (Mex$ mill.)              (US$ mill.)    Project Cost
Rural Industry Credit             202.5                   9.0              64
Village Industry
Development                      67.5                    3.0              22
Technical Assistance:             45.0                    2.0              14
Total                  315.0                  14.0             100
D.   Detailed Features
25.       Rural Industry Credit.  The Bank Project would finance rural
industries in the micro-regions selected in PIDER I and PIDER II under the
ownership of the groups eligible for credit from the official Agriculture
Banks according to the Agriculture Credit Law 2/. Priority would be given
1/   Of the official Banks,FINIR is not yet in operation and would be eligible
under the project only after subsequent appraisal.
2/   For a list of groups eligible for credit from the Official Banks, see
Annex 3-a.



ANNEX 3-b
Page 9
to agro-industries and other industries for exploitation of other natural
resources in the micro-regions. Emphasis would be given to industries
which would attempt to integrate primary production, storage, packaging,
processing, transportation and marketing.
26.       The Project would provide rediscounting facilities of up to 90%
by FONDO of loans for such industries. The terms for rediscounting would be
the same as established for FIRA under the IBRD's Fifth Agro-credit project to
Mexico. 1/ The project would give priority to smaller and more labor-intensive
agro-industries than usually financed by FIRA and the banks. Most of the
projects are expected to be financed by the official banks which have been
given central roles in financing rural industries in Mexico. The sub-projects
would, like other loans for low-income producers rediscounted by FONDO, be
eligible for (a) reimbursement of costs for technical assistance of up to 3%
of the loan-amount and (b) guarantee on the outstanding amount in the case of
projects are financed by the private banks. FEGA would provide these services
(See Annex 3-a).
27.       PIDER would in certain cases contribute to financing of the rural
industries by infrastructure investments for specific projects. In all
cases the projects should be approved by a bank and FIRA and the bank credit
should have been committed to the project prior to the PIDER investment.
28.       Based on PIDER and the banks projections, an expected demand
for long-term credit (including PIDER financed infrastructure of Mex$ 165
million for rural industries would occur over the period 1977-79 in the 50
PIDER micro-regions financed by IBRD. The table below gives a tentative
composition of projected project cost for these projects:
1/   IBRD Report No. 961-MIE.



ANNEX 3-b
Page 10
Estimated          Estimated
No. of         Project Cost       No. of Producers
Type of Project         Projects        (Mex$ mill.)      Participating
Forestry (sawmill-
logging)                  18               76.0               2800
Fruit/vegetable
packing & processing       6               25.0                600
Livestock-based
industries                 7               29.5                200
Other agro-industries
(Feed plants, milling,
storages)                 8               29.0                400
Mineral-based
industries                11               43.0               1000
Total            50             202.5               5000
29.       Village Industry Development.  The Project would finance small
village industries with total investments of less than US$35,000 equivalent.
Investment capital for the enterprises as well as initial working-capital
would be financed.
30.       In the Project, an estimated 300 village enterprises would be
established with a total investment of 11ex$67.5 million. The projects
would provide permanent employment to some 6,000 persons of which about
half would be women. The types of workshops and enterprises envisaged in
the project are the following 1/:
No. of         Investment
Types of Enterprise          Projects        (Mex$'000)   Employment
Manufacturing of
construction
materials                     100             35,000       2,500
Food and agro-
processing                     60             15,000       1,200
Handicraft development          90             13,500       1,500
Other production
(garments, furnitures,
etc.)                          50             14,000       1,600
Total                300             67,500      6,200
1/   The table is tentative based on typical sub-project promoted by Government
agencies and PIDER in the past few years.



ANNEX 3-b
Page  1
31.       Based on an assessment of the past experience in supporting rural
industries, PIDER will formulate a plan for the development of small village
industries. The plan will be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30,
1978. The plan should specify the Government agencies that would participate
in providing finance and technical assistance to village industries and the
criteria for such support. Principal criteria would be:
(i) the total investment in fixed assets and initial working
capital for each enterprise should not exceed US$35,000;
(ii) each project should be supported by a simple feasibility
study, including financial arrangements (particularly for
working capital), an assessment of the market potential,
and principles for marketing of the products;
(iii)  the beneficiaries should contribute to the project cost
by providing labor and/or materials;
(iv) before initiating an individual project, a contract should be
established between the agency and the beneficiaries, specify-
ing legal status, ownership principle and management structure
for the enterprise and a schedule for cost recovery.
(v) for each industry the supporting agency should facilitate
access to subsequent working capital from the banking system
once the enterprise is in operation.
32.       The agencies participating in the program would establish general
principles of cost recovery for the investments in village industries. These
principles should include that investment costs should be fully recovered, and
each agency should establish a revolving fund from project repayments to be
used for future investments in village enterprises and related activities in
the regions.
33.       Technical Assistance.  The Project would provide for technical
assistance to the participating agencies to strengthen their capacity to
promote and assist rural industries. This would include:
(i) finance for preparation of rural industry projects in the micro-
regions and for technical assistance to already established enter-
prises;



ANNEX 3-b
Page 12
(ii)  expansion of technical staff in FIRA, the official banks,
and other participating agencies; and
(iii)  training programs for technical staff in participating
agencies.
34.       Financing of Studies. The project would finance preparation of rural
industry projects in the micro-regions and specific programs of technical
assistance to projects in operation. The project would cover costs of prepara-
tion of feasibility studies for rural industries, specific programs for
organizing ejidatarios and producers, programs for training of the producers
to administrate the enterprises, and other consultancy services which may be
needed by the enterprises. The project would cover costs above what is pro-
vided by FEGA for technical assistance to bank supported industries. The
allocation should be approved by PIDER and a bank should, prior to the
approval, indicate its willingness to finance the project if it proves to be
feasible.
35.       Specialized Staff.  The project would provide additional marketing
and rural industry specialists for FIRA, Banco Rural, and other agencies
chosen by PIDER and approved by IBRD.   These specialists would work ex-
clusively on rural industry projects in the Bank financed PIDER micro-regions.
lHost of the specialized staff would be recruited locally since Mexico has a
well trained cadre of agro-industry and small-scale industry specialists. The
project would finance the staff over three years. In addition, the IMIexican
Government would be expected to finance a national coordinator and three area
coordinators for the PIDER's rural industry program.
36.       Training of Staff.  The Project would support training for
the specialized staff of the participating agencies. One training program
would involve FIRA and PIDER organizing sessions at the state level to
train representatives of participating agencies in project preparation
and evaluation, and to identify concrete possibilities in the PIDER
micro-regions in each state. In addition, study tours to assess experience
of cooperative farmers enterprises in other countries and seminars in Mexico
would be arranged.



ANNIEX 3-c
Page 1
MEXICO
Rural Development Project - PIDER II
Small-Scale Irrigation
I.   Introduction
1.        Performance under the PIDER I project in irrigation has been
adequate. Originally, some 30,000 ha of irrigated land was to be completed
over the project period. At the end of two project years, 1975 and 1976,
some 14,349 ha have been completed, 48% of the appraisal estimate. Under
PIDER I, some US$35 million was allocated to this component for the 30
micro-regions. Under PIDER II, an additional US$37 million for 20 further
micro-regions would be provided. The average unit cost for a new ha. of
irrigation under PIDER I was estimated at US$1200, under PIDER II, unit costs
are expected to be US$1400 per ha of new irrigation. Under PIDER II, some
34,000 ha are expected to benefit from the irrigation component.
2.        Under PIDER's overall program (1973-1976), some US$80 million or
about 20% of its total program was invested in irrigation systems. This
investment benefited some 50,000 ha and 16,500 families. The irrigation
sector received the largest share of all sectors support by PIDER. This
emphasis on irrigation would be continued under the PIDER II project.
Executing departments would be the the new Secretariat of Water Resources and
Agriculture, through the new Directorate of Works for Rural Development
(OHDR).
3.        Although physical limits of water availability in many regions of
Mexico may impose serious constraints on further large-scale irrigation
developments, studies undertaken by SRH indicate that there is significant
potential up to 1.5 million ha for additional small-scale irrigation works
over the next 25 years.
II. Background
4.        Much of the land suitable for agricultural production in Mexico
is subject to occasional, temporary, or permanent drought, particularly in
the central and northern parts of the country. Even in regions with generally
adequate rainfall of 700 mm or more during the wet season, supplemental irri-
gation can often be used to advantage to grow a second or perennial crop.
While subsistence production under rainfed conditions takes place in many
areas where rainfall is as low as 400 to 500 mm, yields per ha in these
regions are generally very low, and range from 250 kg to 800 kg per ha



ANNEX 3-c
Page 2
for maize, the staple crop. While some output increases are possible
in these areas through the use of better adapted seeds, soil and water
conservation, and better farming methods, the potential is limited since
farmers traditionally try to minimize the risk of crop failure by planting
low-yield, drought-resistent varieties.
5.        Of the approximately 16.8 million ha. of agricultural land under
cultivation in 1974/75, just under one third or about 5 million ha benefited
from irrigation. The value of crops from irrigated land accounted for some-
what over 50% of the total value of agricultural production. Irrigated
agriculture accounts for a large percentage (Table 1) of the total output
of many important crops.
Table 1
Share of Irrigated Agriculture on the Production of Some Crops
(in percentage)
Estimated
1970             1980            1990
Maize                           30               30              32
Beans                           18               19              24
Wheat                           96               95              95
Sorghum                         59               59              64
Soy beans                       93               89              92
Saffron                         99               78              85
Cotton                          97               92              92
Sugarcane                       52               52              56
Tomatoes                        90               93              95
Source:  Plan Nacional Hidraulico 1975, Informe Resumen, Vol. II, Table V-11.
Projections by Mexico's National Water Plan call for the addition of some
5 million ha of irrigated land by the year 2000. The Plan estimates that
some 1.5 million of this addition, 30%, would be by small-scale irrigation
projects.
SARH
6.        SARH is empowered by the Federal Water Law of 1972 to construct,
administer and operate irrigation, drainage and flood protection works.
Until the late 1960's, the efforts of SRH were concentrated on developing
large-scale irrigation districts. In 1967, a new division for small-scale
irrigation works was formed to prepare plans for bringing irrigation to many
small villages. A National Plan for Small-scale Irrigation (Plan Nacional
de Pequena Irrigacion) was designed to provide, during the first phase



ANNEX 3-c
Page 3
(1967-1970)'  irrigation to 120,000 ha. benefiting 40,000 families.  Renamed
National Irrigation Plan for Rural Development (Plan Nacional de Obras de
Riego para el Desarrollo Rural) the plans for the 1971 to 1976 period called
for the development of some 280,000 ha, benefiting some 130,000 families.
7.        Construction of irrigation works is carried out by the SARH's
General Directorate of Hydraulic Works for Rural Development (Direccion
General de Obras Hidraulicos para el Desarrollo Rural or OHDR). Responsibility
for operation and maintenance rests with General Directorate of Irrigation
Units also within SARH. Since the early 1970s, this Department has been given
jurisdiction over privately developed and operated irrigation works. In 1970,
SARH estimated that SRH and privately developed small scale irrigation works
covered some 1.5 million ha out of which the total area under OHDR's juris-
diction has increased rapidly to about 1 million ha in 1976, benefiting some
288,500 families, or an average of 3.47 ha per family.
Table 2
Small-scale Irrigation Works Under the Supervision
of the SRH (OHDR) Program (Cumulative)
No. of                                 No. of
Year                    Units                 Hectares          Families
1970                     189                    36,492           14,894
1971                     235                    77,555           22,512
1972                   1,366                   296,316           74,380
1973                   1,972                   450,170          141,343
1974                   3,040                   642,441          202,133
1975                   4,321                   853,134          243,441
1976 a/                4,600                 1,000,000          288,500
a/   Programmed until the end of 1976, Completion rate was 90% by June 1975.
Source: Direccion General de Unidades de Riego para el Desarrollo Rural.
8.        This rapid rate of incorporation of already highly productive
irrigation units into SRH's small-scale irrigation program had a positive
impact on overall performance figures. Annex I illustrates an increase in the
value of output per ha. in current prices from Mex$2,091 (US$167) in 1969/70
to an estimated Mex$7,600 (US$608) in 1975/76, an annual rate of increase of
24% per annum in current prices. When current prices are converted into
constant prices, the increase drops to an annual rate of 10.4% from
Mex$1,897/ha   (US$151) in 1969/70 to an estimated of Mex$3,435 (US$274) in
1975/76. At the same time, however, for large-scale irrigation districts the
real annual rate of increase in the value of output per ha. seems to have been
no more than about 0.9% for the five-year period.
9.        Projections by the National Water Plan call for the net addition
of some 400,000 ha of small-scale irrigation projects during the term of
the (1977-1982) administration, thereby creating a viable income basis for
some 20,000 farmers each year.



ANNEX 3-c
Page 4
Investment criteria for SARH-Supported Small-Scale Irrigation Projects
under PIDER
10.       OHDR has developed a procedure to screen and rank applications
for developing small-scale irrigation projects in light of economic and
social priorities. This procedure applies to both normal and PIDER projects.
Requests are preliminarily screened according to such factors as available
infrastructure (roads and electricity lines), markets, levels of education
and farming capability of the farmers within each community. These are
measured through two indices. A socio-economic index was drawn up based
on the 1970 National Census to consider the following data:
-    the percentage of the rural population, relative to the
total population;
-    the percentage of the economically active population in
the agricultural sector, relative to the total of the
economically active population;
-    the percentage of the economically active population
with incomes below the official minimum salary, relative
to the total of the economically active population in
the agricultural sector;
-    the reciprocal value of the average monthly income from
the agricultural sector;
-    the percentage of the population which had not eaten
meat, eggs and milk during the week before the Census,
relative to the total population.
11.       A second index was elaborated to consider the availability of
water and agricultural land. This was later replaced by an index based on
the number of hectares identified as possible projects (in total 683,220 ha)
in a nationwide inventory of irrigation projects carried out by SRH in 1972.
12.       Finally, a combined index was calculated by simply adding the
socio-economic situation in the projects taking into account both poverty
levels and and production potential.
13.       Applications are then classified into one of eight models ranging
from simple installations serving small areas (about 25 ha) to larger and
more elaborate schemes.
3
Model 1. A simple windmill delivering about 16 m a day for
watering livestock and utilizing a well 25 to 100 m
deep.



ANNEX 3-c
Page 5
Model 2.  A small dam wits maximum height of 17 m and impounding
up to 200,000 m . Design is according to a standard
handbook.
Model 3.  A pump scheme larger than Model I (driven by windmill
or diesel motor) and provided with a small storage
tank; this scheme is suitable for irrigating a small
orchard and/or providing water for domestic and stock
use.
Model 4.  A simple small diversion structure from streams with
perennial flows.
Model 5. A small dam impounding from 100,000 to 3 million m3
for irrigating a limited area.
Model 6.  A dam with a height e ceeding 17 m, capable of storing
more than 3 million m and of irrigating up to a maximum
of 5,000 ha. (Such a dam must be designed individually
rather than from a handbook.)
Model 7.  Pumping station for extracting water from a perennnial
stream or from a lake; irrigated area 2,000 to 4,000 ha.
Model 8.  A deep well or group of deep wells yielding a minimum
flow of 20 lit/sec with each well capable of serving
30 to 120 ha.
14.       After screening the applications and selecting priority areas
and projects, OHDR enters into agreements called Acceptance Acts with the
local users association which specifies what works and services OHDR will
provide. In PIDER micro-regions these Acceptance Acts are drawn up in
cooperation with PIDER officials. This agreement binds the users' association
to accept conditions concerning operation and maintenance of the works, water
use, and water charges. OHDR officials stress that the users' association
must commit itself to cover fully the operating and maintenance costs of
the works. However, while OHDR provides guidelines that indicate the probable
range of costs involved, it is up to the users' association to select the
type of tariff that best suits its own needs or preferences. In most cases,
tariffs selected by the associations are based on some area measure such
as irrigated hectare per year or per season, rather than a water quantity-
related tariff structure with the result that no incentive is created to
conserve water. This may be a disadvantage in regions where alternative
uses of water are growing and where the physical quantity of either surface
or groundwater is limited. OHDR should be encouraged to require the use
of such water quantity related tariffs wherever such conditions prevail.



ANNEX 3-c
Page 6
15.       Before a project is undertaken by SRH, the user association has
to sign a second document called a "Use Agreement" (Convenio de la Partici-
pation).  In this agreement, the members of the association must commit
themselves to pay a total of 30% of the overall costs of the project. Of
these, 10% must be contributed by the users as part of the initial invest-
ment, either in the form of labor or through a cash contribution. The
latter frequently is financed through normal bank credit channels. The
remaining 20% of the overall investment costs then are repayable in
annual installments, usually over a period of 25 years, which begins
after a grace period of three or four years.
16.       The 30% rate of cost recovery applied by OHDR is the maximum that
can be charged according to paragraph 2.32, subsection II of the Agrarian
Reform Law of 1971 (Ley Federal de Reforma Agraria). The Law specifically
requires that SRH pays the balance of the costs. Furthermore, the Law
specifies in sub-section 2.32-III tht SRH has to pay 100% of the costs if
the 30% repayment requirements exceed the economic capacity of the benefited
ejidatarios.
17.       Before any actual construction work is undertaken, SRH proceeds
with a detailed feasibility study of each potential project which includes
hydrology, soil surveys, an appraisal of existing and potential cropping
patterns, a survey of present land distribution between ejidos, small
proprietors and other types of tenure, preliminary designs and cost esti-
mates, and other pertinent social and economic factors. The costs of this
feasibility study, in the case of PIDER-sponsored projects, is charged to
PIDER. In the past the cost for small-scale projects of less than 50 ha
amounted to an average of about Mex$37,000 (US$2,960). These rates were
increased recently to about Mex$48,000 (US$3,840), which means about
Mex$960 (US$76.80) per ha for a 50 ha project. All contractual agreements
between SRH and the user association have also to be counter-signed by
SRA, the Secretariat of Land Reform, because of the frequent need for land-
redistribution and the need for clarifying land tenure.
18.       Construction of projects finally approved by SRH is carried out
by contractors following the usual tendering procedures of SRH with super-
vision of the contractor by SRH field engineers.  The director of OHDR esti-
mates that about 60% of all projects are built under force account contracts,
the balance through contracts based on local competitive bidding.
Financial Criteria
19.       Public investment in irrigation increased from an annual average
of Mex$1,642 million (US$131 million) during the 1965 to 1970 period to
Mex$5,080 (US$406 million) per year in the 1971-1976 period (expressed in
1974 dollars). Of these investments, an average of Mex$1,228 (US$98 million)
per year was spent for the small-scale irrigation program of OHDR. In 1976,
the total OHDR budget amounted to Mex$2,046 (US$164 million) 1/ in current
dollars. The tentative budget for the 1977-1982 period as predicted by the
1/   Of this, PIDER contributed the Mex$310 million, about 15% of SARH's
small scale irrigation budget.



ANNEX 3-c
Page 7
National Water Plan projects total expenditures of MIex$44,394 million
(US$3,552 million) in 1974 dollars for the irrigation/drainage program as
a whole and Mex$9,475 million (US$758 million), or an average of Mex$1,579
(US$126 million) per year, for the small-scale irrigation program of OHDR.
This would represent an increase of 29% in real terms over the preceding six-
year period.
20.       The average investment costs per hectare of small-scale irrigation
projects during the years 1968-72 were reported by IDB as US$960 per ha
and US$2,880 per family. For the 1974/75 period, OHDR reports average costs
of Mex$18,500 (US$1,480) per ha for deep-well pump projects and about
Mex$25,000 (US$2,000) per ha for reservoir-type projects and Mex$13,000
(US$1,040) per ha for diversion type projects. Within the tentatively selec-
ted PIDER II micro-regions, proposed irrigation investments would amount to
Mex$1,113 million (US$89.1 million), benefiting some 34,000 ha. Costs per ha
would range from Mex$2,300 (US$184) to Mex$82,800 (US$6,624), or an average
per ha cost of Mex$20,600 (US$1,650). If the rather unreasonable low and high
cost estimates are eliminated, the average range of per ha costs appears to
lie between Mex$19,000 and Mex$42,000 (US$1,520 to US$3,360). This range of
costs appears to be in line with the average per ha costs as reported by OHDR
for the 1974/75 period and slightly below the normal range (US$2000-4000) in
all IBRD supported irrigation projects. Allowing for current rates of infla-
tion, these would translate to some Mex$23,600 (US$1,888) per ha for deep-well
pump, and Mex$35,400 (US$2,832) for reservoir-type projects in 1976 prices.



ANNEX 3-c
Page 8
MEXICO
Rural Development Project - PIDER II
Small-Scale Irrigation
Value of Output per Hectare, Annual Rates of Growth, and
Comparative Rates of Growth between Small-scale Irrigation Units
and SRH Irrigation Districts 1969/70 to 1975/76
1969/   1970/   1971/   1972/   1973/   1974/   1975/
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976
Value of Output per ha
Current  Mex$               2,091   2,648   3,153   4,744    6,447   6,943    7,600/a
Prices:  US$               167.28  211.84  252.24  379.52   515.76  555.44   608.00
Constant
prices Ib: Mex$             1,897   2,468   2,749   3,525    3,705   3,410    3,435/a
US$            151.76  197.44  219.92  282.00   296.40  272.80   274.80/a
Annual percentage
rate of change
in current prices            -      27       19      50        36         8        10
in constant prices                  30       11      28         5        -8         1
Small-scale         SRH - Large-scale         Value of Ouput
Irrigation Units      Irrigation Districts       Ratios between
Current               Current               Units & Districts
Crop Year       Mex$/Ha   US$/Ha      Mex$/Ha        US$/Ha              %
1969-70         2,091     167.28       4,320         345.60          48.4
1974-1975       6,943     555.44       8,351         668.08          83.1
/a   Estimated.
/b   Calculated on the basis of the Banco de Mexico Consumer Price Index for
Agricultural products (1968 = 100).
Source: Direccion General de Unidades de Riego para el Desarollo Rural.



ANNEX 3-c
Appendix I
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Economic Analysis of Irrigation Investment
Introduction
1.        Three basic assumptions were made in analyzing the economic bene-
fits of the PIDER supported small scale irrigation systems. First, economic
rates of return were calculated assuming a basic, grain oriented cropping
pattern with guaranteed prices and markets. Yield assumptions were projected
at the national average for small-scale irrigation areas. The second set of
analysis assumed the same basic cropping pattern as in the first set, with
the same prices and market outlets, but assumed yield averages 30% above the
national averages for on-going small-scale irrigation investments. Finally,
a third set of calculations assumed an 80% basic staples (corn, beans, etc.)
plus a 20% of higher value crops such as perennial fruits and some vegetables.
2.        Thus, the analysis assumes cropping patterns on new irrigation that
falls into two major groups; one which consists of basic, relatively low-
value crops that face an essentially secure and stable market and relatively
low risks in production, while the other consists of higher value crops that,
however, require greater input costs, face substantive production risks from
pests and weather (e.g. cotton) as well as uncertain markets and high per-
ishability (e.g. fruits and vegetables).
3.        In Mexico the relative share of high-value crops on total produc-
tion has slowly but consistently declined during the last fifteen years.
Reasons given for the decline are (1) the saturation with fresh fruits and
vegetables of Mexico's major export market, the United States, and (2) large
daily price fluctuations for fresh fruits and vegetables are extreme. The
unstable domestic market, where average prices are much lower than in the
export market. For example, in Mexico City's wholesale market (which accounts
for over 60% of the total national markets) these day-to-day price changes
range as high as 90% for many types of produce. A further indication of
the very large price spreads and attendant production risks can be gleaned
from the fact that for almost all higher value perishable crops, regional
price variations amount to several 100% from the lowest to the highest.
While quality differentials, time of harvest and distance to markets, and
existing packing and marketing organizations will be responsible for some of
these differentials, such wide differences between high and low prices are
indicators of the very high market risk facing a producer. This risk is
greater for smaller producers. For the typical PIDER-financed small-scale
irrigation project, these risks will be much higher than for almost any other
competing producer or producer group. For all these reasons it appears



ANNEX 3-c
Appendix I
Page 2
realistic to include in the evaluation new PIDER-financed irrigation units
on various alternatives of crop compositions, both mainly secure staples
and also those that contain a proportion of high-value, higher-risk annual
perennial crops.
Cropping Patterns on Small-scale Irrigated Areas
4.        Summary crop statistics for on-going small-scale irrigation pro-
jects (687,000 ha) in 1974/75 are provided in Table 5 with the seven most
important crops shown separately. The major cereals, maize, sorghum and
wheat together account for 53.3% of the total area planted, beans for another
9.4% followed by fruits 8.2%, alfalfa 4.2% and sugar cane 2.9%. The wide
variety of other crops account for the remaining 22%. While the value of
the output per hectare harvested of all crops together amounted to Ilex$6,943)
(US$555) the average for the five most important field crops (maize, beans,
sorghum, wheat, alfalfa), which account for 64% of the total area harvested,
amounted to Mex$4,977 (US$398).
5.        Somewhat similar relationships hold for the large-scale irrigation
districts. According to date for the 1973/74 crops year (the last for which
detailed statistics are available) the eight most important crops (wheat,
cotton, maize, sorghum, soybeans, saffron, beans and sugar cane) accounted
for 70% of the total area harvested, but for only 67% of the total value of
output. The average value of output per hectare harvested for all crops
combined was Mex$7,747 (US$620) while for the eight leading crops it amounted
to Mex$6,491 (US$519). If cotton, a high-value, but also high-cost and
high-risk crops is excluded, the average value of output per hectare falls
to M4ex$5,277 (US$422), or 68% of the overall average per hectare. Neverthe-
less, these lower-value crops covered some 68.5% of the total area harvested.
6.        For this reason, the Alternative I evaluation of the potential
benefits of new PIDER-financed irrigation units was based on a standard
crop composition that reflects the share of the five leading field crops
(maize, wheat, sorghum, beans, alfalfa) planted on OHDR irrigation units
in 1974/75, accounting for 67% of the total area harvested.
ALTERNATIVE I
Input costs and net incomes per hectare for maize and beans for'
1975 are provided in table below. Yields are based on 74/75 OHDR averages,
while prices reflect 1976 price levels.



ANNEX 3-c
Appendix 1
Page 3
Table 1
Production Costs and Net Income per Hectare
Maize and Beans, 1976 Prices 1/
Mex$ Hectare
Maize                 Beans
Labor in Mex$ 45/day                            1,163                  1,009
Machinery                                          683                   551
Materials excl. water                              857                 1,136
Interest                                          218                    225
Insurance                                         167                    199
Total Costs                          3,087                  3,180
Average yield, tons/ha                           2.15                   1.12
Average value of output Mex$                    4,085                  6,160
Net benefits w.o. water charges and
with full labor costs                         1,158                  3,141
Net benefits w.o. water charges with
shadow wage rate of 0.7                       1,507                  3,443
Farm family income w.o. water charges,
assuming that no outside labor is hired    2,320                     4,149
1/   Source:  Banco Nacional de Credito Agricola S.A. May 1976.



ANNEX 3-c
Appendix 1
Page 4
7.        As can be seen the economic net return per hectare, before water
charges, would amount to Mex$1,158 (US$92.64) for maize, and Mex$3,141
(US$251.24) for beans. Assuming a shadow wage rate of 0.7, which may be
appropriate given the high rates of un- and underemployment in Mexico, these
net returns would increase to Mex$1,507 (US$120.54) for maize and Mex$3,443
(US$275.75) for beans respectively.
8.        Farm-family income is considerable higher than net income returns,
however, since probably all of the labor is performed by members of the
farmer's family. This, at least, should hold true for the crop compositions
shown, and for the usual size of the farm units that are being financed under
the PIDER program. As Table 1 indicates, net farm family income before water
charges would amount to Mex$2,320 (US$185.64) for maize and Mex$4,419
(US$331.94) for beans respectively. Production cost and net income estimates
for the other crops, sorghum, wheat and alfalfa were based on cost estimates
contained in various recent IBRD Mexican appraisal reports.
9.        Table 2 summarizes the net income data for the representative
crop-composition-hectare. The individual crop yields per hectare represent
the average yields of all OHDR projects in 1974/75 (Table 2). Prices re-
flect the 1976 guarantee or market price levels. The cropping intensity
of 1.5 for all annual field crops reflects the average cropping intensity
of the OHDR projects in 74/75 (Table 2). As can be seen, the average net
income per physical hectare before water charges, with all labor accounted
for as costs, would amount to Mex$2,954 (US$236.32) per year. With a shadow
wage factor of 0.7, this net return per hectare per year would increase to
Mex$3,469 (US$277.52). Net annual farm family income per hectare before
water charges, assuming that no outside labor were to be employed, would
amount to Mex$4,625 (US$370.00).
10.       Deducting the estimates water 0 & M.  Costs 1/ from the economic
rates of return reduces the annual net income per hectare to Mex$2,431
(US$194.48) for reservoir-type projects, and to Mex$1,387 (US$110.96) for
deep-well pump projects given full labor costs. With a shadow wage coeffi-
cient of 0.7, these net returns become Mex$2,964 (US$237.12) for reservoir
and Mex$1,901 (US$152.16) for pump projects respectively.
11.       Applying these net returns to the estimated 1976 per hectare in-
vestment costs of Mex$23,600 (US$1,888) for deep-well-pump and Mex$35,400
(US$2,832) for surface-reservoir type projects, the internal rate of return
for the former would amount to 4.5% at full labor costs, and to 7.8% with
a shadow wage coefficient of 0.7; for surface-reservoir type projects, the
1/   For deepwell Mex$1,567 (US$175) per year and for surface irrigation
Mex$523 per year (US$41). This compares to IBRD gravity system esti-
mate of US$10-60 per ha and US$25-150 ha for pumped systems.



ANNEX 3-c
Appendix 1
Page 5
respective rates would be 6.0% at full labor costs, and 8.2% with the sha-
dow wage coefficient. All calculations are based on a 30 year life expec-
tancy, and no allowance was mmade for lower-than-average yields during the
early years of the project.
ALTERNATIVE II
12.       Utilizing the same crop composition as before, increased yield
assumptions by 30%, the internal rates of return for deepwell pump projects
increase to 17.4% of full labor costs, and to 21% for project evaluated at
a shadow wage factor of 0.7; for surface reservoir type projects the re-
spective rates of return become 14.5 and 16.9% respectively.
13.       These findings are highly sensitive to the projected yields per
hectare. For Alternative I the actual average yields of small scale pro-
jects were used, that much yields could be obtained under realistic field
conditions if superior management techniques were to be applied.
14.       What this means is that with superior management capability such
small-scale irrigation projects, even at higher per hectare investment costs,
are quite viable, while they would be rather marginal, if only the observed
average yields were to be obtained. In new projects, superior farm manage-
ment capabilities are unlikely to be found among the project's beneficiaries.
Hence, education, e.g. extension, demonstration plots, organization of ferti-
lizers credit and all other required input facilities would be an absolute
necessity to bring about the economically required superior yields per hec-
tare. These findings emphasize once again the crucially important role of
extension and management services for the viability of the whole irrigation
program, whether it applies to PIDER, to OHDR or to SRH as a whole.
15.       Another conclusion that follows is that the net benefits of a
successful extension and management service could be measured by the net
difference in the internal rates of return between projects that produce
no more than average yields, and those that reach predicted superior yields.
Using the two estimates above it would mean that about 8.5 of the 14.5%
rate of return for surface-reservoir type projects, and 12.9 of the 17.4%
rate for deepwell-pump type projects would have to be credited to those
factors that bring about such superior farm management practices.



ANNEX 3-c
Appendix 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Table 2
Net Income Per Hectare For The Representative
Crop Composition for PIDER-Financed Projects
1976 Prices
Yield/    Price/    Percentage Share         Cropping   Income Per Ha Excluding
Crop       HA Tons   Ton         on Crop Composition   Intensity  Water Charges, Mex. $.
Mex. $                             Index      Incl.  T4. Shadow   Met
Full   Wage         Farm
Labor  Factor 0.7  Family
Costs               Income
Maize         2.15    1,900         58.7                   150      1,158  1,507         2,320
Beans         1.12    5,500         14.1                   150      3,141  3,443         4,149
Sorghum       3.43    1,650         12.4                  150       3,181  3,583        4,387
Wheat         2.67    1,800          8.5                   150      2,320  2,701         3,463
Alfalfa     44.3        247          6.3                  100    j_6,050  6,402         7,106
Average Per Physical Hectare       100.0                            2,954  3,469         4,625



ANNEX 3-d
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Livestock in the PIDER Program
Introduction
1.        PIDER is expecting to invest about 10% of its overall programmed
budget in livestock development. The equivalent of US$26 million was pro-
grammed for the 30 micro-regions in PIDER I and US$18 million for the 20
micro-regions in PIDER II. In addition, another US$25 million is expected
to be provided for livestock development through the development credit
component of the two projects respectively.
2.        To familiarize inexperienced ejidos with modern systems of live-
stock management, PIDER devised a two-phased strategy. Initially, PIDER
finances a small technical package of physical infrastructure, the "basic
pilot unit" to be run communally by the ejido. For cattle, the package
will normally include land clearing and pasture improvement, a perimeter
fence and handling yards. For poultry, bees and rabbits, sheds and starter
breeding stock are provided. A typical cattle unit would involve such infra-
structure for about 300 animal units for an ejido with an average of 85
families (500 persons), equivalent to some 3 to 4 animal units per family.
For small stock and rabbits, chickens and bees, 10 to 15 members of the ejido
would normally form groups for the joint operation of such units. Cattle,
sheep and goats, as well as working capital for the "pilot units", are pro-
vided through FIRA lines of development credit (IBRD loan 1217-ME). Substan-
tial technical and organizational assistance is especially important as
these livestock units are often the first productive investment where ejido
members must work jointly to both construct and operate the venture. Pilot
units which prove successful can be expanded through FIRA development credit
systems; additional PIDER financing is not provided. Each ejido qualifies
for only one PIDER unit.
3.        This two-phased strategy was worked well.  Initial ejido response
has been particularly strong for beef cattle units in higher rainfall areas,
silage storage pits in maize areas, goat units in drier areas and beekeeping
units throughout most regions.



ANNEX 3-d
Page 2
Performance Under PIDER I
4.        Initial PIDER program performance was poorer than performance in
other PIDER-supported sectors. However, in the past two years, a number of
improvements were made and performance has improved. Initially, PIDER financed
only the basic infrastructure unit. These were often over-designed. The
stocking of completed units was often delayed as coordination with the bank-
ing system (who financed cattle) was not effective. Where land clearing and
pasture establishment was required, delays in annual authorizations by the
Secretariat of Agriculture (SAG) often meant that work was begun in the rainy
season, too late for effective burning and seeding. Finally, SAG did not
always fully assess critical marketing arrangements.
5.        Faced with these problems, PIDER made a number of improvements
in the program. Where SAG performance was inadequate, PIDER commissioned
technicians of the new National Rural Credit Bank (BANRURAL) to construct
the pilot livestock units. This transfer of construction agent had the added
benefit that livestock development credit, to make the unit operational, fol-
lowed quicker. Also, designs were improved as the banks had more experi-
ence with lower cost units. PIDER also encouraged a wider distribution of
small stock, such as rabbits, bees, chickens etc. which the banking system
heretofore had not encouraged due to problems of collateral among small
farmers. These have worked well. PIDER also widely supported the silage
pit system of the PRONOFOR department of SAG. These have been widely accepted
by small farmers in the PIDER micro-regions.
The Project
6.        The project would finance livestock infrastructure development on
about 300 ejidos. Additional units would be financed through the development
credit component. Expansions to the basic pilot infrastructure units would
also be financed through the credit component. Under the component, assis-
tance would be provided for beef, dairy, dual-purpose cattle, pig, goat,
poultry and bee development. The composition of the component is shown in
Table 1. As in PIDER I, the component would finance the basic pilot unit,
which then could be expanded - if successful - to a larger unit through the
use of development credit. Technical assistance would be provided through
the SARH Extension Service (Annex 4-a) and through the banking system. All
cattle would be purchased through development credit.
Small Producer Livestock Systems and National Distribution
7.        Livestock production has always played an important part in the
production systems of small farmers. Although ejidos and smallholders own a
significant percentage of the national livestock resources, they contribute
little to production outside of what they consume locally.
8.        Cattle are kept mainly for oxen power, with milk, beef and calf
sales as residual products. Pigs are often kept as assets, either slaugh-
tered for home consumption, retained for ceremonies (weddings, etc.) or



ANNEX 3-d
Page 3
sold for cash. Chickens provide subsistence egg and meat protein sources,
while sheep and especially goats, in the drier parts of Mexico, provide milk
and meat and cash income. Beekeeping is a supplementary income source in
many ejidos, especially in the Yucatan peninsula. The majority of export
honey is produced by ejidos.
9.        In the arid regions of the country, data assembled under the
Agricultural, Livestock owners and Ejidotal census of 1970 indicate that
about 33 million hectares (or 44% of the total arid area) is in ejido-type
production, with an average of about 67 hectares per ejidatario. This
represents about 48% of the total national area under ejido ownership and
production.
10.       In the tropic zone, by contrast, about 17 million hectares (or 52%
of the total area of the region), allocated in 500,000 plots of land, is held
by ejidatarios. This represents about 32% of the national ejidatarios to the
country and correspondingly 25% of the present national land area allocated
to ejidos.
11.       About 47% or 70 million ha. of Mexico's total land area (2 million
sq. km.) supports the national livestock industry. Native grassland is used
primarily, although improved pastures and intensive fodder production are
assuming greater importance in view of overstocking in arid and semi-arid
areas. There is an uneven geographic distribution pattern of livestock
further complicated by changing marketing patterns in both domestic and
export markets. Cattle production is predominant, although sheep and goats
are important in the northern areas.
12.       Ejido grazing lands are generally overstocked, due mainly to fragmented
and undersized landholdings and the uncontrolled build-up of herds and flocks
of animals under primitive management conditions. Particularly in the north-
ern rangelands overgrazing has resulted in deterioration of grass species,
erosion, and generally unproductive livestock performance. PIDER is making
a strong effort to improve production on existing livestock holdings and to
introduce cattle and pigs on ejido holdings currently devoted solely to crops.
Production Data
13.       According to statistical data of the Secretariat of Agriculture,
livestock populations have increased considerably between 1970 and 1974, with
the largest percentage gains in poultry, sheep, and cattle. In cattle herds,
the off-take rate increased from 14% in 1960 to over 17% in 1974. This
indicates more marketing of younger animals and increased efficiency by
producers through current credit support programs in animal nutrition,
husbandry and , until recently market opportunity. During the same period,
production increased by about 19%, and carcass weights increased from about
150 kg to 170 kg.
14.       The following table summarizes general trends in livestock popu-
lation growth patterns and productivity performances of livestock-related
products:



ANNEX 3-d
Page 4
Livestock Population and Production Performance (million head) 1970
Livestock            Yearly %            Yearly %           % Increase
Population   1970   Increase   1973   Increase   1974    from 1970
Cattle        25.5     7.8       27.5      2.9      28.3       11.0
Swine         10.5     3.0       10.8      2.8      11.1        5.7
Sheep          7.4    10.8        8.2      1.2       8.3       12.2
Goats          8.8     2.3        9.0      2.2        9.2       4.6
Poultry      123.2    10.6      136.3      8.8     148.3       20.4
Livestock Production ('000 m tons)
Yearly %            Yearly %            % Increase
1970    Increase   1973    Increase    1974   from 1970
Meat           728       14.6       834       4.8         870       19.5
Milk (hecto-
liters)        n.a.      n.a.      3,360      3.6       3,480       3.6
Honey           31       19.4          37     8.1          40       29.0
Wool             3.5      5.7           3.7    -            3.7      5.7
Source: Secretariat of Agriculture
Other statistics relevant to livestock production trends are
as follows:
Production and Yield of Milk, Wool and Eggs
Total cow's milk   Milk         Total        Total         Total
Produced per  per cow    goat milk  greasy wool  hen's eggs
year       per year    per year   per year        per year
000 ton         kg        000 ton    000 ton        000 ton
Average 48-52    1,539           933          93          5.7          77,200
Average 61-65    2,305           948         171          7.0         169,845
1973          3,400        1,104          188         6.7         420,000
Source:  FAO (1974)
Meat Consumption Trends
15.       Meat consumption in Mexico in 1970 has been estimated by the Eco-
nomic Commission for Latin America at 14 kg per capital, compared with a



ANNEX 3-d
Page 5
per capital intake for the United States and Canada of 52 kg and 42 kg re-
spectively. According to the national census of 1970, about 17% of the total
population (approximately 20 million Mexicans) consumes no meat, with the
balance consuming in accordance with income levels. Overall, beef consump-
tion, which represents roughly 70% of total national red meat consumption,
increased from 8.4 kg per capita in 1960 to 10.7 kg in 1973 and 13 kg in
1974, probably because cattle not sold for export in 1973 were fattened,
marketed and consumed localy.
16.       Pork consumption is about 8.5 kg per capita, and the domestic
market normally consumes all production. About 87% is consumed as fresh
meat while the balance is used for cold meats and processing.
Livestock Production Areas
17.       Sixty percent of Mexican livestock production takes place in the
arid and semi-arid north - the northern rangelands - which are generally
overstocked. The other 40% is located in the wet and dry tropics, including
both Gulf and Pacific coastal areas. where understocking is the pattern.
Beef Production Areas
18.       The Northern Rangelands.  Production patterns in the northern
rangelands are oriented towards the US feeder cattle market (weaner calves
6-9 months of age), for which, until late 1974, there was rising demand. In
the majority of well-managed herds, breeds such as Hereford, Angus, Brahman,
Charollaise and their crosses predominate. The criolla or native breed,
mainly owned by smaller cattlemen, ejido communes and colonies, have,
however, been able to gain access to this market. Except during drought,
when the export of females is permitted, only male weaners are exported.
Some cattle in the northern areas are fattened in feed lots and on irrigated
pastures for specialized higher prices local and export markets. Weaning
percentages range from 35% under low level management, such as ejidos and
small livestock owners in overstocked areas, to as high as 90% in well-
managed pastures under good management. The area is presently stocked at
a level of about 7 ha. per animal unit, with the density rising as high as
1 ha. per animal units. In smallholder areas, this has led to a severe
depletion of grassland resources and erosion. If managed efficiently under
these conditions, with defered grazing, the desirable carrying capacity is in
the region of 20-30 ha./animal unit. As a result, pasture deterioration has
increasd rapidly over the past five years. Major steps will need to be taken
in the near future to alleviate the overgrazing and to preserve the grassland
resources for future generations. One approach is suggested by a successful
program in Sonora where rainfed native pastures have been improved by intro-
duction of buffell grass and other adapted species.



ANNEX 3-d
Page 6
19.       The Tropics.  The tropical areas produce beef primarily for do-
mestic consumption. The most important domestic production area is Huasteca.
Under the Government deforestation program presently underway, increasing
areas of tropical and coastal grazing areas are being cleared and planted
with such palatable improved grasses as Panicum Maximum (Guinea Grass), Para,
and Pangola. Although a variety of native legumes persist in these areas,
tropical legumes, as part of a pasture mix with fertilizer applications, have
not been significantly developed. More research and demonstration are
required before a larger scale impact on optimum tropical pasture production
can be achieved.
Dairy Production Areas
20.       Mexico is a net importer of dairy products.  Domestic production
supplies about 85% of the national consumption, with the balance imported
mainly in powder form. There are about one million (predominantly Holstein
Friesian) cows under modern dairy management in the irrigated areas of the
central plateau and the arid north. These contribute about 55% of total
production. The balance is provided by about 4 million cows milked under
primitive conditions, mostly in the tropical regions, where milk and milk
products are by-products of the beef cattle industry and generate a supple-
mentary income for livestock owners. For small-scale producers, this is of
great importance, as it tends to provide a daily cash flow, whereas their
beef off-take is seasonal. About 40% of Mexico City's milk requirement
originates within the city boundaries, generally produced by animal under
confined conditions fed on irrigated and rainfed alfalfa.
21.       Traditionally, dairy farming has been concentrated in the irrigated
districts of the Central Plateau, of which the Bajio area has been the main
producer for Mexico City. Dairy farming has spread in recent years to the
irrigated areas of the north and northwest, particularly around Torrean.
Milk from these areas is competing in price with the more traditional areas
and has captured about 20% of the Federal Capital market. In most areas of
the country, good prospects exist for increased dairy production to service
local urban and rural markets.
22.       Production is generally based on irrigated alfalfa in the spring
and summer, with forage, oats and corn silage in the autumn and winter.
Concentrated foodstuffs are also used. Dairy farmers in the Torreon area and
elsewhere are integrating operations by establishing pasteurizing plants,
storage facilities, and feed mixing plants. Milk production levels of 15
liters per cow per day are being attained under this intensive system. There
is some scope for lowering production costs by grazing herds on permanent
legume-based pastures. Preliminary studies are being undertaken by the Bank
of Mexico's FONDO, but a greater research effort is needed. The basic
problems are inadequate pasture and feed. The Government has raised support
prices for feedgrains and is providing technical assistance and credit to
dairy farmers. The Government also plans to produce improved heifer calves



ANNEX 3-d
Page 7
for herd replacements and expansion. To accelerate this program, it has
relaxed duties on imports of high quality heifers and is investing in large
dairy operations on ejidos.
Pig Production Areas
23.       Traditionally, commercial pig production has been concentrated in
the western edge of the Bajio. In recent years, however, it has spread to
the irrigated areas of the northwest states as a result of increased avail-
ability of low cost feed grain. Additionally, pig production on ejido farms
is increasing in the Yucatan. Recent efforts by Japan to import significant
quantities of farm products from Mexico, especially pork, has encouraged
increased pig production. However, Government agencies are monitoring
production increases carefully in view of the dangers of oversupply, price
reduction and unsure markets, all of which have plagued the industry in the
past.
24.       Pig production methods are predominantly (90%) combined breeding
and fattening, with off-takes of about 30% per annum. This rate can be im-
proved considerably through better management practices, improved husbandry,
and nutrition. About 85% of pigs slaughtered in the Federal District are
produced in Guanajuato, Jalisco and Michoacan states, with northwestern
states' production increasing yearly. The remainder of Mexico's pig produc-
tion (15%) is largely family and ejido type for which management standards
are low and consumption is local.
Sheep and Goat Production Areas
25.       Sheep production is confined mostly to the drier northern range land
areas and is usually complementary to beef cattle operations. Rambouillet
types are predominant with fleece yields of about 1 to 3 kg per head per
annum. Carcasses are consumed mostly locally and provide an additional
source of regular cash flow to smallholders. A few Corridales have been
imported over the years, but generally the sheep and wool industry has not
developed sufficiently to make Mexico self-sufficient in sheep and wool
products. The industry could be expanded in a limited and orderly way by
introducing palatable browse species of vegetation to improve the carrying
capacity of range areas and by instituting modern range management techniques
to improve pastures.
26.       Mexico presently imports equivalent of about US$10 million in wool
and wool products. Demand for mutton is expected to double in the next few
years.
27.       Goat production has been traditionally a smallholder subsistence
animal resource. Goat milk accounts for about 3% of the total national milk
supply. The popularity both of milk and young goat's meat, however, is
increasing, with a consequent rise in prices.



MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Cost Analysis of Livestock Component
Average 1/    PIDER   /    FONDO    2/
No. of Basic Capacity-in Infrastruct.   Development    Infrastruct.  Total
Type of                     Pilot       Animal       Support-Mex$    Credit-Mex$    CosI/A.U.   Cost/A.U.
Livestock                   Units      Units(AU)    !000/Bas.Unit    '00 0"as.Unit   US,$          US$
Beef                          28          331           890           1,098           134          300
Dairy                         18          146         1,399           1,559           479        1,013
Dual-Purpose Cattlev          63          459           907           i,548            99          267
Porki/                         7            72          739             758           515        1,043
Goats                         12          275           176             324            32           94
Bees                         189            30           33             N.A.           54          N.A.
Poultryg 46                               705            42             N.A.            3          N.A.
1/  For beef,dairy and dual-purpose cattle, capacity represents A.U. at full development; for pork and
goats, capacity represents breading animals; for bees, capacity represents number of hives; for
poultry, capacity represents number of birds.
2/  All costs quoted in reports increased by 20%.
~/ US$1 = Mex$20.
4/ Figures for Costa Chica only and excludes 13 units being financed by PIDER, but at various stages of
development; no data available for Litoral Oeste.
5j/ Figures do not include 15 units in Amuzgos and 5 in Lagunas Litorales
6/ 35 units are of 100 birds each; 1 unit is of 20,000 birds
N.A. = Not available.



ANNEX 3-e
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Soil and Water Conservation
Introduction
1.        Performance under the soil and water conservation component was
below expectations. While 27,000 ha. was improved in 1975 and 1976, 30%
of the total 91,000 ha. expected for the three year project disbursement
period, little institutional improvement in SAG's project planning and
selection capability was achieved.
2.        Projects financed were largely selected on an ad hoc basis, and
not integrated in an water shed development program. In PIDER II, a major
effort would be made to improve PIDER's soil conservation activities. Some
US$10.4 million would be programmed to reinforce Soil and Water Conservation
Service efforts to follow an integrated approach to soil conservation based
on land capability; to select projects on the basis of economic analysis;
to concentrate on projects for which adequate maintenance arrangements can
be assured and to continue the labor intensive approach.
Background
3.        Soil erosion, mainly through the action of water, has reached
severe proportions in Mexico. The Secretariat of Agriculture (SAG) 1/
estimated that between 47% and 80% of the land area is subject to varying
degrees of erosion with 7% to 15% (14 million to 30 million hectares) already
destroyed. As erosion is such a pervasive problem in almost all areas, only a
small proportion of the land can be effectively protected in the near term.
Federal funding of erosion control works increased from US$0.2 million in 1963
to US$1.1 million in 1969 to US$10.6 million in 1976; at the current level,
this expenditure is equivalent to the capital costs of protection works over
about 50,000 ha./annually. To build up national competence to adequately
contain, and thereafter, systematically reduce, erosion, efforts are needed
to: reinforce soil conservation staff; prepare soil conservation projects in
conjunction with the land users and other agencies on the basis of land
capability; set criteria for project selection; develop accountability for
effective maintenance of conservation installations; institutionalize soil
erosion practices in agricultural extension and farmer land use; and develop
credit availability for land users to undertake associated follow-up land
improvement activities.
1/   1976 Government estimates.  A 1974 SAG Sub-Direction of Soil and Water
Conservation Study estimated 47% of land area was affected by erosion
and 14 million ha. permanently destroyed; in 1976 the same source esti-
mates the areas cold be as high as 80% and 30 million ha. respectively.



ANNEX 3-e
Page 2
The SAG Soil and Water Conservation Service (SSCSA)
4.        In 1958, the federal Soil and Water Conservation Service (Direccion
General de Conservacion del Suelo y Agua) was established in the Department
of Agriculture. Systematic attempts to finance erosion control, however,
did not get underway until 1969. The agency claims that between 1958 and
1974 protective measures have been instituted on a total of 443,324 hectares
(Table 1). Many of these works, however, have not been properly maintained.
Budgetary allocations rose from a little over US$1 million in 1969 to over
US$10 million in 1973 but declined to about US$7 million in 1974. In 1976,
with the addition of PIDER-financed projects which provided about one-third
of total funds, allocations reached US$10.6 million, although in real terms
this represents only the level of 1972 expenditures. Even this expenditure
level is clearly inadequate in comparison with the magnitude of the problem.
5.        In addition to their regular budget and PIDER financed project,
SSCSA receive supplementary funds for undertaking soil conservation rural
works programs in disaster relief areas. Labor employment is a major objec-
tive of these relief programs which sets the pattern for the labor-intensive
technology which they employ.
6.        SSCSA has its headquarters in Mexico City with "Delegations" in
most of the States. At the state level, delegations are responsible for
actual project selection and implementation. Each delegation is supposed
to be staffed by 8-10 professionals, half agronomists and half engineers,
plus a number of job-trained technicians. In practice, professional staffing
is generally smaller and the service is facing staff constraints. Staff com-
plements are basically related to the SSCSA regular program and have not been
expanded to cater for the PIDER financed and rural works projects. In Puebla
State, for example, there are only two professionals plus a few helpers for
implementing expenditures of about US$0.8 million in the current year, which
is clearly an inadequate staffing density in relation to the size of the
workload. The problem of under-staffing is aggravated by the relatively low
pay scales for professionals. Salaries in SSCSA are about 70% of those paid
by SAG Agricultural Extension Service and SRH. The results are high staff
turnover and low morale. These constraints will need to be remedied in order
to improve project preparation, implementation and maintenance supervision.
7.        The main focus of the SSCSA efforts is directed at the protection
of agricultural and grazing land, although in some states, e.g., Chihuahua
and Durango, a significant part of expenditures have been on land improve-
ment activities such as sub-soiling (deep soil plowing), land clearing and
initial plowing. Erosion control measures typically consist of construc-
tion of ridges, terracing and check dams for gully protection. Additional
operations may include planting along the ridges to stabilize the soil,
commonly using the species Agave (Maguey) and Opuntia (Nopal), and subsoil-
ing. The latter operation, besides improving general drainage, increases
the moisture storage capacity of the soil thus reducing run-off during
heavy rains, and to this extent it is a soil conservation measure.



ANNEX 3-e
Page 3
8.        There is no established criteria for the selection of projects.
Under the regular program and relief programs, projects are often selected
on the basis of the degree of erosion rather than an economic evaluation of
projected costs and benefits. Preference is frequently given to aiding the
marginal producer in areas of poorer soils, steep slopes, little vegetative
cover and low rainfall, as for example in the Alta Mixtaca in Puebla and
Oaxaca states. The costs of these operations are relatively high and in-
cremental benefit often low. Some cultivation is taking place in these areas
on land which, because of very severe slopes and shallow soils, is not suit-
able for annual cropping. These programs also incude restoration of heavily
eroded slopes close to major highways which have little or no productive
benefits. On the other hand, PIDER-financed projects are in some cases con-
centrating on the productive aspects and neglecting the protective installa-
tions necessary to maintain production. For example, in Chihuahua State
(Trias Steyo micro-region), PIDER-financed land clearing and levelling opera-
tions, but did not support the uphill gully-plugging and terracing works,
which are considered necessary to protect the work financed. There is scope
for improving resource allocation by developing criteria for project selec-
ion which would:
a)   concentrate on areas with long-term productive poten-
tial, based on land capability assessment;
b)   within these areas, select projects which yield the
highest net benefits -- (but see (e) below);
c)   evaluate the overall project including the non-produc-
tive elements (e.g., gully-plugging), maintenance and
any capital renewal works which may be needed;
d)   distinguish between:
i. conservation expenditures which are directed to
maintaining the capital value of the land in per-
petaity and may be regarded as a social cost justi-
fying substantial subsidy.
ii. land improvement expenditure mainly benefiting
the user, e.g. initial ploughing and sub-soiling,
for which the owner could be expected to meet all
or part of the cost from incremental revenues;
e)   explicitly demonstrate the social considerations
entering into the project selection:
i. in selecting project areas; as in the case of
choosing a project with sub-optimal production
benefits on grounds of aiding a particular group.



ANNEX 3-e
Page 4
ii. in selecting technical method; as in the case of
using a relatively high-cost labor intensive method
for employment generation.
9.        SSCSA presently operates within its own identified project acti-
vities with no formal linkages with other departments of SAG or SRA. This
results in the expertise of SSCSA being confined to relatively small areas
compared with the massive erosion tasks which need to be undertaken. Soil
erosion considerations need to be implanted in all land use activities,
including simple methods of contour ploughing, market ridges and alternate
grass and cropping strips, which can be undertaken by the land users as
regular farming practices. Formal linkages between SSCSA and other agencies
need to be established so that SSCSA is involved in developing technical
packages for extension to landowners and farmers, particularly in the func-
tions of developing least-cost techniques and providing training, e.g.
PRONDAAT extension workers.
10.       At the same time, the two-day flow of such formal linkages would
improve the efficiency of SSCSA projects by enabling the service to incor-
porate improved techniques and adapt project implementation and maintenance
to specific land tenure situations. For example, present techniques used
emphasize the "civil works" approach to conservation, whereas there are
cases where the incorporation of small scale afforestation could improve
the profitability of the projects and at the same time meet a local need.
Securing agreement of land owners to initial installation and accountability
for maintenance are crucial aspects in all projects which presently occupy
a significant proportion of staff time. Interaction with SRA's SOFE Teams
should reduce SSCSA input into this aspect of project development whilst more
firmly securing administrative institutions responsible for maintenance.
Cost and Benefits of Soil Erosion Measures
11.       Table 2 lists some typical current costs for protective programs
undertaken in Aguascalientes state and the Alta Mixteca regio of Oaxaca
state. Costs per hectare 1/ for terracing and check-dams range between
US$176 to US$211 for work undertaken by manual labor and US$111 to US$139
for similar operations employing tractors. The costs of planting Nopal
or Maguey along ridges increases costs by US$64 to US$90/hectare, and deep-
soil plowing by a further US$70 to US$80/hectare. Average yield increases
in maize production are estimated to be 25% if only terraces are built, 20%
if only sub-soil plowing is undertaken and 40% if both terraces and sub-
soil plowing are combined. Besides the protective function of Nopan and
Maguey, these plants are expected to yield a small income from fruits and
foliage.
12.       The data contained in Table 2 have been used to calculate indica-
tive rates of return for the various components of the soil erosion programs;
these are summarized in Table 3. The results in all cases are significantly



ANNEX 3-e
Page 5
higher >c Oaxaca than for Aguascalientes. The main reason is that the
average incremental crop yields for Oaxaca are 63% higher than those for
Aguascalientes, although the lower costs in Oaxaca are also a contributory
cause. Analysis of the deep soil plowing component which in the present tech-
nology is repeated every four years, indicates results of 9% in Aguascalientes
and 6% in Oaxaca, which points to the need for careful selection of sites
for this operation. Moreover, this is an optional operation in soil con-
servation works which, on favorable sites, could be largely financed by
credit for land improvement. For these reasons, it has not been included
in the analysis of the other soil conservation measures.
13.       An iterative analysis has been made to calculate the results for
hand labor versus tractor construction for terracing and hand labor terrace
construction including planting of Maguey along the terrace ridges. This
indicates that:
(a) tractor terracing is more profitable than hand labor;
however, economic analysis in which an appropriate
weighting is given to labor costs to reflect a low
opportunity cost of labor during off-peak employment
periods, and/or employment generation in soil conser-
vation works as a preferable substitute to other funded
relief works, results in the labor-intensive method
being competitive with the tractor method.
(b) inclusion of costs of ridge-planting substantially re-
duces profitability when measured against quantified
marginal productivity increases only. However, pro-
tection of the ridges is necessary to secure erosion
control.
(c) on the basis of financial data, none of the
Aguascalientes results would be viable, but see para-
graph below.
14.       The analysis has been further developed in an attempt to value the soil
conservation benefit of the investment, which is additional to the marginal
productivity increases in crop production. Unchecked erosion will eventually
destroy the agricultural activity of a piece of land (see para. 1). The time
over which destruction will take place depends on a variety of factors and
there is insufficient data available for presenting any meaningful analysis.
However, informed local judgements in Mexico indicate that 20-years is a
likely period in which this would occur. On this basis, the analysis includes
the additional benefit of the prevention of total production loss, tested for
1/   Cost per hectare relate to the area of improved land; this includes
costs of works carried out on land outside the improved land, e.g.
up-hill gully-plugging.



ANNEX 3-e
Page 6
15, 20 and 25 years respectively. With this addition, the results obtained
are between 9% and 18%. The model setting out these calculations and the
main assumptions on which they are based is included in Appendix 1.
15.       The additional off-site benefits from erosion control such as the
reduction in silting of streambeds, flood plains and harbors down-stream
and reduced sedimentation in water supplies, present significant problems
in quantification and have not been included in the analysis. Moreover,
they are likely to be small because the soil erosion measures are few in
relation to the widespread erosion problem.
16.       The main conclusions based on this analysis are:
(a) Higher net benefits from erosion control investment
will be obtained from land with the greater basic crop
yield potential. For example, within the data analyzed,
areas with yields of 500 Kg/ha. of maize or less have
marginal returns for the type of conservation costs con-
sidered. This would indicate that alternative land use
patterns, involving lower cost conservation measures,
should be developed for these areas.
(b) Concentrating on higher yield areas would increase
probability of securing follow-up maintenance of the
investment, because of land-user will have an incen-
tive to maintain the significant incremental produc-
tion. Whereas marginal low-yield areas, even with
protection, are more likely to be abandoned with the
occurrence of a prolonged drought-cycle or alternative
employment opportunity.
(c) Projects are highly sensitive to yield improvement,
costs and rate of soil destruction, which vary con-
siderably inter and intra region. Therefore, assembly
of accurate base data for specific project areas is
necessary for project evaluation, rather than relying
on regional or state-wide information.
(d) Maintenance programs for the regular upkeep of the
protection measures are necessary to justify the initial
investment.
(e) Deep soil plowing at the four-yearly interval indicated,
is unlikely to yield satisfactory profitability except
on the most productive sites. Inclusion of this oper-
ation as an erosion control measure in needs further
justification. In areas where the practice can be shown
to be profitable, consideration should be given to pro-
viding credit facilities to farmers for this work as
part of productivity increase investment.



ANNEX 3-e
Page 7
PIDER and Soil Conservation
17.       The costs of the propsed soil conservation program in PIDER II
is expected to be US$10.4 million which is equivalent to about 5% of the
overall US$240 project costs, and would provide for the protection of some
90,000 hectares of farm land. Most of these works will be executed by the
SSCSA and will account for a significant proportion for the SSCSA work pro-
gram.
18.       In the past, PIDER has only reimbursed the SSCSA for construction
expenditures, leaving SSCSA to cover cost for project preparation from its
regular budget which has been insufficient for adequate feasibility studies
to be made. Farmer education in appropriate soil conservation and maintenance
practices is also an activity which is not presently provided for in fund
allocation.
19.       PIDER would actively assist in providing for these present defici-
encies and also in supporting SSCSA in introducing other measures discussed to
strengthen soil conservation programs. Specific aspects, for which it is
recommended PIDER should give support, are:
(a) Staffing - working out with SSCSA adequate staffing:
(i) for project preparation and implementation;
(ii) in conjunction with SAG, staffing for training
programs for extension workers and promoting soil
conservation practices.
(b)  Project Preparation - projects should be prepared for
sub-watersheds based on land capability and should in-
clude detailed schedules for maintenance and upkeep.
This will need an integrated approach involving:
(i) local land owners and farmers;
(ii) SRA for land title and farmer participation;
(iii) other agencies of SAG and SRH to include agricul-
ture, livestock forestry and irrigation, to work
out basic approaches to land use and cropping
patterns;
(iv) provision for maintenance and continued extension
advice and supervision.
c)   Project Selection - develop methodology for project
selection along the lines discussed in para. 8 and
Appendix 1, with follow-up monitoring of results.



ANNEX 3-e
Page 8
d)   Maintenance - at present investment costs are borne
by the government with local participating beneficiaries
being paid at the going minimum wage rate. An under-
taking is given by the beneficiary ejido or village comn-
munity to maintain the works at their own expense. In
practice, maintenance is not generally being properly
undertaken. A major reason is failure to clearly
specify maintenance tasks, quantify these into
schedules showing input requirements and costs and in-
stitute accountability practices either by self-help
systems or by appointing local people to carry out the
work for cash wages. The latter alternative has the
advantage of greater probability of work being under-
taken. This could be implemented by a system in which
the ejido or village managing committee levied bene-
ficiaries to fund wage and material maintenance costs,
with payments being handled through the local agricul-
tural bank. Soil conservation would be an integral
part of the sub-watershed development plan, and
specific follow-up inspection and advice should be
provided for, with the objective of firmly establish-
ing these practices in normal land use.
e)   Land Improvement Credit - in consultation with SAG
agencies and SSCSA, distinguish land improvement acti-
vities, which are primarily for increased crop produc-
tion and not soil conservation, e.g., some of the deep
soil plowing and land clearing; establish relationships
between the farmers, agencies and Banks for supplying
credit for these types of operations which have been
demonstrated to be profitable.
f)   Research and Development - in consultation with SSCSA
and other related institutions, provide support for
developing improved soil conservation techniques, e.g.
possible alternatives to Nopal and Maguey for ridge
planting; introductory trials of tree species, grasses,
etc. on difficult sites which have large potential
replicability.
Employment
20.       It is estimated the PIDER financial program will generate some
three million man-days of additional employment, which will have significant
direct income and multiplier effects. In phasing soil conservation works,
special attention needs to be given to concentrating these during off-peak
seasons (generally December to mid-May) and fund allocations scheduled with
this objective.



ANNEX 3-e
Table 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Authorized Budgets of the Department of Water and Soil Conservation;
Hectares Protected and Number of Beneficiaries; 1958 to 1976.
Year            Budget authorized US $    Hectares of Land          Number of
1 US $ = Mex$12.50              Protected           Beneficiaries
1958             80,000                      1,530 has.              2,295
1959            120,000                      2,290 has.              3,425
1960            120,000                      2,186 has.              3,279
1961            120,000                      2,020 has.              3,030
1962            120,000                      2,140 has.              3,210
1963            199,000                      3,687 has.              5,530
1964            317,000                      6,000 has.              9,000
1965                                                                 -----
1966            110,000                      2,083 has.              3,125
1967            146,000                      2,758 has.              4,137
1968            298,000                      5,640 has.              8,460
1969          1,172,000                     19,177 has.             28,765
1970          3,328,000                     44,796 has.             68,194
1971          4,616,000                     62,137 has.             93,205
1972          5,763,000                     77,585 has.            116,377
1973         10,681,000                    126,600 has.            189,900
1974          6,891,000                     82,695 has.            124,042
TOTAL 58-74  34,100,000                     443,324 has.            664,984
1975           7,200,000                       n.a.                    n.a.
1976          10,640,000*                      n.a.                    n.a.
Source: Direcion General De Conservacion del Suelo y Agua.
*        US $3,440,000 of these funds came from PIDER.
Between 1958 and 1963, 58% of the budget was spent on actual works, the
balance for administration. Between 1964 and 1968, 62% were spent for
construction, in 1969, 64%, between 1970 and 72 some 70%, and between
1973 and 74 some 72%. Of the 28% spent on administrative costs in recent
years 6-7% are required for headquarter costs, while the remaining 22%
finance the Soil Conservation's Delegations at the state level. Average
costs per hectare protected,which,between 73/74k amounted to only $60.00,
have risen more than fivefold since then (See also Table 2).



MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
TABLE 2
Physical Characteristics  Current Costs, and Effects of Agriculture Productivity
of Soil Conservation Measures in Aguascalientes and Oaxaca*
Aguascalientes            Oaxaca
Average Slope                                                  6-8%                    8-10%
Maximum rainfall in 24 hr. period                               70 mm                  75-78 mm
Soil depth                                                   15-30 cm                  10-30 cm
State-wide average maize yield/ha.                            463 kg.                  754 kg.
Average costs per ha. terrace construction
by manual labor w. gully check dams                         $211/ha.                 $176/ha.
Average costs per ha. terrace construction
w. tractor incl. gully check dams                          $139/ha.                  $111/ha.
Planting costs of Nopal or M4aguey                            $94/ha.                    $64/ha.
Deepsoil plowing (by tractor)                                 $70/ha.                   $80/ha.
Estimated increase in production of mai:
- Terraces only                                           25%                       25%
- Subsoil plowing on terraces                             40% (total)               40%
- Subsoil plowing only                                    20%.,                     20%
Source:  Direcion General de Conservacion del Suelo y Agua, July 1976
* All peso costs converted at US$1.00 =Mex$12.50                                                                  r



ANNEX 3-e
Table 3
1xoO0
JRUAL DEVEOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Internal Rates of Return for Representative Soil Er sion
Control Programs in Aguascalientes and Oaxaca
Internal Rate of Return,4//%
Basis of Benefit                     Aguascalientes                     Oaxaca
Calculation                   30 Yr. Life  Infinite Life    30 Yr. Life  Infinite Life
Terrace Construction Only;
(by hand labor)                  2               5                 11             12
( by tractor)                    6               7                 19             19
Terrace Construction by
Hand Labor Inc'uding Plant-,
ing of Maguey -                  1               4                  8              9
Terrace Construction by Hand-
Labor, plus I4aguey Planting,
plus Net Allowance for
Prevention of Total Soil
Loss over 15-Year Period.!,   11                12                 18             18
Terrace Construction by, Hand-
Labor, plus Maguey Planting,
plus Net Allowance for       i
Prevention of Total Soil
Loss over 20-Year Period3/    11                11                 18             18
Terrace Construction by Hand-
Labor, plus Maguey Planting,
plus Net Allowance for
Prevention of Total Soil Loss
over 25-Year Period.3/            9             10                 15             16
Deep soil Plowing only,                     -9
4 Year life.
J  Data from Table 2.  All calculations assume either a 30-year or infinite life
expectancy except for ripping operations which, according to the Soil Conservation
Service, have to be repeated every four years. Operating and maintenance costs
(except for ripping) are assumed to amount to Mex. $100.00 (US. $8.00 at old
exclhange rate) per hectare per year.
2/  Planting costs for Nopal are higher (See Table 2) but would possibly be offset by
partial harvesting and utilization when plants mature.
3/  Assumes that continuing soil losses would destroy 6.7%, 5% or 4% of the original
area under cultivation every year.  Net agricultural income assumed to amount to
60% of gross income.  Values of maize per ton-= Mex. $1900 (U.S. $152.00 at old
exchange rate).
4/  Rouinded to the closest full percentage point.



ANNEX 3-f
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Forestry
Introduction
1.        Up to 1976, PIDER's involvement with forestry has been limited.
Only Mex$5 million (US$0.3 m equivalent) have been spent in 30 micro-regions
of PIDER I, mainly for studies and reafforestation of some 900 ha. In the
20 micro-regions programmed for the PIDER II, an additional Mex$6.5 million
(US$325,000) is provided for reforesting an additional 950 ha. Given the
importance of forestry in providing incomes to ejidos in a number of states
and in generating additional wood and paper productions, PIDER is examining
various alternatives to expand its support of forestry activities in its
micro-regions. This annex reviews some of the issues facing PIDER in this
endeavor.
Background
2.        Forests cover about 45 million ha or nearly a quarter of Mexico's
total land area of 197 million ha. About 30 million ha or two-thirds of these
are coniferous plus some hardwoods located in the colder mountain areas. The
remaining third or 15 million ha consists of mixed hardwoods in the hot humid
areas. Only about 13 million ha of the total forest area, however, is con-
sidered to be commercially productive. Many of the forest areas are poorly
stocked, some are located in precipitous and inaccessible country, while
agriculture and grazing encroach in other areas.
33        Production of industrial roundwood was estimated at 6.9 million
m /year in 1976, 80% of which is coniferous aed 20% hardwoods. This compares
with total estimaSed demand of 9.5 million m /year. The imported balance of
some 2.4 million m /year is mainly wood pulp and pulp/paper products. The
main producing states are Chihuahua, Durango, Michaocan and Jalisco which
together produce about 65% of the total. Production of roundwood and sawnwood
products including dressed timber, but excluding boards and pulp/paper pro-
ducts, was valued at Mex$3.8 billion in 1975. Non-wood forestry products of
resin, gum, fruits, etc. were valued at Mex$429 million in the same year.
This includes the locally important industries of chicle, used as a base in
chewing gum manufacture and babesco rhizomes used in steroids production.
4.        There are no reliable estimates of non-industrial wood consumption,
including farm timber and fuel wood, although it is likely to exceed indus-
trial roundwood consumption by a substantial margin.



ANNEX 3-f
Page 2
5.        National inventory d ta indicates a potential production of the
forests oS some 16.5 million m /year compared to actual production of 6.9
million m . This assessment may be optimistic, considering problems of
inaccessibility, lack of adequate management systems, and the difficulty of
arriving at marketing arrangements acceptable to the forest owners.  By 1995
the demand is expected to exceed 21 million m /year. 1/
Forest Ownership and Management
6.        Fifty-five percent of the forests are owned communally or by ejidos,
40% privately, and 5% by the Federal and State Governments. The proportion
of ejido forest ownership varies considerably between states; in Chihuahua
and Durango the proportion is around 70% to 75%, and in Guerrero is reported
to be 55%. The 3 million or more people living in the forest areas have not
profited from owning trees; rather, the average incomes of forest dwellers
is estimated to be in the lowest quartile for the country.
7.        All commercial forest removals must be authorized by the Subsecre-
tariat of Forestry (SOF). Upon payment of a prescribed fee by the forest
owner(s), SOF prepares a management plan for a specific period, (5-10 years),
which authorizes selective felling up to specified volumes/year based on
criteria of stocking density of the forest and minimum girth of trees. The
objective is to retain sufficient tree cover to protect the soil and ensure
natural regeneration.
8.        Marketing outlets are also subject to control.  Originally, conces-
sions were granted through presidential decrees to private corporations.
Generally, these private owners met considerable resistence from the forest
owners, with the result that the forest resources were not fully exploited.
As a result, in the late 1960's, the Government provided funds and staff for
a number of government corporations to develop forests in specific areas.
These include at the federal level Proformex in Durango State and Forestal
Vicente Guerrero (FVG), and at the state level Profortarah in Chihuahua.
Proformex and FVG handle the active spectrum of forestry development them-
selves, but have guaranteed the local inhabitants that they will develop
the economic and social infrastructure in their concessions. Profortarah, on
the other hand, gives a freer hand to the local groups already involved in
forest exploitation. They plan to retain existing marketing outlets and to
permit new ejido exploitation and marketing enterprises. The corporations
are still 3in their infancy. Proformex is at present producing only about
200,000 m /year of logs out of an estimated maximum production of 1.3 million
1/   Based on estimates prepared by the Subsecretariat of Forestry (Sub-
Secretaria Forestal y de la Fauna - SOF) which projects deficits 3in
domestic production to meet roundwood demand of over 4 million m by
1995, even assuming full potential domestic production can be realized.



ANNEX 3-f
Page 3
m3/year. FVG is producing about 100,000 m 3/year against a potential of over
1.0 million m /year, and as yet only 25% of the available ejidos are partici-
pating in Profortarah.
9.        One reason for the slow development is dispute over boundaries be-
tween government concessions and private owners, which stems from Presidential
Decrees authorizing more than one group to exploit a given area at one time.
-A second problem is that ejidos in the federal concessions resent not being
allowed to secure loans to develop forest industries themselves and as a
result are reluctant to cooperate with concession management.
10.       In 1975, over 60% more commercial removals of roundwood were
authorized than were actually felled. Authorizations totaled 11 million m
against 6.9 million m harvested. The breakdown for authorizations included
28% from ejidos and communally owned forests, 21% private owners, and 51%
industrial enterprises including federal and state corporations. This com-
pares with 17% actually harvested by ejidos, 63% by private owners and 20% by
Federal and State corporations.
Forest Industries
11.       Table 1, below, lists the major wood industries operating in Mexico
with their installed capacities and current production.



ANNEX 3-f
Page 4
Table 1:  SUMMARY OF MAJOR WOOD USING INDUSTRIES - 1974
Installed     Estimated Production, 1974
Type                      No.        Capacity         Quantity   % of Capacity
Sawmills                  643        3.14 m             2,120 m3       68
Plymills                   26        210,000 m3       134,000 m3       64
Particle Board Mills        9        121,000 m3        87,000 m3       72
Fibre Board Mills           2         33,000 m3        28,000 m3       85
Resin Factories            31        133,000 tons      73,000 tons    55
Barbesco (Steroids
Timber Preservation
Plants                   10            n.a.             n.a.        n.a.
Wood Pulp Mills              7       473,000 tons    362,000 tons    77
Paper and Paper
Board Mills              51      1,483,000 tons  1,254,000 tons    85
Source: Secretariat of Agriculture
12.       The main users of industrial wood are sawmills of which 30% are
small-scale plants of less 3than 5,000 m /year, and 50% are in the medium
range of 5,000 to 10,000 m /year. About 10 to 12% of sawmill capacity is
directly operated by ejidos and this type of development is being encouraged.
Both Proformex and FVG have plans for establishing new sawmills, while
Proformex is planning the establishment of a plymill and pulp/paper mill.
In addition to the wood-pulp mills there are a number of pulp mills based on
agricultural residues, e.g., bagasse and wheat straw. Fifteen of the paper
and paper board mills are integrated with pulp mills.
Need for Controls
13.       Most of the richer forests are situated in steep hilly areas, often
with shallow soils susceptible to rapid water erosion. Stringent control
mechanisms are needed to ensure that their exploitation does not interfere
with the watershed protection they provide.



ANNEX 3-f
Page 5
14.       It is particularly difficult to enforce rational harvesting patterns
in the large proportion of forests owned by ejidos, since these low-income
groups have little commitment to long-term watershed management. In addition,
in some places there is pressure to convert forests to agricultural lands
with an associated high incidence of indiscriminate burning.
15.       Many of the forest industries have no direct commitment to maintain-
ing the sustained supply of timber because they do not directly operate the
forests. The result is over-exploitation in certain areas to keep factories
supplied, particularly since capacities are underutilized and domestic prices
are high for timber products. 1/
Government Strategy
16.       SOF is currently preparing a national forestry plan to increase
production from the existing forests and to develop a reforestation program.
So far, plans have been prepared in 12 regions, in collaboration with State
Governments. These provide for a federal forestry management team, includ-
ing agricultural and livestock specialists, to be appointed to each region,
to implement the development plan in cooperation with the ejidos. The objec-
tive is to involve ejidos in successive stages of the development including
their participation in logging, sawmilling and further manufacture based
on the existing forests, replanting with fast growing species in downgraded
forests or new plantation areas and concurrent agricultural/livestock activ-
ities. SOF has set a target of 30,000/ha./year of new plantations to be
established in these federal-sponsored projects.
17.       A major difficulty being encountered is securing land with a high
growth potential for forestry plantations. SOF is seeking assistance to
implement the programs under the plan.
18.       The SOF program is considered complementary to the private conces-
sions and government corporations and will not be instituted in any of the
areas where either of those activities already exist.
PIDER's Involvement
19.       There are possibilities for expanding PIDER involvement in forestry
in the three major topographic areas of Mexico: the forested, the semi-arid,
and the agricultural areas. In the forested, PIDER could help assess whether
credit should be extended to small-scale ejido enterprises in logging, saw-
milling and marketing. In semi-arid areas, PIDER might look critically at
1/   The current ex-mill prices fs3r construction sawn-lumber of pine are
in the range of US$130/195/m (rate Mex$12.5 to US$1), which compares with
f.o.b. European port prices for comparable timber ex-Scandinavia and
N. America of about US$110 to US$170/m .



ANNEX 3-f
Page 6
different research efforts currently underway, extrapolate appropriate por-
tions, and select one micro-region in which to apply an integrated develop-
ment package. In the agricultural areas, tree planting could be incorporated
in watershed/soil conservation projects. In all cases, forestry development
should be considered in conjunction with other forms of land use and develop-
ment.
PIDER Involvement in Forested Areas
20.       PIDER could be involved in expanding credit for ejidos' forest indus-
tries. Unlike other forested states like Chihuahua and Durango, which have
adequate credit facilities, Oaxaca, for example, does not have
forestry technicians on local bank staffs to help assess loan applications.
There is here, however, considerable interest among ejidos in expanding their
logging and sawmilling operations as well as extending sawmilling into inte-
grated furniture and moulding products, and undertaking some reforestation.
The existing industries in Oaxaca seem to be operating efficiently. Guide-
lines to create new enterprises can be based on these on-going businesses.
21.       On the other hand, the suggestions for new enterprises in Quintana
Roo, for example, where the adequacy of the resource base is doubtful, may
need technical analysis before credit is extended.
22.       PIDER's role would be to collaborate with banks by funding feasi-
bility studies of small-scale ejido enterprises in logging, sawmilling and
marketing. In the process, the following check list should be considered.
(a) The resource base, including forest type distribution and
stocking densities should be adequate, allowing particularly
for economic logging costs;
(b) It must be determined whether labor would be available;
(c) Technical assistance and credit required to implement im-
provements in exising sawmilling and as well as specialized
industries such as chicle should be assessed.
(d) Technicians should assess land capability not only for
forestry but also for livestock, agricultural crops, and
fruit culture.
(e) The new technologies to be introduced should be selected
with technical back-stopping of research institutes (e.g.,
forestry and fruit).
23.       If no forest-based activities are possible, PIDER should make that
determination, followed up by suggestions of other possible land-use activi-
ties in the area.



ANNEX 3-f
Page 7
Semi-Arid Areas
24.       In the arid zones, where population density and average incomes are
lowest for the country, there are a variety of activities based on natural
scrub vegetation. The two most important are "Lechuguilla" fibre, produced
from Agave lechuguilla, and used in rope, sack and mat making, and "can-
delilla", a wax which is produced from Euphorbia antysyphylitica. Other
locally important indigenous species are Yacca carnerosana, used as a sub-
stitute fibre for lechuguilla. Its flowers are used as food (human and
cattle) and the stems as fuel. Yacca filifera (Palmachina) is used for its
fruits and Dasylirium duranguense is used for producing sotol, a local
alcoholic beverage.
25.       Several proposals exist for development of arid areas, mostly
involving shrub exploitation. Two have been submitted to PIDER while the
third is still being researched. One was prepared by the National Institute
of Forest Research (INIF) and involves improvement of natural tree species and
development of new species, particularly for livestock fodder in the micro-
region of Francisco Sarabia in Durango.
26.       A second project is mainly geared to irrigation for the Ojinaga
micro-region in Chihuahua, with the possibility of introducing pistachio nuts
and grapes in irrigated areas. The project was prepared by the Secretariat
of Water Resources based on a pilot project being undertaken by CNIZA (Arid
Zone Commission).
27.       It is inappropriate at this time for PIDER to agree to become
involved with any of these proposals. Though each have merit, and technical
backstopping is available in each case, the real need is to determine which
approach will be most effective. The alternative approach which is suggested
is that PIDER should act as a coordinator, extracting appropriate segments
of these proposals. It should then take the best ideas available to develop
a multi-disciplinary technical development package for application in one
selected micro-region. The approach should include:
(a) a study for the assessment and selection of technologies
for intensive trials on the basis of research to date;
(b) formulating a defined trials program in collaboration
with participating agencies;
(c) implementing trials under a coordinated management team
representing, e.g., food crops, livestock, hydrology,
soil conservation and tree crops, for an initial period
of 5 years;
(d) inclusion of studies, e.g., groundwater availability;
(e) provision for overseas study tours for staff employed
by the project;



ANNEX 3-f
Page 8
(f) provision for consultants (local and overseas); and
(g) regular independent monitoring by PIDER-selected team.
Agricultural Areas
28.       Many of the agricultural areas are virtually treeless, and tree-
planting should be incorporated into soil conservation projects for the dual
purpose of improving watershed management and production of forest products
particularly for local use. Species can be grown which could be used for
poles for local houses, farm buildings, and fence posts, and in some of the
remoter areas, possibly for fuelwood. This would help alleviate the overall
deficit in wood supply, and could also contribute to industrial wood require-
ments, particularly for pulpwood. The trees would also substitute for some
mechanical works in the projects and in addition provide shade and shelter.
For example, shelter belts planted across sloping range land could replace
terraces and provide shade and shelter for cattle. Fruits, nuts and fodder
might also be grown as well as Christmas trees as an intermediate crop from
thinnings.
29.       SOF has no subsection with responsibility for addressing the ques-
tion of forestry as a component part of an integrated sub-watershed develop-
ment. SOF, SSCSA, and INIF agree a forestry component would make sense in
those watershed projects where the need for forest products can be readily
identified, and where trees would reinforce conservation measures.  INIF
volunteered to undertake development of suitable technical packages for new
areas. PIDER's role should be to ensure that SOF, SSCSA and INIF in fact,
follow up with preparation of integrated projects for selected micro-regions.



ANNEX 4-a
Page 1
MEXICO
Rural Development Project - PIDER II
Extension
I. BACKGROUND
1.        One of the major objectives of the PIDER I project was to lay
the basis for a major reform of the extension system operating in the micro-
regions supported by PIDER. Under PIDER I, the Government was required
to develop a new extension system and apply this system to the micro-regions
supported by the World Bank. With the exception of the women's home exten-
sion program, (para 21) this effort has proven more difficult than expected.
However, the consolidation of SAG and SRG in late 1976 into the new Secre-
tariat of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH) provided PIDER management
with a fresh opportunity. All SRH and SAG extension divisions were combined
under one Director General. PIDER management has given renewed priority to
achieving wider replication of a new extension system.
2.        Prior to PIDER, farmers living in the regions targeted for develop-
ment had virtually no contact with the normal extension system of the Secre-
tariat of Agriculture. This system functioned mainly for the benefit for
larger farmers in the high potential rainfed areas and for farmers with access
to irrigation. In planning for the initial investment packages in the early
micro-regions in 1973 and 1974, PIDER insisted that the Secretariat of Agri-
culture alter its traditional system and devise a program more suited to
the needs of the PIDER client farmers. The Secretariat thus developed a
somewhat different approach based on multi-disciplinary "brigades". Each
brigade averaged from 20 to 25 persons per micro-region, with a total of
700 members assigned to the Bank's 30 micro-regions by the end of 1976.
These teams comprise mixed disciplines.                    They also include
significant numbers of secondary school graduate technicians (peritos).
Using a variety of new extension techniques including use of demonstration
parcels and close association with official banks providing seasonal credit,
the concept was directed at providing one extension person per three villages
or ejidos.
3.        While this reform of the traditional Secretariat of Agriculture
extension service under PIDER was a major departure for the Secretariat of
Agriculture, neither the Bank nor PIDER management were fully satisfied.
Problems remained, especially with extension and applied research directed as
such traditional crops as maize and beans.
4.        Thus, under PIDER I, a major effort was initiated to reorganize this
traditional extension service of the Secretariat of Agriculture (SAG), opera-
ting in rainfed areas. A "Plan of Action", prepared by SAG and PIDER staff,



ANNEX 4-a
Page 2
was approved by the Bank in November 1975. The major objective was to develop
a system of applied research and extension based on the ecology of the region
being developed. Appropriate technical packages are being derived based
on local varieties already adapted to the region's ecology. Pilot programs in
the Puebla and Zacapoaxtla regions are introducing better plant spacing,
earlier planting, and fertilizer on credit. For such major crops as corn it
has been demonstrated that 50% or better yield increases can be achieved. The
Plan of Action called for the expansion of this new approach, known as the
PRONDAAT system, 1/ over a three year period to the 30 micro-regions supported
by the Bank under PIDER I.
5.        The target proved over-ambitious.  By mid-1976, the PRONDAAT
approach had been applied in ten PIDER regions, of which only four are among
IBRD's 30, whereas the plan called for application in twelve Bank-financed
micro-regions in 1976. SAG's "brigade" extension service operates in the
other micro-regions. Although PIDER has supported a near doubling of the SAG
extension service during the past three years, less than 5% of new agents have
been trained in the PRONDAAT methodology. Under the second phase of PIDER,
therefore, a continued effort will be made to expand the PRONDAAT system into
all Bank-financed micro-regions, both under PIDER I and PIDER II.
II. Agricultural Extension Provided Through Established Agencies
A.   Extension for Non-Traditional Agricultural Activities
6.        A variety of extension agencies service non-traditional production
activites in PIDER micro-regions. These include livestock, fruit and irri-
gated grains. Other agencies promote non-traditional approaches including
trench silos and home economics. The list of these agencies supported by
PIDER includes:
PLAMELPA. A section of the new department of irrigated
extension department of SARH, this group provide extension
services to farmers receiving new or rehabilitated irriga-
tion works.
INI. Working in the Indian areas, INI applies much of the
new extension methodology developed under Plan Puebla.
1/   Based on experience gained under the Puebla Project, PRONDAAT supports
an intensive program of adaptive research and evaluation designed to
produce technical packages appropriate for each micro-region. It also
seeks to involve the extension agent directly in the organization of
farmer level institutions for such activities as acquisition of credit
and inputs, and produce marketing. The program receives strong support
from the Post Graduate College of the Chapingo Agricultural University.
(See Section III.)



ANNEX 4-a
Page 3
FIRA and BANRURAL. In 1975 and 1976, the technicians of
the credit system have increased their activities, par-
ticularly in the livestock, forestry and fruit areas.
BANRURAL has been attempting to supplement salaries of
the regular extension service in order to tie seasonal
credit closer to the recommended maize and bean improve-
ment packages.
CONAFRUT. CONAFRUT technicians work exclusively to pro-
vide technical assistance to fruit growers.
PRONAFOR. Operated under the livestock group at SARH,
PRONAFOR has successfully introduced a new system of
silage making and storage into the micro-regions.
Home Economics. SAG's women home economists work to ex-
tend improved home-making skills to the target benefici-
aries in PIDER micro-regions (see Section IV).
These extension systems have been fairly successful in introducing non-
traditional or new activities to the traditional maize and bean cropping
pattern. Yield levels on these livestock, beekeeping, fruit and irrigated
vegetables crops have generally been as expected. Also, the home economics
extension is exercising a dynamic influence on the target communities going
beyond pure home-making skills.
B.   Extension for Traditional Rainfed Staple Crops
7.        SAG's Directorate General of Agricultural Extension is the prin-
cipal extension agency for rainfed traditional crops in PIDER micro-regions.
The two principal staples are maize and beans. Maize occupies about 8 mil-
lion ha, i.e. about half of the rainfed crop land in the country. It is
particularly important in the tropical gulf, Pacific south and central regions,
which contain over 70% of Mexico's maize land. Rainfall deficiency (below
600-700 mm), however, makes one-third of the harvested maize area economically
marginal. Beans are second only to maize in the Mexican diet. More than one
million hectares of beans are harvested each year; about half of this area is
grown interplanted with maize by subsistence farmers. The main producing
areas are the north central states and the higher central plateau. The main
problems related to bean production are diseases, poor yielding characteristics
of native strains and great heterogeneity of seed quality. After a period of
significant increases in yields and area under cultivation during the 1960's,
production increases have been disappointing during the early 1970's.
8.        Resources for Extension.  During the past three years (1974-76),
the number of SAG extension agents working on traditional crops increased
from 2,700 to 5,200. More than half this increase was financed through
PIDER, with 1,400 professionals now being assigned to its 86 micro-regions.



ANNEX 4-a
Page 4
PIDER's financial support to the SAG extension service is shown in the table
below. 1/
Total PIDER                 Extension Service
Allocation to    SAG Normal                                   Percentages
Year         SAG             Budget       Allocation    Budget         (3/1)  (3/4)
(1)              (2)            (3)          (4)
-------- in Mex $ million -------
1973
1974          243             148             60          208           25       29
1975          576             286            139          425           24       33
1976          483             354            170          524           35       32
This table indicates the importance attached by PIDER to SAG's extension ser-
vice, and shows the impact PIDER has had in recent years on resources avail-
able to SAG. The extension service depends now for about one-third of its
resources on the PIDER program.
9.        With 1,400 extension agents working for PIDER, the extension density
is much higher in PIDER micro-regions than under SAG's regular programs.
The regions selected for intensive development by PIDER are characterized by
lower rain fall and/or difficult access, and typically receive little or no
extension support under SAG's normal program. Under PIDER, each micro-
region, containing an average of 10,000 farm families, is now served by an
average of 20-25 professionals. This works out to roughly one extension agent
per 600 farm families or eight ejidos (75 families per ejido). These ratios
are more or less correct under Mexico's conditions and the numerical shortage
of extension agents that occur outside PIDER is no longer a limiting factor in
the PIDER micro-regions. 1/ The key issue that remains is the quality of
extension.
10.       Quality of Extension.  When PIDER was initiated in 1973, the quali-
tative problems of SAG extension were recognized, and SAG agreed to change
its approach in the PIDER regions in several ways. First, SAG agreed to
develop a brigade system, 2/ employing sub-professionals or secondary school
graduates ("peritos") who would live and work in the region and develop a
series of demonstration parcels. Further, SAG agreed to ensure adequate
vehicles and gasoline for its extension workers so they could be more mobile
in the region assigned to them.
1/   Source:  SAG Programming Bureau.
2/   Comprising a team of 20-25 mixed discipline professionals and tech-
nicians.



ANNEX 4-a
Page 5
11.       Despite substantial criticism within Mexico, these innovations
resulted in some improvement of farmer yields particularly where credit from
BANRURAL was available for seasonal inputs. For example, in Sinaloa, a near
doubling of yields appears to have been achieved over a two-year period in
20% of the rainfed maize and bean area, with the help of credit for fertilizer
and improved seed. Where farmers are more isolated and rainfall is below
700 mm, the SAG "brigade" extension approach has not worked as well. The
technical recommendations are often drawn from research stations outside the
micro-region and are designed both for higher rainfall and more sophisticated
farmers. These conditions do not often prevail in the PIDER micro-regions.
Thus, SAG extension workers have found it difficult to provide PIDER's low
income farmers with appropriate technical recommendations, while at the same
time experiencing farmer resistance to overly general recommendations.
12.       Also, the expansion of the extension service was probably carried
out too quickly. The agents were given very little job-orientation or on-
site training and supervision, with a resulting high personnel turnover.
This was particularly serious since most of the newly appointed staff were
inexperienced with less than a year since graduation. No improvements were
made in extension methods, which are still limited to giving advice, supported
by general experimental results from nine regional research centers located
throughout the country. Very little use is made of crop demonstration and
extension aids, and farmer training is almost non-existent. Extension agents
receive no formal training either in extension methods or in peasant soci-
ology. Finally, there is wide disparity between salaries and fringe benefits
among the various organizations employing extension agents, with SAG offering
the lowest remuneration. PIDER, and particularly its field staff, became
acutely aware of the need for further quality improvement. With assistance
from Bank missions, PIDER insisted with SAG on a different approach to agri-
cultural extension in PIDER micro-regions.
III. THE PRONDAAT SYSTEM
13.       Approach.  One alternative approach to the traditional SAG extension
methods was developed in 1974. It was called PRONDAAT, the National Program
for Agricultural Development in Rainfed Areas. With support from the Post-
Graduate College of the Chapingo Agricultural University, PRONDAAT operates a
training center in Puebla and assists newly trained extension teams in
selected regions. The PRONDAAT approach is modeled after a pilot program in
the Zacapoaxtla micro-region (Plan Zacapoaxtla) which in turn is based on
experiences with Plan Puebla. This method seeks to give the extension agent
a development role by directly involving him in the organization of farmer-
level insitutions, in marketing and in the provision of credit and inputs.
The approach is supported by an intensive program of adaptive research and
evaluation designed to produce technical packages for each localized ecolog-
ical zone.



ANNEX 4-a
Page 6
14.       Under PRONDAAT specific regions are selected for which maize is
the basic subsistence crop. The initial effort is towards increases in
maize yields with other basic crops being developed subsequently. For each
selected region, a team of seven professionals (agronomists, economists) is
trained through a four-month course in the program's training center. The
first month is a general introduction for the team as a whole and the remain-
ing three months are devoted to applied research (for two team members),
communication (three), evaluation (one), and coordination (one). After the
course, the team starts its activities in the region assigned to it under
close supervision and guidance by PRONDAAT staff and with direct access to
advisers in the Postgraduate College.
15.       The team's activities during the first year include:
(a) a diagnosis of the social and economic conditions in the
region including existing cropping patterns;
(b) determination of appropriate packages for testing;
(c) the carrying out of on-farm tests to assess yields of ex-
periments to adapt the general alternative technical
packages in the various ecological sub-zones of a
micro-region;
(d) measurement and evaluation of the "technical package"
yields on farmers' and demonstration plots; and
(e) coordination with the various agricultural development
agencies in the region.
(f) Promotion of the promising technical packages.
16.       During subsequent years, technical recommendations are refined and
broadened to include cash crops. Further, the promotion of farmer organiza-
tion, marketing, and credit is intensified, and evaluation is refined. Super-
vision by the central PRONDAAT team has gradually been reduced and shifted to
new micro-regions. The original approach has been modified slightly to allow
incorporation of the PRONDAAT methodology into the regular extension system of
SAG. PRONDAAT operates as part of SAG, and is being further adapted to allow
eventual large-scale implementation: Government's intention is to gradually
reform the entire SAG extension service along the lines of the PRONDAAT
methodology.
17.       Progress.  The increase in the number of PRONDAAT-trained agents
has been less than projected. PRONDAAT's initial goal was to train eight
to nine regional teams of seven professionals each per year. Only 40 pro-
fessionals were trained in 1974 during the first course, but the second
course produced a total of 57 professionals. Together, 16 regional teams
are now operating. In 1976, however, only four 1/ of these were assigned
1/   i.e., Zacapoaxtla, Pue; Valles Centrales, Oax; Mixteca, Oax; and
Chiantla, Pue.



ANNEX 4-a
Page 7
in the 30 micro-regions supported by the first Bank project, leaving 26
to be covered by regular SAG agents (see following table). Another four
micro-regions are to be added during 1977. This is a large shortfall com-
pared with the original (November 1975) plan of eleven Bank micro-regions
in 1976 and twenty in 1977.
Extension Personnel                      SAG Extension
PIDER I Project                    (26 micro-regions)      (4 micro-regions)
Supervisors                                       26                       4
Agricultural Extensionists                       135                      13
Livestock Extensionists                           55                       3
Other Specialists                                 20                      11
Total, professional staff                      236                      31
(Average per micro-region)                      (9)                     (8)
Sub-Professional "Perito"
Extensionists                                  161                      68
Home Economists (Women)                          162                      17
Secretaries                                       26                       8
Non-Professional Support                          16                      20
Total, sub- and non-professional               365                     113
(Average per micro-region)                     (14)                    (28)
TOTAL                                          601                     144
(Average per micro-region)                     (23)                    (36)
1/   i.e., Zacapoaxtla, Pue; Valles Centrales, Oax; Mixteca, Oax; and
Chiantla, Pue.
18.       An interesting finding from this table is that the more intensive
PRONDAAT approach is achieved by a slightly smaller professional staff (which
is in short supply), but a much larger number of sub-professionals and non-
professionals than under the traditional SAG system. The annual operating
costs of a PRONDAAT team is about 20% higher than under the traditional sys-
tem. The cost-effectiveness of the PRONDAAT scheme is, however, much higher
than that of the traditional system because of the incomparably better re-
sults achieved by the PRONDAAT teams.
19.       The critical issue for PRONDAAT is how this scheme can be expanded
rapidly. PRONDAAT's Training Center at Puebla has 16 teachers able to train
some 50-60 professionals per year, equivalent to eight to ten field teams.
Agricultural agents able to administer another three to fiye micro-regions
could be trained annually at the Agricultural Post-Graduate School.  At this
rate, only about 40 extension teams could be prepared over the next three



ANNEX 4-a
Page 8
years, which would even be less than needed for the Bank-financed micro-
regions (another 26 to be covered under PIDER I and 20 under the proposed
PIDER II). In practice, however, the needs of non-Bank micro-regions
will have to be met pari passu. If the more than 900 existing livestock
specialists, technicians and assistants supported by PIDER were also to
be retrained, it would take 15-18 years to finish the job. The entire
reform of the existing national extension service would than take up to
50 year, an unacceptable proposition.
20.       Clearly, this rate of improvement in the micro-region extension
systems was unacceptable to PIDER management. Thus, when the Secretariat of
Agriculture was combined with the Secretariat of Water Resources in early 1977,
PIDER's management immediately organized a number of meetings with the new
Director General of Extension. This person now controls extension programs
of the two former secretariats his new department into two principal divisions,
one responsible for all extension in rainfed areas, the other for extension
in irrigated districts. With support, PIDER concluded a major "Operational
Agreement" with SARH under which all PIDER financed extension staff working
in PIDER micro-regions would henceforth follow the PRONDAAT basic system of
extension described above. The Operational Agreement sets forth the detailed
criteria for implementing PRONDAAT, specifies that extension coordination in
the State-level be vested in a new SARH Extension Coordinator, lays out a
training schedule for re-cycling existing SARH extension staff through the
PIDER-financed PRONDAAT training center at Puebla and finally specifies,
in unusually strong language, that failure to follow the Agreement will
result in suspension of PIDER finance to that micro-region's extension pro-
gram. PIDER supervisors are instructed to monitor the execution of this
agreement monthly.
Women's Extension and Home Economics Program Self-Help
21.       Program History.  The inclusion of home economists in the agricul-
tural extension service began in 1964, with four teachers assigned to instruct
rural women in such areas as nutrition, child care, sewing, sanitation and
home improvement. The program grew to 345 home economists in 1970, and
reached 796 in 1975. In 1973, the program was changed from a counseling-
oriented format to a project-oriented format, with the success of a home
economist being measured in terms of the number of women she could encourage
to establish vegetable gardens, invest in chicken fattening complexes, and
participate in fruit canning ventures and other potential income-generating
projects. The counseling functions have been retained and have recently been
extended to include family planning. Since 1974, PIDER has been financing
approximately 50% of SAG's home economists program.



ANNEX 4-a
Page 9
1974             1975              1976
Total     PIDER   Total    PIDER   Total    PIDER
State Supervisors           32        --       32        --       32       n.a.
Regional Supervisors        47        30       54        31*      61       n.a.
612       317      710       335*     718       n.a.
691       347      796       376      811       n.a.
* Includes 166 financed in IBRD micro-regions.
Management
22.       The entire program is coordinated at the federal level by a single
woman who heads the Section of Rural Home Improvement within the Department of
Community Improvement of the General Direction of Agricultural Extension. She
directs the operations of 32 state supervisors, one for each state, who in turn
are responsible for all the home economists within their states. Within each
PIDER micro-region, the most experienced home economist assumes the role of
regional supervisor, holding bi-weekly meetings and controling the only
vehicle. Within broad national guidelines, the state supervisor is responsible
for the definition of the program within her state and is responsible for the
hiring, monitoring, evaluation and firing of local home economists. Two tech-
nicians are employed at the federal level to assist state supervisors with
project preparation. National meetings of state supervisors are held
annually.
Funding
23.       In PIDER micro-regions, the average monthly salary was 4,000 pesos
in 1975 and 4,800 pesos in 1976, while in the regions handled by the normal
program, the average was 4,600 in both 1975 and 1976. Each home economist is
supposed to be provided with a supply of equipment to use in each community
she visits. This equipment, budgeted at 7,000 pesos in PIDER micro-regions
and 3,000 pesos in other regions, may include such items as one sewing
machine, one gas stove, kitchen utensils and gardening tools, but due to
internal reallocations within the Agricultural Extension Service, it is often
unavailable. Only in PIDER micro-regions are funds made available for the
purchase of materials to be distributed free of charge to participants who
cannot afford to purchase them. These amounts vary from 800 to 10,000 pesos
per year. Since women in Mexico cannot receive bank credit, the home
economist program may be the place to introduce a revolving fund to finance
commercial operations.



ANNEX 4-a
Page 10
Staffing
24.       At present, all home economists must be either graduates of 4-year
normal schools or 3-year schools of social work. There is no special train-
ing for the job. Home economists must pick up what information they can
from manuals, discussions with other home economists, and experience once
they start working. The typical home economist is in her 20's and single,
although a number are married and/or have children.  Although a home econo-
mist's salary is reasonable (about twice as much as that received by a
regular primary school teacher), the number of women willing to live in rural
areas, particularly isolated ones, is limited, and therefore the program
cannot often be as selective as it might wish with regard to hiring personnel.
In addition, 20% of the women recruited stay less than 6 months on the job.
However, once a woman stays 6 months, she will normally stay an average of 3
years.
Operational Procedures
25.       Using various criteria, including availability of transportation
and communication facilities, the state supervisor selects a community of
between 50-250 families (300-1,500 persons) to which she assigns a home
economist. The home economist must find her ow-n housing, usually a room
with a family in the community. Then she must do a community survey to
ascertain what interest there may be in the activities she has to offer.
Sometimes there is little or no interest. More often the men in the
community appear intractably opposed to a non-traditional influence on
their women. In either case, after 3 months the home economist will leave
the community. Otherwise she should stay one year, and occasionally even
longer, teaching groups of women and visiting separate homes to advise on
such activities as home improvements, family projects, and personal
problems.
Community Coverage
26.       At present, the coverage is totally inadequate, with home economists
assigned to only 1,000 out of a possible 35,000 communities in PIDER micro-
regions. Although home economists could provide more extensive coverage by
visiting several communities in a week, most feel their effectiveness would
be vitiated. Key to the program's success is the integration of the home
economist into the community and even a year may not be long enough firmly
to extend new practices into community life. Return visits also seem to have
little or no effect.
Community Participation
27.       In general, community participation is limited to the younger,
usually unmarried women and to the wealthier women who can afford to purchase
the required materials. In Sinaloa, for example, about 20% of the eligible



ANNEX 4-a
Page 11
women were considered active participants, with participation rates varying
from project to project as follows:
Horticulture       22%
Poultry             8%
Rabbits             5%
Canning            16%
Clothing           32%
Handicrafts        14%
Commercial Prospects
28.       Each home economist is required to initiate at least one commercial
venture each year. Nationwide about 10% of the projects are designed to make
money. Most are not very successful, however, since most women including
home economists, have had little or no experience with business ventures.



ANNEX 4-b
Page 1
MEXICO
Rural Development Project - PIDER II
Agrarian Reform
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        Under PIDER, the organizational activities of the Secretariat
of Agrarian Reform (SRA) have received major financial support. Overall,
PIDER funds 12% of SRA's organizational department's (SOFE) budget. SRA
micro-region staff are essential in assisting farmers in organizing themselves
to participate in the PIDER program and for training peasant beneficiaries to
operate and maintain both social and productive investments resulting from
that Program. Under PIDER I, the equivalent of US$6 million was programmed
in support of some 250 SRA professionals in the 30 micro-regions. Under PIDER
II, an additional US$6 million would be provided to ensure SRA's continued
involvement in the key organizational activities at the micro-region level
of the proposed 20 additional regions.
II. BACKGROUND
2.        When formulating the PIDER program, the Mexican Government was
aware of the key importance for its success of (a) bringing order into the
chaotic legel situation of land tenure and (b) assuring a massive input
of organizational and developmental assistance to make up for decades of
neglect. A new Agrarian Law was drafted in 1970 - the first major piece
of agrarian legislation in thirty years - and was enacted by the Congress
in March 1971. The law attempted to correct some of the more serious
problems which have plagued the agricultural sector for decades by putting
new teeth into enforcement measures and mechanisms, providing for a sub-
stantial reform of the administrative structure for agrarian affairs, and
assigning high priority to assistance for the social and economic develop-
ment of the country's small farmers.
3.        SRA, the Secretariat for Agrarian Reform, was assigned major respon-
sibility for the implementation of this new law. For this purpose, SRA was
reorganized and restaffed in 1973. It improved with respect to the number
and quality of its staff, its organization and methods, and the pace of work.
SRA's budget increased from US$11 million in 1971 to US$80 million in 1975,
with PIDER providing about 10% of the total. It is headed by a cabinet-
level official directly responsible to the President, and is divided into



ANNEX 4-b
Page 2
four functional departments: (a) Agrarian Affairs; (b) Ejido Organizational
and Development (SOFE); (c) New Population Centers and Colonization; and (d)
Legal Counsel. For the PIDER program, the two most important are Agrarian
Affairs, responsible for land tenure, and SOFE, charged with community devel-
opment.
III. LAND TENURE
A.   Distribution of Land Holdings
4.        Mexico's rural population consists of three main groups: ejidatarios,
(para. 4), private farmers, and the landless. There are about 1.5 million
ejidatarios with 44 million ha. of land, 1.2 million privately owned farmer
with 125 million ha., and 1.2 million landless families. The Constitution
provides that an individual private property holding be limited to a maximum
of 100 ha. of irrigated land, or 200 to 800 ha. of rainfed land, depending on
the ecological zone and the slope of the land. From the time of the 1915
Revolution to 1965, some 60 million ha. had been redistributed. Yet, the 1960
census still showed considerable inequality in the distribution of the remain=
ing private land, as follows:
Size Distribution of Private Landholdings, 1960
Percentage Distribution of
Farms               Area
5 ha. or less                           66.8                  1.1
5.1 to 50 ha.                           22.0                  4.2
50.1 to 100 ha.                          4.3                  3.3
100.1 to 500 ha.                         5.1                 11.1
500.1 to 1,000 ha.                       0.8                  5.9
1,000.1 to 10,000 ha.                    0.7                 17.7
More than 10,000 ha.                      0.3                56.7
Total                             100.0                100.0
B. Ejidos
5.        The bulk of the 60 m hectares of redistributed land was organized
into ejidos 1/. An ejido is essentially a joint and inalienable land holding
arrangement for a group of farmers who made a successful claim to all or part
1/   The term is derived from the Spanish equivalent of the village common,
based on the concept that the land reform returned the usurped village
lands to their rightful owners - the farmers, called "ejidatarios".
The ejido community is represented by an elected "comisariado" of
three members: a president, secretary and treasurer.



ANNEX 4-b
Page 3
of a former hacienda under the provisions of existing agrarian legislation and
the Constitution. Joint tenure was meant primarily to protect the ejidatarios
against renewed usurpation of their newly acquired land by former landlords or
money lenders. The ejidos were not conceived as production units. In fact,
in addition to conferring a limited collective property title to the land to
the ejido as a whole, the law also provides that the head of each family is
to be issued a certificate of usufruct right to a particular parcel of arable
land within the ejido. This right may not legally be rented or sold, nor
bequeathed without government permission. Abandonment legally signifies loss
of rights. In practice, therefore, the cropland of the vast majority of
ejidos has been worked in individual parcels. However,
grazing land, forests and other non-arable land have not been parcelled,
but are, at least formally, exploited collectively. Owing to the legal
provisions regarding the procedure for land claims and ejido establish-
ment, the communities have remained relatively sall, comprising typically
between 50 and 300 families.
6.        There are also about 2,000 Indigenous Communities with a popula-
tion of some 200,000 Indian families. While the historical basis for their
land tenure rights differs somewhat from that of the ejidos, the legal
status of those rights is the same. In the culturally isolated communities,
vestiges of the traditional tribal community structure are found and the
land may, in fact, be farmed collectively. The communities may apply for
ejido status. For the purposes of this Annex, they are included in the
discussion of ejidos and ejidatarios. A special agency, the National
Indigenous Institute, has been taking responsibility for these communities
in some areas.
C. Parcel Size
7.        The ejidos cover 25 percent of the total farmland, 43 percent of the
cropland, and 42 percent of the irrigable land. When all land expropriable
under present legislation is redistributed, some 53 percent will be in ejidos.
Except for illegally large private holdings which one being expropriated as a
result of the new political push in this direction and limited areas of virgin
land in the extreme south (where additional "colonies" will be established),
the land still available for redistribution in Mexico under present limits on
private property would suffice to settle barely five percent of the landless
campesinos.
8.        Although the Constitution guarantees each ejidatario 10 ha. of
irrigated land, or 20 ha. of dry rainfed land, the man/land ratio was never
great enough to implement this statute except in a few areas. In 1960, the
distribution of cropland parcel sizes on ejidos (cropland comprising 23 per-
cent of all ejido land) was as follows:
1 ha. or less                       9.7%
1.1 to 4.0 ha                      34.5%
4.1 to 10.0 ha.                    40.5%
more than 10 ha.                   15.3%
Total                        100.0%



ANNEX 4-b
Page 4
9.        The average area of cropland per legal parcel in 1960 was only
6.5 ha., and of irrigated land, only 0.95 ha. In most rainfed areas, the
parcels have been sufficient to provide a decent living for the average
ejidatario family. Only in some of the irrigated areas is there a theo-
retically adequate resource base.
10.       The ejido situation has been aggravated over the years by the
growth of the population and their inability to find non-agricultural work.
For every ejidatario, there is at present at least one or more grown sons
without any formal rights to the land, who must either hire himself out
as a day laborer to larger farmers, or share in the meager proceeds of the
family parcel. Normally only the eldest son obtains the usufruct rights
when the ejidatario father dig the other sons are remain landless.
D. Legal Status
11.       The above problems have been aggravated by long-term organiza-
tional and legal neglect. The most glaring omission has been SRA's failure
to issue the equivalents of land titles to even one-third of existing ejidos
and certificates of membership and usufruct to the members of these and
other ejidos. In fact, the exact number of ejidos and ejidatarios is not
known, despite repeated censuses. At the end of 1972, there were 8,000 un-
resolved cases of collective ejido tenure certificates. In addition, half
the ejidatarios were still awaiting their provisional, individual certifi-
cates of membership, and hardly any had received a final certificate of
rights to a specific parcel. Some had been waiting for 20 years.
E. Recent Developments
12.       Several steps have been taken by Government to carry the land
reform program further and promote a more equitable and rational use of agri-
cultural resources. The most important is that some 16,000 of the approxi-
mately 20,000 ejidos have by now been given definite certificates of usufruct,
with ejidatarios being granted rights to a holding size rather than to a
particular parcel so as to facilitate future community action. There are
still about 6 million ha. of undistributed state-owned land and private land
in excess of legal limits which can together help settle 100,000 to 120,000
small farmers.
13.       About 320,000 certificates of ineffectability (certificados de
inafectabilidad) for crops and 1,300 for livestock have been issued so far,
covering 8.2 million ha. The possession of these legal titles is intended
to stimulate investment and facilitate institutional financing insofar as
they would rule out the possibility of a reduction in the land base of the
concerned farmers. This process is being speeded up but about 250,000 such
certificates are yet to be issued. However, until a more permanent legal
arrangement is introduced than the "certificates of ineffectability, tenure
uncertainty may continue to stall capital formation in the sector.



ANNEX 4-b
Page 5
14.       The tasks in the area of land reform in Mexico nonetheless remain
so vast and complex that, despite the Government's vigorous action, the
situation remains difficult and uncertain. The principal remaining problems
arise from conflicts resulting from unresolved legal titles to land. Apart
from issuing certificates, Government has to ensure that they do in fact
protect the beneficiary's interest in his land so that he may have the
incentive to invest. Secondly, it has to be considered whether the limits
on the size of farms, especially for livestock ranchers, should be reviewed
so as to encourage the development of unexploited areas like the tropical
Gulf Coasts. Thirdly, there is a need to bestow greater attention on the
organizational and other needs of private small farmers (an estimated one
million families), as well as the ejidatarios on whom most of the present
development efforts are being focussed.
III. EJIDO ORGANIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT
A. Organization of SOFE
15.       While the job of the Department for Agrarian Affairs is to lay the
legal foundation for ejido development, the Department for Organization and
Development of Ejidos (SOFE) represents a new dimension in SRA's work.
Created under the New Agrarian Law in 1971, SOFE's role is to ensure that
beneficiaries of land reform receive the necessary supplementary services,
supplies, and credit to bring the redistributed land into full use.
16.       SOFE is the spearhead for PIDER's development activities at a
community level. Over half of its field personnel (552 out of some 1,000),
are paid by PIDER funds and are active in the micro-regions.
17.       PIDER's funding of SRA's activities in the overall program and
the Bank's 30 micro-regions is distributed as follows:
Total SRA                  PIDER                  Bank Supported
Budget               Contributions               Micro-Regions (30)
-------------------------Mex$ million----------------------------
1973             -                     38.8
1974             -                     36.3
1975             -                     96.0                         27.0
1976             -                    111.0                        36.0
18.       The SOFE staff act as multi-disciplinary brigades to ensure that
ejidos are deeply involved in detailed planning of new investments, that
they participate in all new PIDER construction, and that they share equally
in all benefits. Their long-term goal is to transform each ejido's general
assembly into a planning body which can implement economic programs, a
development written into the new Agrarian Reform Law. The brigades use



ANNEX 4-b
Page 6
a three-step approach to involve the ejidatarios.  The first step is
sensitizing, the second orientation and awareness creation, and the third
reorganization and development.
19.       The emphasis on sensitizing and orientating farmers is to ensure
that the campesino, typically diffident and inexperienced, comes to under-
stand that his role in any communal development activity is crucial. SOFE
officials foresee a need to spend from six months to a year on this process
with the end result frequently being election of new ejido officers and
complete reorganization of the ejido governing structure.
20.       In addition to the 550-odd technicians involved in PIDER field
work, SOFE consists of another 1,500 staff members of which 500 are in the
field in non-PIDER programs and the remaining 1,000 are at headquarters.
SOFE is organized into four Directorates General which deals with organi-
zation, development, planning and training (National Institute for Farmer
Training - INACAP).
21.       SRA officials have found that an important mechanism to aid ejidos
in becoming economically viable units is to enable them to obtain credit.
To this end, SRA signed agreements in January of 1975 with the entire banking
community, public and private, to create a credit delivery system for rural
development purposes.
B.   Problems
22.       1.  Role Definition.  SRA's ejido-level personnel are not yet
fully involving the campesinos in the process of planning and helping
execute PIDER investments. Its role up to now has been perceived as
just another input, parallel to those of the other agencies, rather than
the hub of the entire PIDER program. Compounding the problem is the
political resistance at the state level to any involvement of SRA in PIDER
programs.
23.       2.  Lack of Training.  As a result of its rapid growth, most of
SOFE's 1,000 brigade members, excluding supervisors, came to their jobs
fresh from the university with only one-month orientation. Many of these
staffers in addition have had difficulty in adjusting to the conditions of
rural poverty and isolation they are encountering. One solution might be
further in-service training, provided by SRA's training division. Additional
ideas should emerge from CIDER evaluation reports.
24.       3.  Lack of Cooperation Between SOFE Brigade Members and Regular
SAG Extension Workers. There is considerable friction in the micro-regions
between the new SRA brigade workers and the regular SAG extension service
teams. The most prickly issue results from the tendency of SOFE staff, half
technicians construe this as an invasion of their professional territory.
Progress in the rural areas requires both technical and organizational
advice, and this progress will be delayed as long as SRA and SAG personnel
are working at cross purposes. Both agencies and PIDER are aware of the
problem and should make a special effort to achieve an effective solution.



ANNEX 4-c
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -- PIDER II
MARKETING/NUTRITION
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The adequacy of a national food system ultimately is reflected
in the nutritional status of the people served by that system. Among the
rural poor in Mexico, malnutrition traditionally has been a serious prob-
lem and a contributing factor to the slow pace of rural development. Under
PIDER I, most of the emphasis in planning and execution related to food
was given to infrastructure and production investments. Less attention was
directed to the marketing implications of the resulting output and the
nutritional impact of the investments. In PIDER II, the marketing network
will be strengthened in ways that will assure nutritional benefits for
those in need.
2.        The major vehicle to achieve this will be CONASUPO, a national
marketing organization that both buys from and sells to poor rural and
urban dwellers. CONASUPO is unique in that it has developed a vertically
integrated system spanning input supply, grain procurement (with price
supports), storage, food processing, wholesaling, and retail distribution.
In recent years CONASUPO has refocused both its buying and selling activi-
ties to benefit poorer groups of Mexican society; it now has experience
in reaching market segments often ignored in many governmental marketing
schemes.
3.        Certain elements of the CONSUPO program were supported by PIDER I.
During 1975 and 1976, 40 CONASUPO purchasing markets and retail stores and
11 mobile sales outlets were built or put into operation in micro-regions
covered by the Bank Project. Construction of 25 additional units was pro-
grammed. (Appraisal estimates were that during the Project CONASUPO would
invest US$1 million in the Project areas; 40% of which had been invested by
the end of 1976.)
4.        By expanding support under PIDER II for the physical infrastruc-
ture and marketing personnel, it would because possible to increase the impact
of output gains on the poor famers' standard of living. This would be achieved
by extending the low margin marketing operations of CONASUPO, both in procuring
farm produce and in selling basic goods at low prices in rural areas.
5.        More specifically, PIDER II would add purchasing warehouses,
emphasize the addition of a new mode of procurement (buying posts) and



ANNEX 4-c
Page 2
improve and expand the retail network through more stores, mobile units
and simple basic food staple distribution outlets.
II. NUTRITION IN MEXICO
The Problem
6.        Malnutrition in rural Mexico is a problem of serious proportions,
both contributing to and reflecting the state of rural underdevelopment.
A comparison of 105 nutrition surveys conducted under the direction of the
National Nutrition Institute (INN) between 1963 and 1974 with INN surveys
of the preceding five years reflect that despite the significant economic
growth experienced by the country during the 1958-74 period, the basic diet
and the nutritional status of the rural population has changed very little.
The most recent INN surveys show that two-thirds of preschool children are
underweight for their age: 49% mildly so, 18% moderately, and 1% severely.
The infant mortality rate of 65 per 1000 is three to four times that found
in richer countries and 30% higher than that of the general Mexican popula-
tion. Poor feeding and inadequate sanitation are known to be the major
factors in these high mortality rates.
7.        An examination of average per capita intakes of rural families
(Table I) reveals that on the average the diets are providing nearly enough
protein and calories, although some areas are clearly deficient in both.
Significant national deficiencies do exist for vitamin A, vitamin C, and
riboflavin and these nutrient shortfalls appear consistently throughout
the various rural-regions. The foregoing family averages, however, cloak
the much more severe protein-calorie deficiencies experienced by the pre-
school age group within the families. Calorie deficits range from 10% to
40% with protein shortfalls in some instances being even more severe. Also,
riboflavin, niacin, and calcium deficiencies are common. 1/
1/   Source:  Encuestas Nutricionales de Mexico, Volume II, INN, 1976.



ANNEX 4-c
Page 3
Table I
Adequacy of Rural Mexican Diets
(% of Recommended Intake)
Nutrient                 Family               Preschool
Calories                    94                   70
Protein                     93                   82
Calcium                    147                   93
Iron                       142                  110
Vitamin A                   42                   33
Thiamin                    174                  III
Riboflavin                  51                   61
Niacin                     111                   81
Vitamin C                   43                   31
8.        The relative adequacy of the total family's diet and the clear
inadequacy of the preschool's intake suggests that for many families nutrition
education and diet variation through new foods or different uses of existing
foods would be particularly fruitful. For others, however, the averages
cloak distribution patterns; clearly many families simply do not have suf-
ficient resources to obtain a nutritionally adequate diet, especially in
Southern Mexico. For these people a supply-oriented policy will be helpful,
but the increase of food production, of itself, will not automatically bring
about nutritional improvement. A major agricultural project in La Chontalpa
resulted in a sixfold production increase during a 13-year period. Average
good intake increased substantially but the consumption of the lowest 30%
income class did not improve. The prevalence of second and third degree
malnutrition remained roughly unchanged. 1/ Thus, improvement of the nutri-
tional condition in rural Mexico would appear to require a combination of
increased income and food supply (addressed elsewhere in the project), along
with a marketing network allowing those in need to have access to the supply
and educational efforts aimed at obtaining maximum nutritional impact from
existing resources as well as from those made possible by the expanded market-
ing network.
The Response
9.        Several organizations currently are carrying out rural nutrition
programs in Mexico. The main ones are the Health and Welfare Service, pro-
viding supplementary foods to preschoolers and nutrition education through
1/   Mercedes Hernandez, Carlos Regez Hedalgo, Juan Ramirez Hernandez,
Herlindo Madrigal, and Adolfo Chavez, "Effect of Economic Growth on
Nutrition in a Tropical Community" Ecology of Food and Nutrition,
1974, Vol. 3, pp. 283-291.



ANNEX 4-c
Page 4
500 nutrition aides; the Mexican Institute for the Protection of Infancy,
whose volunteer promoters provide nutritional wafers and nutrition educa-
tion; the National Indian Institute, which includes nutrition education
as part of basic health care for the Indian population; the Agrarian
Reform Secretary, whose rural home economists include nutrition education
among their activities; the Mexican Institute for Child Assistance/National
Institute of Science and Technology for Child Health, primarily a research
center specializing in child diseases including malnutrition; the Mexican
Social Security Institute, whch provides six months of free powdered milk
for each new child of families covered by the Social Security system; the
National Nutritional Institute, which operates a combined nutrition hos-
pital -- research center - training institute; and the Secretariat of
Agriculture, which
10.       The totality of these efforts is modest when compared to need.
As with most rural nutritional intervention attempts in other countries,
a major constraint to these institutions is their lack of a food delivery
capability that reaches large numbers of the rural needy. In this regard,
however, Mexico may be unique in that it has a large, well-positioned
government distribution network, CONASUPO, with the capability to get
food to the rural poor. To date, however, CONASUPO has not dealt with
nutrition as thoroughly as the need dictates or the potential impact
warrants.
III. CONASUPO
Objectives and Strategy
11.       The objectives of CONASUPO are to regulate the basic goods markets,
increase the income of poor farmers, and increase the ability of low-income
consumers to acquire basic goods. Target groups are producers with annual
incomes under Mex$ 12,000 (US$960) and families with monthly incomes under
Mex$ 2,000. 1/
CONASUPO's rural development startegy is directed to bring about
changes in what that institution regards as the primary cause of stagnation
in the development of the rural sectors: campesinos pay too much for the
goods they buy and receive too little for the produce they sell -- largely
because their suppliers and buyers are exploitative and/or inefficient.
1/   About 94% of the farmers have sales under Mex$ 12,000 a year, but they
account for only a third of total agricultural output. The low-income
consumer group includes both urban and rural poor. In 1972, 56% of
those with incomes under Mex$ 12,000 were in the rural sector.



ANNEX 4-c
Page 5
13.       Credit plays a key role in the maintenance of those unfavorable
terms of trade. The farmers are unable to accumulate capital reserves and,
therefore, do not have enough funds to support their families for the entire
period between harvests. Consequently, the campesinos are frequently obliged
to seek credit for the purchase of staples. The two primary sources are
either rural store keepers who sell on credit or middlemen who lend to the
farmers in return for a promise to sell their crop to the middleman at a pre-
set price lower than the government's guaranteed price. Approximately half
of the small farmer sales are in exchange for consumer credit and an estimated
40%-60% of rural purchases are on the credit. Prices of goods in rural stores
are 20%-23% higher than the prices charged in CONASUPO stores. The difference
is attributable to the greater efficiency and lower margins of CONASUPO.
14.       Also, the lack of transportation, storage, shellers, or bags oten
push the farmer into selling crops at relatively lower prices to middlemen
who have these facilities or services. These economic relationships repre-
sent structural barriers that will not necessarily be altered by channeling
increasing amounts of funds into the traditional areas of crop financing,
production infrastructure, and technical assistance.
15.       Accordingly, CONASUPO has set forth the following general strategy
for its rural development efforts: enable the campesino to increase his income,
retain it, and invest it in productive means. A probable short run effect
of this strategy would be the direct welfare benefit accruing through an
increase in effective purchasing power and in consumption. This incremental
consumption would most likely be in food, and hence the possibility of enhanc-
ing nutritional levels. The thrust of the strategy is toward increasing pro-
ductivity. The concept is to generate sustained self-development rather than
simply adjust income distribution.
16.       CONASUPO has designed an integrated strategy aimed at altering the
structural relationships in the rural economies by combining various related
services and activities in a specific area; the idea is to produce a synergis-
tic effect among resources and services of sufficient magnitude to break some
of the key vicious circles constraining rural development. The major compo-
nents of the CONASUPO strategy are the following:
(i) regulate the national food system through a vertically
integrated procurement, processing, and distribution
system which includes facilities, ownership, and opera-
tion at each stage;
(ii) provide improved marketing opportunities to farmers
through guaranteed prices, storage facilities, and
ancillary procurement services such as transportation
and shelling;
(iii) improve consumer purchasing power and access to basic
goods through direct distribution at subsidized prices
to rural and urban consumers;



ANNEX 4-c
Page 6
(iv) increase rural productivity through enhanced incomes
and market opportunities, input provision, and train-
ing.
Size and Operations
17.       CONASUPO's operations in rural areas include, inter alia, 1,267
warehouses (with a capacity of 2.2 million tons), about 2,600 retail stores,
7,400 food staple sales centers and 525 mobile food sale units. Assets
in 1975 were Mex$14.7 billion; inventories were Mex$7.3 billion and equity
capital Mex$6.4 million. Operating budget was Mex$35.0 billion and sales were
Mex$ 10.1 billion, up from Mex$2.9 billion five years earlier. (About half of
the increase was due to greater volume, half to inflation.) CONASUPO's
growth since 1970 has been sizable, broad, and rapid. Decentralization during
this period has increased CONASUPO's abilities to cover broader areas, espe-
cially in the rural sector. A more detailed examination of CONASUPO's opera-
tions is available in a recent Bank study on that subject. 1/
IV. COMPONENTS - COSTS AND DESCRIPTION
1. Purchasing
18.       To expand the purchasing activities of CONASUPO in the Project
micro-regions, the construction of eight new rural warehouses (totalling
115,500 tons capacity) would be financed by PIDER II. The warehouses would be
built and operated by BORUCONSA, the procurement and storage subsidiary of
CONASUPO. For remote areas, the marketing reach of CONASUPO is extended
through the Programa de Apoyo a la Commercialization (PACE). This program
involves the formation of campesino marketing groups who bring crops they wish
to sell to CONASUPO to local collection centers, from which the commodities
are sent collectively to the BORUCONSA warehouses. CONASUPO in turn reim-
burses the farmers for the transport costs. An estimated 2,500 farmers would
benefit from the proposed new rural warehouses and an additional 2,000 farmers
from the PACE purchasing program.
1/   CONASUPO & Rural Development:  Program Description, Analysis, and
Recommendations, James E. Austin, December 1976.



ANNEX 4-c
Page 7
2. Sales
19.       - DICONSA, the retailing subsidiary of CONASUPO, would build and
operate 24 new retail stores, financed by the Project, in PIDER II micro-
regions. The stores would make lower cost foods available to approximately
2,700 families. Fixed investment would be Mex$8.4 million; working capital
would be Mex$2.8 million. To serve small communities, whose sales volume
would not support regular CONASUPO stores, 20 mobile sales units, costing
Mex$617,000 each and with working capital of Mex$50,000 each, would be fi-
nanced by the Project. The units, also operated by DICONSA, are made in
Mexico and can travel over unpaved roads, reaching over a dozen communities a
week. They carry a full line of goods, store 3-5 days of sales, and provide
cots for the drivers to sleep. Sales are made from the backs of the vehicles.
These units add flexibility to the marketing system and are particularly
useful during harvest seasons or in conjunction with public works projects,
when consumer demand in a particular area is substantially above normal.
An estimated 12,700 now unserviced families would be reached through these
mobile stores.
20        As a means of broadening the sales outreach (and economizing on
operating costs) CONASUPO has established Staples Sales Centers in conjunc-
tion with and often adjacent to BORUCONSA purchasing warehouses. The low-
cost centers sell ony basic food staples -- corn, beans, rice, sugar and
cooking oil. Originally designed to provide a low-cost food purchase outlet
for farmers bringing crops to the warehouse for sale, the program has ex-
panded to include satellite centers located in and run by small rural com-
munities in their villages. Where the sales outlet is located at the ware-
house, the locally elected campesino in charge serves as both grain buyer
and storekeeper. For the community outlets, BORUCONSA extends the initial
inventory on credit and services reorders when the community deposits the
proceeds of its sales in the CONASUPO account in the local bank. Five
centers would be financed by the Project.



ANNEX 4-d
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Rural Electrification
INTRODUCTION
1.        Performance under the rural electrification component has been good.
At appraisal, house connections benefiting 160,000 persons costing an average
of US$85 per person was estimated. At the end of two years, 138,700 persons
were connected in the PIDER I 30 micro-regions financially assisted by the
Bank loan.
Appraisal                                     Average
Category        No.   Unit Cost    1975       1976      Total    Unit Cost
US$
Beneficiaries   160,000    85         77,400   62,289   138,700        50
For PIDER II, 131,000 persons are expected to benefit at an average cost of
US$60.
BACKGROUND
2.        The Federal Electricity Commission (CFE) builds, operates and
maintains electricity generation and distribution facilities. It is a
decentralized state agency with a record of competence and effectiveness.
It has a large capacity for carrying out investment projects. Over the
years 1970-76, it made investments at an annual rate of more than US$400
million. It has also developed work capabilities in rural areas, as part
of a six-year national plan for rural electrification. 1/ PIDER resources
are presently being channeled through this six-year plan. PIDER provided
CFE with US$39.8 million in the period 1973-76 for the electrification of
villages in the selected micro-regions. PIDER funds provided about 23%
of all rural electrification resources during this period. Since PIDER
finances only distribution and connections, (the single project investment
ceiling under PIDER is US$0.5 million or Mex$6 million), major additions
1/   CFE first started working in rural areas in 1952; since then there
have been several rural electrification campaigns.



ANNEX 4-d
Page 2
to the national grids are not be made under PIDER auspices. Where such large
investments are needed to implement the PIDER electrification projects, the
outlays are made through the CFE's regular programs. 1/
CFE PIDER Expenditure
1973-1976
(Authorized)   Total
1973     1974       1975       1976    1973-1976
A.  PIDER
1.  Mex$ m spent             83.0     75.0      184.0      156.0       498.0
2. Persons benefited
('000)                144.6    107.3       176.8     167.2       596.0
B. Total CFE
Expenditure on Rural
Electrification (Mex$ m)465.0    313.0        726.9      675.9      2180.8
C.  PIDER as % of total          17.9      24.0       25.3      23.1        22.9
Source: CFE and PIDER.
General Policies Affecting Rural Electrification
3.        CFE's general rural electrification policy is to provide electrical
power to all population centers whose population is less than 10,000 inhabit-
ants and more than 500 and whose main occupation is agriculture. So far, at
the end of 1975, CFE reported they had installed electrification facilities
for almost all population centers larger than 1,500 inhabitants, but still
some 3,900 villages (3,700 inhabitants) between 500 and 1,500 inhabitants and
7.2 million persons living in population centers smaller than 500 inhabitants
did not have access to electricity.
4.        The general policies governing rural electrification are the
following:
(a) Giving priority to projects that will stimulate use
of electric power for directly productive activities;
(b) Supplying electricity to projects designed to bring
about an improvement in the quality of rural life; and
1/   For example, all available power in the Yucatan micro-region is being
used. Since PIDER investments call for the electrification of 87 wells
and 16 villages, a 100 km 110 kv transmission line is necessary. That
line is being financed via CFE's ordinary budget.



ANNEX 4-d
Page 3
(c) Attempting to make electricity available to as many
people and enterprises as possible at the lowest
possible cost. This implies the integration into
a national grid, if at all possible, as centrally
generated power is more economical than local
thermal power generation.
The Project
5.        The PIDER II Project would bring electricity to some 20,000 rural
families living in 225 villages throughout some of the poorest areas of
Mexico. The total to be invested is the equivalent of US$7.4 million, of
which 10% will be for the electrification of directly productive investments
and the rest for servicing the population. The average per capita cost of
electrifying villages in the PIDER project is about Mex$950 (US$50).
CFE - Unit Costs (1976)
Cost Per Capita      Cost per Km of Line
Region                               Mex$                 Mex$
Northwest                           2,700                45,500
West                                  900                35,900
Southwest                           1,200                49,800
North-central                         900                39,400
Northeast                             900                43,700
Central                               780                42,300
Southeast                             900                37,700
Yucatan                             2,600                34,200
Source: PIDER Monitoring Unit.
CFE investment criteria under PIDER satisfy the general guidelines
governing rural electrification enumerated above and are detailed as follows:
(a) Eligible villages should have a population of at least
500 inhabitants and an access road; villages with popu-
lation between 300 and 500 inhabitants would be also
eligible either when they are located by the main power
line or when electricity will be used to feed some small
industry;



ANNEX 4-d
Page 4
(b) Costs per person would not exceed the equivalent of
US$150;
(c) Beneficiaries should contribute, in cash, labor or
kind, to the relevant distribution and
connection costs; these contributions would be col-
lected by CFE;
(d) In addition to the contribution to investment
costs, beneficiaries would also be charged the costs
of internal household wiring (equivalent to about
US$25). CFE makes credit available for this purpose
where necessary;
(e) Installation of meters is made in every household and
their cost (US$50) is borne by CFE; and
(f) Generation, operation and maintenance costs would be
fully covered by user charges through electricity rates
nationwide as applied by CFE.
Internal Organization of CFE
6.        CFE's activities are conducted through a number of General De-
partments (Gerencias Generales or G.G's), such as rural electrification,
operation and maintenance, large scale construction, planning and control.
The operating G.G's are divided into a number of regional Divisions,
generally 10; each Division is composed of any number of subdivisions
(Sub-gerencias S.G's), which actually carry out the work.
7.        The G.G. for rural electrification carries out the National Rural
Electrification Plan by designing and building necessary works and then
turning them over to the Operation and Maintenance G.G. This G.G. contains
sub-divisions that carry on specific functions such as generation, trans-
mission, distribution and supply to commercial users. A state-level body, the
Electrification Junta, is involved in most steps during the planning and
implementation stages and supplies assistance to the local populations and
administrative matters (e.g. billings, collections, accounting, dealing with
CFE administration for repairs, etc.) and centralizes such activities at the
state level. A special department of CFE deals with State Electrification
Juntas.
Justification
8.        The justification for this component of the project are the bene-
fits to be derived from productive uses of electricity in modernizing and
expanding industry, improvements in living standards of rural households,
and provision of basic social services. The breakdown of electricity usage
in the rural areas of Mexico which are already electrified has been estimated



ANNEX 4-d
Page 5
as follows: 45% for irrigation and small-scale industry; 40% for household
services (almost exclusively lighting); 10% for public services (i.e. schools,
hospitals, etc.); and 5% for public illumination.
9.        Mexico already has an extensive network of transmission lines, and
therefore the incremental costs of rural electrification involving connections
to the nearest transmission line, are relatively low. Alternative sources of
energy for the majority of the purposes for which electricity is used are
either impracticable or more expensive. For example, electricity does not
compete with firewood where the latter is most appropriate, i.e. for cooking
and heating. On the other hand, electricity displaces expensive kerosene for
household lighting.
10.       The only feasible alternative for steady loads associated with
rural industry, public services, etc. is local auto-generation. Other energy
sources such as windmills and solar energy converters are not reliable enough,
and further investigation is required regarding their feasibility. The capi-
tal cost of auto-generation is about US$500 per KVA installed. Assuming a
price of US$22/barrel for fuel oil, the cost of supplying the project vil-
lages through auto-generation is considerably higher than via the main grid.



ANNEX 4-e
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM - PIDER II
FEEDER ROADS
INTRODUCTION
1.        The feeder road program has been one of the more successful com-
ponents of the PIDER program. Quantitatively, road construction has exceeded
appraisal estimates. Qualitatively, the administering agency, the Secretariat
of Public Works (SOP) made major improvements in the program which both in-
creased productivity of construction and tied the planning and execution more
closely to the benefitting villages. Progress for the first two years in the
Bank supported 30 micro-regions is:
Category      Programmed at Appraisal       1975      1976     Actual      %
km                   1900                 1065       708       1773     93
BACKGROUND
2.        In the two decades up to 1970, Mexico's investment in road
construction centered almost exclusively on primary and secondary road
improvements. During this period the road net increased from 22,000 km
in 1950 to 45,000 km in 1960 and 71,500 km in 1970. Rural roads were
a negligible part of the net in the 1950's and 1960's and amounted to
only 12% in 1970.
3.        Starting in the early 1970's, the Mexican government instituted
a nationwide program of rural road construction as part of an integrated
policy program to improve conditions of the rural population. The roads
program was designed to reduce the geographical isolation of rural communities
in Mexico, promote productive and basic social service investments in rural
areas, and provide employment whenever feasible through the use of labor-
intensive construction techniques. By the end of 1975, the road net had
grown to 185,000 km, 35% of which were rural roads.
4.        Implementation of the rural road construction program is the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works (Secretaria de Obras Publicas
- SOP). This agency, previously geared exclusively to the construction of
high standard roads by equipment-intensive methods, developed in a remarkably
short time an organizational and institutional framework for successful im-
plementation of a large scale program of labor-intensive road construction
covering all 31 states of the country.



ANNEX 4-e
Page 2
5.        Financing of the program has come from two sources:  normal
budgetary allocations to SOP ('Normal Program') and supplementary dis-
cretionary funds from the Programa Inversiones Desarrollo Rural (PIDER)
made available by the Presidencia to SOP for allocation to severely
deprived micro-regions requiring priority assistance. World Bank involve-
ment in rural road construction has up to now solely been through the
'Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER' loan which has financed
PIDER rural development efforts in 30 micro-regions. Out of the total
Bank loan funds of US$110 equivalent, US$7.2 million were allocated to
feeder road construction. At 1975/6 prices, this amount provides funds
for the construction of approximately 650 km of low standard roads.
(Table I of the Statistical Appendix details Bank-financed PIDER I road
expenditures and proposed financing of roads under a follow-on (PIDER II)
project. (Table 2 puts Bank project road expenditures in the context
of planned rural road construction in Mexico for the 1977-82 period.)
The Project and the Rural Road Construction Program
6.        The project is a subcomponent (9% of total loan) of a national
Rural Development Project. It provides US$14 million to finance 1900 km
of rural roads in 20 selected micro-regions. PIDER II roads will be
constructed as part of a national rural road construction program. SOP
uses the same criteria and standards in the selection, construction,
supervision and maintenance of the rural roads constructed under its
Normal Program and for PIDER. The analysis will therefore focus on the
program-level experience. Special reference to Bank-financed PIDER
roads which represent only 1% of planned investments in labor-intensive
road construction over the 1977-82 period, is made only where the
analysis points up relevant distinctions.
Scope of the Program: 1971-1976
7.        The scope of the Mexican rural road construction program during
the six-year period 1971-76 is impressive in both expenditures and achieve-
ment. More than Mex$5 billion were invested over this period, and a total
of 73,000 kms of all-weather feeder roads were added to the road net. For
7,000 communities and six million people, these roads were a first year-round
link with the rest of their country. The program provided 327,000 man-years
equivalent of employment. In fact, a considerably larger number of villagers
(only a few of whom were employed for a full year) have participated in road-
construction and enjoyed the opportunity to earn additional income during
periods of underemployment in agriculture.
8.        A year-by-year breakdown of the development of the program over
the 1971-76 period is shown in Table 3. The figures reflect some of the dif-
ficulties that were encountered in implementing the program and SOP tried to
solve them.



ANNEX 4-e
Page 3
9.        Once the decision to use labor intensively for rural road construc-
tion had been taken, the program expanded at a striking pace. From 1971
to 1972, budget allocations to the program more than quadrupled from 1Nex$178
million to Mex$755 million. So, almost, did kilometrage of roads constructed
(rising from 2,740 to 10,540 kms), while man/year equivalents of employment
went up from 10,800 to 44,400. In the following year (1973), the program
reached its peak: it employed 176,600 people and expenditures were just
under Mex$2 billion.  But only 28,000 km of road were completed and it took
6.3 man/years equivalent per kilometer in 1972. The program had grown
faster than SOP's organizational ability to cope; with less careful super-
vision, productivity of labor dropped almost by half.
10.       At the same time, the program was having an unanticipated impact
on agricultural production. At the wage rate paid in road construction
(the legal minimum daily wage was roughly double that obtainable locally
in agriculture), so many villagers in marginal areas offered their services
for construction work in 1973 that agricultural ouput in many regions was
significantly curtailed. In 1974, therefore, the road construction budget
was cut back to about the 1972 level. At the same time, SOP changed the
payment system from daily based payments to task based payments. This,
together with improved supervision, resulted in a remarkable improvement
in labor productivity to 3.5 man/years equivalent per kilometer constructed
in 1974, and 2.6 man/years equivalent per kilometer in 1976. 1/
11.       Considering the inflationary increase in Mexican price levels
over the 1973-76 period, (the consumer price index rose from 135 to 215
during these years), Table 3 indicates a gradual cost reduction (in constant
terms), per km of road constructed - a reflection of increasingly efficient
methods by SOP of mobilizing local labor while paying an output-related
wage reasonably close to the going return to labor in agriculture. Even
in financial terms, labor-intensive construction remained economically
competitive with equipment-intensive alternatives (see para 53 below).
12.       In achieving these results, SOP had to evolve in a very short
time not only appropriate design standards and construction techniques, but
also the organizational capacity for setting construction priorities, organiz-
ing sizeable labor forces simultaneously on a large number of construction
sites; providing the requisite technical supervision to achieve acceptable
quality of work; and assuring adequate administrative control of the program
without unnecessarily curtailing local initiative. The solutions developed
for the technical, as well as the organizational problems have significant
1/   This change may be part fact, part statistical artifact.  It is not
clear from the data sources whether labor inputs are "man/days actually
worked" on the various sites, or whether they are derived by dividing
total payments to labor by average minimum daily wages prevailing at
the time. De facto payments to labor of less than the minimum wage
rate would then be reflected as lower labor inputs.



ANNEX 4-e
Page 4
bearing on the efficient implementation of the proposed PIDER II road
construction component, and are, therefore, briefly examined below.
Technical Standards and Guidelines
Design Standards
13.       All rural roads under the labor-intensive construction program are
earth-roads designed to minimum all-weather service standard. Alignments
follow existing paths where possible ("brecha mejorada") and new routes as
necessary ("camino nuevo"). No money is allocated for purchasing rights-of-
way which are contributed by the communities connected by the road.
14.       As a rule, feeder roads are 4 meters wide with shoulders of 0.7 m
each. Three to six passing places are provided per km, depending on terrain.
Design velocity, maximum grade, and maximum curvature also depend on terrain
type (see Table 4 for specifications).
15.       Local materials are used in construction whenever suitable.  Base
courses are laid carefully and gravel is used in different stretches. There
is no compaction, however, beyond that provided by traffic, which typically
is around 10 vehicles/day.
16.       Particular attention is paid to provision of adequate drainage.  A
detailed design manual for drainage works has been prepared by SOP for the
use of resident engineers. Again, local materials are used whenever appro-
priate for small structures.
17.       On the roads visited, designs are generally apapropriate to
terrain, as well as present and potential traffic. Often innovative use
is made of local materials, such as cactus stems for drain-holes in
retaining walls and local woods and stone in small bridge crossings.
Ditches were formed to an adequate depth and lined with concrete in
exposed positions. No adverse affects of allowing compaction by normal
traffic were observed.
Construction Techniques
18.       From its inception, the rural road program was designed for
implementation by labor-intensive techniques of construction. Provision
of employment to the un- and underemployed in the rural areas has been
an important goal of the program, but emphasis on sound construction
standards and competitive economic performance with equipment-intensive
techniques has been equally strong.
The arguments for using labor-intensive techniques can be summarized
as follows:
Costs:  Experience with equipment based construction in 1970 showed
that the cost of transporting equipment to widely dispersed road



ANNEX 4-e
Page 5
sites increased the total financial costs of the road to such an
extent that labor-intensive construction became competitive with
the costs of equipment-intensive construction;
Timing of Construction: contractors using equipment-intensive
construction methods could not efficiently handle work on many
small sites simultaneously and fell behind on schedules;
Income Distribution: labor-intensive works has a positive
effect on the distribution of benefits from rural road projects -
providing direct employment and income to the rural poor during
construction, while at the same time imparting to them new
skills that improve their longer term earnings potential; and
Community Organization: labor-intensive works acted as a focus
for organizing communities to participate in rural development
efforts.
19.       As a rule, therefore, the rural road construction program has used
casual labor to the greatest possible extent, allowing the use of equipment
only under conditions where labor is patently inefficient. The following
guidelines presently apply to the choice of construction techniques:
(i) Labor-intensive techniques are used when an adequate supply
of labor is availa1le and the volume of earth-moving is less
than 4,000-5,000 m /km. Basic work implements provided by SOP
for this type of construction are picks, shovels, chisels, crow-
bars, wheelbarrows, and explosives. Hauling of base and surfacing
materials, even on labor-intensive construction sites, is usually
done by trucks rented from small local transporters.
(ii) A mix of labor and equipment is used when the volume of ea5th-
moving, especially of difficult materials, exceeds 5,000 m /km.
In this case, equipment (usually medium capacity scrapers and
dozers) is hired for earthmoving, while hand labor is used for
finishing base courses and side slopes and for constructing
drainage works.
(iii)  Equipment-intensive construction methods may be used occasionally 3
in cases where the volume of earthmoving exceeds 40,000 - 50,000 m /km,
and the supply of labor is not sufficient to carry out the activities
described in (ii) above.
20.       Special authorization for equipment hire must be obtained from
headquarters in Mexico City for every road site where the resident engineers
propose to use them. Local availability of equipment for occasional
contract-hire was not mentioned as a problem in the micro-regions visited.
21.       Quality of construction achieved by labor is good.  Due to careful
control and supervision, the roads are technically equivalent to similar
standard roads produced using equipment. In summary, SOP has been able



ANNEX 4-e
Page 6
over the past six years, to develop appropriate techniques to produce roads
of appropriate standards for the functions they serve.
Organizational Arrangements
Organization and Supervision of Construction at the Local Level
22.       The way in which labor is motivated and organized has been shown 1/
to be a major factor in its productivity in civil construction. In imple-
menting the labor-intensive constructin program, SOP engineers have success-
fully worked to promote involvement of the local community. The engineer
is no longer the outside technician who delivers, for example, a road or a
basket ball court from SOP. Instead he is a technical expert who assists
the community in creating its own infrastructure in a technically sound
fashion.
23.       The current practice is to involve local communities as much as
possible in planning and executing their construction project. Each com-
munity participating in road building forms a 'Road Committee' which has
elected officers who serve as headman, paymaster, and head of liaison with
SOP. The committee negotiates a contract with SOP under which the community
agrees to supply labor for construction and maintenance, while SOP agrees
to provide "technical assistance", tools and equipment, and payment for labor.
The road Committee apportions the work throughout the project cycle to all
villagers who wish to participate; it also handles payments to individual
laborers.
24.       The scheduling of construction activities is worked out jointly
by the Road Committee and the Resident Engineer and takes into account
climate and terrain the demand for labor in agriculture, and the availability
of and need for equipment. It is also based on the needs of other govern-
ment agencies whose electricification, water, or extension programs may
depend on the completion of the roads.
25.       During preparation and execution of construction activities, SOP
resident engineers are responsible for administrative and technical issues.
One engineer oversees up to 50 road sites in a region. He is supported by
10 to 12 expeienced construction foremen, who are regular SOP employees and
are charged with day-to-day supervision of a cluster of 3-5 roads each.
26.       Continuous on-site supervision is provided by a "headman" who is
usually a member of the village Road Committee and an experienced construc-
tion worker. The "headman" is in charge of recording attendance and check-
ing quantity and quality of work performed for payment purposes; he also
1/   World Bank, "Scope for the Substitution of Labor and Equipment in Civil
Construction", July 1976, pp. 10-15.



ANNEX 4-e
Page 7
stakes out 'tasks' for each laborer (or group of them) to carry out the
next day. Depending on the type of work, a headman oversees up to 40 local
workers.
27.       On general road works, the foreman and the headman instruct the
laborers how to perform their tasks efficiently. Skilled workers are
employed for such tasks as bridge building and the construction of culverts.
These specialists work with selected local laborers who learn their skills
Ion the job'.
28.       SOP distributes tools to workers to use for the duration of the
project and each foreman has repair facilities to keep tools in good
working order. By contrast, all machine equipment is hired, since SOP
considers the costs and organizational requirements of owning and maintain-
ing its own haulage and construction equipment excessive.
Organization and Supervision of Maintenance at the Local Level
29.       The organization of road maintenance closely parallels the
organization of road construction. Within one year of completion, rural
roads pass officially from the responsibility of the state construction
department to that of the state maintenance department, but the resident
engineer at the sub-region level supervises both maintenance and construc-
tion. At present, SOP allocates to each state maintenance department
Mex$3,000 to Mex$4,000 per year per kilometer of feeder road within its
jurisdiction. These departments then decide on maintenance priorities.
Maintenance funds are adequate for routine maintenance in all but a few
areas. They are used for pot-hole filling and brush-clearing, which
are carried out after the rainy season, and for correcting other problems
when necessary.
30.       Maintenance, like construction, is undertaken in cooperation
with rural communities. Each community agrees in its contract to
maintain the roads and the Road Committee forms a Maintenance Sub-Committee
which begins operation when road work is completed.
31.       Either a Maintenance Sub-Committee or a SOP inspector can initiate
maintenance. If a community requests maintenance, SOP inspectors examine
the road to establish the validity of the request. Once SOP authorizes
maintenance work, it provides the community with tools and pays community-
supplied labor for carrying out specific tasks.
32.       As the rural road network has expanded from 25,000 to 100,000 km
in the past six years, SOP has succeeded in impressing the importance of
timely maintenance on its field engineers. At the same time, it has
encouraged community participation in its efficient implementation. The
mission visited three PIDER micro-regions during the height of their rainy



ANNEX 4-e
Page 8
seasons. All1 roads were passable, most of the road surfaces were in good
condition, and workers were clearing up bad spots that had made passage in
a few places very difficult.
33.        In sum, the organizational framework developed for the rural
roads program is an innovative one and has been operating smoothly. Defini-
tions of responsibility are clear, supervision is decentralized, skills are
being learned, and the roads are being built according to specification.
In addition, the focus on community involvement minimizes administrative
bureaucracy and offers some encouragement to the local contracting industry.
Payment Systems and Incentives
34.        Construction workers received the prevailing minimum daily wage
until 1973. According to traditional practice, those who worked on the
road six full days were paid for seven days of work. There was little
incentive to raise productivity, since the minimum wage was raised regularly
to keep pace with inflation (see Table 3). Labor-intensive construction
thus became increasingly less competitive with equipment-intensive construc-
tion.
35.        In 1974, SOP shifted to a task payment system.  Under this system
the resident engineer, in coopertion with the Road Committee, defines
specific construction tasks. An amount to be paid for them is agreed
according to the type and quantity of work required. Generally, tasks are
performed by groups of four or five, and each worker's share of the pay is
established by the Road Committee. Depending on how much time and effort
they expend, laborers can earn more or less than the prevailing regional
minimum daily wage. Any disputes which arise over the definition of tasks,
work share, and payment may be taken for adjudication to the foreman and
ultimately to the resident engineer.
36.        The task payment system has proved effective in several ways.
First, by stressing not time spent on the job but amount of work completed,
it has provided incentives for higher productivity. By giving laborers
more discretion over hours spent on roadwork on any particular day, it
has made it possible for them to divide their time efficiently between
construction and agriculture. By effectively lowering wages for road
work and aligning them with those prevailing in agriculture it has dis-
couraged the abandoning of agricultural work. Finally, it has encouraged
group work.
Organization of Labor-Intensive Construction Activities at the
National Level
37.        During the early stages of the rural road program SOP had little
knowledge or experience of the organizational and administrative requirements
of implementing a large labor-intensive construction program. New institutional



ANNEX 4-e
Page 9
arrangements within SOP have evolved with the program and contributed signifi-
cantly to its success.
38.       Following a period of exclusive reliance on 'advanced' equipment-
intensive methods of civil construction, SOP (like other institutions before
and since) found that labor-intensive projects undertaken as a "sideline" by
engineers used to handling equipment do not work very efficiently. Given
the Government's firm policy commitment to a major labor-intensive pro-
gram for rural areas SOP concluded that it was necessary to create an
organizational focus in its central organization for a core of engineers
committed to make such a program success. This focus was provided by
the creation of a separate directorate (Direccion de Caminos de Mano
de Obra = DCMO) in SOP, which has its own budget and exclusive responsi-
bility for both labor-intensive construction of rural roads and their
maintenance.
39.       DCMO represents a challenging career alternative for civil
engineers who take an active interest in the problems of rural develop-
ment. Its staff is a mixture of engineers with experience in labor-
intensive construction from pre-equipment days and young engineers
getting their first field experience. The former are found in super-
visory positions at the SOP centres in each state capital; the latter
more often as resident engineers at the municipal level. Engineers
working in the field have considerable scope for independent decision
making within the technical standards and guidelines outlined above,
and local solutions to suit the widely diverse local conditions are
encouraged.
40.       Regular three-month staff training courses provide these enginers
an opportunity to broaden their experience by exchange and study. A
course usually includes 12 engineers already engaged in the labor-intensive
construction program. They receive 480 hours of instruction at SOP head-
quarters and academic institutions, designed both to provide engineering
information and broaden the engineer's perspective on the socio-economic
aspects of rural life.
41.       Other central functions of DCMM are supervision and control.
A system for monitoring physical and financial progress and program
implementation has been developed. Each state center assembles relevant
information on each road project under construction and forwards it monthly
to DCMO for precessing and analysis. The data bank built-up thus far is
extensive and has provided the basis for a series of studies in which
SOP has been engaged both independently and in collaboration with academic
institutions. It is accumulating valuable information for a detailed cost
analysis of the PIDER road construction program and important data for
benefit estimation. There still are some conceptual problems in the data
array, particularly regarding the treatment of labor inputs in various
construction activities. Therefore, the data array, although suitable
for accounting purposes is inadequate for establishing detailed productivity
controls. DCMO is aware of these problems and is trying to correct them.



ANNEX 4-e
Page 10
42.       The area in which DCMO guidelines are relatively ill defined
concerns selection criteria for deciding which proposed road projects should
receive priority implementation under the labor-intensive construction program.
These include five basic criteria which must be met for a project to be
considered for implementation at all, and a second set of criteria to estab-
lish priorities. The basis five criteria are:
(i) The community in whose territory the road is to be located
must officially request construction and declare itself
"willing to build it with the technical assistance of SOP".
(ii) Community labor must be available for construction work.
(iii) A fairweather path currently used by the community should
exist where the proposed road is to be built.
(iv) The communities being connected by the road must have no
fewer than 300 and no more than 3000 inhabitants. (see
Table 5 for number of such communities and their total
population).
(v)  The cost per beneficiary of a road should not exceed Mex$20,000.
43.       Once these conditions are satisfied, priority for construction is
said to be decided on the following considerations:
(a) economic potential of the area of influence of the road;
(b) minimum daily wage in the region;
(c) number of inhabitants per kilometer of existing road;
(d) number of square kilometers of area per kilometer of road;
(e) number of transport vehicles per inhabitant;
(f) the transport needs of other government agencies;
(g) geographic location of the village and existing resources;
(i) whether or not the new road will complete a circuit; and
(j) quality of life in the community.
44.       Although the mission ascertained that information on these para-
meters is indeed collected by resident engineers, sometimes with the
assistance of rural extension agents, no precise information could be
gathered about the relative weights given to the various indicators or
how they are actually used in final priority rankings of projects.



ANNEX 4-e
Page 11
Cost Comparison of Labor-Intensive and Equipment-Intensive
Construction Techniques
45.       As in PIDER I, no separate benefit-cost analysis of the PIDER II
road component in isolation from that of other micro-region investments
will be carried out. If the return to all productive and productive support
project components including the roads exceeds 10%, road investments in a
particular micro-region will be financed.
46.       Between regions, construction costs per kilometer of labor-
intensive road vary considerably: outlays reported range from Mex$50-
60,000/km (in relatively flat, low rainfall regions like Yucatan or
Zacatecas) to Mex$300,000-340,000/km (in extremely mountainous, high-
rainfall areas such as Zacapoaxtla in Puebla). Cost differences are
further accentuated by the fact that road construction in regions where
the terrain is easy often falls into the category of betterment ("brecha
mejorada"), while in topographically difficult locations new construction
("camino nuevo") is often necessary. The average cost of one kilometer
of "camino nuevo" is almost 60% higher than that of a "brecha mejorada".
47.       Throughout 1973-1976, the average cost per kilometer of PIDER
roads (see Table 3) has been roughly double that of SOP Normal Program
roads. This reflects: (a) that PIDER roads, usually constructed in isolated
regions and difficult terrain, include a high proportion of new roads;
and (b) that PIDER roads, with sometimes more stringent completion dead-
lines than those in the Normal Program, are occasionally finished by
bringing in equipment.
48.       No separate cost analysis for 'Normal Program' vs 'PIDER' roads
has been undertaken to-date by either SOP or the PIDER evaluation agency,
CIDER. Mfission visits to Bank-financed PIDER micro-regions revealed no
systematic intra-regional cost differences between 'Normal Program' and
'PIDER' roads, but confirmed inter-region differences in construction
costs due to topography and climate.
Comparison of PIDER I Appraisal Estimates to Actual Experience
49.       With the information collected by SOP for a representative sample 1/
of roads constructed by hand-labor in 1972-74, it is possible to check the
cost estimates for one 'model-kilometer' of PIDER I 2/ road against actual
construction experience. The PIDER I 'model' assumes one average kilometer;
1/   Unless otherwise stated, cost figures (for labor-intensive roads) are
those developed by SOP from a stratified random sample of 164 roads
with a total length of over 1750 kms. See:  Seretaria, de Obras
Publicas, Caminos y Mano de Obra, Mexico City, pp. 203-209 for
sampling technique.
2/   Appraisal of Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER Mexico -
No. 660a-ME, April 16, 1975, Annex 3C Table 1.



ANNEX 4-e
Page 12
SOP reports costs and/or quantities separately for "brecha mejorada" (BM)
and "camino nuevo" (CN). As shown in Table 6, observed per km cost of
construction (at 1972-74 prices) for BM were Mex$70,800 and for CN Mex$115,400,
bracketing the PIDER I Model cost estimate of Mex$85,300. Not surprisingly,
there are some differences in the distribution of overall costs both by
construction activity and type of input: observed quantities of earthworks
are higher (even for the betterment case) than those assumed in the model,
resulting in a higher proportion (73-78% vs 60%) for this item in overall
cost. Drainage works by contrast proved less costly in actual experience
(20% vs 30%) than was estimated.
50.       Relative share of payments to labor for the sample roads analyzed
by SOP averaged 60% of total direct costs, compared to 70% estimated in
the PIDER I model; material costs were 12% and 10% respectively; tools and
equipment (hire) accounted for 24% and 10%; supervision cost (estimated
separately by SOP for direct supervision and Central Administration) again
compared well at close to 10% each.
51.       Labor inputs established by SOP are considerably lower than those
assumed in the model for "brecha mejorada": 1,328 vs 2,000 days/km; but
higher for "new construction" 2,258 vs 2,000 labor-days/km. This reflects
the lower productivity of labor working in more difficult terrain which SOP
now compensates by limited use of earthmoving equipment (see para 16 above).
SOP Comparison of Labor-Intensive and Equipment-Intensive Construction Costs
52.       SOP also used the cost figures derived from these sample roads
to compare alternative costs of construction by labor-intensive and by
equipment-intensive techniques. By (a) applying SOP's scheduled unit prices
to the quantities of work specified for the labor-intensive prototype road;
and (b) soliciting quotations from a sample of firms 1/ for constructing the
prototype roads, SOP developed construction cost estimates for a range of
equipment-intensive construction methods. At 1975 prices, the cost of
constructing one kilometer of prototype road with SOP equipment or by
large contractors was established at 97-99% that of building it by labor;
quotations from smaller contractors - usually the only ones to bid for
this type of road project - ranged from 109-127% of the cost of the labor-
intensive alternative. The SOP study thus shows labor-intensive construc-
tion techniques for low standard rural roads to be financially competitive
with equipment-based techniques 2/.
1/   Op.cit. pp. 132-149
2/   Productivities and prices for labor and equipment shown by SOP are
commensurate with those found in the World Bank Study of the Sub-
stitution of Labor and Equipment in Civil Construction (SOL) for the
direct costs of construction. However, SOP assesses indirect costs
of site supervision and central administration for the labor-intensive
operations, SOP shows indirect costs of 43%, SOL again asssumes 50%.
If correct, the Mexican experience underlines the importance of
efficient decentralized program organization for competitive
performance of labor-intensive civil construction projects.



ANNEX 4-e
Page 13
53.       The "appropriateness" of labor-intensive methods is further
underlined by transforming financial into economic costs. Shadow
pricing both labor and equipment, SOP 1/ assumed a shadow rate of
labor of 25% of prevailing miniming wages, and a shadow rate of
foreign exchange of 130% of prevailing rates. The foreign component
of equipment-intensive construction was established at 60% 2/; that of
labor-intensive construction (hauling) at 20%. (Table 7 summarizes the
results of SOP - calculated "economic" costs of alternative construction
techniques using the above shadow prices). With SOP's shadow prices,
the cost of equipment-intensive construction is 65% higher than the
labor-intensive alternative; using a more conservative shadow wage for
labor fo 50% still shows equipment-intensive alternatives to be 40%
more expensive than the labor-intensive one. -- If a full benefit-cost
analysis were carried out, using distributional weights for benefits
accruing to different segments of the target population under the two
alternative ways of project implementation, results would further
favor labor-intensive techniques.
The Socio-Economic Impact of the Labor-Intensive Rural Roads Program
Employment Effects
54.       The most important direct impacts of the rural roads program are
the provision of employment and income to a significant number of the rural
unemployed who would otherwise have to seek work in urban areas. According
to 1970 census figures, unemployment in the agricultural sector was nearly
600,000 3/. As shown in Table 3, the labor-intensive rural road construc-
tion program has provided an average of 54,500 man/years equivalent of
employment annually during the past six years: nationally it has thus
absorbed over 9% of rural unemployment. The same amount of construction
carried out with equipment would have generated at most one fifth of
these employment opportunities or about 10,900 man/years equivalent p.a. 4/
55.       For a sample of 79 road projects, short-term impacts at the level of
communities and households were studied by SOP in collaboration with the
"Colegio de Mexico" 5/. The communities surveyed were located in 9 different
1/   Ibid., p. 149.  There are no generally agreed shadow rates used
uniformly by all agencies in Mexico, nor in Bank appraisal reports.
2/   Ibid., p. 162-164.
3/   Ibid., p. 1972.
4/   Only 3-5% of this is equipment-related labor; the remainder is hand
labor employed in construction of drainage works.
5/   Ibid., pp. 59-76



ANNEX 4-e
Page 14
states. Two-thirds had less than 1,000 inhabitants. Only 29% of the villages
could be reached by vehicle in the dry season. Community services of all
kinds were poor:  of the 79 villages -
52% had elementary schools (39% of 3 grades only)
38% had electricity
30% had drinking water
24% had postal services
24% had medical services (only half with a visiting doctor).
Forty percent of the communities had no services at all.
46.       Members of 1,913 households in the 79 communities participated in
road construction. Three-quarters of these households culivated some land,
but 93% of them reported un- or underemployment of some member of the family;
the equivalent proportion for landless households was 99%. Average income
from all sources amounted to no more than Mex$7,000 in the households
surveyed. This corresponds to an annual per capita income of Mex$1,107
or less than 10% of the national average (Mex$11,525) reported for 1973.
Not astonishingly, therefore, demand for construction employment was high.
Well over 80% of the income from construction employment was reportedly
spent on food and clothes, with only 7% going to productive investments
in land, cattle or tools.
Income Effects
57.       A more detailed study of a sub-sample of 14 communities where
road access had been completed 18-30 months earlier, specified further
who the road workers were, how much income their participation in the
construction program added to their family earnings and what longer term
impacts the provision of road access had had on income and expenditure
patterns. Details of study findings are presented in Tables 8-10. They
show that 51% of road workers came from small-farm households (=20% of
the economically active in that group); 40% of roadworkers were day
laborers (=45% of the economically active in that group) and 9% only
were recruited from among the "unemployed" (=17% of the total in that
group). Over three-quarters of those who worked on the roads were
employed for less than 26 weeks; only a minority (8%) labored a year
or more. Total household income from roadwork was less than Mex$10,000
or more from road employment.
58.       The changes in household production and expenditure patterns
detailed in Table 10 confirm the prevalence of increased consumer goods
expenditures and also seem to indicate significant changes in marketing
and production technologies. However, these do not appear to have re-
sulted in significant production (yield) increases yet - perhaps pointing
up the need for complementary (extension) inputs in the road influenced
regions surveyed. Such inputs would be normally provided in PIDER micro-
regions.



ANNEX 4-e
Page 15
59.       In sum, the results of the impact study presented by SOP are
indicative of some trends, but do not allow a satisfactory quantification
of the longer-term impact of the road program on the local rural economy.
Road effects are studied without reference to possible impacts of other
rural development schemes in the region. Neither is there as yet a
monitoring of control regions to sort out changes that would have
occurred irrespective of any intervening road project.
60.       As a desirable next step, both SOP and CIDER should develop
effective analytical tools to evaluate the longer-run effects of the
labor-intensive (PIDER) road program and its specific contribution to
improving the quality of life in rural Mexico.



ANNEX 4h-e
Table l
MEXICO
RUTRAL DEVETIPMEIT PROJECT - PIDER II
The Share of Road Ex,enditure in Total Pro.ject Expenditures
PIDER I and PIDER II (estimate)
(all figures in US2)
PIDER I                     PIDER II
(1 975-1978)
1.  Total Project Expenditure        2294.5 million              $300 million
2. Total Project Experditure
on Roads           $ 17.9 million              $ 26 million
3. Bank Share of Total Project
Expenditure            $110.0 million              $120 million
h. Bank Share of Total Project
Expenditure on Roads      $  7.2 million               $ 10.4 million
5. Approximate Total Kilometrage
of Roads to be Constructed               3/
inder the Project               1,630 Kms
6. Bank Financed Share of
Approximate Total
Kilometrage to be
Constructed under.the Project       650 Kms
1/ Figures for PILIER I are based on estimated project costs in Appraisal Report,
PIDER I.
g Figures for PIDER II are based on estimated project costs in Issues Paper,
PIDER II.
2/ This figure is based on an estimated average cost of $11,000 per kilometer of
PIDER road (see Table 3).



ANNa h-e
Table 2
MEI CC)
lIJRAL DEVEVPMENT PRCJECT - PIDER II
Procosed Rural Road Construction Program 1977-82
NORMAL. PROGRAM           PIDER       PROGRAM              IOTAL
STATE              Length     E;menditure    Length   Expenditure   Length  Expenditure
.    (1m)  (Mex $OOO)    (Yim)    (Mex $OOO)      (Km)-   (Mex $000)
AC;U^ ,C:L. :.>.s          645        39 000       r?  I        14 000       876          5 0 C,
AC ' ;-i. : k..                                 ....  .210  43 000  20  4 000  230       47 0>
BAIC. 1CAIFOR;\ .......:. .2A SUR    705  49 00    4465 34 000             1 190        833 0
Cf'.7 W:O HE       .       .. 415     38 000                       000       623         56 0^
C   ; 2. I.             1 960        153 000        359        28 000    2 319         ,71 .'!
IFA    -             420         49 000         3         10 000         13         ,,n
CHI HTAS                4 000        288 COO    3 05S         220 000    7 036         508 00
CH1-.hHU A               3 949       312 000    1 13 000 000    5 088                  402 07 I
D -7Y.GO                1 956        183 000    2 308         216 000    4 264         399 000
GU'-,eANPATO            2 840        203 000    1 634         211  0000       4 ?4     319 0C;
GUF> R.-tSRO            3 19S        447 000    1 571         220 000    4 764         66' OC
HiDU .G-O               3 371        327 000    1 701         165 000    5 07._             CC C l
~AS Y C C               2 524        200 G000    3 3.         350 000    D 9_ 22 '' 000 
GE;XACO                 2 590        236 0000       ?64 44 000'    3 0;4               220 iu
MIiC,HOGACr_AN          3 475        351 G000       970        98 000    4 445         449 40
M O1eRrLOS                 570        47 000        313        26  000       883        73 000
. " ,Ar'I3 1 910                   177 000        939000 000    2 899                 267 00'
iNUO,i;O LE ON     .      12 930  15   4 000        999        80 000    2 923         234 . _1
O .sKACAS               4 594        464 000    2 277         230 000    o 871         694 C;> 
P,AEDLA                 2 737        260 O00    1 474         140 003    4 211         -1C  CI.
QUERETARO               2 450        181 000    1 216          90 000    3 666         271 23:
QOIITAtlwNA p.r30        1 020        87 000        600        48 000    1 620         135 SOC
SAi  AUIS PCTODI         3 090       222 000    i 556         112 000    4 846         334 0CG.
Sm RALOA                   7 363     173 000        7s7 10o 000    2 150               273 67
SON'OiRA                1 2950      215 000         251        42 000    1 541         257 0cC
TAOA;iSCO                1 466       170 000        776        90 000    2 242 90 CCC
ANU Z JLI PAS            2 460       21 000    1 034          90 000    3 4941        308 00
TLAXC;K(8A1.I              225        19 000        176        15 000        401 3I  000
YUJCATAN                2 2970 163 000              r74        5  000    2 994         213 0
ZACA,TECAS              2 471        173 000    1  314         92 000    3 785         25 C6
T  O TAL           65 769    6 000  000   33 053    3 000 000   98 822              9  3CC0 C,O
SOURCE: SOP, Auguist 1 976D



MEX I CO
Integrated Rural Development Project
PIDER II
Table 3
The Rural Road Constr,,ctiope  Prograe
1971-1976
A.                                           B.                                    C.                                           D.                                E.
2/ 3/                                                                               2/ 3/
Expenditure (millions of  Mex $)                Number of Kilometers Constructed          Average Cost per km (Mex $)                           Labor
Average Minimum            5/
Normal Program       PIDER     IDB                   Normal         PIDER                      Normal         PIDfR               4/      Labor-Force        Man-Years       Daily Agricultural Wave
Year            Budget          Budget   Loan   Total            Program        Budget        Total       Program         Budget      Total          Man-Years/p.a.   Per KIm.                  (Mex $)
1971            124.8              -       53.6     178.4  3    2,740             -           2,740  )   65,109             -         65,109    )       10,800             3.*4      )           24.91
}972            66A3.4             -       91.2    754,6  )   10,540              -          10,540   )     .1,594          -          71,594   )       44,400             4.21      )           29.29
)                                        )                                          )                                   )
1973         1,723.8            208.8      49.3  1,981.9  )   26,610           1,520         28,130  )   64,780         137,368        70,455    )    176,600              6.28      )           34.56
1974            535.0           204.5       -       739<5  )       ,230        1,780         10,010  )   65,006          114,888       73,676    )      34,300             3.43      3           39.38
1975            586.0           357.5       -       943.5   )    9,520         2,970         12,490  )   61,555          120,370       75,540    )      37,800             3.03      )           48.04
1976            430.0           300.3 /   -         730.3  )    6,920          2,180 7/       9,100   )   62,139         137,752       80,253    )      23,400             2.57      )           58.68
( 51.5)                                        ( 370)3
Total       4,063.0          1,071.1    194.1  5,183.1          64,560        8,450         73,010                                                    327,300
1,  Source: Secretariat of Public Works, 1076; Commission on Minimum Salaries, 1976.
2.  Figures for 197b are est[mates.
3.  All prices are in current prices in Mexican c.
4.  [DB financing included  in co,sts of Normal Program.
5.  The variation around the neon in 1976 (indicative for earlier vears),
ranged from Mex $30.40 in Chiapas to MNe  $75.71) in Baja California NB,rrp.
6.  Number in parentheses iq approximate Sex S r)quivalent of World Bank disbursements
on loan to PIDER I Pro ,,ct rural road coMPofnent, as of November 19,1976.
7.  N-bmher in p.-erthe-es epa)  uppr-xi-ate kiloxetrage conotructed  to November 19,1976 by
World Bank financing of l'IDER I project loan.



ANNEY. 4-e
Table 4
MEXI 00
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -
PIDER II
Design Standards for Labor Intensive Rural Roads
i   -   _I_          I       I~~~~~ E R R A I N
UNIT
___________    _________ Flat    Hilly      Mountainous
Design Speed    km/hr        40          30            20
Vehicles
per day        V/D          50           50           50
Road width      Meter         4           4             4
Shoulder
width (each)   Meter       .70          .70          .70
Maximum
degree of        o           11          40            65
curvature
Maximum          %            6            8           10
grade
Source: SOP, 1976



ANP= 4-e
Fable 5
EICO
RURAL DEVEIOPEfT PR)JECT -
PIDER II
Communities and Population without
All weather Road Access - 1270
DISTRICT  CENTERS             COIO!JITIES W 300-3000 Inh         POPULATION       _
STATE                      .      NO                                NO            NC
TOTAL        ACCESS             TOTAL          ACCESS        ACCESS
AGS.                9             _:_                125            71          45? 7.6
B (CN N             4             _                  142          120          117 49
B C S.              3               1                 42           27           1'  Y2
CAMivP.             8             __                 109           72           63215
COAS.              38               3                289          166          126 Vl9<,
COL.               10             _                   73           39           3, 4.2
CHS.lE,           111  fi          33              1 200          9062         62 0 f:
CKIH.l'- '.67                      24               528           369          212 7--
DGC.               38              15                576          376          351 862
GTo.               46              3               1 151          950          61I 5 :, I
GRO.               75              23              1138           974          703 .52.
HGO.               84              15              1 013          820          564 0.-,3i
JAL.              124              26                770          559          47? -,17
MEX.              121              10              1 409         1 03C0        131 -7
li'!"C.,i;.       112               8              1 230          822          632 3-'
M,^OR.             3,             __2                1'1           4          111
NAY.               19              3                270           1 53         123  i
N L.               52               2               335           145          104 5.-
OAX.              570            38N9              1 736         1 484       1 30G 3(4
PUE.              217              92              1447          1 158-      1 109 2- '
CRO.               18               1        -      353           229          14.17,rc
nR.                 7              3                  52           37           34?:s
SLP.               56               9               854           494
SIN.               17             _                 658           533         '>9 ' u
SON.               69              35               319           210          1,.21A.
TAB.               17             _-                630           511          363 74.'.
7i%                43 '7                            428           2 t12        1
41              5                2_i -
V/i_,,           t223              .50             2 2:          1.i71
YUO.              106              32                247          153          1,. 2C3
ZAC.               56              11                689          489          330 4' j3
SLlma     237 6             760             200495        15183       1205r12k
SOURCE: SOP: Cainos demano de obra, Mexico DF 1976, p 21



YEY1C.O
Intepirared ;u-.a]1Devuoprn-nt l'rolect
PID,.R I I
T:uble 6
Estimated and Actual Constrnction Co8st  for One l:n of Labor-lntenqive
R.,ral Road
(1972-74 Prices)
__________ __  OU.ALTITIRS           C11__                                  W       COG__   -  _ S )
SITU                 IN,UIT     PIDER I MODEL    BRECHA MEJ.              CAIMINO NtIEVO              PIDER I SCDEL             BRECHA YXi*d   S             r    ;o l-.Eo
Investment Components
Clearin                  ha/Km         23                    0.3                  1.0                          8.2                    incl.below                  iIfAl.Pe,w
Earthworks               m /Km         2.500                2983                                              34.2                      32.1                         52.,S
Excavation                            n.a.                1,670                2,803
Embankiment Formation                 n.a.                1,313                1,416
Surfacing
(incl .excav/loading/
spreading of            3
materials)             a /Km            600                 710                 860                          9.0                      19.7                         32.0
Drainage                                                                                                       2S.2                     13.6                         22.5
SUB-TOTAL A                           n.a.                n.a.                  n.a.                        77.6                      65.6                        l06.
Engin.Supervision       % of SUa A    10                      8                    8                            7.7                      5>2                          S.5
TOTAL                                                                                                       85.3                      70.8                       _S.!
investment lneuta             ,                                 **                  **
Labor                 7. total       70.4                60.0                 60.0                          60.0                      39.4                         64.2
Cost
Materiala                            10.0                 12.0                12.0                            8.5                       7.9                        12,8
Tools       )                                             4.5                  4.5                       )                              2.9                         4.8
10.5                                                               ) 9.1
Equipment  )                                              20.0                20.0                       )                            13.1                         2_.4
Supervision                           9.1 (Site)           3.5                 3.5                            7.7                       2.3                         3.7 
SUBTOTAL A                         100.0               100.0                 1007.                         85.3                      65.6                        106. 9
_of Su   A                          8.0                 S,0                                                      5.2                          S.5
85.3                      70.8        _              115.4
* assuwed min.wage   Mex $30/day
** assumed w1in.wag    Mex $28.5/day
NOTE       No separate distributio;n of inputs for 'Carmino Nuevo' is provided.
Terrnin srpcifications for Broccs Me eornen  and Casijjo Nunvo
Flat                    447.                    4(7.
Hilly                    50h.                    46%
Mountainous               6%                     147.
SOURCE: Op.cit. pp 131-136



ANNEX 4-e
Table 7
RURAL DEVEICPMENT PRJECT - PIDER II
Calculation of the Social Costs of Constructing One Kilometer
of "Prototype Brecha MejoradaY by Labor-Intensive and CaDital-
Intensive Technologies.
(1972-1974 Market Prices)
Labor-Intensive           Capital-Intensive
(M4exs)                   (Mex$)
1.  Market Price of one kilometer                          70,800                    70,000
2.  Cost of superrision                                     5,200                       0
3.  Direct per kilometer cost                              65,6oo                    70,000
4.  Payment to labor (60%; vs. 12%)                        39,360                     8,400
5.  Adjustment factor for shadow wage
of labor                                           .25                        .25
6.  Shadow cost of 1abor                                    9,840                     2,100
7. Payment to equipment (20%; vs. 70%)                     13,120                    49,000
8. Adjustment factor for shadow price of 1/
foreign exchange component of eauipment
1.18                      1.18
9.  Social cost of equipment                               15,482                    57,820
a)  Social cost of one kilometer:
((3) - (4) + (6) -(7) + (9) + (2))                    43,642                    72,520
b)  Social cost of one kilometer
(same assumptions as in (a) but a
shadow wage adjustment factor of
.5) :                                                53,482                    74,620
1/ This assumes a foreign exchange component of
equipment cost of 601 and an opportunity cost of foreign
exchange of 130%. For derivation see: Caminos y Mano Obra, pp. 229-236
For calculation of Social Costs as above see p.149



ANNEX 4-e
Table 8
ME Co
RU.RAL DEVET-PlENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Errlcyment in Construction and Regular Ehployment
n 1L Saople Vilages
community          Small Farmers            Day Laborers         Unemployed          Total
Total    Employed      Total    Employed   Total  Employed   Total  Employed
on Road                 on Road            on Road            on Road
1. San Pedro Molinos         200      150          -           _         _        _          200      150
2. Eloxochitlan              150       35          200         _         _        _          350       35
3. Manacal                   0        -            h0         20        41       20         121       LO
4. Francisco sarabia          91       65           20         20          5       5         116       90
5. Ahuacapan                 245       10          150         60         50       _         LL5      -70
6. Chiquilistlan             500        3          130         10        130       -         760       13
7. La Calera                  75       72           10         10         10      10          95       92
8. La Barra                   60       -            -           -        -         -          60       -
9. El Zapote                 120       15           -           -         _        _         120       15
10. Huixcolotla               120        7           -           -         -        -         120        7
11. San Ramon de Martine    150        150           -           -        260      22         4lO      172
12. Kini                      650       -           400        300         -        -       1,050      300
13. Lopez Rayon               14O       15           10         10         35      35         185       60
14. San Jeronimo              188       35           -           -         -        -         188       35
TOTAL           2,729      557          960        L30        531      92       4,220   1,079
Total Econ.Active
Population                                                          (581)      _,664
SOURCE:   Caminos y Mano de Obra,pp 90-91



AINN 4-e
Table 9
ME}:1CO
1UJLRL DEVVEIPKRIT PROJECT - PIDER II
Length of Emiloyment in, and Size of Income from. Road Construction
by Domestic Grooups in 14 Villages
Employment Period            N Mentioning     Income Earned       |         N .Mentioning
No EMlovment                      220            No Incone              2220
30ome Employment     48           203            Some Income          48        203
9 Of t he5te :                                  Of_these
Employed 2-26 wks    37           154           Mex $301-2,500         28       119
27-52 wks     7           32                $2,501-5,000       9        41
|    53 + wks  4           17            ,. $5,001-10,000      6        23
i _____= _____-____    _          ______________     $10,001     +      5        20
| Total N      100           423            .100                          42
SOURCE:  Caminos y Mano de Obra, p.97



ANNE 4-e
Table 10
MEXICO
RURAL DEVETOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Changes in Household Production/Expenditure Patterns
(423 Housenolds; Multiple Mentions Possible)
New            Use                  Use                 Use
Item         Adoption          Increased          Decreased          Abandoned
Consumer
Goods            242               18                 10                 10
Increased Crop
Marketing       128               42                 31                 56
Improved
Technology        123                7                   3                 4
Sale of Goods
+ Services          67               13                  4                 17
Wage Labor           37               21                  12                 6
Increased Ag.
Product             19               51                 30                 28
Non_Farnily
Employees           17                1                                     2
SUE CnoyMod brp_
SOURCE: Caminos y Mano de Obra, p. 95)



ANNEX 5-a
Page 1
MEXICO
Rural Development Project - PIDER II
Potable Water Supply
Introduction
1.        Unlike other sectors, performance under the potable water component
has been slow. At appraisal, some 170,000 persons in the 30 micro-regions
were expected to have access to improved drinking water supplies. After
two years of the Project, only 131,300 persons have access to better water
supplies. After a slow start, progress is picking up.
Category      Appraisal    1975       1976       Total
Beneficiaries    170,000    13,310   118,000   131,300
Under PIDER II, an estimated 200,000 persons are expected from improved water
supplies in the 20 micro-regions at an average per capita cost equivalent to
US$55.
Background
2.        An adequate safe water supply and proper waste disposal facilities
are basic elements in environmental sanitation. In Mexico, water-related
infections are listed as the primary cause of death of children between the
age of zero to four years, and as the second most important cause of death
for the population as a whole (some 70,000 deaths in 1974).  In addition,
they are by far the most important single cause of debilitating disease in
the country. Potable water supply systems have long been recognized as a
significant factor in reducing the incidence of such infections. These
systems, however, require continuous water quality control and water treat-
ment. Individual house connections are desirable but expensive.
Present Situation of Rural Water Supply
3.        According to data published in the principal report of the 1975
National Water Plan, only about one half of the country's population now
has access to potable water supplies with 22% (in 1970) of the rural
population this category. Only 3% of villagers were connected to sanitary
sewers. None of the smaller rural towns and villages with potable water



ANNEX 5-a
Page 2
supplies had water treatment facilities, while in most states there are no
water quality laboratories. Of the 85,000 villages in the country with a
population of less than 500 people, only a handful have access to potable
water supplies. Of the villages and towns with a population between 500
and 2,500 inhabitants, some 6,900 (in 1976) were in the same position.
According to officials of the water supply construction division of the
Health Secretariat, the present goal is to install about 1,000 new systems
yearly in these larger villages or towns. This would be a 20% increase
over the 1971-76 average (See Table 2). No attempt is made at present
to supply potable water to villages with a population of less than 500
people and the agency selection criteria strongly favor communities with
populations of 1,000 or up. The only way the smallest villages can be
supplied is either from regional distribution systems or from nearby irriga-
tion water sources, or under a project, such as PIDER which does not have
a minimum size criteria for supplying water.
4.        Two federal agencies have primary responsibility for the instal-
lation of new water supply systems. The Department of Water and Sewage
of the Secretariat of Water Resources (Direction General de Agua Potable y
Alcantarillados of the Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos - SRH) is mainly
responsible for the installation of systems in towns and cities with a
population of 3,000 inhabitants or above. The Construction Commission
for Health Engineering in the Secretariat of Health (Comision de Constructores
e Ingenieria Sanitaria de la Secretaria de la Salubridad by Asistencia -
SSA) concentrates its efforts in communities ranging from 500 to 3,000
inhabitants. Both agencies construct works unde the PIDER program. While
SRH itself generally operates and maintains the larger system, SSA turns
its completed works over to the villages and towns. A recent SSA survey
shows that some 33% of all existing systems in the country are not in opera-
tion due to neglect and lack of maintenance. SSA plans to spend some 300
million pesos (US$60 million) over a five-year period on the rehabilita-
tion of some of these installations.
5.        In early 1977, the new administration in Mexico undertook a major
reform of government machinery involved in water supply programs. As the
Secretariat of Public Works had been efficient and innovative in carrying
out the difficult feeder road program, the new administration transferred
all responsibilities for design, construction and maintenance of water
supply systems to this Secretariat, renaming it the Secretariat of Public
Works and Human Settlements. Thus the new Secretariat of Agriculture and
Water Resources and the Secretariat of Health (SSA), each have been stripped
of all responsibilities for providing water suply systems to micro-region
villages. This is a major administrative change. With such a fresh start,
the problems that have plagued village water supply systems in the past, es-
pecially on the maintenance and operation side, may be given considerably
higher priority under the SOP administration. SOP will probably draw
heavily on its experiences in getting villager participation in maintenance
of feeder roads to encourage the same villagers to take a much stronger in-
terest in water system maintenance. Also, SOP is likely to obtain a signi-
ficantly higher villager participation in actual construction activities
along the piece work or contributed labor systems worked out in feeder road
programs.



ANNEX 5-a
Page 3
Table 1
Investment Expenditures of SRH on Water Supply
and Sewage Works, 1970 - 1976
('000 Dollars)
In Current Dollars; US$1=Mex$12.50               Total in 1975
Year        Normal Program    PIDER       Others*   Total    Constant Dollars
1970           30,672            -           -       30,672       67,854
1971           35,187            -           -       35,187        78,786
1972           52,095            -           -       52,095      107,905
1973           95,184          6,160         -      101,344      181,168
1974           59,258          5,760         -       65,018       81,864
1975           99,000          8,720         -      107,720      107,720
1976          131,640          6,147      1,957    137,787         n.a.
Source:  Direccion General de Agua Potable y Alcanterillados de la
Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos.
*    US$1,796,000 for the "Plan Canero", a developmental program for
sugarcane producing communities, and US$161,000 for a special program
directed at new ejido villages.
6.        The Table indicates PIDER's share of the total SRH program reached
as high as 10% in 1974, but declined to 5% in 1976. While SRH's total ex-
penditures in current terms rose significantly between 1975 and 1976, in real
terms between 1972 to 1976, they remained more or less constant, (except for
1973). PIDER's contribution, in constant 1975 dollars, fell from 10.012
million in 1974 to 8.720 million in 1975.
7.        SSA's expenditures on water supply and sewage disposal for the years
from 1971 to 1976 are shown in Table 2. They reached a peak of around 50 mil-
lion (1975) dollars annually in 1972/73, but thereafter fell to between 21 to
25 million dollars in 1974/75 and probably to around 11 million expressed in
1975 dollars in 1976. The number of new systems installed ranged from 310 in
1976 to 870 in 1973, with an average of 611 per year for the 71-76 period. In
the same period an average of 200 existing systems were rehabilitated per
year. Costs of new installations per beneficiary in 1975 constant dollars
ranged from US$44.50 in 1971 to US$73.09 in 1973, and fell thereafter to
US$54.30 in 1975. 1976 costs probably amounted to somewhat over US$60 in 1975
prices. Rehabilitation costs were much lower and ranged from $4.45 to $21.09
per capita.



Tabl e 2
RIVESTHiNT E(PIINDITUItES OF 3S3A ON VLAT'ER SUPP1LY     19)l j71-1976
('000 DolJars; US$1 = Max$12.50)*
New  Works                                                  RetaLbilitations_
Investment                                                  Investmcnt
No. of      Current  1975*n-                1975 US$ per    No. of       Current   1975                    1975 US$
Year    Installa.   U$   IIS$    Inhabitants   InhabitanL             Installa.             U$$  _  Inhabitani.    per Inhab.
1971     599         11,153   2)1,983    561,419        41)4.50      50          127        284      63,88.3         It.45
1972     851)        24,006   49,692    80o,4661        61.39       216        2,095      4,337    271,611          15,97
1973     870         29,212   52,289    715,419         73.09       313        3,820      6,838    380.405          17.98
1974     537         20,489   25,816    408,549         63.19       270        4, 955     6,2)43    296,047         21.09
1975     506         21,634   21,634    398,14116       54.30       229        4,302      4,302    263,296          16.31,
1976     310         13,163    n.a.      172,394        76.35*i*   123         1,799       n.a.    136,265          13.20#**
* Source: Comision Constructora e Ingeniera Sanitaria de la SSA, Secretaria Technica de
Infonnacion y Control de Datos.
** Prices adjusted by the, implicit SRH price deflator of Table 1
-M* In 1976 prices.
:-d



ANNEX 5-a
Page 5
PIDER and the Federal Agencies
8.        The PIDER's supported program is small compared to that of SSA
and SRH.  Both agencies emphasize that they use their own technical specifi-
cations for the design of water supply works whether they are financed by
PIDER or themselves. Unlike SSA, which has developed a sophisticated 17-step,
seven-factor process to select target villages, PIDER appears to select the
villages in light of local conditions. In cases in which one of the federal
agencies and PIDER select the same community, the agencies will generally let
PIDER go ahead with the project and use their own funds on projects elsewhere.
9.        PIDER-supported projects are limited to the financing of instal-
lations with hydrants only. Users who want to have house connections have
to finance the additional costs themselves. Both SRH and SSA emphasize
that house-connections are far preferable for the point of view of health.
In addition, they claim that hydrants frequently get damaged and often
are not turned off, wasting water. Both agencies require metered connections,
to curb water consumption.
10.       As stated above, about a third of existing water supply systems
do not work as a result of poor operation and lack of maintenance. Neither
PIDER nor the line departments have trained operators and maintenance
personnel or funds to pay technical personnel, to buy spare parts or to
accumulate sufficient funds for major overhauls and replacements. Local
beneficiaries are unwilling to contribute services in kind for maintenance
and reapair requirements on a voluntary and sustained basis.
The Project
11.       Under PIDER II, some US$11 million, or about 3% of the total
budget would be spent to supply potable water to villages and towns.
The project would benefit some 215,000 persons, at an average cost of
US$45 per person. While this average is lower than the US$76.35 average
costs experienced in 1976, it represents an increase from Mex$954 to
Mex$1,125 at the new exchange rate, or an increase of 18%. Installation
of metered house connections and of sanitary privies would be encouraged
but not financed under the program. Selection criteria would be coordinated
with the selection processes of the federal agencies except in special
cases. Technical design specifications would follow federal agency speci-
fications.
12.       Beneficiaries would have to agree, in writing, to contribute a
total 15% of project costs in cash. In addition they would have to agree
to cover fully all future operating, maintenance and repair expenditures
through adequate cash payments, adjusted annually to reflect current costs.
These charges would have to be high enough to cover equipment replacements.
Beneficiaries would be allowed and encouraged to contribute labor and/or
material supply and services in lieu of part or all of their cash investment
cost contribution.



ANNEX 5-a
Page 6
13.       Another approach to improved maintenance might be modeled after
a preventive maintenance and repair district organized by SRH in the State
of Queretero in 1974. This district is responsible for several hundred
installations which include 15 reservoirs, 203 pumping stations, 138 small-
scale irrigation units and 30 water supply systems. Regularly scheduled
inspections and equipment overhauls are carried out by well-trained crews
backed up by a complete system of technical specifications, spare parts,
new hoses and accounting and control systems. Lost savings compared to the
previous repair-only-after-breakdown system are claimed to amount to over
62% of previous costs. Average costs per installation per month in 1975
amounted to Mex$387 or US$30.96 at the old exchange rate.
14.       For PIDER, these districts might cover one or more micro-regions
or even extend beyond PIDER regions. The decision should be based on
distribution of similar water systems installations. The preventive mainte-
nance crew could supervise and train the local operating personnel of each
installation.



ANNEX 5-b
Page i
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Rural Education Facilities
Introduction
1.        Performance under the rural schools program has been better than
expected at appraisal. CAPFCE is somewhat ahead of appraisal schedule.
Appraisal Estimates - Mex$                      Average
Category        No.   Unit Cost    1975   1976   Total   Unit Cost
Classrooms      1150     5000         456    504    906        4000
2.        Under the PIDER II project, an aditional 1200 classrooms would be
constructed in the 20 micro-regions.
Education in Rural Mexico
3.        Mexico's educational system has developed rapidly in the past
decade, but problems remain, especially the severe inequality of educational
opportunities between urban and rural areas. The limited efforts in the past
to educate the rural population are evident from the low literacy rate in
rural areas of 59% as against 80% in urban centers. Current enrollment
ratios show some early results of the Government's efforts to redress this
imbalance. Various non-formal education and training activities are also
being developed better to meet the needs of the rural population.
Rural Primary Education
4.        In 1970, the total enrollment in primary schools was a high 96% of
the number of children aged 7-12. This total enrollment figure, however,
included a large number of overaged children, resulting in a net enrollment
ratio of only 71%. The overaged children are a particular problem in the
rural areas where 46% of rural schools do not offer a six-year program. The
lower grades in these classes are swollen by repeaters who do not leave
school but who cannot continue on to higher classes. In rural areas, only
15% of the students complete the primary cycle as against 60% in the cities.
A key constraint to the provision of primary education in rural Mexico is the
high dispersion of its population. Some 20 million people, or 40% of the
total population, live in communities with less than 2,500 inhabitants; the
minimum under which the establishment of schools is economic.



ANNEX 5-b
Page 2
5.        The Government's policy in primary education is directed towards
the full participation of all primary school age youth. To this effect,
11,000 primary classrooms are being constructed per year. However this
construction program is still heavily urban oriented. In 1973, only 20% of
the new school capacity under the regular program was constructed in rural
areas, where 40% of the population lives. The PIDER program reduced this
imbalance by increasing the construction program for rural classrooms by 40%,
or another 880 classrooms. Further, the Secretariat of Education is de-
veloping several programs to reach the more scattered population, such as
mobile classrooms and part-time boarding facilities.
6.        In recent years, several measures have been taken to improve the
quality of primary education. A free textbook program has made a significant
impact on quality, especially in the rural areas. A massive teacher upgrading
program has been instrumental in improving the quality of rural teachers in
particular. Much work has still to be done, however, on curriculum develop-
ment and teacher preparation, issues which go beyond the scope of a rural
development project.
Other Rural Education
7.        A major effort is underway to expand agricultural secondary educa-
tion. From 1972 to 1974, the number of lower-secondary agricultural schools
(grades 7-9) increased from 158 to 466. Another 90 of these schools will be
established under the regular school construction program, many of which will
be in PIDER micro-regions. Major non-formal education programs are the Cul-
tural Missions and Rural Development Brigades, Radio and Television are also
used to reach the rural population. The role of the agricultural extension
service is analyzed in Annex 2-f.
The Project
8.        Content.  In line with the Government's policy for primary educa-
tion, the Project aims at the establishment of sufficient school capacity to
enroll all primary school-age youth in the communities served by the Project,
i.e., all communities in the micro-regions with 300-3,000 inhabitants. To
this end the Project would provide for the construction and furnishing of 800
new classrooms in incomplete primary schools, both new and existing, thereby
expanding school capacity by 24,000 student places. Further, 400 classrooms
would be renovated, thereby improving school facilities for another 14,000.
Teaching materials, textbooks and staff for these schools would be provided by
the Secretariat of Education and financed from its regular recurrent budget.
To ensure that this provision be timely and adequate, the location and timing
of school construction would be closely coordinated with this Secretariat.
The resulting enrollment expansion in primary education would be 0.3% and the
increase in the recurrent budget for education, a marginal 0.1% by 1982.
These amounts would be absorbed in the normal increase in the education
budget.



ANNEX 5-b
Page 3
9.        Execution.  The implementation of this project item would continue
to be the responsibility of CAPFCE, a semi-autonomous federal agency respon-
sible for the planning and execution of all federal school construction in
Mexico. During the 30 years since its foundation, CAPFCE has increased its
capacity from 300 to 15,000 classrooms per year.  It has 31 regional offices
charged with on-site supervision of school construction. CAPFCE has been
successful in developing low-cost construction methods.  Deliberate policies
emphasizing standardization of design, prefabrication of structural elements
and computarization of the construction process have led to an average cast
of new construction amounting to US$4,000 per classroom, or US$100 per m  of
construction costs. These costs vary widely among the regions, but specially
adapted construction systems keep the cost of construction in remote areas
in line with regional averages. For example, local materials are used to the
extent possible, the site is normally donated by the local community, and
other local contributions are actively promoted.
Table 1: UNIT COSTS PER CLASSROOM BY PIDER REGION (1976)
Region                   Mex$                US$ (20=1)
Northwest               79,400                  3,970
Northcentral            78,900                  3,945
Northeast               73,700                  3,685
West                    72,500                  3,625
Central                 69,700                  3,485
Southwest               68,800                  3,440
Southeast               76,900                  3,845
Yucatan                 76,500                  3,825
10.       Benefits.  The objective of the primary education component is to
reinforce the long-term benefits of the Project as a whole. First, by es-
tablishing literacy and mathematical skills, primary education helps farmers
gain access to modern agriculture and makes it easier for agricultural
extension agents to transmit modern knowledge and skills. Second, primary
education helps reduce the resistance of the rural population change,
thus reinforcing the basis for sustained economic and social development.
Third, primary education is an important instrument for improving the quality
of rural life, and thus is complementary to the package of productive and
social investments provided under the Project.



ANNEX 5-c
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Self-Help
1.        PIDER has supported a limited self-help program, primarily by pro-
viding materials to villages to establish or improve such public places as
village plazas, town halls, and town streets. Materials are also made
available for improvement of private homes. All unskilled labor is con-
tributed, although professionals are available for the more complicated
tasks.
2.        This program has been moderately successful.  Its popularity is
indicated by the high participation rates in program communities and the large
number of communities which have applied for their own projects. Its main
problem is delays in the authorization of financing which have postponed the
intiation of projects.
3.        Nevertheless, the economic and/or social justification of the program
is tenuous, because:
(i) the health improvements anticipated when the program was initiated
have usually not materialized since the construction of latrines
is not stressed when homes are improved;
(ii) cooperative action in the areas of public spaces and workshops do
not appear to generate further cooperative action. In some cases,
for example Sinaloa, there is almost no cooperative effort; here
most families chose to work on their own homes by themselves.
Only in the few areas where there is a tradition of cooperative
action does the program appear to have a spill-over into
future activities;
(iii) the uneven nature of income distribution within rural areas
may be exacerbated, because the more accessible communities
appear to be selected in the first stages;
If the program is to continue, several changes are needed:
(i) latrines should be required as part of each improved home;
(ii) homes should only be improved, not completely rebuilt, in order
to expand the number of communities covered;



ANNEX 5-c
Page 2
(iii) selection criteria for communities and beneficiaries should be
clearly specified in order to reduce economic and political
distortions.
Program History
4.        In 1964, the Secretariat of Health began a program to improve rural
housing as part of its environmental sanitation work. A special Department
for the Improvement of Homes and Public Spaces was established in 1971 within
CCISSSA, the engineering and construction commission of the Ministry of Health.
After the 1973 earthquakes, five other agencies, in addition to CCISSSA, were
assigned home and public spaces improvement responsibilities. With that
crisis over, however, the responsibilities were withdrawn from all but two
of them.
5.        Since 1974, most of the program has been financed by PIDER (Table I
following).
Table 1
Self-Help Program
----Mex$'000-----
(authorized)
Government Agencies                1974          1975                 1976
Secretariat of Health
(CCISSSA)                      19,763.3       55,593.5            41,367.6
River Balsas Commission          2,578.0        7,110.0              2,238.0
National Indigenous
Institute                          -              -                   169.1
Coordinated Commission for
the Integrated Development
of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec       -              80.0
Secretariat of Public Works         59.0          619.0
National Institute for the
Development of the Rural
Community and the Home          18,277.7        8,771.6
TOTAL           40,678.0       72,174.1            43,774.7



ANNEX 5-c
Page 3
CCISSSA
6.        The majority of home and public spaces improvement projects are
under CCISSSA, which is staffed at the federal level by 26 professionals,
mostly architects, and at the state level by one resident in each one of the
30 states which at present has CCISSSA projects. In addition, there are 42
sub-residents, assisted by 93 technicians who live in project areas. The
CCISSSA program can be divided into the following six components:
1.   Improved or enlarged homes -cement floors, windows, doors,
water proofing, addition of kitchen or latrine.
2.   New homes when old homes are not judged structurally sound (up
to a ceiling of 500 Mex$ (US$25.-) per person).
3.   Improved streets - leveling, drainage, sidewalks.
4.   Public plazas - concert areas, playgrounds, sports fields.
5.   Town halls and clinics.
6.   Community-owned workshops for the production from local
raw materials of such construction materials as bricks.
The workshops are to become eventually producer cooperatives.
Even though these workshops may be considerably under-utilized
after the self-help program terminates, the cost of their
establishment is so minimal that the initial investment is
easily justified.
7.        The program mix for 1974-76 was as follows:



ANNEX 5-c
Page 4
PIDER/SSA Self-Help
Bank                  Bank
30                    30
Region                Region
1974       1975      1975        1976      1976
Number of communities
covered                             95         189       -            91
Number of beneficiaries         46,812      92,677    5,718      65,517
Streets (m )                     8,567     37,820        -        18,172
Plazas  (m )                     6,783     50,373        -        26,880
Townhalls                            1           2       -             3
Clinics                              5          25       -             3
New homes                        1,607       1,224       -           473
Improved homes                   4,626      5,119       774        6,136
Latrines                           627       2,817                 4,002
Workshops                            5          84                    16
Other units                          3          31                    17
Total program cost per
beneficiary (in Mex$)              422         600                   631
Operational Procedures
8.        The state resident is responsible for the preparation of a detailed
study of each locality considered a possible candidate for a community improve-
ment package. The members of the locality are also asked to sign a petition
which expresses their willingness to participate in such a program. These
studies and petitions are sent to PIDER headquarters in Mexico City, where
in time funding will be authorized for a small percentage of these communi-
ties. It is not clear exactly what criteria are used to determine which
communities are selected and what the project mix within communities shall be.
CCISSSA guidelines give priority to communities of 500 to 1,500 inhabitants
with drinking water, electricity and transport services available.
9.        In general, in any one community, the program takes 8-10 months to
complete. CCISSSA provides the industrial materials (cement and structural
iron) and its own technical assistance free of charge. All local materials
and labor must be provided by the beneficiaries. Labor pooling appears to
occur only in the construction of public spaces and the operation of work-
shops.



ANNEX 6-a
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
The Organization and Management System of PIDER
1.        Since 1974, Mexico has undertaken a progressive decentralization
of the PIDER program, a move which has worked well. In early 1977, the new
Government decentralized execution of most federal programs to the state
level, adapting much of the PIDER organizational structure in the process.
2.        In PIDER, the states now have full responsibility for programming
execution, supervision and financing. Programming, both long and short-term,
is carried out by the state coordinating committee. Execution of authorized
investments is the responsibility of the state offices of participating agen-
cies. Supervision of the program execution and disbursement of PIDER funds
are carried out by the PIDER technical group at the state level.
3.        At the federal level, the PIDER program is under the Secretariat
of Programming and Budgeting established in 1977 to replace the Secretariat
of Presidency. SPP is in charge of coordinating activities of all Govern-
ment agencies working in the rural sector and has final authority over their
investment and operating budgets. 1/ By 1977, some 2,700 agency professionals
were carrying out the PIDER program under the supervision of SPP.
4.        In 1977, SPP assigned one of its senior officers to each state
(Chart 2) with the job of coordinating all federal spending within the state.
This move represents a new dimension in decentralization of Government oper-
ations in Mexico, as this officer has considerable power to plan all federal
spending within his state, to re-allocated money without reference to Mexico
City, and to arrange payment at the state rather than at the federal level.
The officers are the highest ranking federal civil servant at the state
level and report directly to the SPP Minister in Mexico City. The new job
is an outgrowth of the success of the position of PIDER state coordinator
1/   Federal institutions participating at the federal and state levels
include: the Secretariats of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH),
Finance, Public Works (SOP), Health and Assistance (SSA), and Agrarian
Reform (SRA); Federal Electric Commission (CFE), National Corporation
for Basic Marketing (CONASUPO), Committee for Administration of the
Federal School Construction Program, National Arid Zones Commission,
National Indigenous Institute, National Institute for Rural Community
Development and Low Cost Housing, the National Rural Bank and the
Guarantee Loan Fund.



XTIM7Y 6-a
MEXICO                                       ~~~~~~Page 2
MEXICO                                                       CHART1
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER 11
PIDER ORGANIZATION CHART
PRESIDENT'S OFFICE
Ministry of Programming
and Budgeting-/
Deateto                            Department of                          Departrnent of
Drtheng                              Programming and  u        Iegionan Planning
Area                      StudrOperations                                  and Evaluation
l~~~~~~~~ l
Puli Inetet        O     *rtn   ot              Program for                        Center for Research
PulcDnepatment       Departmen ots             Rural Development               _    in Rural Development
Department   Department               {~PIDER)                               (CIDER)
|Group Director
Genera Coordinator
! { ~Programs|
Northern                     SP Spcial                 Authorization                  Southern
Area                         Studies      ,            ind Control     ,               Area
Z            ~~~~Z    Z 
/ Formerly Ministry of the Presidency
World Bank-16983



MEXICO                                                                           L?KEf 6-a
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II                                                                        page 2a
Federal &  State Organization  (Feb. 19771                                                             CI     T  2
Pres&d,nt's
Oftice
FEDERAL LEVEL                                  Ministry of Programming
arnid Budqetsrng (MPBI
Ceoartmenr of                                   Deparltmnent of                                Departm,,n, ai
F;eg.onal Plann,nq                              te8de                                          and Ope,at,ons
Pubc            Rec.rrent            Po| cl c
*nvestrnent      E'igend,rure         Economc          -                 2toerato"s
ivisisn Oifvisiotn                    Stua,es
|Normal           ~r 
t!2......................................  ....  ....    ........
SrATE Li-VE.
|  r3d3rCIrCCot -  i
i   2O 9a r  tl nr   |n *"^rig  rn t   r'  
iNorml 31. z|lcnr,cic3
Programs          SeC                          S.ejr,3        'Conv.risl
of Feceral        Progras                        Gruoo         Unci
ArgenciE!s                                   _A !oc -
LOCAL LEVEL
PIDER
Coorn' *xc      |
unl oal a  IdIlgt
WOrll   Ba l



ANNEX 6-a
Page 3
(described below), as it will vest in one man the job of overseeing execu-
tion for all federal programs in the state as the PIDER state coordinator
oversees all PIDER programs. The development should greatly assist the
coordination between PIDER and all other investment programs. In a number
of cases, PIDER coordinators have been promoted to the job of senior SPP
officer.
5.        An experiment is underway to give the senior SPP officer the auth-
ority to contract a variety of federally-funded works to private, federal, or
state contractors. This further step towards decentralization represents an
attempt to avoid delays which commonly occur when the federal agencies are
given the job of constructing roads, irrigation works, schools and health
facilities. The experiment is in the form of special agreements "convenios
unicos" between SPP and the states, which bestow on the SPP senior officer and
the Governor the authority to let the contracts. The contract would include
only the actual construction work; planning, detailed design and operation
would remain in the purview of the relevant agency.
6.        The PIDER program itself is organized at three levels.
A. Federal Level. PIDER policy is developed and coordinated
through the Directorate of Promotion and Regional Operations of the SPP. This
Directorate is supported by a Sub-Directorate of Rural Development (i.e.,
PIDER) with a staff of some 95 technicians responsible for: reviewing in-
vestment plans, management operations, and investment monitoring.
B. State Level. Coordination of the program is handled by a
Coordinating Committee consisting of the state level directors of the parti-
cipating agencies under the chairmanship of the state governor. Actual
management is the responsibility of the new state level SPP representative who
is the technical secretary of the State Committee. The SPP representative is
assisted by a technical secretariat of professionals including a state level
PIDER coordinator and resident Coordinators for each of the states' micro-
regions who work closely with local elected officials and community leaders.
C. Village/Ejido Level. Local participation in the planning and
execution of PIDER has progressed. It has been achieved through a variety
of schemes, depending on the political, social and administrative charac-
teristics of the micro-regions. As a rule, SRA field personnel take the
lead in organizing communities. The involvement of local authorities e.g.,
municipal chiefs, ejido presidents and teachers, is encouraged. In some



ANNEX 6-a
Page 4
cases, such individual programs as feeder roads and small irrigation works
have galvanized community action which can later be funneled into other
PIDER projects.
7.        This three-tier organization provides the overall structure to
carry out the various functions under the program. Experience to date indi-
cates that the system works satisfactorily and without undue inter-agency
friction. Responsibilities are adequately delineated between agencies. The
appointment by PIDER of resident State and --in some cases-- micro-region
staff provides a direct coordinating link to the PIDER central tier. In
particular, these micro-region staff provide PIDER and state-level staff with
a much more realistic assessment of ejido and village development preferences.
While the authority for selection of micro-regions and the approval of the
respective investment plans will remain at the central level, the responsi-
bility for plan preparation and coordination of the different agencies is
being taken over increasingly at the state level. The individual project
works are executed by the appropriate public agency, as determined by the
central coordinating committee and concurred in by the state committee.
Operation and maintenance, other than for larger works, will be the respon-
sibility of the benefiting communities. Project implementation will be
supervised at all three levels.
8.        Micro-Region Planning Procedures.  While initially, micro-region
development plans were drawn up by Federal level PIDER staff with the help
of state level technicians, now state level officials have taken over the
planning function, leaving only review revision and final approval of plans
to federal authorities. This shift represents an important gain in PIDER's
attempts to encourage local participation. The procedures show how communi-
ties determine their priority needs and present them to state and federal
level agencies and PIDER representatives. It should be noted that, as the
process evolves, most communities become increasingly aware of the role they
can play.
9.        Rural Development Departments in Federal Agencies.  Most of the
influential federal ministries and agencies (SAHOP, SARH, CONASUPO, CFE and
the Bank of Mexico) have substantially increased their capability to deal
with the rural poor. The Secretariat of Finance supplements the agencies'
traditional program budgets for new rural programs. Countrywide programs
have obtained IBRD or IDB funding for rural roads, irrigation and credit.
A better awareness of the needs of new clientele is also being fostered.
10.       Coordination at the Field Level.  Coordination at the municipal
and village levels is necessarily flexible. CONASUPO organizes its local
committees to handle store management, handicrafts and small industries.
Very often SRA sets out to concentrate on ejidos and later broadens its
activities to embrace private smallholders. In another instance, the labor-
intensive feeder road program of the Secretariat of Public Works may act as a
catalyst -- with formal local village committees simultaneously functioning
as contractors for construction labor and as counterparts for road mainte-
nance. The encouragement these broadening activities have given to other



ANNEX 6-a
Page 5
areas of village organization have been impressive. SARH operates programs for
small irrigation works on a similar organization basis. Prior to project in-
stallation a local consumers' association is formed. SARH and SRA then draw
up an agreement with the association, specifying: (a) works and services
the SARH will provide; (b) operation and maintenance conditions; (c) amount
of water to be used; and (d) charges covering operation and maintenance costs
and capital payment.
11.       Budgeting and Auditing Procedures.  In addition to the regular
annual budgetary allocation, each agency participating in the PIDER program
receives a separate allocation at the beginning of the fiscal year out of
PIDER's budget to carry out the agreed program of rural development in pre-
selected regions throughout the country. Separate accounts for the PIDER
program are kept by the Presidency, PIDER staff, the Secretariat of Finance
and each participating agency to ensure there is no overlap with the normal
budgetary program. In addition, the Secretariat of Finance keeps separate
accounts to cover the external financing of the program by the Bank and IDB.
Each participating agency has its own auditing section where all vouchers and
documents are checked and approved before payments are made. The accounts of
each agency are subject to independent auditing by the Secretariat of Finance,
the President's office and the Secretariat for National Patrimony.
12.       Budget Authorization.  Although Mexico's fiscal year coincides with
the calendar year, budgets are normally late and most agencies do not start
new investments before April of each year, while using the (dry) period from
January to March to complete last year's investments. The latter period shows,
therefore, normally only little investment activity. PIDER's management had
intended to change this situation, but up to now with little success. Budget
allocations in 1976 were still delayed until March. These delays resulted
in construction, land clearing, and pasture seeding activities starting in
the cropping season rather than in the dry period when labor is seasonally
unemployed. With labor short in the cropping season, machines have been used,
thus reducing local employment benefits. Moreover, pasture planting conditions
are inappropriate and production benefits are likewise reduced. Needed there-
fore is a change of authorization procedures to allow full-scale investment
activities in the January-March slack period.
13.       Monitoring.  To ensure that expenditures are actually carried out
as programmed and approved, separate supervision and authorization/control
divisions are established within PIDER. The supervision division is divided
into seven zones, the authorization/control group into an authorization and
control and statistics section. The supervision division staff spend con-
siderable time in the field, especially in checking expenditures against
estimates.
14.       Early in 1976, several improvements were made in PIDER's organiza-
tion and management. At PIDER headquarters, a reorganization was implemented
in March 1976, which has led to an improved integration of the planning/pro-
gramming and supervisory functions. The new organizational structure has two
regional Departments, North and South, which combine the former Departments



ANNEX 6-a
Page 6
of Studies and Supervision. In addition, a small Planning Department is
resporsible for overall planning of PIDER and an Authorization and Control
Department is in charge of budgeting, budget control and monitoring. Under
the Deputy Nlanager (Coordinator), special units were established for the
IDB and IBRD projects and for the new extension program.
15.       The system described has worked satisfactorily and without undue
inter-agency friction. There are, however, areas that require improvement.
16.       Functional Staffing.  The total number of staff in PIDER headquarters
has now reached 100, with 45 supervisors in the Regional Departments and 55
Administrative/managerial staff. An attempt has been made to form inter-dis-
ciplinary teams for each of the sub-regions, but the teams comprise mainly
civil engineers and economists. PIDER has been short of functional expertise
in agriculture and rural industries. This would not be serious if PIDER's
role could be limited to overall micro-region programming, supervision, and
monitoring. However, experience during PIDER's existence indicates that such
a role is too limited.
17.       PIDER involvement in the review of rural development policies and
investment criteria of the line agencies, particularly the weaker ones, is
unavoidable. PIDER's management has recognized this and taken action in
early 1977. A Special Studies division (Chart 2) was organized to provide
PIDER with capability to review functionally agency programs. This new divi-
sion is organized in two sections: services (extension credit, land reform)
and infrastructure (irrigation, roads, etc.). It has taken the lead in devel-
oping "agreements" with extension credit and the land reform agency.
18.       Need for Resident PIDER Managers in Micro-Regions.  There are
resident PIDER coordinators in only 15% of PIDER micro-regions while in
the other 85% the coordinator lives in the State Capital and periodically
visits the regions. Those micro-regions with resident coordinators have
better records both in coordination of investments and of operations since
the coordinators take the initiative in adivising on re-programming, in
generating local understanding of the PIDER approach, and in insisting on
proper operation and maintenance of completed investments. The resident
PIDER manager in effect has become a fairly effective locally based change
agent whereas those not resident and only visiting the micro-regions normally
only perform investment monitoring functions.
19.       M-anuals and Training.  Much progress has been made in the develop-
ment of manuals for PIDER staff at the federal and state level, describing
procedures, and explaining how the PIDER system works. A first draft has now
been completed and will be circulated among all staff after revision. The
operations manual in particular contains a wealth of information which makes
it an important training tool. Other activities related to staff training
have been limited to two recent seminars for vocales, the state-level PIDER
managers. The seminars clearly showed the need for more frequent contacts
among these functionaries. A necessary next step is more systematic training
of state-level supervisors, who have a key role in PIDER but are too often



ANNEX 6-a
Page 7
unaware of all that is expected from them and how to carry out their tasks.
Both vocales and supervisors did participate in regional meetings organized
by CIDER in late 1976. CIDER and PIDER had a number of meetings in early
1977 to develop a joint training program. An agreed program is expected in
March/April 1977.
20.       Operation.  One of the areas that requires increased PIDER involve-
ment is the operation and maintenance of investments once completed. Several
of the agencies participating in PIDER have poor records in the functioning
of capital investments after they have been turned over to beneficiaries as
a result of these agencies' inadequate technical assistance and supervision.
Several cases have surfaced already of PIDER-financed investments which are
not effectively used by beneficiaries. It will be necessary for PIDER to
take an active role in changing this situation through pressures on the
agencies and continued supervision after investment completion. This task
will require additional expertise at both headquarters and State level,
particularly in agriculture. Some State-level PIDER groups, such as in
Morelos, have already taken the initiative to restructure their staffing.
The appointment of considerably more resident managers should also greatly
assist in improving operations.



ANNEX 6-b
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
The Evaluation System of CIDER
Evaluation
1.        The Center for Rural Development Research (CIDER) is charged
with evaluating the impact of current rural development programs. Its
principal focus is on PIDER, though it has undertaken studies of related
programs. In addition to evaluation, CIDER is involved in devising an
improved investment programming methodology, in undertaking various re-
search efforts, and in training - principally of PIDER field staff. CIDER
has made significant progress in micro-region evaluations and in improving
micro-region programming methodology. Research has recently been expanded,
while training will start only in 1977. CIDER's professional staff now
numbers 26; their distribution by discipline and area of activity is in
Table 1. PIDER's rapid expansion and CIDER's involvement in reprogramming
has left CIDER short of staff and a further expansion will be required.
2.        CIDER's interest is to determine the real benefit to rural com-
munities from rural development efforts and to derive strategies and pro-
grams such that these communities can be involved in their own development.
Ufost evaluations in the rural development field focus on measurements of
yield and income changes, CIDER however gives particular attention to analyz-
ing administrative and sociological aspects. CIDER is particularly concerned
with determining what structural changes are required for programs to result
in self-sustaining growth. Two issues central to CIDER evaluations generally
neglected in other evaluation exercises are: (i) the effectiveness of insti-
tution building under the PIDER investment and service strategy; and (ii) the
degree and quality of villager participation in the programming and execution
of the investment program.
3.        Evaluations.  Evaluation studies are of two kinds, operational
evaluations concentrate mainly on programming methodology and consistency
and on general performance by the Agencies. Long-term evaluations include,
in addition, case studies of selected communities aimed at assessing program
benefits. Evaluations of seven micro-regions have been completed thus far:
three operational (Rio Sonora; Baja California Norte and Sur) and four long-
term evaluations (Dolores Hidalgo, Guanajuato; Sur de Yucatan; Chiapas,
Chiapas; and Zacapoaxtla, Puebla).
4.        Main findings of the short-term evaluations were that more attention
should be given under the PIDER program to:



ANNEX 6-b
Page 2
a.   coordination of investment proposals at both planning
and implementation stage in terms of type of invest-
ments, beneficiaries, and timing;
b.   continuity over time of investments in individual
communities; and
c.   grassroot participation in investment decision.
CIDER noted also that federal agencies are now for the first time participat-
ing in a countrywide, integrated development program, which has brought up
issues which were not previously considered by any individual agency.
Examples of PIDER- induced changes in participating agencies are: improved
interagency coordination; improved coordination within agencies, with SAG
as a clear example; and more effective programming, budgeting, monitoring,
and control systems which have affected internal procedures of several
participating agencies.
5.        Programming.  Above findings have led CIDER to increase its efforts
in improving PIDER's programming methodology. A more systematic methodology
has now been developed which:
a.   makes better use of PIDER and agency field staff;
b.   provides a more comprehensive approach; and
c.   facilitates annual reprogramming as part of budget preparation.
The principal changes recommended in the programming process are: (i) in-
creased time - from the normal one month to a recommended five months for
the initial re-programming; (ii) increased participation of PIDER and agency
lined staff - and a major reduction in the use of visiting PIDER and agency
teams from Mexico City; (iii) increased participation of and consultation
with the peasants - not only in the initial diagnosis and programming, but
in the execution of the programs as well; (iv) increased analysis of specific
investments - in terms of viability, particularly markets; and (v) greater
attention to program balance - investment phasing has been uneven, investments
have been concentrated among relatively few beneficiaries, and complementary
activities are often not taken into account. This improved methodology is now
being tested in Baja California Sur, Oriente de Morelos and in the State of
Chiapas.
6.        Research.  CIDER's ongoing research activities include:
a.   State-level institutional organization for rural develop-
ment;
b.   agricultural policy related to rural development;



ANNEX 6-b
Page 3
c.   agricultural education; and
d.   agro industry.
In addition, several agencies besides PIDER have requested CIDER to develop
operational models for their activities, including SRA and the Rural Credit
Bank.
7.        Training.  CIDER's training work program which included was not
undertaken because of staff constraints. CIDER now hopes to implement that
program in 1977. Training activities were begun, however, through meetings
organized jointly with PIDER of PIDER field staff. A first meeting was held
in mid-1976 in Mexico City for State Directors (Vocales Ejecutivos) which
provided the first real opportunity for field staff to discuss among each
other their common problems, recommendations for solutions, and to present
their collective views to PIDER and Presidencia managements. A series of
regional-level meetings were then organized for field directors and staff
to discuss in detail the various issues raised at the prior meeting, and to
determine a pragmatic re-programming strategy for 1977.  This "pragmatic"
re-programming was to combine CIDER findings with particular regional poli-
tical and administrative realities. Subsequently, a second national level
meeting was held. Bank supervision missions have continually recommended
the holding of both the national and regional level meetings as a major
form of in-service training for PIDER staff.
Impact
8.        The relatively short period during which PIDER is functioning does
not allow a firm judgement on impact, particularly with regard to output and
income levels of PIDER beneficiaries. However, CIDER evaluations and mission
observations both indicate a clearly noticeable development impact. More
general indications include:
a.   In beneficiary-communities, a fundamental basis is -
often for the first time - created for peasant organ-
ization, conscious self-management and local initiative
in exploring available resources. Many farmers, inter-
viewed in the field, are aware of their opportunities
and seem ready to explore them.
b.   The creation of temporary employment through public
infrastructure investments has reduced rural under-
employment had has, in several regions, like Yucatan,
increased actual rural wages to official minimum-wage
levels.
c.   The combination of temporary employment and higher
expectations has reduced seasonal outmigration in
several micro-regions.



ANNEX 6-b
Page 4
d.   Various examples were noted of direct impact on incomes
from feeder road investments, particulary when com-
bined with organized marketing. In Zacapoaxtla, unit
prices received by one group of farmers were 220%
higher than the middleman's offer in the first year
and the quantity marketed increased by 400% during the
second year. In Cosala-Elota, the construction of a
penetration road increased the producer's price for
corn by 65% and for cattle by 80%.
e.   Significant, though still tentative, yield increases
have taken place in those regions where the PRONDAAT
extension scheme is operating. In those regions,
actual increases in small-farmer yields and incomes
appear in line with or in excess of appraisal estimates.
f.   Lastly, CIDER has noted that often it is the more
prosperous farmers who tend to first benefit from
PIDER investments. This reflects the lack of real
grassroots participation in investment programming
and implementation; it also reflects executing agency
bias.
9.        Most information regarding PIDER's impact is still impressionistic
or referring to single cases. This is mainly caused by the short existence
of PIDER. In addition, it is caused by CIDER's insufficient quantification
in its evaluation reports and its inadequate attention to financial and
economic analysis. CIDER should also expand its activities to include:
(i) micro-regiGn marketing structures and their implications for the target
commnities; (ii) a more systematic treatment of variables such as prices,
imputed labor costs, and specific investment benefits. In addition there
should be a greater interchange of field experiences with PRONDAAT.



ANNEX, 6-b
Table 1
C I D E R
PROFESSIONAL STAFF
1976-
Evaluation
Discipline           Repro-        Short    Evaluation   Research   Training   Total
gramming    Evaluation  /Research
Agronomists             2             1           3           3*1                    9
Economists              1             1           2           2-                     6
Anthropologists         1                         1           1                      3
Sociologists                          2*          1*          1*                     4
Lawyers                                                       1*                     1
Teachers                                                      l**          1*        2
Agric. Eng.                                                   1*                     1
TOTAL                   4            4    |       7          10            1        26
* PhD
h MSc
*1 2PhD



ANNEX 7-a
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Cost Estimates and Investment Phasing
1.        Project cost estimates (Table 1) are based on detailed plans for
the proposed 20 micro-regions. These plans were reprogrammed during the
first half of calendar year 1976 and cover estimated expenditures over a
four-year period. As the PIDER II project was appraised before the period of
major monetary adjustment in Mexico (September-November 1976), base line
project costs were increased by 30% for the estimated inflation between
mid-1976 and April 1977.
2.        To these adjusted base line costs were applied 10% physical con-
tingencies for all items except credit. Further, expected international
price contingencies were added at the rate of 10%, 9% and 8% for the project
investment period. In using these price contingency estimates, the as-
sumption for internationally traded goods is that over the project disburse-
ment period the peso/dollar exchange rate would broadly adjust itself to the
difference between domestic and international inflation. To the extent the
exchange rate would not be allowed to adjust to possible differential infla-
tion rates, these price contingency estimates would not be correct. Indica-
tions are that the peso would be allowed to float freely in response to market
forces. For non-traded goods, the assumption is that local price increases
will be in line with internationally traded goods.
3.        Unit Cost Estimates.  PIDER supports a wide variety of projects
in different sectors and in fairly isolated areas. There has been unit cost
variation for similar projects in different parts of the country. Some part
of this variation is due to differing wages; other differences are related
to problems of access and non-availability of suitable local supplies of
wood and crushed rock; yet others to difficulty in terrain (road building
in mountainous areas). PIDER's monitoring work has derived both national
and regional unit cost estimates for the principal works and services sup-
ported under the project. (Table 2 provides data on national averages;
each sector annex provides unit cost data.)



ANNFX 7-a
MEX I('
RHIRAL DEVELOil:ME  irROJECT - PIDEH  1i
COSt     I EiLr% IS AND I  F:ST''NI 11MAy1SIN. (lexs  ili lons)
Base-Line      Labor/
Cost      Material   _           roject Years
(')       Cost (0,)        1           2           3           Total
1.  Directly P'rod',ctive                                70                        858.2      909.4        800.2       2,567.8
A.  lnfrastrr,cture, total                           34                       429.8       454.6       345.7       1,230.1
Irrigatioi:                                   1                          177.2      239.1        170.2         586.5
Lat'or                                                     30           53.2        71.7        51.1          17.u.0
MIatterials, equip. & other                                70          124.0       167.4       119.1         410.5
Soil & H;atLr Conser-atioa,:                    5                          75.3        59.5       45.2          180.0
Labor                                                      75           5t-.5       44.u        33.9         135.0
materi;,ls, equip. & other                                 25           18.8        14.9        11.3           45.0
Livustock:                                      S                        114.0       101.7         88.7         304.4
Labor                                                      20           22.8        20.3        17.7           60.9
Materials, equip. & otl.er                                 80           91.2        81.4        71.0         243.5
FrkiC, (orest:v & FisLeries:                    4                         63.3        54.3        41.6          159.2
Labor                                                      30           19.0        1,.3        12.5          47.8
Materials, equip. & other                                  70           44.3        38.0        29.1         111.4
B.  Develouwnt Credit:                              24                         275.0      295.0       295.0          865.0
Labor                                                      15           41.3        44.3        44.3         129.9
rWaterials, equip. & other                                 85          213.7       250.7       2O.7         735.1
C.  Rural Industry:                                  7                         80.8        80.8        80.8         242.4
Labor                                                      20           16.2        16.2        16.2          48.6
Materials, equip. & othev                                  80           64.6        64.6        64.6         193.8
D.  Incremental Production Credit:                   6                         72.6        78.7        78.7         230.0
Labor                                                      20           14.5        15.7        15.7          45.9
Other                                                      80           58.1        63.0        63.0         184.1
1,.  Productive Support                                   20                        292.7       249.4       202.2         744.3
Feeder Roads:                                   7                        128.4        91.9        54.1          274.4
Labor                                                      70           89.9        64.3        37.7         191.9
Materials, equip. & other                                  30           38.5        27.6        16.4           82.5
Rural Electrification:                          3                         47.8        45.8        32.1          125.7
Labor                                                      20            9.6         9.2         6.4          25.2
Materials, equ,ip. & other                                 80           38.2        36.6        25.7         100.5
Farmers' organization:                          3                          31.8       31.7        31.7           95.2
Staff                                                      80           25.5        25.4        25.4          76.3
Materials, equip. & other                                  20            6.3         6.3         6.3          18.9
Extension & Field Demonstration:                5                          61.6       55.9        55.8          173.3
Staff                                                      80           49.3        44.7        44.6         138.6
Equip. & vehiicles                                         20           12.3        11.2        11.2          34.7
Rural M4arketing:                               0                           7.1         4.1         2.5          13.7
Labor                                                      10            0.7         0.4         0.3           1.4
Miaterials, equip. & other                                 90            6.4         3.7         2.2          12.3
Feasibility Studies:                            2                          16.0       20.0        26.0          62.0
Labor                                                      80           12.8        16.0        20.8          49.6
Materials, equip. & otFer                                  20            3.2        4.0          5.2          12.4
li.  Social Infrastructure                                 9                        155.3       103.3        79.0         337.6
Education:                                      2                          39.6       29.9        21.9          91.4
Labor                                                      30           11.9         9.0         6.6          27.4
Materials, equip. & other                                  70           27.7        20.9        15.3          64.0
Rural Water Supply:                             5                         87.4        55.5        35.9         178.8
Labor                                                      40           35.0        22.2        14.4          71.6
Materials, equip. I, cther                                 60           52.4        33.3        21.5         107.2
Sclf-HeJp llaterials                            2                         28.3        17.9        21.2          67.4
IV. EvaluaLion
Evaluation, Monitoring & Trainfng               0                           5.8        5.8         5.8          17.4
Staff                                                      80            4.6         4.6        4.6           13.8
Materials, eqa,ip. & other               .                 20            1.2         1.2         1.2           3.6
V.  Total Base-Line Cost (June '76 prices)             100                      1,312.0    1,267.6    1,087.2         3,666.8
Labor                                                     36.5         478.9       462.7      396.8       1,338.4
Materiula, equip. & other                                 63.5         833.1      804.9       690.4       2,328.4
VI.  Pcvised P-tse-!icr usta  (Adjusted  for                                      1,705.6    1,647.9    1,413.4        4,766.9
price  iecrr:cs-  frur, July '76-Aspril
'77) (3(7)
5I;S,) in  .. nIl   ?S                                                       75.8        73.2       62.8         211.9
VIJ.  Cont ia.nuauics
A.  1PIyDic.l (10z)                                                             5.0         4.'         3.5          13.1
R.  Price (10,, 9S, 83,)                                                       4.]        10.7       15.1           29.9
Vljl.  T.r:,I in 1'S.,                                                                  84.9      86.6         81.4         255.0



ANNEX 7-a
Table 2
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Unit Cost Estimates
Mex$12.5 = US$1 (1974)
Mex$20   = Us$1 (1976)
-- -----National Averages---------
Category               Unit           PIDER I (1974)        PIDER II (June 1976)
Leg        US$           Mex$          US$
1.  Rural Roads          Km               85,000      6,800         135,000      6,750
Range                                                    70,000-270,000
2.  Electrification      Person             1,062        85           1,134          57
Range                                                          500-1,500
3.  Water Supply         Person               937        75             890          45
Range                                                          60o*1., 500
4.  Schools              Classroom         62,500     5,000          80,000      4,000
Range                                                    45,000-116,000
5.  Irrigation           Ha                15,000     1,200          18,700         940
Range                                                     7,500-55,000
6.  Soil Conservation   Ha                 13,000       104           2,000        100
Range                                                        900 - 4,500
7.  Fruit Tree Estab.   Ha                 8,125        650          15,900        795
Range                                                     7,000 -27,000
8.  Beef Cattle Unit    Animal Unit                                   4,400        220
Infrastruct.
Unit     325,000    26,000
Range                                                      2,800- 6,600
9.  Extension Service   Extension        156,000    12,500
Person/annum
10.  Land Reform Serv.   Land Reform      100,000      8,000
Person/annum



ANNEX 7-a
Appendix 1
Page 1
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
1.     The costs estimates and investment phasing shown in Annex 7-a, Table 1
are the summation of the twenty individual micro-region programs. Table 1 of
this appendix shows the phasing of investments by micro-region 1/. Tables
2, 3, and 4 show individual micro-region programs for three of the twenty
micro-regions-- Soto La Marina, Tam., Centro, Yuc., and Huasteca, Hdgo.--
to be supported under this project.
2.     The cost estimates showm in this appendix are for mid-1976. In
estimating total project cost it was assumed that there was an average
inflation of 30% on all project costs between mid-1976 and Avril 1977.
Thus to obtain the April, 1977 estimated costs, each figure would have
to be increased by 30%. To then obtain the dollar equivalent amount, the
exchange rate of MIex$ 22.5/US$i was used.
1/ Excluding credit, rural industries, feasibility studies, and evaluation.
Credit and rural industries requirements were made pn the basis of PIDER I
experience, FIRA experience, and mission estimates. Evaluation estimates are
from CIDER, the evaluation agency. Feasibility study estimates were estimated
globally at Mex$4 million per micro-region.



ANNEX 7-a
Appendix 1
Table 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
INVESTMENTS PROGRAMMED - BY MICRO-REGION
(Mex$ millions)
YEARS
MICRO-REGION                         1          2          3         TOTAL
1.  Litoral Oeste, Yuc.                 44.8       34.2       18.9         97.9
2.  Centro de Yucatan                   31.2       27.9       20.0         79.1
3.  Norte de Quintana Roo               47.9       47.8       43.9        139.6
4.  Sierra de Tabasco                   44.3       35.4       25.2        104.9
5.  Parras, Coah.                       27.1       25.8       24.7         77.6
6.  Ramos Arizpe, Coah.                 66.6       43.2          -        109.8
7.  General Trias-Satevo, Chih.         28.4       23.4       19.8         71.6
8.  Francisco Sarabia, Dgo.             31.7       35.2       17.6         84.5
9.  Soto la Marina, Tam.                29.4       43.9       39.5        112.8
10.  Calvillo-Jesus Maria, Ags.          57.5       54.1       34.5        146.1
11.  Sombrerete, Zac.                    42.9       34.2       36.2        113.3
12.  Cihuatlan, Jal.                     78.1       32.8       39.5        150.4
13.  Vallarta, Jal.                      74.6      104.1       51.4        230.1
14.  Tlaxcala Norte, Tlx.                34.8       35.1       40.6        110.5
15.  Tlaxcala Sur, Tlx.                  17.9       13.8       17.7         49.4
16.  Huasteca, Hdgo.                     34.1       22.9        2.4         59.4
17.  Izucar de Matamaros, Puc.           79.3       51.5       41.1        171.9
18.  Amuzgos, Gro.                       23.1       25.6       25.2         73.9
19.  Amealco, Qro.                       40.1       55.9       53.3        149.3
20.  Mazahua, Mex.                       30.6       40.8       47.9        118.3
TOTAL PROGRAMMED!'                 864.4      787.6     599.4      2,251.4
US$ Equivalent (Millions)
(Mex$22.5/US$1)                     38.4      35.0       26.6        100.0
1/ Excluding Credit, Rural Industries, Feasibility Studies, Evaluation.



imtUAL l)E'VEL.OP'MENTI l'((11Et.lT - PDL) It I 
tIVESAL TMENio P'ROGRAM _('0[00 l)LSS)
llUASTECA, IID(:O.
yTotal     Total    Unit               Year 1                 Year 2                   Year 3
Category                       hJiit           _)i ts      CosL    Cost        lNo. tIniits _Cost      No. Units_  Cost        No. _Units  _C(ost
Productive
Irrigation                   ha                  1,098       8,945      8.1            418     4,675        680        4,270           -          -
Fltiit Developimeit 
Orcliards                  ha                    185       1,247      6.7            185       , 247         -            -                     _
Teclknical Assistance                                      1,189                               481                      354                   354
Snb-total                                              11,381                              6,403                   4,624                    354
Agricultural Extensionl/                                     2,689                              1,053                     818                    818
Land Ueforij/                                                4,122                             1, (80                  1,221                   1,221
Marketing                                                     132            I                   132                       _
Feeder Roads                 Kin                   120.8   23,220   192.2               32.8  10,110         88       13,110            _         _
Electrification               beneficiaries      5,652       3,090      0.5          5,652     3,090           -                                  _
Suib-total                                             33,253                             16,065                  15,149                  2,039
Social
Drinking Water               beneficiaries    12,741         5,480      o.4         12,741     5,480           -            -
Education                    classrooms             87       5,625    64.7              41     2,515         46        3,110
Self-Hlelp                   beneficiaries       6,638       3,608     0.5          6,638      3,608           -            _
Sub-total                                              14,713                             11,603                   3,110
TOTAL INVESTMENT                                            59,347                            34,071                  22,883                  2,393
rm :3 >4
_ . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sr, ~
1/  2 professionals; 6 para-professionals; pljs stpport.
2/ 5 professionals; 6 para-professionals; pltis support.



MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJ ECT - Pl  K 11
INVESTMENT PROGRAM_(i' PESOS)
Category                       Unit           Total         'Iotatl a   o sit              Y,a r I           N      Ynitsr 2          N      Y .nitr 3
Units        Cost       Cost          No. UinitS    Co,~t     N..I     s      CSt"iLs                 CS
Productive
Irrigation                     ha                 1,275        21,300         16.7             -          700         930       9,950          345      10,650
Soil Conservation              ha                 2,900         9,472          3.3        1,100         3,543       1,200       4,199          600       1,730
Livestock
Beef Units                  160 head               12        25,877     2,156.4             4        8,62,            4       8,625            4       8,62b
Forage Improvement           silos                318           988          3.1          106          462          106          263         106         263
A. 1. Programii                                                  585                                                                                      585
Wells                        No. wells             12         2,276        189.7            4           681           4          880           4          715
Fruit Development
Orchards                     ha                   115         1,416         12.3           45           583          40          510          30         323
Technical Assistance                                            537                                     233                      152                      152
Beekeeping
Units                        60 hives              26         1,274        47.1            12           565          14          659           -           50
Technical Assistance                                            390                                     157                      117                      116
Rural industries               factories              1          1,539    1,539                             -                    1,539
Sub-total                                                  65,654                                 15,550                   26,894                   23,210
Suvport ive
Agricultural Extension!l                                        4,429                                   1,712                    1,392                    1,325
Land Refortisl                                                  4,088                                   1,716                    1,186                    1,186
Marketing
Tiendas                     No.                    14           420         30              6           180           8          240           -            -
Bodegas                     No.                     2         1,668       834               -           260           1          704           1         704
Feeder Roads                   Km                   145.7      11,876         81.5           28.1       2,524          62        5,109          55.6    4,243
Electrificationi               beneficiaries      8,307        16,100          1.9        3,243         3,845       2,146        5,76n       2,918        6,495
Sub-total                                                  38,581                                 10,237                   14,391                   13,953
Social
Drinking Water                 beneficiaries    4,304           3,332          0.8        1,081         1,332       2,103          600       1,120        1,400
Edocation                      classrooms            20          1,825        91.3            10          900            7         640            3         285
Self-lhelp                     beneficiaries      5,343         3,424          0.(6       2,293         1,370       2,153        1,371         897          683
Sob-total                                                   8,581                                  3,bO2                    2,bIl                    2,3b8
TOTAI INVESTMENT                                             112,816                                  29,389                  43,896                    39,531       ,_
=s==_=====;_s==s                         ====c==              ~         ~       ~~~~~~~I =========_=  
1/ 6 professionals; 9 para-professionals; plus support.
2/ 7 professionals; 3 para-prouessionals; plus support.



MEX ICO
RtRAI DEVIE.OPMENT PROJECI - PIDIEIR If
INVESIMENI PROGRAM _'000 I'ESOS)
CENTRO DE _YUATAN_yUCk1AN
Category                       Unit            Total       Total       Unit               Year I                  Year 2                   Yc.ir 3
_Units       Cost      Cost        No-. Units    Cost       No. UInitLS    Cost      No. Units    Cost
Productive
Irrigation                     ha                      50       1,4h6      29.3              _55 1                   30          861         20           550
Livestock
Beef Units                   227 A.U                 10       7,852    785.2               4       3,141            4       3,141           2        1,570
IUealth Services                                              1,370                                  404                       312                      654
Fruit Development              ha                     744      20,601      27.7            408      10,044          188       6,168  I      148        4,389
Beekeeping                     100 hives               15       1,014      67.6              6          406            5         338          4           270
Sub-total                                                 32,303                                14,050                   10,820                    7,433
Supportive
Agricultural Extensionl/                                       10,025                                 3,637 |                  3,122                    3,266
Land ReformY|                                                   5,276                                2,046                    1,615                    1,615
Feeder Roads                   Km|                     62       5,455      88               16       1,400           29       2,525          17        1,530
Electrification                beneficiaries        5,326       5,407        1           1,792       1,913        2,356        2,086      1,178         1,408
Sub-total                                                 26,163                                 8,996                    9,348                    7,819
Social
Drinking Water                 beneficiaries       16,536      10,366       0.6          6,749       4,124        5,208       4,559       4,579         1,683
Education                      classrooms              71       4,700      66.2             37       2,330           20        1,080         14         1,290
Self-llelp                     beneficiaries      15,159        5,572       0.4          4,959       1,674        5,040       2,139       5,160         1,759
Sub-total                                                 20,638                                 8,128                    7,778                    4,732
IOTAL INVESTMENT                                              79,104                               31,174                   27,946                   19,984
>
================     ======                                ======                   ======                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fD D&
___   _____   4__._________  _- - r
1/  6 professionals; 22 para-professionals; pluis support.
./  9 professionals; i p. ra-professiotias1; PilIs support.



Annex 7 - b
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPNMT PROJECT - PIDER II
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year and Quarter                                       at End of Quarter
US$1000
1977/78
Septenber 30, 1977
December 31, 1977
March 31, 1978
June 30, 1978                                                      7,000
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                               14,000
December 31, 1978                                                 21,000
March 31, 1979                                                    27,000
June 30, 1979                                                    3h,000
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                               46,000
December 31, 1979                                                58 ,000
March 31, 1980                                                   70 ,000
June 30, 1980                                                    82,000
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                               9L ,000
December 31, 1980                                               156 ,000
March 31, 1981                                                  118 ,000
June 30, 1981                                                   120 ,000
Source: mission estimates
February 1977



AN7lia 7 ->
Page 
M2XI CC
MURA L        0LOPMST FROJSECT - PEI"r  Tl
CCOST REDCOVERY ANID FISCAL BURDEN
General
1.        Government's policy on cost recovery is based on budgetary criteria
and also takes into account the extent to which private benefits are identi-
fiable and beneficiaries have the capacity to repay.  Thus, while Government
would aim at substantial recovery of most directly productive investments,
repayment rates would depend on the income levels of beneficiaries. Since
the benefits of this project would go to the rural poor, who will need part
of the project-related incremental income to meet subsistence needs, it is
estimated that 61% of directly productive activities would be recovered, with
all costs of maintaining these investments borne by the beneficiaries.  Further,
6% of productive support services and 11% of the cost of social infrastructure
would be recovered (Tables 1 and 2).    Government would recover a total
amount    U3$99 million cf original investments, or 39% of project costs, leaving
an initial fiscal impact of US$156 million, excluding interest.  The cost of
maintaining and operating directly productive infrastructure would be borne
fully by beneficiaries.  They would also be charged with the full operating
costs for marketing, electricity, drinking water and self-help projects, and
would contribute to education.  At full development, the additional fiscal
burden for Government would be US$8 million per annum, a small part of which
(10%) would be offset through additional tax revenues as a result of incremental
producticn and income from the project.
2.        In PIDER II, the expansion of the development credit component and
the inclusion of rural industries will increase the proportion of the Project
investment recovered frcm the beneficiaries.  It was anticipated under PIDER
I that repayment requirements would be based on "detailed socio-economic
studies" of the beneficiaries "post-project net income situation," but due
to administrative complexities, a more straightforward approach to cost recovery
is being applied.
3.        Cost recovery would thus be limited to:  (i) productive, direct
income-producing investments (credit, livestock, irrigation, fisheries, etc.);
and (ii) investments with identifiable private benefits such as electricity.
For public-goods-type investments (such as roads, soil conservation, schools,
etc.), cost recovery.would be limited to the supply of sites and local construc-
tion materials.



ANNEX 7-c
Page 2
For productive investments:  (i) cost recovery and/or cost con-
tribution rules would be agreed upon with beneficiaries prior to construction;
and (ii) beneficiaries would be able to defray their repayment obligations,
through labor and material contributicns. The prccedures for cost recovery
are set forth below.
Investment Costs (see Table 1)
5.        Irrigation.  The Government requires an initial cash, labor or kind
contribution of about 10% of the project investment cost, with an additional
amount to be recovered as shall be reasonable taking into account the ability
of the beneficiaries to pay.
6.        Fruit Productian.  CONAFRUIT enters into agreements with groups of
beneficiaries committing them to contribute to the original investment.  This
contribution is mainly labor for land preparation and fruit tree planting.
7.        Livestock Infrastructure.  Groups of beneficiaries would be committed
in principle in their contract with SARH to repay original investments in the
on-farm commercial-scale demonstration units. However, some 30% of the
expected beneficiaries have before-project family incomes under US$375 per
annum; another 40% have incomes between US$375 and US$h75. In these cases
investment repayment would be tied to the relative success of the specific
investments. On average, it is estimated that about 50% would be recovered.
8.        Soil and Water Conservation.  The *xican Government considers
conservation of soil and water of national interest and its policy is not to
charge beneficiaries for the initial investment.
9.        Beekeeping.  INI enters into contracts with groups of beneficiaries
obliging them to repay the costs of the initial investment. This is normally
done by beneficiaries repaying with incremental hives generated from the
initial pilot units. Since beekeeping provides additional cash income and has
a high rate of return, a 100% recovery is feasible. This INI procedure
of repayment in kind has worked well.
10.       Credit.  Current terms and conditions are 3 to 5 years at 9.5%
to 11.0% for development credit and up to one year at 14.0% for seasonal
production credit. Credit would be provided through public and private
banks under technical and financial supervision by FONDO. Repayment of
interest and principal from small farmers has been running at 95%.
11.       Productive Support.  Investments in feeder roads, extension and
field demonstration, and fa=iier organization are not recovered from bene-
ficiaries. For marketing, however, CONASUPO is expected to enter amortization
over 15 years. The community provides the site and a building for remodelling
into a rural store.



ANiAUX (-c
Page 3
12.       Other Infrastructure.  Government does not recover its capital
investments in water supply, primary education and self-help projects.
However, the benefitting comrrmunities participate in these investments by
providirg sites and -to the extent possible- labor and local materials.
In primary education, this ccntribution amounts on the average to 15% of
the financial cost. For self-help projects, all local labor and materials
are provided by the community; the project would only provide supervisory
power and materials that are not available locally.  For electrification
and drinking water, cost recovery is arranged as follows:
(i) Electrification. Upon installaticn, beneficiaries provide
a cash contribution to the investment cost of the system.
Further, individual families pay all costs of internal house-
hold wiring. The remainder of system costs are recovered
through electricity charges.
(ii)  DrinkinR Water.  SAHOP requires beneficiaries to contribute
at leasot15%of the construction cost of the system, either
in labor and local materials or in cash. Beneficiaries'
cash payments, which have been included in the project cost,
are estimated at one-fifth of their contribution, or about
5% of the amount included in the project for water supply.
Contributions in kind and the costs of house connections,
which are installed at tho expense of the individual families,
are not included in the project.
(Ai)  Project Administration.  The costs of tec1hnical services would
be borne by Government without recovery.
Operation and Maintenance Costs-/ (see Table 2)
13.       Livestock Infrastructure.  Under their contracts with SARH, benefi-
e-iaries are obligated to maintain the infrastructure according to SARH's
guidelines and under supervision of the regional SARH conservation staff.
1X.       Irrigation.  SARII would ensure a 100% contribution to operation and
maintenance by beneficiaries. In the past, SRH took full responsibility
fcr both operation and maintenance of its systems, and recovered all costs
from the users associations through water charges. SAG left this to the
local water committees, which maintained their system at their own expense,
under SAG supervision. SARH policy is not yet defined.
1/  For directly productive investments, only maintenance costs have been
estimated, since beneficiaries are fully responsible for their use.



ANNEX 7-c
Page 4
15.       Soil and Water Conservation.  Maintenance of the conservation
works constructed under the project is carried out by the ejido/village
conservation association under SARH supervision.  The obligation of bene-
ficiaries to maintain those works would be spelled out in their agreement
with SARH.
16.       Beekeeping, Forestry, Fishery.  For all three components, the
groups of beneficiaries would be obligated under their agreement with SARH
to maintain these investments. Maintenance would be carried out by bene-
ficiaries under SARH supervision.
17.       Feeder Roads.  Road maintenance is the responsibility of SAHOP
Wnr.icn finances this from its regular budget without recovery from bene-
-'iciaries.
IC.       Extension and Field Demonstration.  After the initial intensive
effort to introduce improved technical practices and to ensure proper use
cf the productive investments, SARH extension and field demonstration
staff would be reduced. Their salaries and other operating expenses would be
financed from SARM's regular budget without recovery from beneficiaries.
27.      Farmer Organization.  Once the basic village/ejido organizations
are set up and operating, SRA's community development brigades would be
reduced to an average size of two agents per micro-region. Their salaries
ard other operating expenses would be financed from 2RA's regular budget
without recvery.
Marketing.  Naintenance and operating expenses, amounting to
U2@3 ,30O per rural store and US$20,000 per rural warehouse, would be carried
ut by CONIASUPO. These costs would be recuperated through the prices that
CONASUPC charges beneficiaries.
 .       Primaryz Education.  The primary schools would be operated by
the Secretariat of Education and maintained by CAPFCE.  Their costs,
amounting to TUS$3I,OO per 50-student classroom, would be financed from the
regular budget.  However, costs of materials, such as paper and pencils,
and extra-curricular activities are paid by the parents.
22.       Electrification.  Operation and maintenance of the electricity
network would be carried out by CFE, with full coct recovery from benefi-
ciaries.
231.      Drinking Wiater.  The local water committees would operate and
raintain the water systems under SAHOP supervision.  Their costs would be
fully covered by user charges, set in consultation between these committees
and OAHOP.
2L.       Self-Help Project.  The benefitting communities would operate
and maintain the facilities constructed with self-help at their own expense
and with advisory assistance by SAHOP.



ANNEX 7-c
Page 5
25.       Project Administration.  The on-going evaluation effort would
be financed by Government through the regular CIDER budget.
26.       Conclusion.  The above estimates indicate that beneficiaries
would contribute US$9.8 million to operation and maintenance costs. They
would bear 1007. of the cost of maintaining the directly productive invest-
ments and contribute 29% to the operation and maintenance costs of
productive support and social infrastructure investments. The fiscal
burden for Government would be US$8.1 million per annum, or 0.7% of
estimated total public recurrent expenditures in 1980. These expenditures
would provide the beneficiaries with a level of government services which
is about average nationwide, but still far below urban standards. For
direct beneficiaries annual expenditures per capita would be US$10, which
compares with total public recurrent expenditures estimated at US$85 per
capita in 1980.
Beneficiary Repayment Capacity
27.       With the possible exception of electrification, which requires
a     beneficiary cash contribution to the investment cost of the system,
repayment - where required (in addition to initial cash, labor or kind
contribution) - is conditioned to repayment capacity, itself a function of
the success of the project (for productive investments). In some areas,
where the opportunity cost of contributions of labor are wages earned else-
where (and where such wages are necessary for minimal consumption), at the
discretion of the local PIDER and agency staff, contributions are tailored
to the particular circumstances (e.g. half-rate wages, with half contributed),
With respect to electrification, PIDER and CFE are currently studying
mechanisms to lessen the financial impact of the initial contributions.
Thus far, however, no new policy exists, though special arrangements have been
set in specific areas.
28.       On the development of the micro-region plans, the impact of
beneficiary contributions is studied and in the "ejido models" the invest-
ment program is coordinated with ejido repayment capacity. This both for
investment recovery and operation and maintenance costs. Cash flow
projections for the ejido program are calculated to ensure ejido capacity
to sustain the proposed investments in the short-term. The high financial
rates of return (even with the inclusion of water and electrification)
indicate the longer-term viability of the ejido to sustain the investment
program.



ANNEX 7-c
Table 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Estimated Recovery of Investment Costs
Proportion
Total      Recovery  Interest    Amount   Contributed
Investment   Period       Rate    Recovered  or Recovered
(US$mill.)    (years)     (        (US$mill.)      (%)
I. Directly Productive
A.  Infrastructure
1.  Livestock                   17.6          2-25        -          3.6          20
2.  Irrigation                  33.9          2-25        -          8.5          25
3. Fruit, Forestry,
Fisheries & Beekeeping    9.2           3-12        -          2.9           32
4. Soil & Water
Conservation               10.4          -          -          -
5.  Rural Industries Pilot        5.0         3-12        -          2.5          50
Sub-Total              76.1                               17.5         (23)
B.  Development Credit
1.  Agriculture                 50.0          3-12    9.5-11.0    50.0           100
2.  Rural Industries             9.0          3-12    9.5-11.0       9.0         100
Sub-Total              59.0                               59.0        (100)
C. Incremental Production Credit
Sub-Total              13.3          1         14.0       13.3         100
II. Productive Support
1.  Feeder Roads                15.9           -          -
2.  Extension                    5.5           -          -
3.  Farmer Organization         10.0           -          -
4.  Marketing                     0.8         15          -          0.8         100
5.  Electrification              7.3          2-25        -          1.8          25
6.  Feasibility Studies           3.6          -          -          -             -
Sub-Total              43.1                                2.6          (6)
III. Other Infrastructure
1.  Education                    5.3           -          -          0.8          15
2.  Drinking Water              10.3           -          -          1.5          15
3.  Self-Help Projects           3.9           -          -          -             0
Sub-Total               20.5                                2.3         (11)
IV. Evaluation
Sub-Total                1.0          -          -          -             0
Total Base-Line Cost                    212.0                                92.4
Contingencies                            43.0                                 6.9
Total Project Cost                      255.0                                99.3         (39)



MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Estimated Recovery of Operation and Maintenance Costs
Annual O & M Total    Contribution
Number  Cost per   Annual         by
of      Unit       O & M Cost Beneficiaries
Project Component               Unit      Units    (US$)      (u$ooo.  )  -(us$,ooo)  SR
I. Directly Productiveh/
1.  Livestock Infrastructure  300 ha.       100     1,500      1,500     1,500      100
2.  Irrigation                   ha.     34,000        65      2,210     2,210      100
3.  Fruit Production             ha.      70,000       50      3,500     3,500      100
4.  Soil &  Water Conservation  ha.       75,000        5        375       375      100
5.  Beekeeping                 30 hives      200       70         14        14      100
6.  Forestry                     ha.         900
100
II. Productive Support
1.  Feeder Roads                 km.       2,000      240        480         --       0
2.  Extension                   staff        500    5,000      2,500        --        0
3.  Farmer Organization         staff        200    4,500        900        --        0
4. Marketing                 warehouses/      40    7,250        290       290      100
stores
5.  Electrification            '000 pers.    131      10.      1.300     1,300      100
III.                                                                5,570     1,590      T29)
III. Other Infrastructure
1.  Education             Additional Class. 1,200   3,200      3,840       150        I
2.  Drinking Water            1000 pers.     214        8        440       440      100
3.  Self-Help Projects        villages       n.a.
4,280       590       a )
IV. Project Administration
1.  Evaluation                  Staff         25   16,000        40--                 0
400        --)
Total Costs                                                   17,850     9,780    (55%)
Note: n.a. Not applicable
a     For directly productive investments, maintenance only
b/    In October 1974 prices



ANNEX< 8-a
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPM.ENT PROJECT - PIDER II
AGRICULTURAL YIELDS A@D TECiNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
Rainfed Crops
1.       Better data is now being collected on yield levels, possible
vield increases, and farmer acceptance rates. PIDER programming teams
ncw have large quantities of pre-project yield level data for rainfed
crcps in the PIDER micro-regions. Through PRONDAAT extension officers,
vielis responses to extension, 'fertilizer, and improved seeds are now
bein- obtained as is Lfnrormation of farmer acceptance rates. Table 1
orovides a breakdown of yield data on rainfed crops in different
rainfaall areas, both without and with the Project. 1/
Irrigated Crops and Livestock
2.       Yield increase estimates for irrigated crcps and for livestock
:nvestments are subject to less variation than are estimates of rainfed
production, especially for the PIDER micro-region areas. Wqith irrigation,
basic crop yields are often triple the yields on previously rainfed areas,
especiallv for corn and bear.s. For livestock, simple fencing, better
pastures and animal management provide reasonable suretv of lowper
mortality rates, better weight gains and increases in calving. Tables 2
and 3 provide estimates of these levels for irrigated lands and for
livestock lcnits.
1/  For the purposes of the economic and financial analysis it was assumed
that a maximum. of 30%7o of the hectares said to be affected through the prczect
would result affected. It was further assumed that phasing to full development
would take between one and three years longer than estimated in the PIDER
prepar-tion reports. Yields were assumed as per Table I ( generally much
lower than assumed by PIDER ).



MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
MICRO-REGIONS - RAINFALL  MAIZE AND 13EAN YIELDS
Average Rainfall                         Rainfall             Maize Yields (kg/ha)             Bean Yields  (kg/ha)
Minimum   Maximum    Without PIDER   With PIDER    Without PIDER   With PIDER
1,200 mm and over
Sierra, Tab.                     2,340     3,750              800         2,100               500           1,000
Amuzgos, Gro.                    2,000      2,500             600         1,500               300             700
Huasteca, lidgo.                 1,600      2,100           1,000         2,000               500           1,200
Litoral Oeste, Yuc.              1,400      2,000             600         1,400                 -               -
Cihuatlan, Jal.                  1,250      1,450           1,200         2,000               600             800
Vallarta, Jal.                     865     1,700              900         1,500               500          1,000
Average                          1,575      2,250             850         1,750               480             940
700 mm-1,200 mm
Centro, Yuc.                     1,000     1,200              700         1,300               400          1,000
Soto La Marina, Tam.               800     1,200            1,000         1,500               500          1,000
Norte, Q.R.                        800     1,600            1,000         1,800                 -               -
Mazahua, Mex.                      800      1,000             800         2,000                 -               -
Amealco, Qro.                      700      1,060             500         1,200               300             800
Izucar, Pueb.                     800        950            1,000         1,800               600            900
Tlaxcala Sur, Tlax.                725        950             800         1,500               300             800
Tlaxcala Norte, Tlax.              650        780             800         1,600                 -               -
Average                            785      1,085             825         1,600               420             900
700 mm or less
Parras, Coahuila                   250       400              400           900               400             600
Trias Satevo, Chih.                350       400              700           900               400             800
Calvillo-Jesus Maria, Ags.        420        541              400           900               400             700
Sombrerete, Zacatecas             400        800              300           800               200             500      > X
Ramos Arizpe, Coahuila             300       500              400           700               200             600    1a,
Francisco Sarabia, Durango        300        400              600           900               400             700
Average                            330        525             460            850              330             630       w



ANNEX 8-a
Table 2
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
YIELDS AT FULL DEVELOPMENT ON IRRIGATED LANDS
Yields at Full Development
CroP                            (6 years) - M. Tons
Maize                                        3.5
Beans                                        2.0
Sorghum                                      5.0
Wheat                                        4.0
Alfalfa                                     70.0 (year 1)
55.0 (year 2)



ANNEX 8 -a
MEXICO                           Table 3
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS FOR LIVESTOCK
At Full Development
Beef Cattle - 1,200 mm and up rainfall (Breeding and Fattening)
Weaning - 70%
Mortality (adult) - 7%
Culling Rate - 10%
Daily Steer Weight Gain - 0.5 kg (180-200 kg per year)
Beef Cattle - Below 800 mm rainfall (Breeding)
Weaning - 60-65%
Mortality (adult) - 3-4%
Culling Rate - 14-16%
Dairying
Calving - 90%
Cow Mortality - 2%
Annual Cow Milk Production - 4,500-5,000 liters
Productive Life - 5 years (8 years old)
pigs
Annual Farrowing Average - 16
Marketing Weight - 95-110 kg
Mortality: Young Pigs - 4-6%
Adult Pigs - 1%
Goats
Weaning Rate - 95%
Adult Mortality - 2%
Male-Female Ratio - 1/32
Culling - 20%
Rabbits
Average Litter Size - 6
Litters per year - 5
Average Weight of Marketed Rabbit - 3 kg
Mortality: Young Rabbits - 10%
Adult Rabbits - 4-6%
Chickens (Broilers)
Mortality - 6% (10% if bought 3 days old)
Weight at Sale - 1.3 kg
Efficiency kg food/kg of live weight - 2.6
Beekeeping
Kg of Honey per Hive - 30 (750 mm rainfall or less)
50 (750-1,500 mm)
70 (1,500 mm or more)



fiNNEX 8-b
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVEIWPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
!WLRETING OF PROJECT OUTFUT
Introduction
1.        In comp2rison to levels of PIDER support to improving small-
farmer production c?pabilities, PIDER efforts to address micro-region
marketing bottlenecks received less attention. An important part of the
PIDER II project will be the efforts made to improve the marketing, storage
and processing of output resulting from the PIDER investment. This effort
involves three basic strategies.
(a)  For production consumed for self-consumption, the PIDER II
project would continue to support the efforts of SARH and
INI home economists in improving food preparation and pre-
servation and storage at the householder level (see
Annex h-a'.
(b) For production of basic grains, maize, beans and sorghums,
PIDER II will also continue support for the important buying
and storage programs run by CONASIJPO (Annex4-c). Where
CONASUPO is active in its buying, their programs tend to
provide an important and higher priced alternative than
middlemen for marketing these traditional crops.
(c) CONASUPO, however, does not have a program for market
support to many non-traditional crops supported by the
PIDER program; especially in fruits, vegetables and live-
stock. Under PIDER II efforts would be made to fill this
gap by: (i) including support for farmer owned agro-
processing units (Annex 3-b); and (ii) by supporting the
expansion of the PRONDAAT extension system which includes
a major emphasis on technical assistance for improved
marketing. In the Zacapoaxtla, Puebla micro-region, for
example, PRONDAAT technicians developed a very successful
farmer run grading, boxing and transportation network for
traditional fruits which substantially increased the value
added to local farmers of this marketed output.
Project Output
2.        From the 20 micro-regions included in PIDER II, the investments
supported are likely to result in output increases of a variety of crops.
These are listed below and compared to existing national production.



ANNEX 8 -b
Page 2
PIDER II
Incremental
National      at Full      Consumed
Production   Development   at Home
Category                     1975        (m/tons)        (%)
Maize
Rainfed                                  76,500
Irrigated                                39,900
Total             8,575,000       115,400         30
Beans
Rainfed                                  14,200
Irrigated                                17,000
Total                               31,200         40
Beef (Carcass)                              6,300
Milk ('000 1)                              11,072         20
Pork (Carcass)                              1,000         30
Honey                                         324
Fruit
Apples                                   12,000
Mangoes                                  26.000
Grapefruit                               12,600
Avocado                                  12,000
Peaches                                   8,300
Other                                    30,100
Total                             101,000
Present Marketing System
3.        Incremental agricultural output generated under the PIDER project
has basically three markets, one with guaranteed prices (CONASJPO warehouses),
private traders with considerable price fluctuation, and home consumption.
Prior to PIDER, most small-scale farmers in the targeted micro-regions have
only a small amount of marketable surpluses left after satisfying the needs
of their own families. A study by CONASUPO determined that fully 60% of the
small farmer's crop is retained for on-farm consumption.



ANNEX 8-b
Page 3
h.         The marketing of output not purchased by CONASUPO suffers from
various deficiencies. Government also has been slow in addressing itself
to the efficiency of the non-CONASUPO marketing system. At present few
small farmers have access to transportation, storage or processing faci-
lities. They cannot time their sales so as to get the best prices from the
local outlets. Perpetually cash poor, these farmers are sometimes forced
to sell before harvest, at low prices. When they can wait until after the
harvest, their shaky financial situation requires that they sell their pro-
duce in peak season, when prices are at their lowest levels. Their loss of
potential income is substantial since the average seasonal price variations
for most perishable products are somewhere around 30%.
5.        In the past, much of the small-farmers income generated by the
production and marketing of agricultural products goes into the hands of
middlemen. In 1974, for example, thE spread in tomato prices between pro-
ducer and consumer amounted to 198% in Monterrey, 239% in Guadalajara and
almost 400% in the Federal District. In basic grains, local storekeepers
often extend small farmers corn and beans on credit during the year and take
payment at harvest in bags of the same items. Not infrequently, the equi-
valent of two bags is lent, but four bags are required in harvest in repay-
ment.
6.        CONASUPO was organized to provide an alternative marketing outlet
to these producers. CONASUPO's primary function is to deal with the marketing
problems inherent among small-scale agricultural producers of basic grain
crops. The agency's objectives are to support the basic grain market, raise
the incomes of small farmers, and increase the consumption of basic goods by
poor families. The Government considers these goals sufficiently important
that it has expanded CONASUPO's investment in marketing tenfold, from
Mex$100 million in 1970 to Mex$l billion in 1975.
7.        In order to stimulate production and provide better returns to
farmers, CONASUPO sets support prices for a number of major crops. Despite
inflation, during the late 1960s and early 1970s, CONASUPO kept these supports
at the same level.  As a result, the volume of CONASUPO's internal purchases
of maize dropped sharply from 2.1 million tons in 1966/67 to only 770,000 by
1973/74; domestic wheat purchases dropped from 1.1 million tons in 1967/68
to 718,000 tons in 1974/75; and bean purchases dropped from 166,000 tons in
1966/67 to 111,000 tons in 1973/74. Meanwhile, demand was rising and CONASUPO
was forced to expand its imports of these products. To reverse this trend,
support prices were increased sharply after 1972. Between 1970 and 1976 corn
prices rose 102%, wheat prices 118% and bean prices 243% (Table 1).
A. The Guaranteed Price System
8.        CONASUPO's procurement system has undergone an amplification of
services that by 1976 included guaranteed prices, grain storage, and ancillary
services. The first tool in the procurement kit is a guaranteed price. These
prices are set before the planting period so as to affect the farmers' planting



ATNEX 8-b
Page 4
decisions. The price is set in function of the projected demand, current
inventory levels, expected supply price elasticities, farmer costs and risk
exposure, and the desired subsidy level.
0.        As can be seen from Table 1 the guaranteed prices have increased
dramatically during the 1970-76 period with the bulk of these increases
occurring during the 1973-75 period when world commodity prices also
skyrocketed.
Table 1
GUARANTEED PRICE INCREASES
(Mex$ per ton)
1970   1976   1977  Feb.
Maize                      940  1,900       2,150
Frijol                   1,750  5,000   4,500-5,000
Rice (milled)            1,900  6,700       6,700
Sorghum                    625  1,600       1,700
Wheat                      913  1,750       1,950
Barley                     950  1,450       1,950
Sesame                   2,500  6,000       6,000
Cottonseed                 900  2,200       2,200
Soy                      1,300  3,500       4,500
Safflower                1,500  3,500       9,500
Sunflower                1,800  2,700       2,800
Source: CONASUPO
1.       CONASJPO has periodically over and under procured.  It currently
is suffering from an excessive stock of frijoles (beans). The company
appeared to have overreacted to an expected production drop by simultaneously
importing and drastically raising the support price. CONASUPO imported
42,265 tons in 1974 and 77,731 tons in 1975; total world trade in frijoles
is reportedly only about 150,000 tons. A major jump in production resulted
in growing inventories.  As of January 1976 CONASUPO had 484,627 tons of
frijol stored in its warehouses. Monthly consumption was running at about
10,000 tons, thus leaving a carry-over balance of approximately 360,000 tons.
Although some exports had been made, this stock was tying up both storage
capacity and working capital and was a matter of considerable concern to
many of the BORUCONSA and DICONSA managers interviewed. The support price
for frijoles was lowered in 1976 which was a politically sensitive decision
but economically necessary.



P1TEX 8-b
Page 5
11.       In order for the procurement program to work the -iovernment had to
offer more than a guaranteed price; it had to provide a series of additional
services which enabled it to compete effectively against alternative buyers.
Principal among the adjunct services is warehousing. The warehouse program
admirnistered by BORUCOIJSA has strengthened and expanded durirg the 1970-76
period to include a network of 1,257 rural warehouse centers with a storage
capacity of 2.2 million metric tons. The effective warehousing capacity
of CONASUPO also includes another 3.8 million metric tons because CONASUPO
now operates the 796 warehouses of the government agency Almacenes Nacionales
de Depositio (ANDSA) which was absorbed into thd BORUCONSA system in 1975.
An additional 300 warehouses, each with a 300 ton capacity are projected
for the 1978-80 period. The BORUCONSA rural warehouses are of two types.
The first are the conspicuous cone shaped "graneros del pueblo". These
warehouses had high visibility and were widely promoted originally. However,
their use encountered many difficulties due to technical deficiencies, poor
location, and administrative weaknesses. At one point only 50,000 tons (13%)
of installed capacity was being used. CONASUPO recognized these weaknesses
and shifted to the use of more conventional rectangular warehouses. Some
centers were relocated and some of the "graneros" were put to alternative
uses such as fertilizer and merchandise storage. Many centers now have both
"graneros" and rectangular warehouses, but the latter dominate constituting
7L% of all the BORUCONSA storage units. Capacity utilization has improved
markedly to about 60%.
12.       The quality of the management of a warehouse and buying system is
another key determinant of its success. Many such networks with modern
storage facilities have failed due to poor administration. CONASUPO's
system experienced some serious administrative problems initially but these
have been addressed and it appears that the current supervisory and control
system can handle the operation in a relatively efficient and effective
manner. A Zone Chief supervises the warehouse Grain Analysts; his direct
visits (at least once every two weeks) plus the reporting system on the grain
and cash movements, stocks and balances provide a series of "early warning
flags" capable of detecting problems befcre they become serious. A team of
traveling "auditor/trouble shooters" is used to investigate difficult situations.
13.       Perhaps the most critical person in the system is the Grain Analyst
who is in charge of receiving and analyzing (humidity level, foreign matter,
etc.) the grain, storing it, paying the farmer, and in some cases selling
inputs (e.g. fertilizer) and staples (via warehouse stores). The analysts
are nominated by the community (the candidates must have at least a 6th grade
education) and are trained in a three-month course by BORUCONSA and CECONCA
in one of the 20 training centers. The analysts seem to be working fairly
well, although some difficulties have arisen. About 15% of the communities
have decided to change analysts due to their dissatisfaction with their
original choice. Ten of the 1,700 Analysts were fired because of attempted
embezzling or fraud. This is remarkably low considering that they are



ANNEX 8-b
Page 6
handling at times cash amounts up to Mex$25,000.1/  The campesinos have
proven themselves capable of being trained and of handling the administrative
demands of the system in a relatively efficient and effective manner.
B. The Non-Guaranteed Price System
14.       While PIDER is investing in infrastructure, inputs and services
to increase basic crops (maize, beans) which have assured prices, PIDER's
strategy is also to assist farmers in diversifying their farming systems,
especially in livestock and horticulture. For this output, prices are not
guaranteed nor does Government have a national procurement grid. Current
(February 1977) prices paid to producers for such production by the private
sector and cooperative purchases are illustrated below (see also Table 2):
Mex$     US$
Cattle (Beef)
Fat Steers (k)                  6.5     0.30
weaners (k)                     5.2      0.26
Milk (1)                          5.0      0.25
Pigs (Fat) (k)                    7.5      0.36
For fruits and vegetables, prices fluctuate enormously between seasons and
between regions in Mexico (Table 3). The higher prices normally reflect
peak season winter sales to export markets. Lower prices are more reflective
of domestic price level.
Beef Marketing
15.       Rising incomes, high income elasticity for beef, and rapid popu-
lation growth will contribute to strong domestic market opportunities for
beef. The Federal District, with the municipal slaughterhouse, consumes
about one-third national production. Beef production represents about 35%
of the value of agricultural sector production. North of Mexico City, the
U.S. demand for beef and feeder cattle exports continues to dominate both
the structure and prices of cattle. For example, in 1970 feeder cattle
exports from Mexico to the U.S. more than doubled, reaching nearly a million
1/ The analysts are exposed potentially to considerable pressure to make
false grain analyses to minimize the penalities to the farmers; controls
against this type of fraud are also critical.



ANNEX 8-b
Page 7
head per year. They remained at a high level until 1973, when market con-
ditions deteriorated; only 522, 849 head were reported in 1973 and 363,481 in
1974. As prices greatly softened in the US, exports to the US amounted to
89,757 head, compared to 300,979 for a comparable six-month period in 1971.
The following table summarizes the export of cattle (head) to the United
States between 1965 and 1975.
Exports of Feeder Cattle to the US (head)
Year            Head          % Change
1965          557,439
1970          933,598            67
1971          756,610           (19)
1972          965,811            28
1973          552,849           (43)
1974          363,482           (34)
1975 (6 mos)   89,757
Source: FAQ
16.       Demand for feeders is expected to expand again in the late 1970's, 
as US feedlots increase their demand for feeder cattle. Nevertheless, con-
tinued cyclical instability is expected which inevitably influences output
from PIDER schemes.
Dairy Marketing
17.       Prices of milk to the farmer, to pasteurizing plants, and to the
consumer are theoretically fixed by the Secretariat of Industry and Commerce.
The Government has recently reversed a policy favoring low-income urban
consumers and is now offering incentives to farmers and pasteurizing plants
to increase production. Current regional prices to the producer vary
throughout Mexico, from a high of US$0.26 per liter in Morelos and Guerrerro
to a low of US$0.18 in Tabasco, Chiapas and Campache.
18.       In the past, Mexican dairy production was restricted both by these
price controls especially for first class milk and by a 20-year Government
regulation that first class milk should be pasteurized at the farm level.
These factors both resulted in uneconomically-sized pasteurization plants.
Within the last few years, however as a result of intensive producer lobby-
ing, price controls have been dropped for first class milk, and centralized
dairy processing plants are being permitted.
19.       Although the milk and dairy product marketing system is presently
geared toward the larger commercial producers, smallholder participation in
the system is expanding as cooperative production and marketing systems develop.
PIDER and other development agencies have stimulated this trend by offering
financing as well as technical and marketing assistance programs.



ANNEX 8-b
Page 8
Pig Marketing
20.       The slaughter of swine over the period 1960-1973 has grown about
8% per year. About one-half of the swine population of Mexico is located in
the central plateau, where commercial swine production has been concentrated
because of its temperate climate and proximity to the main consumption
centers. In recent years, production has spread to the northern states as
a result of increased availability of lower cost sorghum. Pork production is
also increasing in the Yucatan in response to rising consumer demand there.
Most hogs are raised by large commercial producers, who usually combine
breeding and fattening operations under confined management conditions.
21.       There is a shortage of slaughter plants for hogs in Mexico.  One
result is incomplete utilization and recovery of by-products at slaughter.
A second is the high death rate and loss of weight of hogs which must be
transported live over considerable distance to slaughterhouses. Hog pro-
ducers are authorized to slaughter hogs at the municipal facilities and to
sell direct to butcher shops and supermarkets. Although hog prices have
risen steadily since 1970, traditional cyclical and oversupply patterns
and high cost of feedgrains will probably limit significant expansion in
the near future.
22.       As indicated earlier in this Annex, adequate marketing for basic
crops supported by CONASUPO is not likely to be a major problem. The
Government has kept farmer prices of these crops at or slightly above
international levels to reduce Mexico's imports, especially of maize. For
non-traditional crops, PIDER is attempting to improve their value-added
by supporting agro-industry and by expanding the PRONDAAT system (which
includes marketing technical assistance) to more micro-regions. However,
it is not clear in all micro-regions how successful this approach will be
and as a result, in calculating the economic rates of return, the mission
reduced prices for these non-traditional crops, especially those grown on
newly irrigated lands, to account for the problem of marketing them.



ANNEX 8-b
Table 2
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Prices of Principal Products Produced in PIDER Micro-Regiors
-tons-
Category                      Mex$                       US$
Corn                          2,150                        96
Beans                         5,000                       222
Barley                        1,950                        87
Sorghum                       1,700                        76
Wheat                         1,950                        87
Tomatoes                      3,100                       138
Chile                         4,000                       178
Oats                            200                         9
Potatoes                      1,850                        82
Rice                          6,700                       298
Pumpkins                        600                        27
Alfalfa                         450                        20
Lemon                         1,700                        76
Mango                         2,000                        89
Tamarind                      5,000                       222
Peaches                       3,500                       156
Apples                        4,000                       178
Oranges                         700                        31



ANNEX 8-b
Table 3
1=
RURAL DEVEIOP14fET PFDJECT - PIDER II
MARKETING OF PRDJECT OUTPUT-PRICES
MAIZE PRODUCTION AND IMPORTS
Production                Imports
(tons 000)       (Tbns 000)      (Mex$000)
1970-71       8,804                 -              -
1971-72       9,483               135         163,807
1972-73       9,200            1,6h6        2,063,975
1973-74       8,720            1,112        2,128,939
1974-75       7,847            2,717        5,156,837
1975-76       8,575               62h4/       981,1422
2/ As of January 20, 1976.
CONASUPO PURCHASES AS A PERCENT OF NATIONAL PD)WUCTION
1970-71   1971-72   1972-73   1973-74   1974-75   1975-762 Average
Maize             19.1      16.9        9.9       10.0       3.3        4.1       10.8
Frijol             2.3      20.7        3.2       11.1      35.2       19.8       15.9
Rice (milled)       .1       4.4        5.3         .1       3.1       15.0        5.7
Sorghum             .1         .3        .9        1.1       3.9        6.9        2.5
Wheat             36.8      35.5       44.0       26.2      39.0          -       35.8
Barley               -      19.6        3.7         .9         -         .1        4.6
Sesame               -         -         .1          -                 40.2       4.2
Copra                -       1.4          -          -         -       18.7        3.0
Soy                  -         -          -          -      17.4       28.6       10.0
Safflower            -      10.3       37.1          -         -       73.5      27.4
Sunflower            -       8.3       15.8        1.4         -          -        7.4
2/  Through January 20, 1976
Source: CONASUFPO, Generencia de Compras.



ANNEX 8-c
Page 1
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Economic and Financial Analysis
Introduction
1.        Economic and financial analysis was based on detailed micro-region
investment programs submitted to the Bank. Each report contains detailed cost
estimates of both investmentand operating costs required by the program. Each
micro-region report contains financial analyses for "representative" villages
(ejidos) of the micro-region. Each report also contains an analysis of
micro-region production (itemized by crop) both with and without PIDER invest-
ments. Rates of return, both economic and financial, are calculated and are
included in each investment program report. In undertaking the appraisal,
Bank staff recalculated rates of return, both economic and financial - based
on the submitted reports, but modifying various parameters (e.g., yields,
prices, area reached by project activities, phasing, uptake rates, shadow
pricing of labor, etc.) to meet more stringent tests of reasonableness set
by the appraisal team. Financial rates of return were calculated only on
the directly productive activities: livestock, irrigation, fruit production,
etc., plus the associated development credit. Economic rates of return were
calculated on the directly productive activities plus the supporting produc-
tive investment and services including the feeder roads, electrification,
extension, agrarian reform, marketing, facilities needed to achieve the
incremental benefits. Investment in social infrastructure such as domestic
water supply and education facilities were not charged as costs in the
economic analysis.
2.        Cash flow models were also analyzed for "representative" ejidos
in each micro-region to ensure that incremental income expected from project
investments is sufficient to repay the principal and interest of development
loans, and operation and maintenance expenditures of directly productive
and support investements. As the beneficiaries of the PIDER project are
mainly subsistence farmers with very small, if any, marketable surpluses
available to repay long-term productive investments in the short run, it
is essential that the loan repayment include a grace period until production
reaches a minimum marketable surplus. In addition, the repayment period must
be long enough to permit small payments so that the ejido will be left with
sufficient cash to provide the participating farmers with a minimum income for
family expenditures. The PIDER project does not envisage interest charges on
long-term loans made for basic infrastructure investment from PIDER funds.
However, interest rates are charged in all "development loans", which comprise



ANNEX 8-c
Page 2
mainly cattle, hogs, beekeeping and tree-fruit production. These types of
investments are financed by the banks. Operating expenses for development
activities as well as annual crops are to be financed either by official or
private banks.
Economic and Financial Analysis
3.        The economic and financial analyses take as the direct benefits
of the project only the incremental output, net of farming expenses. This
incremental output is due to higher yields of the ongoing agriculture and
new agricultural activities implemented through the directly productive
investments. Bank appraisal estimates of incremental output are less both
in volume and value than the estimates submitted in the Mexican reports.
In the appraisal, various modifications were made. It was assumed that
a maximum of 25% of the of the cultivable land in the target portions of
the micro-regions would be reached by extension services and thus would
benefit from improved techniques and inputs. It was also assumed that
the take-up rate would be considerably slower than assumed in the Mexican
reports (i.e., 8 years to full development as opposed to 6 years). Yields
were adjusted to coincide with recent field data gathered by the appraisal
mission, as were prices for specific crops. Furthermore, it was assumed
in the analysis that no high value fruit and vegetable crops would be grown
in the newly irrigated areas. The combined impact of these assumptions
reduces the rates of return from those calculated by the Mexicans. These
assumptions, while conservative are realistic, and give rates of return in
accordance with acceptable Bank levels.
4.        There are also direct benefits implicit in the incremental output,
aside from higher levels of employment and income, particularly improvements
in farmer human capital. These come from on-farm training provided through
the PIDER project. Higher skill levels lead to better farm management and
more efficient use of available resources. These in turn result in better
soil and water conservation practices neded in these backward micro-regions.
Direct benefits from training and soil and water conservation can be assessed
only be comparing output levels with and without the PIDER project. Output
levels have not been constant, rather they have been declining over the past
decade due to a deterioration of natural resources and the low levels of
physical and technological inputs. Hence, without the PIDER project, both
output and standard of living could very well deteriorate in the near future;
in any case, they should in no way be assumed as constants.
5.        The rest of the components - education, potable water and electri-
fication (non-"productive") and self-help (12% of the baseline project costs)
- were excluded from the analysis since no meaningful rates of return could
be estimated due to the predominance of non-quantifiable effects. These compo-
nents would not contribute directly to the productive purposes of the project,
but their inclusion is consistent with the policy of the Government to in-
crease the access of the low income stratum of the rural population to public
services such as education, potable water and electricity. The project would



ANNEX 8-c
Page 3
improve these services at low cost and, to reduce wasteful expenditure, would
provide potable water and electrification only with the active participation
of the local communities. The charges for these services would be based on
conventional rates set at levels reasonably consistent with a coherent set of
objectives - covering costs, reducing waste and encouraging the participation
of the rural communities.
Economic Rates of Return
6.        In undertaking the economic analyses, the net cash flow to benefi-
ciaries was adjusted under the following assumptions:
(a) The costs of productive support (feeder roads, farmer
organizations, extension, electrification and markets)
needed to achieve the estimated increment in production were
added to the cash flow. These costs are borne by the
Government and not by the beneficiary.
(b) The cost of unskilled labor used in the construction
of indirectly productive and productive support assets
was reduced from the rate actually paid by Government
to the opportunity wage. This opportunity wage was
estimated in each of the "representative" micro-regions
as the casual labor daily wage rate in the non-crop
season, e.g. what a landless laborer could earn doing
odd jobs on a daily basis in that area. This rate
varied from 80% of the government minimum wage in
Guerrero to 40% of this wage in the densely-populated,
very poor micro-region of Mazahua in the state of
Mexico. The prevailing local labor wage or oppor-
tunity wage in each micro-region in the non-crop sea-
son was taken as an approximation to shadow wages and
used to calculate both the value of community contri-
butions in terms of labor (as said above) and to adjust
the minimum legal wage used in financial calculations
for the purpose of the economic rate of return analysis.
The relationship between the legal minimum wage and the
opportunity cost of unskilled labor on a daily basis
are shown in Table 1. The opportunity wage levels of
off-farm employment in rural areas in these micro-regions
were assumed relatively constant through the entire de-
velopment period. The real wage levels are not expected
to increase since unemployment and disguised unemploy-
ment are high in these micro-regions, and income is
expected to increase for on-farm employment.



ANNEX 8-c
Page 4
(c) Physical input prices. The prices of all variable inputs
were assumed equal to the local market prices or those
domestic prices controlled by government agencies. The
local market prices in each micro-region were taken, with
special attention to draft animals, seeds and transporta-
tion. Domestic prices were taken for fungicides, pesticides
and fertilizers. Cattle production costs were taken on
the basis of information provided by SARH.
(d) Output prices. The incremental output was assumed
not to affect the overall price relationships.
(e) Foreign Exchange. The foreign exchange costs and earnings
of the project were not adjusted.
The results of these adjustments are reflected in the economic rates of
return listed in Table 2. Sensitivity tests showed that:
(a) if overall costs increased by 20% , the economic
rate of return would fall to 21%;
(b) if the rate of adoption of improved practices on
rainfed maize and beans was 20% less than currently
projected, the economic rate of return would drop
to about 20%.
Financial Rates of Return
7.        Financial rates of return were measured for all of the investment,
including credit in directly productive activities being carried out at the
ejido or village levels. These returns were measured from "representative"
ejido or village-level development budgets and aggregated into packages
(e.g., irrigation, livestock, rainfed grain production, etc.) for purposes
of rate of return calculations. "Partial" budget analyses for specific
development activities such as livestock production or rainfed corn produc-
tion were more rigorously undertaken under Loan 910-ME for beef cattle,
irrigated dairying, fruit production and some small-scale agro-industries.
8.        Physical contingencies of 10% of investment costs were included
in the cost streams as these would represent, if requred, a utilization of
real resources by participating beneficiaries. The resulting financial
rates of return for the "representative" micro-region models are given in
Table 3.
Employment Effects
9.        Employment effects would be substantial through the increased
opportunities for work provided by the project. The project's contribution
to employment would stem mainly from the regular work generated at the farm



ANNEX 8-c
Page 5
level at full development, resulting from the higher labor requirements
of improved farming systems or from the new activities implemented through
the directly productive investments, but also from the jobs generated during
the investment period. At the farm level, the project would require, annu-
ally, an additional 8.5 million man-days of labor at full development, equi-
valent to 34,000 full-time jobs. Some 6 million man-days, or 75% of this
labor, would be provided by members farm families while the rest would come
from hired labor on a permanent or part-time basis. In addition, a total
requirement of 16 million man-days (65,000 full-time jobs) would be created
during the three-year investment period by the other components of the
project.



AlNEX 8-c
TabIe T
MEXIOO
RURAI DEV310PMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
A
Legal Minimum Salary            Actual Wages Paid
Micro-Region                (September 1976)               in Dry Season        B/A
Hex $                          Mex$-
Tlaxcala Norte, Tlx.           52.9                            52.9             100
Tlaxcala Sur, Tlx.             52.9                            52.9             100
Izucar, Puebla                 72.5                            67                92
Norte, Q,R,                    66.8                            60                90
Cihuatlan, Jal.                71.9                            60                83
Vallarta, JaL                 71.9                            60                83
Parras, Coah.                  76.1                            63.4              83
Raues Arizpe, Chih             76.1                            63.4              83
Mazahua, Nex                   39.6                            33                83
Sombrerete, Zac.               50.9                            40                79
Soto La Marina, Tax            61.7                            50                77
Amealco, Qto,                  49                              35                71
Sierra, Tab.                   63.5                            45                71
Trias, Chih                    68.4                            45                66
Calvillo Jesus Maria, Ags.     62.8                            40                64
Amuzgos, Gro.                  50.1                            30                60
Francisco Sarabia, Dgo.        51.3                            30                58
Huasteca,  Hdgo.               73.4                            40                54
Centro, Yuc0                   57.14                           30                 2
Average (20 micro-regions)6105                            46.3              15%
(US$1 = Mex$22.5)       US$2.73                         US$2.06



ANNEX 8-c
Table 2
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
Sensitivity Analysis
Investment            Yields
Costs
PIDER      IBRD      10% +    10% -    10% +    10% -
Sierra, Tabasco              13.7       15.5      13.9      17.4      17.2      13.8
Soto La Marina, Tam.         10.1       12.9       9.9      16.4      16.1       9.6
Amuzgos, Gro.                11.0       16.9      15.5      18.5      18.4      15.4
Cihuatlan, Jal.              24.9       25.4      23.9      27.1      27.0      23.7
Centro, Yuc.                 24.5       17.2      15.6      19.0      18.8      15.4
Litoral Oeste, Yuc.          12.4       16.7      15.5      18.0      17.9      15.3
Amealco, Qto.                16.7       23.4      21.1      26.1      25.8       21.0
Vallarta, Jal.               27.1       31.9      29.8      23.3      34.1      29.6
Tlaxcala Sur, Tlx.           15.0       36.5      31.2      43.5      42.8      30.7
Tlaxcala Norte, Tlx.         25.8       36.0      32.8      39.9      39.5      32.5
Norte, Q.R.                  19.0       32.8      29.8      36.5      36.1      29.6
Izucar, Pue.                 12.3       15.1      14.0      16.4      16.3      13.8
Mazahua, Mex.                19.8       25.5      24.3      26.9      26.7      24.2
Parras, Coah.                17.8       30.9      28.3      34.0      33.7      28.0
Trias, Chih.                 20.8       24.0      22.2      26.1      25.9      22.0
Huasteca, Hdgo.              14.8       24.0      21.3      27.2      26.9      21.1
calvillo, Ags.               26.4       23.3      21.2      25.9      25.6      21.0
Sombererete, Zac.            16.3       21.3      18.4      24.7      24.4      18.2
Francisco Sarabia, Dgo.   26.1          13.2      10.1      16.6      16.3       9.8
Ramos Arizpe, Coah.          18.9       15.8      14.5      17.4      17.2      14.3
Average (simple):         19.2       23.0-
1/  Weighted average is 24.5%



ANNEX 8-c
Table 3
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
FINANCIAL RATES OF RETURN'/ (FROR)
Micro-Region                       Financial Rate of Return (%)
Soto La Marina, Tam.                          20.1
Norte, Quintana Roo                            16.9
Calvillo-Jesus, AGS                           28.6
Tlaxcala Norte, Tlx.                           19.9
Tlaxcala Sur, Tlx.                             29.8
Huasteca, Hdgo.                                29.9
Trias-Satevo, Chih.                            22.5
Centro, Yuc.                                   11.3
Ramos Arizpe, Chih.                            11.8
Sierra, Tabasco                                16.5
Francisco Sarabia, Dgo.                        18.0
Vallarta, Jal.                                26.3
Amealco, Qto.                                  20.0
Sombrerete, Zac.                              33.4
Amuzgos, Gro.                                  18.2
Mazahua, Mex.                                  24.5
Cihuatlan, Jal.                                16.2
Izucar de Matamoros, Pue.                      17.5
Parras, Coah.                                  14.5
Litoral Oeste, Yuc.                            18.3
Simple Average: 20.7
1/ Based on representative ejido or village budgets submitted
by PIDER.



ANNEX 8-c
Table 4
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Estimated Beneficiaries
Categery                             Units        Families   Individuals
Rural Roads                 2,010 km                15,000        97,000
Electrification            131,000 persons         20,000        131,000
'Water Supply               214,000 persons         33,000       214,000
Schools                    1,200 classrooms        n.a.           60,000 (students)
Irrigation                 34,000 ha               14,000         88,000
Soil ConseraRtion          80,%nO ha                8000         56,000
Fruic Tree Establishment  7,500 ha                  2,500         16,000
Afforestation              900 ha                       50           350
Extension Service          125,000 ha (arable
rainfed)             25,000        163,000
Land Reform Service         1,000 ejidos/villages 80,000         500,000
Livestock Units
1.  Beef Cattle            28 units                 1,400          9,000
2.  Dairy                  69   "                   3,450         22,425
3.  Dual Purpose           45   "                   2,250         14,625
4.  Figs                   27   "                   1,350          8,775
5.  Goats                  12  '1                      600         3,900
6.  Bees                   189  "                   1,890         12,300
7.  Poultry                36                         180         1,200
Develonmrent Credit                                    -
1. Agriculture and
Livestock              1,000 loans             20,000       130,000
2.  Rural Industries       200 industries           8,000         50,000
M5arket.s/Stores            65 units                 3,250        21,000
Self-Et2j                  persons                 14,200         92,000



ANNE( 8-c
Table 5
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Estimated Employent Impact
Category                                       Man-Years               Jobs
gConstruction        Created
Rural Roads            2,010 km                   16,200                300
Electrification        131,000 persons             2,000                 50
Water Supply           214,000 persons             6,000                200
Schools                1,200 classrooms            2,000              1,200
Irrigation             34,000 ha                  14,800           26,000
Soil Conservation      80,000 ha                  12,000                300
Fruit Tree Establish.  7,500 ha                    3,500              2,000
Afforestation          900 ha                         50                 25
Extension Service      125,000 ha (arable rain-
fed)            n.a.              n.a.
Larn Reform Service    1,000 ejidos/village         n.a.              n.a.
Livestock Units
1. Beef Cattle         28 units                         
2. Dairy               69 units                       -                   -
3. Dual Purpose        45 units                       _
4. Pigs                27 units                       -                   -
5. Goats               12 units                       -                   -
6. Bees                189 units                      -                   -
7. Poultry             36 units                       -                   _
Sub-total                                     41,800            2,200
Development Credit
1. Agriculture and
Livestock          1,000 loans                 4,000              1,000
2. Rural Industries   200 industries               2,000             4,000
Markets/Stores         65 units                      100                 65
Self-Help              persons                         -
TOTAL                                      65,o00             37,300
1/   Unskilled labor required during construction.
2/  Required either for maintenance of infrastructure or for permanent labor on
new productive units.



Annex 8-c
Appendix 1
Financial Rate of Return
1.     The financial rates of return were calculated based on sample ejido
budgets submitted by the PIDER preparation team. These ejido budgets were
corrected for various factors including: excessive yield expectations;
excessive take-up rates; excessive coverage resulting from extension
activities; in addition to errors in methodology and in calculation.
Social investments were also deleted from the cost flow. The rates of
return are then calculated based on the resulting net impact of the
project investments ( net of prior net benefits from pre-project
activities ). In addition, income resulting from new irrigation of
vegetables and fruits was calculated on the basis of net corn benefits
on those hectarages. This gives a conservative estimate on the rate of
return; this conservatism was deemed appropriate for the purposes of the
appraisal.
2.     For the ejido Fuejutla shown in the following tables, a rate of return
of about 32.% was calculated with the inclusion of the production of
vegetables under part of the new irrigation. A rate of return of 29g
was calculated where corn was assumed to be planted to those new hectares
under irrigation.
3.     In the following tables are included: (i) the investment program
for the ejido; (ii) the estimated technical and production coefficients;
(iii) the estimated sales and expenses; and a financial cash flow model.



ANNEX 8-c
Appendix 1
MEXICO                         Table 1
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Luasteca, Hicalgo
Investment Program
Mex$-1/     US$ u    Man-days    %
Units   No.      (000's)    (000's)    ___
I.  Productive Investments                           1,851,600   106,981    9,760    44.0
A.  Irrigation                   Ha       200   1,776,000   102,613                 42.0
1.  Unskilled labor          Ha               444,000                8,073
2.  Skilled labor            Ha               168,720                1,687
3.  Materials                Ha             1,030,080
4.  Services2/               Ha               133,200
B.  Soil, Water Conservation               50       75,600      4,368               2.0
1.  Materials                Ha                71,971
2.  Services2/               Ha                 3,629
II.  Support Investments                              2,248,000   129,884   21,666    53.0
A.  Extension3/                  Ha       428       48,000      2,773                1.0
B.  Feeder Roads                 km        12   2,200,000   127,111   21,666    52.0
1.  Unskilled labor                           970,020               17,640
2.  Skilled labor                             402,600                4,026
3.  Material!1                                662,200
4.  Services-                                 165,000
III.  Social Infrastructure                              130,000      7,511                3.0
A.  Schoolrooms                  Rooms      2      130,000      7,511       392      3.0
1.  Unskilled labor                            13,000                  236
2.  Skilled labor                              15,600                  156
3.  Materials                                  91,650
4.  Services2/                                   9,750
IV.  TOTAL                                            4,229,600   244,377
Unskilled Man-Years of Labor                                                96.1-/
1/  Mex$ costs are as of 6/76; in calculating dollar equivalent,costs have been
increased by 30% (inflation to April 1977) and converted at the Mex$22.5/
US$1 exchange.
2/  Includes study, drawings, work supervision.
3/  Pro-rated cost of extension program for micro-region.
4/  270 days per work year.



MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
Technical and Production Coefficients
Units   Pre-Program                          Y E A R S
1        2         3         4         5       6-25
I.  Technical Coefficients        Ton/Ha
A. Rainfed Agriculture
Corn                   Ton/Ha         1.3          1.3       1.4       1.6      1.8       2.0       2.0
Beans                  Ton/Ha         0.6          0.6       0.7       0.8      0.9       1.0       1.0
B. Irrigated Agriculture
Corn                   Ton/Ha           -            -       2.5       2.8      3.2       3.5       3.5
Beans                  Ton/Ha           _            -       1.4       2.2      2.6       2.8       3.2
Vegetables             Ton/Ha           _            -      15.0      17.0     20.0      25.0      25.0
II.  Production Data (Phasing)   Ha
A. Rainfed Agriculture
Corn                   Ha           220          220        35       30        25        20        15
Beans                  Ha            30           30        15        20       25        30        35
B. Irrigated Agriculture
Corn                   Ha             -            -       152       135      100        80        60
Beans                  Ha             _            -        45        60       93       110       130
Vegetables             Ha             -            -         3         5        7        10        10
III.  Production (Volume)           Ton
A. Rainfed Agriculture
Corn                   Ton           286         286        49       48        45        40        30
Beans                  Ton            18          18        10.5      16       22.5      30        35
B. Irrigated Agriculture
Corn                   Ton            -            -       380       378      320       280       210
Beans                  Ton            _            -        63       132      242       308       416     zl3
Vegetables             Ton            _            -        45        85       140      250       250
t'i)  x.



MlXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PIDER II
IhUdasLeca, Ilidalgo -
Sales and Operation Expenses
(Mex$'000)
Units   Unit      Pre-                               YEARS
Units   Cost   Program       1         2          3          4         5        6-25
I.  Sales                         Ton              648.0    648.0   1,257.6   1,672.7   2,201.3   2,614.0   3,023.0
A. Rainfed Agriculture
Corn                   Ton      1.95    558.0    558.0        96.6       93.6       87.8       78.0       58.5
Beans                  Ton      5.00      90.0      90.0      52.5       80.0      112.5      150.0      175.0
B. Irrigated Agriculture
Corn                   Ton      1.95                   -     741.0      737.1      624.0      546.0      409.5
Beans                  Ton      5.00                   -     315.0      660.0   1,209.0   1,540.0   2,080.0
Vegetables             Ton      1.20                   -      54.0    -102.0       168.0      300.0      300.0
II.  Costs                         Mex$             441.5    441.5       931.4      945.0      962.2      981.0   1,016.0
A. Rainfed Agriculture
Corn                   Ha       2.90    380.61/  380.6       101.5       87.0       72.5       58.0       43.5
Beans                  Ha       3.10      60.91/   60.9       46.5       62.0       77.5       93.0      108.5
B. Irrigated Agriculture
Corn                   Ha       3.80                   -     577.6      513.0      380.0      304.0      228.0
Beans                  Ila      4.00                   -     180.0      240.0      372.0      440.0      520.0
Vegetables             Ha       8.60                   -      25.8       43.0       60.2       86.0       86.0
IlI.  Net Income                                      206.5               326.2      727.7   1,239.1   1,633.0   2,007.0    e  >
IV.  Income Increment                                                    113.7      515.2   1,026.6   1,420.5   1,794.5    X
1/ Pre-PIDER per Ha costs are Mex$1,730 and Mex$2,030 for corn and
beans respectively.



MEXIC()
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -= PI)ER i1
Huasteca, Hidalgo -
Financial Model
(Mex$'000)
YEARS
Current       1          2          3          4          5          6        7-25
I.  IN                                   648.0    4,877.6   1,909.6   1,967.2   2,496.3   2,614.0   3,023.0   3,023.0
A.  Sales                            648.0       648.0   1,257.6   1,672.7   2,201.3   2,614.0   3,023.0   3,023.0
B.  Productive Investments
(a)  Long-term soft loans                 1,481.3
(b)  Ejido contribution (20%/9)             370.3
C.  Working Capital
(a)  Short-term loans                                  652.0      295.0      295.0
D.  Support/Social Investments
(a)  Federal Resources                    1,902.4
(b)  Ejido contribution (20%)               475.6
II.  OTr                                  648.0    4877.6       1216.1    1908.8    1569.0    1552.4   1,461.6    1,461.6
A.  Productive Investments                     1,851.6
B.  Support/Social Investments                 2,378.0
C.  Direct Operating Costs           44 1.5      441.5      931.4      945.0      962.2      981.0   1,016.0   1,016.0
D.  Services
(a)  Roads                                                         66.0       66.0       66.0        66.0       66.0
(b)  Schoolrooms                                                    3.9         3.9        3.9        3.9        3.9
E.  Loan Amortization
(a)  Infrastructure                                                                                 169.2      169.2
(b)  Operating                                                    652.0      295.0       295.0
F.  Interest Payments
(a)  Operating (12%)                                    78.2       35.4       35.4
G.  Family Consumption               Z:C t,.5    206.5      206.5      206.5      206.5      206.5      206.5       206.5  
(D aX
III.  NET                                    n.0         o.n      693.5       58.4      927.3    1061.6    1,561.4   1,561.4 - x 
Net (per capita)                       0.0         0.0        1.3        0.1        1.7       2.0         2.9       2.9






IBRD 12783
'Er~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
' ~     JAMAICA
%                                                                                                                                                    'BELIZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E Z
30'  ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                    CXATEMALA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NICARAGUA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NCRAU
{5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .-''.'*-.'n:  '           W;X  r.  4   }ttrwuuri:Er
0i^Dir  9 vz ;   C g Xrr' ,Wioir.r7.7rS                                             , 0,,, .Fj;ANAMAr
. < S / <i   N O,  R  A       |        . :           r        I '           ! n          E       j       JYtYE'                    eY        rJRYR'0.....' ?                                     COSTA RICA .
90'
-.- .  ,, .7  I N ' ,  y  *:::2 'Y .i'H   C 'L rb       ^ j     *5rl  Tho! Etro,rooreiocr    '0  OPID-rnoe' dy  rhe
-~ r ,                J           2>< ^  < . - 8  t C  H  I j A  H    A                                                              EXISTING FIDGERI MiCRO REGIONS               A0rh    AnoolPo.OR
T >7 o                                                                                     O ;  i  Urir.cr .Z.i0.Mg   $EL LLANO A
0                                                             000                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENSENADA, B.C N
F  7,*  <   -  $   9   -;3  - 1   \  C O A H U I L A   ,-  1'AJA CALIFORNIASRUFI
C 0 A Hk  U I 1  A,  _H~'    /   xi   U F                        RECELCHAKAN. C-n,.
''          ~~~0 IX(TLAHUACAN,C.I.
06 PARRAl , ChAIh
I'AMEALCO  citro   n,-  ,5^    j             ia U r-  ---      I  v    -   XW1    5   5  4                                              FRA NC .     8  $CO V  LLA, Dgo.
.7  '                          )                         ' ,oo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~()FRtANCISCO ZAIlCO. Gn. 
7 .o't' N UF V O                                                                                           CUADALUPE VICTORIA, DO..
-1 N                     0 JrR9CUARO, Gt..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E,    JRCAR,4
~~~,Th    ~ ~ ~ ~~q                                                   DNONiESTE DE GUAfIAJUATO. GtO.
> VALLARTA,1I.                            > As ,,> C. , [?   ix   ,  u  sZVALLESCIE IGUALA GP.
D  U  F A  N  0N072 ~~~~~~~~  '~~ N    ' .>.  ,~~~~~~           @ORFitENrE DEMOR ELOS, Mor.
9%                                                                       1                       (3)PON EGNNTE OE MOREOLOS,r M,
~~~  It                                      1(3)                  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CENTRO N.L.
(D CENTHO DE V IICA IAN   1  Fder ,11                                                                C X   r-x D            <                                                            J       6     Du N a N A SUR DENUEVO LE|
PROPOSED PIDER (- MICRO REGIONS                                            -7                        Z       CS                                                       0) MRIECA, O..    N
0, AMEALC~~~~~~~~~~, O,..                                                                      A N,,.,.-2  C                                  (39 VALIER CENTRALES, O..
15 oT AALCA  01IN,0 m                            ne   mrcnDveomn   rk                   CLM    s/    TA(EUI5.                                                           MIXTEECArA --    .C                    A     EC   FO   
(72 CIHUATLAN, J.1.                             TV'0   1,7I                                                           AJ                                              HATAFR
---tnternionl BoAndarTA.Oies                           'I            -          , Uc A''---                   CHUA, P
VAILLAR.CoA. J.L                                                                                                        0   0 $                                   0>  ACAPOAXTLA. Pn..
1 TLAXCALA NORTE                                              N                                                                        * T ('(, I                       VALLEE,S.L.P'.
o TU-AXCALA SIUR~                                                                                                                                                        COSAILA-fLoTA,Sin.
O7RGPAL TRilAS--SATEv6,Ch.h.                                                        NAYRTI                                                                             MOCORITO RIADIRAGUJATO. Si.n
SIERRIA DETABASCO                                                                          .   (          CF                fE'.                                   )  SUR5 DE SIN/ALOA                              'I        
o9 LITORAL OESTE DE YUCATAN                                                           ,.ATEJ,00TULA, Tor...                                                                                                                      ~
RURAL4N DEEOMN                                                                       POETPOSUR DE'YUCATAN      -
loo RAMOS ARIZPE, COON                                                          *Ih   'p.\ CJArGi                                                                                                                I ,'       (31
0n    'a$ c0 1'C (             0 3l                                                     PRESNILLO-CALERA. Z.                                                  (     .
IZOO/AR DE MATAMOROS. P...                                                                           0                               L V~ A  GO       Z-SF0                                                                                 ISANGE.0r,j
Q)CALVILLO JESUS MARIA. Aq,           OAINO   RA                                                               _~           L~Sy(h 
0FRANCISCO SAIAABIA. ISgo            [         PI ider U                                                                           e11       Q,n
H-UASTECA, EHg.                               RdrI,                                                                                          IM       L.L..OIoA.  O0
(9CENTRO DE YUCATAN                  IA                                                                                                                    -                                            
17 NGRTE DE QUINTANA ROG                      1  the ier(Ntloli                                                C HOACAN   O EIC'.J                  .    ,
07 SOTO LA MARINA, T.rn.                                                                                                                                                                                      I InerAmrAanDeeopeP BnkCOIMC
0 AMIUZGOS. G-0.'
2 MAZ/AHUA, M...                                                                                                  Tt 
State Boundaries                                                            U                                                                                                              ELIZE
- ---- -  InternationOl Boundaries                                                      X>0AIC   A
MEXICO                                                                       j.                                          .tlT
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-PIDER I
0      Too     200      300     4O0     500
KILOMETERkS---
15',                                                                          100'



