FILE Copy                            Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2101-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE 
OESIDNTH                         RETURN To
PRESIDENT                    | REPORTS DESK
TO THE                             WITHIN
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS                    ONE      WEEK
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PIDER II
May 31, 1977
This document has a restricted disribtlm  nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may don erwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  I



jr 7' _            Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
The Mexican peso is free to float against other currencies;
in recent weeks the rate of exchange has fluctuated in the range of
Mex$22 to Mex$23 per US dollar. On May 27, 1977 the peso traded at
22.83 per US dollar.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CFE              =     Federal Electricity Commission
CIDER            =     Research Center for Rural Development
CONASUPO               National Company for Popular Subsistence
FIRA             =     Agricultural Trust Funds of the Bank of Mexico
PEMEX            =     Petroleos Mexicanos
PIDER            =      Investment Program for Rural Development
PRONDAAT               National Program for Extension in Rainfed Areas
SARE                   Secretariat: of Agriculture and Water Resources
SPP                    Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
SRA              =     Secretariat of Agrarian Reform



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:          United Mexican States
Amount:             US$120 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable in 17 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 8.2 percent per annum.
Project
Description:      The project consists of directly productive, productive
support and social infrastructure components of a program
designed to raise the income and improve the standard of
living of poor rural families in 20 selected micro-regions
in Mexico. The rural industrial component would also be
extended to the 30 micro-regions of the Bank-assisted
PIDER I project. The individual project components are
summarized below:
Directly Productive Components (70% of project)
(a) Construction and rehabilitation of small-scale water
facilities including pump schemes, storage dams and
distribution networks to irrigate about 34,000 ha
and to provide for domestic and livestock use;
(b) Development of rural industries, including: provision
of development credit; technical assistance for
rural industries; and training of personnel.  The
rural industries supported would provide employment
to some 6,000 rural dwellers;
(c) Development of about 500 livestock units through
land clearing, pasture establishment, fencing, and
construction of watering and handling facilities;
(d) Soil and water conservation, including construction
of contour ridges, terraces, checkdams or other
conservation works on about 80,000 ha;
(e) Pilot fruit production units, including planting of a
total of 7,500 ha;
(f) Provision of seasonal production credit, and medium-
and long-term development credit to enable more
effective use of infrastructure facilities;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
(g) Other productive investment, including beekeeping,
small stock, forestry and fisheries development.
Productive Support Components (20% of project)
(a) Construction of about 2,000 km of feeder roads
using labor intensive methods to the extent feasible;
(b) Installation of electric power distribution systems
in 300 villages benefitting about 131,000 persons;
(c) Support of a rural marketing program;
(d) Organization and training of farmers for greater
participation in development programs;
(e) Provision of intensive technical assistance packages
to promote adoption of improved farming methods; and
(f) Assistance for preparing feasibility studies for
directly productive investments in each micro-region.
Social Infrastructure (9% of project)
(a) Installation of water supply systems to serve about
214,000 persons;
(b) Construction or renovation and equipping of 1,500
classrooms to accommodate about 60,000 students;
(c) Provision of materials and equipment for self-help
activities in ejidos and villages, such as housing
improvements, and community centers.
Monitoring and. Evaluation (1% of project)
(a) The Center for Research in Rural Development would
carry out project related evaluation and applied
research and train PIDER planning and administrative
staff.



- iii -
Estimated Cost:      The cost of the project is estimated at US$255.0 million
equivalent, with foreign exchange costs of US$46 million.
The breakdown of the estimated costs is presented below:
-----US$ Million-----   Foreign
Components                            Local   Foreign  Total  Exchange
I. Directly Productive
A. Infrastructure
Irrigation                       25.4      8.5    33.9     25
Soil and Water Conservation       9.0      1.4    10.4     14
Livestock                         14.1     3.5    17.6     20
Fruit, Forestry and Fisheries     8.3      0.9     9.2     10
Rural Industries                  3.0      2.0     5.0     40
B. Development Credit
Agriculture and Livestock        40.0     10.0    50.0      20
Rural Industries                  5.4      3.6     9.0     40
C. Incremental Production Credit     11.7     1.6    13.3     12
Sub-total                     116.9    31.5    148.4     21
II. Productive Support
Feeder Roads                     14.8      1.1    15.9       7
Rural Electrification             5.5      1.8     7.3     25
Farmers' Organization             5.3      0.2     5.5      4
Extension and
Field Demonstration             9.4      0.6    10.0      6
Rural Marketing                   0.8        -     0.8      0
Feasibility Studies               3.6        -     3.6      0
Sub-total                      39.4     3.7     43.1      9
III. Social Infrastructure
Education                         4.5      0.8     5.3     15
Rural Water Supply                8.2      2.1    10.3     20
Self-Help                         3.9        -     3.9      0
Sub-total                      16.6      2.9    19.5     15
IV. Evaluation                            0.9     0.1     1.0      10
V.  Total Baseline Cost               173.8     38.2   212.0     18
Physical Contingencies           10.7      2.4    13.1
Expected Price Increases         24.5      5.4    29.9
VI.  Total Project Cost                209.0     46.0   255.0



- iv -
Financing Plan:                             US$ Million          %
Government                  127.8           50
Beneficiaries                 7.2            3
Bank                        120.0           47
TOTAL                       255.0          100
Estimated
Disbursements:    FY         Year-by-Year       Cumulative Amount
(US$ million)         (US$ million)
1978          7.0                    7.0
1979         27.0                   34.0
1980         48.0                   82.0
1981         38.0                  120.0
Procurement
Arrangements:     The following procurement procedures would be applied
for civil works and building construction, machinery,
equipment, materials and supplies:
(i)  In order to obtain as much competition in bidding
as possible, contracts would be grouped into larger
packages, where feasible.
(ii)  Contracts and purchases exceeding US$250,000 equiv-
alent would be awarded under international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
Procurement. A preference of up to 15 percent for
domestic suppliers would be permitted in evaluation
of bids for manufactured items.
(iii)  Contracts of less than US$250,000 equivalent would
be let under local competitive bidding, or as nego-
tiated contracts under normal government procedures
which are satisfactory, or executed by force account.
It is anticipated that because of the decentralized nature
of the proposed project, few contracts would be let under
international competitive bidding and that because of the
competitiveness of local suppliers, few international firms
would be attracted to bid.
Consulting
Services:         Provision is made for local consultant services to identify
and carry out feasibility studies of productive investments
in the micro-regions (1,700 man-months to cost about US$3.6
million). The average cost per man-month of local consul-
tant services has been estimated at US$2,100.



Economic Rate
of Return:        Average economic rate of return on the directly productive
and productive support components is 23.7 percent.
Completion Date:    January 31, 1981
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1480a-ME, dated May 31, 1977
Central Projects Staff
Agriculture and Rural Development Department






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT -- PIDER II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the guarantee of United Mexican States
for the equivalent of US$120 million to help finance an integrated rural
development project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including
3-1/2 years of grace with interest at 8.2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        Some of the major features of the Mexican economy were analyzed in
"An Updating Report on the Economy of Mexico" (1110-ME), distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1976. An economic mission visited Mexico in
April-May 1977 and its report is now in preparation. The discussion which
follows and the country data sheets contained in Annex I reflect the prelim-
inary findings of this mission.
Past Performance
3.        For most of the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, the
Mexican economic system has been outstandingly successful in achieving sus-
tained and rapid growth while maintaining stability in prices and the balance
of payments. Since 1940, the annual average GDP growth rate has exceeded 6
percent. Inflation averaged less than 5 percent a year from the mid-1950's to
1972, and the dollar value of the peso fixed in 1954 was maintained until the
September 1976 devaluation.
4.        The Mexican development strategy has relied on a combination of
public action and private profit. During most of the last three decades the
role of the Government centered upon carrying out direct investments in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum and creating a stable regulatory
and institutional framework for private sector growth. This system worked
well to achieve rapid growth, but it led to a sharpening of contrasts between
classes and among regions. The scope of redistributive policies was neces-
sa'rily limited as government revenues remained under ten percent of national
income. The Government did play a crucial role in the development of private
commercial agriculture (through provision of irrigation and c-redit), in
industry (through the provision of infrastructure and protection from imports),
and in education. While land redistribution under the reform of 1915 was
continued, fiscal resources were insufficient to develop major programs to



- 2 -
improve the economic status of its beneficiaries. It was not until the 1970's
that the Government began to give a high priority to programs and policies
directed at a broader distribution of the benefits of growth and, in parti-
cular, at the problem of poverty in rural areas.
5.        Rapid population growth has made social equity even more difficult
to achieve. Population growth in Mexico accelerated steadily from 1930 to
1970, primarily as a result of reduced death rates, reaching 3.4 percent per
annum in 1970. It has since declined to about 3.2 percent per annum (unoffi-
cial estimates for 1976) as birth rates have begun to decline. The rate at
which Mexico's population is growing is still one of the highest in the world,
however, and presents a formidable challenge for socio-economic development.
The most rapid rates of natural increase are in rural areas. In spite of
rapid and sustained economic growth, the high demographic growth rate made
adequate absorption of the labor force in productive employment difficult.
It is estimated that 40 percent of the labor force was, and still is, either
engaged in marginal occupations, relatively unproductive and hence poorly
paid, or openly unemployed.
6.       Income distribution in Mexico is uneven. The estimated share of
the poorest 20 percent of Mexican families in total national disposable income
was only 2.1 percent in 1975, while the upper 20 percent received 60.2 percent
--a ratio of almost 30 to one. Most of the very poor are in rural areas.
Estimates for 1975 show that families headed by hired agricultural laborers
have incomes averaging 45 percent below the national average while families
headed by self-employed agricultural workers earned an average of 35 percent
less than the national average; these two groups together account for 31
percent of all families in the nation.
7.        The Echeverria Government (1971-1976) attempted to combine past
growth policies with several major institutional reform measures. For rural
Mexico these included a revised Agrarian Reform Law (1971) and a new Federal
Water Law (1972), both of which were intended to promote a more equitable
distribution of basic agricultural resources. These measures were complemen-
ted by increases in the availability of credit to low-income farmers and the
maintenance of more remunerative support prices for basic foodcrops. The
Government also increased outlays for agricultural research, training and
extension services, paying particular attention to the needs of small farmers.
One of the most significant innovations was the new PIDER program f or integ-
rated rural development, begun in 1973, with which the Bank has been associated
from an early stage with a loan of US$110 million in May 1975 (Loan 1110-ME)
and a second loan now under consideration. Urban-industrial development was
also promoted by heavy public investment in basic industries--petroleum,
chemicals and steel being outstanding examples--and an innovative workers'
housing program.
8.        Recognizing the implications of Mexico's demographic trends, the
authorities initiated a national family planning program in 1972 with the
objective of reducing f ertility rates and improving the health standards of
families. Government health agencies have steadily expanded their services,



- 3 -
and the number of family planning acceptors rose from 900,000 in 1973 to 1.7
million in 1976. However, most new acceptors have come from urban areas;
coverage rates of 45 percent were achieved in cities as compared to only
5 percent in rural areas. The new Government has indicated its intention to
intensify family planning efforts. The President's declared goal is to reduce
population growth to 2.6 percent by the end of 1982.
9.        In its efforts to improve both the country's productive base and the
living conditions of lower-income groups, the Government doubled public sector
expenditures in real terms over the period 1970-1976. Government revenues
were also substantially increased, but not enough to compensate for the in-
crease in expenditures, and the difference had to be financed by internal and
external borrowing. These policies, together with frequent wage increases in
excess of productivity gains (especially since 1974) led to high inflation.
The inflation, when combined with the fixed parity of the peso, led to rapidly
increasing balance of payments deficits on current account. Growing inflation,
rising labor costs, preemption of credit for financing rapidly growing public
expenditures, and some Government pronouncements that were interpreted as
inimical to private entrepreneurship led to a virtual stagnation of private
sector fixed investment, a reduction in deposits of savings in financial inter-
mediaries and related speculative behavior by domestic savers. The rate of
growth of GDP slowed from an annual average of 6.8 percent during 1965-1970
to about 5.0 percent during 1971-1976, dropping to 2 percent in 1976--the
lowest growth rate experienced by Mexico since the mid-thirties--implying a
decline in terms of per capita income.
10.       The short-run disequilibria affecting the country at the end of 1975
and the accompanying social and labor unrest and loss of confidence built
up strong devaluationary expectations which in turn led to large capital
outflows during 1976. Under these circumstances, on September 1, 1976 the
authorities abandoned the fixed exchange rate of 12.50 pesos per dollar which
had prevailed since 1954 and let the peso float. After some sizable fluctua-
tions before the inauguration of the new Administration in December, the peso
has remained rather stable at rates fluctuating between 21 and 23 pesos per
dollar.
11.       Following the devaluations, Mexico obtained major support from the
IMF. In the last quarter of 1976, Mexico was able to draw on the Fund for
US$480 million. For 1977-79, an Extended Fund Facility accompanied by a com-
prehensive three-year stabilization program has been negotiated, which could
provide as much as an additional US$861 million once the increase in Fund
quotas becomes effective. Thus, total IMF support for the Government's
program may exceed US$1.3 billion. The new Government ratified the agreement
with the IMF shortly after taking office on December 1, 1976.
Current Economic Policy
12.       The present Government inherited a difficult situation upon taking
office last December. Many factors indicated a need for economic stabiliza-
tion. Inflation, fed by high public sector deficits, large wage increases,



-4-
and finally the devaluation of around 80 percent was rising faster than at
any time in Mexico's recent history--at an annual rate of 57 percent in the
three months after the devaluation; moreover, a large amount of private
capital had left the country in 1976. Foreign borrowings, which had grown
rapidly to make up for reduced domestic savings and to finance the growing
public sector deficits, had left Mexico's public sector with a foreign debt
of some US$20 billion (including short-term debt). On the other hand, the
situation also called for more expansionary policies; economic activity had
slowed down, net private investment was virtually nil, and the gap between new
job creation and growth of the labor force was increasing. High world prices
for petroleum and related products offered profitable investment opportunities
in the petroleum and petrochemicals sectors; indeed, increased production for
export of these products seemed by far the best way to meet a large part of
Mexico's high debt service requirements in the coming years.
13.       Faced with these conflicting needs, the Mexican authorities are
adopting a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority public expen-
ditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with petroleum and
other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Government's program
include progressive control of inflation--the target is to reduce it to inter-
national levels no later than the end of 1979--together with a return to
historic high rates of economic growth by the end of 1978. Better management
of public sector expenditures, more rational pricing and cost control in
public sector enterprises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage in-
creases to justifiable levels, and more effective cooperation with the private
sector are other important parts of the Government's economic strategy.
14.       With only a few weeks in which to submit its budget for 1977, the
Government made only slight modifications in the proposals prepared by the
outgoing Administration. However, the President formally instructed his
Cabinet to regard budgeted spending levels as ceilings. Any new expenditure
authorizations, limited to projects carrying the highest priority, would
have to be accommodated by reducing expenditures on lower priority projects.
The only exception to this compensation requirement is the investment program
of PEMEX, the state-owned petroleum company, which is to be increased by
Mex$20 billion above the initially approved budgetary allocation of Mex$30
billion to realize a rapid increase in production and exports of petroleum and
products (see para 22). However, it is planned to finance these additional
expenditures through a combination of additional external borrowing and
increases in revenues.
15.       With effective implementation of the above-mentioned decisions, the
Government would be able to contain total expenditures broadly within the
budget ceilings; this would represent a major break with the past few years,
when actual public sector expenditures averaged about 20 percent higher than
initially budgeted. Moreover, to increase public revenue, the tax base has
been broadened and the prices of some goods and services produced by the
public sector have recently been increased (examples: power rates went up by
52%, petroleum product prices increased by 25%, steel by 15%, fertilizers by



-5-
25%, telephone rates by 30%). The Government also expects that delays in
the execution of the budget to be expected during the first year of a new
Administration will result in a spending shortfall of about 5 percent of
budgeted expenditures.  The net effect of these measures (expenditure restraint
and revenue increases) would be to reduce public sector net borrowing require-
ments from the original budget figure of 8 percent to an estimated 6 percent
of expected GDP. (In comparison, in 1976, public sector net borrowing require-
ments were about 9 percent of GDP. 1/)
16.       Other measures taken by the new Administration include:
A far-reaching administrative reform, including a new law giving
the Treasury more effective control over public sector external
borrowings, another law to improve and modernize the budgetary
process and to centralize it under the new Secretariat of
Programming and Budgeting, and the centralization of direction
of government programs related directly to production activities
in two ministries, the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water
Resources and the Secretariat of National Property and Industry.
An increase of only 10 percent in the annual minimum wage review
in January 1977, which is widely considered as a demonstration
of the serious nature of the Government's intentions to stabilize
prices, and its support from labor.
An excess profits tax.
Price, production, and investment agreements with the private
sector to encourage domestic production of wage goods at low
prices and to promote private investment of about Mex$100
billion during the next several years.
A set of measures aimed at inducing a recovery of financial
savings and intermediation, in order to relieve the extremely
tight credit situation affecting the private sector. Reserve
requirements were modified so as to increase the lending to the
private sector; interest rates on term deposits are to be allowed
to increase gradually so as to better reflect market conditions;
new limits were imposed on the liabilities and assets of the
banking system so as to increase its stability and independence
and to avoid undue concentration of credit, and new financial
assets were created in the form of an issue of Mex$2.0 billion of
"Petrobonds" (indexed to the peso equivalent of the international
price of petroleum).
1/   These figures do not include the deficit of public financial intermed-
iaries. The contrast in fiscal policies between 1976 and the 1977
program is somewhat greater than these figures indicate because of the
effect of the devaluation in increasing the deficit in 1977.



-6-
For balance of payments management, the most important measure
is the more realistic exchange rate now in effect. Strong
government support of tourism development, as well as the
restoration of normal export incentives for manufactures,
should  help increase exports even more; the Government's
intended review of the import licensing system and move towards
more reliance on tariffs rather than on quantitative restric-
tions in controlling imports would increase efficiency in
domestic production as well as provide a further spur to
exports.
Prospects
17.       The measures instituted in recent months, as well as some fortuitous
events, have already produced good results. Inflation in the first three
months of 1977 slowed to an average rate of 2.2 percent per month, as compared
to 4.0 percent per month in the last three months of 1976. The deficit in
the current account of the balance of payments has fallen drastically (US$245
million in January-March 1977, as compared to US$666 million in the same period
of 1976), owing both to reduced imports (in turn caused by reduced economic
activity) and to increased exports of petroleum and manufactures as well as
higher earnings from export of food crops such as tomatoes, cotton and coffee.
For the entire year the current account deficit is estimated at US$2.4 billion,
compared to US$3.4 billion in 1976. Mobilization of resources by the banking
system increased considerably in the first quarter of 1977, signalling the
return of part of the previous year's withdrawals. Perhaps most importantly,
there is a general feeling of increased confidence in the Government's economic
policy.
18.       Nevertheless, 1977 will inevitably be a year of transition.   The
public sector deficit, while lower, will still be high; inflationary pressures
will continue, and debt service (equivalent to 37 percent of exports in 1976)
will be a heavy burden. To return to economic growth and price stability will
require continued progress in the directions already taken by the Government:
public savings must be increased still further through control of expenditures,
tax reform, and increased prices for public goods and services; additional
domestic savings must be captured by realistic interest rates and otherwise
attractive financial assets; balance of payments control requires maintenance
of the current realistic exchange rate in real terms, as well as adequate
export incentives; efficient growth also depends on increased efficiency and
productivity of public spending.
19.       In the longer run the prospects for resumption of economic growth
with relative price stability are good. Mexico's historically strong economic
potential has been further strengthened in recent years by the large invest-
ments in agriculture, petroleum, petrochemicals, electricity, steel, and basic
infrastructure.



- 7 -
20.       In agriculture, the large investments in irrigation, recent revision
of the structure of support prices, the new Administration's stated intention
to emphasize smaller irrigation and drainage projects over the next few years,
and the more realistic exchange rate, all promise a resumption of growth of
production for both domestic and export markets.
21.       Industry has potential for considerable growth in many sectors,
including efficient import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and
capital goods as well as exports of many different manufactured products.
22.       An outstanding example of the benefits of recent public sector in-
vestments are the new possibilities opened to the Mexican economy through the
recent discoveries of rich petroleum fields. Proven oil reserves are esti-
mated to be at least 11 billion barrels, which gives a production/reserve
ratio (computed at the 1977 production rate) of more than 30 years. On the
basis of these known reserves and PEMEX plans, production of petroleum could
grow at an average annual rate of 19 percent between 1977 and 1982, reaching
2.2 million barrels per day in 1982 (1976 production was 0.8 million barrels
per day); exports could increase at an annual average rate of almost 50 per-
cent over the period, reaching 1.1 million barrels per day in 1982, the equiv-
alent of US$7.8 billion per annum in projected 1982 prices.
23.       The prospect of rapidly rising petroleum exports has greatly streng-
thened the balance of payments outlook. Increases in tourism earnings,
recovery of agricultral exports, and resumption of growth of manufactured
exports are also expected. Thus, even on the basis of somewhat more conserva-
tive projections of petroleum production and exports than those mentioned
above (see Annex I), the current account deficit can be expected to decline
steadily over the next several years, thus reducing Mexico's net external
borrowing requirements. The debt service ratio is expected to continue to
rise over the next year or two and then to decline sharply to levels around 20
percent in the early 1980's.
24.       Thus, Mexico remains creditworthy for borrowing on conventional
terms because of its medium- and long-term potential and the Government's
decision to adopt the comprehensive gradual stabilization program mentioned
above. The Bank currently holds about 8 percent of total medium- and long-term
public debt, and this ratio is not likely to increase in the next few years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
25.       As of April 30, 1977, Mexico had received 46 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$2,512.7 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 28 loans totalling US$1,286.7 million were fully disbursed. As of
April 30, 1977, the Bank held US$2,065.3 million of which US$799.8 million had
not yet been disbursed. Some 35 percent of Bank lending has been for agricul-
ture and rural development (14 loans for US$903.7 million), 27 percent for
power (12 loans for US$704.8 million) and 21 percent for transportation



- 8 -
projects (12 loans for US$546.7 million); the remaining 17 percent has been
for industry (US$205.5 million), water supply (US$130 million) and tourism
(US$22 million) projects. The implementation of several projects fell behind
schedule during 1976 and 1977 mainly as a result of a scarcity of counterpart
funds. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of April 30,
1977 and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
26.       Bank lending was active in FY75 with four loans totalling US$360
million, and in FY76 with four loans totalling US$315 million. In July 1976
the Executive Directors approved a US$95 million loan for a second steel
project but, as stated in a memorandum distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 5, 1977 (SecM77-258), the new Mexican Administration has reconsidered
its investment program for the immediate post-devaluation years and decided to
concentrate a greater share of its investment resources in fields which have
a rapid impact on output and foreign exchange earnings; considering the magni-
tude and long gestation period of the second steel project, the Government has
decided to postpone it sine die, and the loan was consequently terminated on
April 15, 1977. The Executive Directors approved a US$42 million loan for a
tourism project in May 1977.
IFC Operations
27.       As of April 30, 1977, IFC had made 13 investment commitments in
Mexico, for a total of US$69.1 million, of which US$37.4 million had been
sold, repaid or cancelled. The balance held by the Corporation, US$31.7 mil-
lion, consists of US$27.2 million in loans and US$4.5 million in equity. A
summary statement of IFC investments as of April 30, 1977 is presented in
Annex II.
Bank Strategy
28.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) strengthen policies and programs leading
to continued economic growth, by helping to finance projects that are to make
directly or indirectly significant contributions to output, exports, and
employment; (iii) help resolve critical adjustment problems induced by Mexico's
continued economic growth; and (iv) complement Mexico's domestic savings by
helping to finance economic and social investments in a framework of internal
and external financial stability.   In the coming years, the Bank will preferen-
tially support projects that make relatively modest demands on budgetary
resources and have a strong positive balance of payments effect, and projects
of high social priority that improve living standards, attain higher levels of
employment and help to decentralize economic activity.
29.       For the time being, Mexico's budgetary stringency and heavy external
debt burden, together with its need to concentrate an important part of its
investment program in social sectors with a low foreign expenditure component,
makes the availability of sufficient freely disposable foreign exchange parti-
cularly important. To this end, the Government is borrowing heavily from
financial intermediaries on a non-project basis. In addition it expects



-9-
project financing agencies to finance reasonable proportions of the total cost
of projects, even if this involves a certain amount of local expenditure
financing as it is likely to be needed in some of the highest priority social
sectors. Given the special circumstances of Mexico at this time, this seems
a reasonable approach.
30.       In view of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further develop-
ment, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending.
Consistent with the overall framework of country and sector objectives, a
three-tier approach has been developed. First, to strengthen irrigation and
agricultural credit programs so as to meet the demands of a rapidly growing
population more adequately and to generate the foreign exchange needed for
rising import requirements. Second, to raise the incomes of the rural poor
and improve their standards of living through a combination of directly
productive, productive support and social infrastructure investments. Third,
to strengthen Mexico's institutional capability to use scarce agricultural
resources more efficiently.
31.       Bank lending for industry has been aimed at assisting the Govern-
ment's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit and decentralize
industrial activities away from the major (and increasingly congested) urban
areas. Thus, the Executive Directors approved a Second Industrial Equipment
Fund Loan in FY76 for US$50 million, aimed at financing industrial projects
with a positive effect on the balance of payments; a US$50 million loan made
in FY75 to support a fertilizer project is promoting new poles of development
in the resource-rich southeast region and the north central area and will
help make Mexico independent of imported urea fertilizer in the medium term.
32.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to help
generate additional resources for investment financing. For example, the
Airports Development Project (FY74) of US$25 million was designed in support
of the Government's policy of regional integration; the railway loan (FY76) of
US$100 million supported improvements of institutional aspects and financial
management of the sector. The Mexico City Water Supply Project (FY73) of
US$90 million has been instrumental in the establishment of a specialized
institution for efficient management of water resources in the Mexico Valley,
and in the pricing of water at levels more closely related to costs; a
follow-up project is now being prepared.
33.       The new Administration is currently preparing a comprehensive
*investment program covering its six years of office (1977-1982) and, pending
finalization of its development program, has announced its decision to con-
centrate the bulk of its investment resources in fields which have a rapid
impact on output and foreign exchange earnings, such as agriculture, petro-
leum and tourism. It also plans to carry out programs of high social priority
to improve health standards, to obtain high levels of employment and to con-
tinue to decentralize economic activity. The Government also wishes to support
a substantial expansion of private investment in priority industries and in
tourism. In consultation with the Government, the Bank is working on several



- 10 -
projects that meet these criteria. The Bank's support to Mexico's development
effort would give high priority to: (a) projects requiring a minimum of
counterpart funds from the budget, e.g., lines of credits to private entrepre-
neurs in industry, agriculture and tourism; (b) projects in the designated
priority areas (e.g. agriculture, energy, petrochemicals, water supply,
regional dispersion of economic activities) where budget support during the
stabilization period would be assured. More specifically, the following
projects are under active consideration:
(i) a family planning project was prepared in accordance with
the wishes of the previous Administration. The new
Government, while implementing a comprehensive program
with its own resources, is now considering whether to seek
active association of an international institution for a
substantial expansion of the program into rural areas;
(ii)  a project to develop the conurbation zone of Lazaro
Cardenas into a growth pole, thereby reducing migration
from the Balsas basin to Mexico City has been appraised,
and may be ready for submission to the Executive Directors
in the coming months if the new Government's present review
of the project reaches a favorable conclusion;
(iii) a tourism credit project in support of private investment
in hotels and ancillary facilities is presently under
appraisal;
(iv)  credit projects to support agriculture and livestock
development, and for export oriented and efficient import
substitution industries are in preparation;
(v) a medium and small industry project is under preparation;
(vi)  in response to the pressing needs of the Mexico City
Metropolitan area, a water supply project has been prepared
and is due to be appraised in the fall of 1977.
The Government proposes to further review with the Bank its borrowing prior-
ities on completion of its six-year investment program when the projects listed
above will be complemented with such additional ones as are consistent with
the objectives stated in paragraph 28 above.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
34.       Mexico's rural sector is a composite of striking differences.   On
the one hand, it includes commercial farms under the management of efficient
and sophisticated rural entrepreneurs who were decisive, until the late 1960s,
in Mexico's success in satisfying the demand of a rapidly growing population



- 11 -
and in transforming the country from a net importer to a net exporter of agri-
cultural products. On the other hand, it comprises a large number of small-
holders in subsistence agriculture with small plots in unfavorable ecological
conditions. These farmers work by traditional methods, barely participate in
the market economy, live in poor social conditions and subsist on a modicum of
food production from their farms.
35.       More than 21 million people live in Mexico's rural areas.   Agricul-
ture is by far their most important employment and income source. About
4 million families, representing close to 40 percent of Mexico's labor force,
depend on agriculture for their livelihood. They comprise three distinct
groups: 1.5 million families living on ejidos, 1/ 1.2 million families living
on private farms and about 1.3 million landless families. The number of
landless agricultural workers is increasing rapidly, a consequence of limited
farm land in relation to an annual rural population growth of 2 percent. It
is estimated that 2 million rural families had incomes of less than US$150 per
capita in 1974. The income spread, limited employment possibilities and the
lack of infrastructure and social services have resulted in massive migration
from rural to urban areas.
36.       Mexico's efforts to develop its rural areas have featured two major
themes in recent decades: growth in agricultural production and consolida-
tion of land reform efforts begun following the 1910 revolution. In the
period from 1940 to 1965, Mexican agricultural production more than tripled,
making its growth rate among the highest in Latin America. In addition, more
than half of all arable and pasture lands were distributed to previously land-
less families. Income inequalities, however, widened as the economy was
unable to provide employment for the poorer sectors of the rural population,
particularly those living in rainfed agricultural areas. Per capita rural
income in Mexico is one-third of the national average, and the disparity in
its distribution--17 percent of the total farm income accrues to 51 percent
of farm holders, and at the other extreme 20 percent of income to only
4 percent of farmers--makes the life of the rural poor particularly hard.
Since 1967, the growth rate in agricultural production slowed markedly to
about 1.8 percent per year despite a continuing increase in internal demand.
Mexico has now become an importer of milk powder and dairy stock and, over the
last three years, a net importer of basic grains, especially corn.
37.       In the early 1970s, the Government began to reassess its rural
growth and development strategies. Securing wider participation of the
rural population in the market economy became essential for expanding agri-
cultural production as well as for improving the income distribution for
social stability in the rural areas. The major efforts were undertaken by
five groups:
(i) The Secretariat of the Presidency (recently restructured as the
Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting, SPP) commissioned task
forces to develop policies for achieving self-sufficiency in basic
grains and for investments to assist the rural poor. These study
I/   A form of land tenure based on usufruct.



- 12 -
groups were later institutionalized as major coordinating entities
including PIDER.
(ii) The Secretariat of Public Works (recently restructured as
Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works, SAHOP)
initiated a nation-wide program of labor-intensive feeder
road construction in 1971. Five years later some 112,000 km
of roads had been constructed, giving temporary employment to
some 190,000 rural persons.
(iii)  The Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources (recently merged
with Agriculture and renamed Secretariat of Agriculture and
Hydraulic Resources, SARH) further extended its major
program to develop the irrigation potential of substan-
tial numbers of small farmers. The Water Law of 1972 estab-
lished a framework for more efficient water resource manage-
ment and a more equitable distribution of the benefits of
irrigation to small holders. SARH also developed new criteria
and administrative systems and adapted technologies for small
scale irrigation works.
(iv)  A new Agrarian Reform Law was passed in 1971.   The Secretariat
of Agrarian Reform (SRA), created in 1974, undertook a complete
review of legislation affecting ejido farming, and revised the
procedures for the granting of land titles.
(v) Only 15 percent of the farmers received technical assistance
of any kind in the past, and few of the small holders had
access to institutional credit. Recent Government efforts
to correct this situation have been impressive. Specific
allocations of credit resources are now reserved in favor of
the low-income producers and a comprehensive technological
package is being delivered to them through financial institu-
tions and through the national rural development program.
The Bank of Mexico, operating through its agricultural
credit trust funds and following a study of credit systems
oriented to small farmers, promulgated new regulations to
encourage the banking system to intensify its operations
with smaller farmers. Other agencies, such as CONASUPO (food
marketing) and CFE (Federal Electricity Commission) also
reworked their investment programs to increase assistance to
the rural population.
38.       To coordinate and focus these efforts in the most needy areas, a
new investment program for rural development (PIDER) was developed. Micro-
regions, 1/ with a high concentration of the rural poor were chosen and
1/   Micro-regions comprise an average of 50,000 poor persons located in two
to seven contiguous rural municipalities within a state. They are
selected using criteria that balance poverty levels (per capita incomes
averaging below US$100) with potential for income increasing productive
activities.



- 13 -
specific micro-regional investment programs were prepared. A goal was set to
develop 100 such regions, and a capital expenditure budget of US$1.2 billion
was programmed. By 1977, investment programs were being implemented in 86
micro-regions with a population of some 4 million persons, and expendi-
ture in the period 1973-1976 had amounted to US$471 million. These invest-
ments cover a variety of activities, principally directly productive and
productive support activities, but also including social infrastructure.
Over the period 1977-1982 an additional US$700 million of public investment is
to be allocated to further develop the micro-region program. Some 5 million
rural persons, i.e., about 25 percent of the rural population, are expected
to benefit when the program is complete.
PIDEk I
39.       The Bank made a loan of US$110 million in May 1975 (1110-ME) to
assist the integrated rural development program in 30 micro-regions; in late
1975 the Inter-American Development Bank also made a loan of US$40 million to
assist 15 micro-regions. The proposed PIDER II project will provide Bank
assistance to 20 additional micro-regions, and with the proposed loan the two
agencies together will support the program in 65 micro-regions out of the
total of 86 operational in the beginning of 1977.
40.       To date about US$34 million of the Bank loan has been disbursed and
physical progress of the program in the 30 micro-regions is summarized in the
table below:
(1)              (2)           (3)             (4)
Projected      Actual        Column 3
Development Development in     as % of
Unit         in 3 Years   First 2 Years     Column 2
Directly Productive
Irrigation                           Ha             30,000         14,349         47.8
Soil and Water Conservation          Ha             91,000         28,887         31.7
Fruit Production                     Ha              9,500          2,778         29.2
Productive Support
Feeder Roads                         Km              1,900          1,773         93.3
Demonstration and Extension     No. of Staff           400            709        177.3
Marketing                       Market/Stores           65             52         80.0
Electrification                 Persons served     160,000        138,709         86.7
Social Infrastructure
Health Center and Posts              No.                290            71         24.5
Primary Education               Classroom             1,150           960         83.5
Drinking Water                  Persons Served      170,000       131,313         77.2



- 14 -
Productive support and infrastructure investments are nearing completion and
provide the necessary base for completion of directly productive investments
in accordance with the overall program schedule. Though the overall attain-
ment of targets has been satisfactory, the performance has varied consider-
ably across micro-regions, states and executing agencies.   These variations
have resulted from factors such as: (i) the quality and quantity of staff;
(ii) the priority given to PIDER by the state and local government; and
(iii) government-community relations.   In the current phase of project imple-
mentation, successful experiences are being extended to the less progressive
micro-regions.
41.       PIDER has been instrumental in bringing about far-reaching and much
needed institutional change.  The implementation capacity of the many agencies
involved under PIDER has been increased and activities directed towards im-
provement in the productivity and living conditions of the rural poor.    The
program is now well known and is viewed as highly successful both at local and
federal governmental levels.   As a result of initial PIDER experiences, agen-
cies have undergone internal reorganization. For example, the reorganization
of the national extension service was initiated in response to PIDER efforts.
PIDER has been a vehicle for facilitating the testing and introduction of a
variety of new technical packages developed for small farmer applications
including:  (i) a new extension methodology specifically directed toward rain-
fed agriculture (now institutionalized as the National Program for Extension
in Rainfed Areas, PRONDAAT) is currently being applied in 15 micro-regions;
(ii) improved farm storage, irrigation, pasture development and soil manage-
ment techniques in drier areas; and (iii) wider introduction of small stock on
project farms. While only two years of an estimated eight-year period to full
development have elapsed, in areas where PRONDAAT is in operation, production
and income increases are apparent and generally above estimates made when the
program was launched. In areas still served by the traditional extension
systems, progress is slower -- in many cases the PIDER-supported services
represent the first contacts small farmers have had with extension agents.
However, generally PIDER has been instrumental in improving the income of
small farmers because of- three related factors:  (i) investment in irrigation
works has brought about immediate production increases, (ii) where techno-
logical packages and credit have been effectively delivered production has
increased, and (iii) investment in feeder roads has facilitated access to
markets.
42.       After the initial problems of coordinating the accounts for such
a complex operation were resolved and satisfactory procedures established the
pace of disbursements began to accelerate.   About 30 percent of the loan funds
were disbursed during the last year and papers for several further substantial
expenditure items are being processed for submission to the Bank. As the
table in paragraph 40 shows, the physical progress under PIDER I project is
ahead of the loan disbursement. Part of the explanation for slow disbursement
lies in the inherent time lag between incurring of the expenditure and sub-
mission of accounts for disbursement to the Bank. Moreover, the effect of
devaluation has also been to reduce the dollar equivalent of peso expendi-
tures.



- 15
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       A report, entitled "Rural Development Project--PIDER II" No. 1480a-ME,
dated May 31, 1977 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. from May 19 to May 23, 1977. The
Mexican negotiating team was led by Mr. Pedro Galicia, Manager, International
Operations, Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Project Description
44.       The project consists of directly productive, productive support and
social infrastructure components designed to raise the income and improve the
standard of living of poor rural families in 20 selected micro-regions spread
throughout Mexico (please see the map attached).   When the PIDER I loan was
approved, the project description was based on Bank appraisal of 15 micro-
regions, with agreed selection criteria for the remaining 15 micro-regions;
the Government subsequently submitted satisfactory investment plans fcr the
latter group of micro-regions which formed the basis for Bank support. By the
time PIDER II project was appraised, investment programs were ready for about
41 additional micro-regions from which 20 were selected on the basis of criteria
such as size, poverty level, productive potential and need for infrastructure.
Investments in rural industrial development, a new activity under PIDER, would
be extended to the 30 micro-regions covered under the Bank-assisted PIDER I
project.
45.       About 70 percent of the project funds would be channeled into
productive investments in livestock, irrigation, rural industries, fruit
production, soil and water conservation, and associated farm development
credit; 20 percent to productive support investment for the development of
feeder roads, markets, extension services, electrification, and farmer organi-
zation efforts; 9 percent to investment in social infrastructure, such as
construction of primary education and drinking water facilities, and materials
for self-help projects on a local initiative basis; and 1% to project evalua-
tion, applied research, and training.   The COmDiDation of investments contemp-
lated for each micro-region has been detailed in individual micro-regional
plans.  Assurances have been obtained that:   (i) investment plans shall be
agreed upon by the Guarantor and the Bank, (ii) not less than 70 percent of
the total cost of each such investment plan shall be for productive invest-
ments, and (iii) the estimated return thereon shall not be less than 10 percent
(draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03).   Average investment program for a
micro-region under PIDER I was US$9.8 million, as compared to US$12.5 million
under the proposed project; the higher nominal unit costs under PIDER II are
because of the mix of the investment activities and inflation in the interven-
ing period.
Rural Industries
46.       The project would provide about US$14.0 million in support of the
development of rural industries.   Because this represents a new component, not



- 16 -
included under PIDER I, the funds would be available for projects both in the
20 micro-regions financed under the proposed project axid in the 30 micro-
regions supported under PIDER I.   The basic strategy would be:   (i) to develop
industries for exploitation of natural resources of the micro-region in order
to strengthen small-farm and ejido production; and (ii) to finance small-scale
village industry to serve local markets and to provide employment at low cost
by utilizing intermediate technologies. The strategy would support the new
Government's policy for the development of rural industries. The project
would finance:
(a) Development credit for about 50 rural industries located within
the micro-regions and owned by ejidatarios and small farmers.
About US$4.3 million of the loan would be utilized as credit
for rural industries.
(b) Investments in about 300 small scale, labor intensive rural
industries (village industries). Such investments would be
limited to US$35,000 equivalent per enterprise. The Government
is preparing a plan, to be submitted to the Bank before
June 30, 1978, for village industries specifying agencies
and criteria for eligibility (draft Guarantee Agreement, Sec-
tion 3.09).
(c) Technical assistance to identify, prepare and assist rural
industries as well as to train staff of participating agencies.
Technical assistance would comprise:
(i) expansion of technical staff and;
(ii) financing for preparation of rural industry projects in
the micro-regions and for assistance to already established
enterprises.
Rural Credit
47.       Expansion of credit availability to small farmers is an important
component of the PIDER project. About US$24 million, or 19 percent of the
proposed loan, would be utilized as medium- and long-term credit for on-
farm development; in addition about US$24 million of incremental develop-
ment credit would be provided by Mexican financial institutions. Seasonal
production credit would be provided by Mexican institutions but not re-
imbursed from the proposed loan. Development loans would be made on terms
identical with those under other Bank-financed credit programs for low
income producers, and any changes in terms under such programs would be
automatically applied to new lending under the PIDER II project (Schedule to
the draft Project Agreement, Paragraph 2). The Government has recently
decided to raise the interest rates for agricultural credit by 2 percentage
points from 7.6 percent to 9.5 percent and from 9.0 percent to 11.0 percent.
The same institutional arrangements would be used under this project as under
other Bank-financed agricultural credit programs in Mexico. A group of trust
funds (FIRA) under the control of the Bank of Mexico would rediscount loans
to project beneficiaries made by private and public lending institutions.



17 -
48.       PIDER is designed to provide low income producers in isolated
micro-regions with both social and productive infrastructure, as well as
increased amounts of technical assistance and production credit. FIRA and
PIDER staff have jointly assessed the credit needs of the micro-regions and
are currently resolving the organizational problems inherent in operating a
sound credit system covering subsistence farmers over such a dispersed area.
Unit Costs
49.       To prevent investment in works with excessive unit costs or
works benefiting only a few families, the following limits would apply:
-    For irrigation, a ceiling of US$32,000 would be continued for
small-scale irrigation projects of 25 ha or less each, with a
maximum investment of US$5,000 per family of beneficiaries; a
per hectare ceiling of US$2,500 equivalent would be imposed;
to be eligible, a family's pre-project net agricultural annual
income should not exceed US$2,500 (draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.05 (a));
-    Installation cost of rural electrification would not exceed
US$150 per person (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.14 (a));
- - The Government's contribution for rural water systems would not
exceed US$100 per person (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.15
(a)); and
-    A maximum of US$40 of material and equipment per beneficiary of
self-help projects would be provided (draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.16 (b)).
Organizatior. and Mana&ement
50.       The Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting (SPP) would have
principal responsibility for execution of the project. Under its direction,
the following Government Departments and Agencies would participate: the
Secretariats of Agriculture and Water Resources, Finance, Public Works and
Human Settlements, Health and Assistance, and Agrarian Reform, Federal Elec-
tricity Commission, National Company for Popular Subsistance (CONASUPO),
Committee for Administration of the Federal School Construction Program,
National Arid Zones Commission, National Indigenous Institute, National
Institute for Rural Community Development and Low Cost Housing, the National
Rural Credit Bank and the Agricultural Trust Funds (FIRA).
51.       The need to coordinate closely the activities of so many independent
organizations has led to the formation of a three tier structure described
below. The basic philosophy behind this structure is to place appropriate
responsibilities at the federal, state and local levels, while encouraging
and supporting organization of PIDER beneficiaries and their participation
in program formulation and project execution.



- 18 -
52.       At the federal level, PIDER policy is developed and coordinated
through the Directorate of Promotion and Regional Operations of the SPP. This
Directorate is supported by a Sub-Directorate of Rural Development (i.e.,
PIDER) with a staff of some 95 technicians responsible for reviewing invest-
ment plans, management operations and monitoring investment.
53.       At the state level, coordination of the programs is handled by a
Coordinating Committee consisting of the state level directors of the partic-
ipating agencies under the chairmanship of the state governor. Actual manage-
ment is the responsibility of the new state level SPP representative who is
the technical secretary of the State Committee. The SPP representative is
assisted by a technical secretariat of professionals including a state level
PIDER coordinator and resident coordinators for each of the states' micro-
regions who work closely with local elected officials and community leaders.
54.       At the local level, the peoples' participation, essential to the
implementation of PIDER investments, is achieved through a variety of schemes
which depend on the political, social and administrative characteristics of
the sector and micro-region. In some cases such programs as feeder roads or
small irrigation works have served to launch permanent village committees
which then undertake additional PIDER activities. As a rule, SRA field
personnel take the lead in organizing communities at the start, involving
municipal chiefs, ejido presidents, teachers, or other appropriate persons.
These local leaders in turn generate community participation as well as
provide an information link to the state-level technical secretariat.
55.       Experience to date indicates that the three tier system works
satisfactorily and without undue inter-agency friction. The system enables
effective two-way communications: the micro-region staff provides to the
federal and state-level authorities a more realistic assessment of ejido and
village development preferences. While the authority for approval of the
overall investment programs remains at the federal level, the responsibility
for plan preparation and coordination of the different agencies is taken over
increasingly at the state level. Local participation is essential for success
of the rural development program and is encouraged by making beneficiaries
increasingly aware of the impact of the projects on the community and their
role in implementing and operating those facilities. The individual project
works are executed by the appropriate public agency, as determined by the
central coordinating committee and concurred in by the state committee. Opera-
tion and maintenance, other than for larger works, are increasingly being trans-
ferred to the benefiting communities.
Evaluation
56.       The national program has an inbuilt evaluation arrangement to ensure
the effectiveness of PIDER. Evaluation is carried out by the Rural Development
Research Center (CIDER) which has institutional autonomy from PIDER. CIDER is
responsible for evaluating the impact of the rural development program in
Mexico; its principal focus is on PIDER, though it has undertaken studies of
other related programs also. In addition, CIDER is involved in devising
an improved rural investment programming methodology and assisting PIDER in



- 19 -
its implementation, in undertaking various research efforts, and in the
training of PIDER field staff. CIDER's role is to estimate the real benefit
to rural communities from rural development efforts, and in addition to
measuring yield and income changes, CIDER gives attention to analyzing admin-
istrative and structural changes that are required for the program to result
in self-sustaining growth. Thus, in addition to economic analysis, CIDER
evaluates (i) the effectiveness of institution building under the PIDER
investment and service strategy; and (ii) the degree and quality of local
participation in programming and execution of the investment program.
Improvements
57.       While the system as described has worked reasonably satisfactorily,
the areas described below are being improved:
(i) Interagency coordination between PIDER and FIRA has been
improved and formalized through the implementation of an
operational agreement between SPP and the Bank of Mexico.
Similar agreements have been signed by PIDER with SRA and
SARH;
(ii) Construction of works would continue to make the maximum
possible use of labor-intensive technologies; feeder road
construction would be scheduled to provide the minimum
interference with agricultural activities (draft Guarantee
Agreement, Sections 3.11, 3.12);
(iii) Planning would be strengthened by requiring (a) feasibility
studies for productive investments (draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.10), (b) technical and economic plans for soil and
water conservation works (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.07), and (c) for irrigation works, the continuation of SARH's
practice of conducting feasibility studies (draft Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.05);
(iv) Farmer response to technical assistance has varied across
regions, but a clear pattern is evident supporting the
effectiveness of the PRONDAAT program. PRONDAAT will be
extended to the PIDER II micro-regions by December 31, 1980
(draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.13); and
(v) Written agreements with beneficiaries to operate and maintain
works would be required prior to commencement of construction
(draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.06).
Financing. Beneficiary Contribution and Cost Recovery
58.       A breakdown of costs is presented in the Loan and Project Summary.
Total project costs are estimated at US$255 million equivalent. The proposed
loan would finance 47 percent of project costs and would cover the foreign
exchange costs of US$46 million and US$74 million of local expenditures.
The balance (US$128 million) would be provided by the Government and by the



- 20 -
beneficiaries (US$7 million in cash). Beneficiaries would contribute an
additional US$40 million worth of material and labor; the value of these
non-cash contributions is not included in the US$255 million cost of the
project.
59.       As explained earlier, Mexico is passing through a difficult stabili-
zation program. The Government is engaged in reviewing the fiscal situation
with a view to reduce the deficit of the public sector. Along with measures
that enable the economy to return to an equilibrium growth path, Mexico faces
a major problem of finding gainful employment for the new additions to the
rural work force, to stem migration away from the villages and to provide a
minimum acceptable nutrition level to the poorest of its people. The national
rural development program that the Government is now consolidating is modest
with respect to the scope of the problem that exists in Mexican villages even
though the demand on its limited fiscal resources is significant in the aggre-
gate.
60.       The Government's policy is to recover as much as feasible of
investments from beneficiaries taking into account the extent to which
private benefits are identifiable and beneficiaries have the capacity to
repay. Thus, while the Government would aim at substantial recovery of
directly productive investments, repayment rates would depend on the income
levels of beneficiaries and would be agreed upon in writing with the benefi-
ciaries prior to construction (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.06).
Although the benefits of this project would go to the rural poor, who will
need part of the project-related incremental income to meet subsistence needs,
it is estimated that 61% of investments in directly productive activities
would be recovered. Further, 6% of productive support services and 11% of the
cost of social infrastructure would be recovered. The cost of maintaining and
operating directly productive facilities would be borne fully by beneficiaries.
They would also be charged the full operating costs for marketing, electricity,
drinking water and selfhelp projects, and would contribute to education (draft
Guarantee Agreement, Sections 3.14 and 3.15). At full development, the addi-
tional fiscal burden for Government would be US$8 million per annum, a small
part of which (10 percent) would be offset through additional tax revenues as
a result of incremental production and income from the project.
Procurement
61.       This project includes a diversity of relatively small construction
jobs spread over a wide area and at several sites with difficult access. Addi-
tionally, many project works are designed to use local materials and will be
constructed during agriculturally slack periods with labor intensive methods
to maximize benefits to the local population. In these circumstances the
procurement procedures summarized below would be applied for civil works,
machinery, equipment, material and other supplies:
(i) Contracts would be grouped, where feasible, into packages to
encourage competition in bidding;



- 21 -
(ii) All contracts and purchases exceeding US$250,000 equivalent
would be awarded under international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Guidelines. A preference for domestic
suppliers of up to 15 percent would be permitted in the
evaluation of bids for equipment items; and
(iii) All contracts of less than US$250,000 equivalent would be let
under local competitive bidding, negotiated contracts or
force account, in accordance with Government's regular pro-
cedures which are acceptable to the Bank. For such contracts,
appropriate unit prices would be pre-established.
It is anticipated that because of the decentralized nature of the proposed
project, few contracts would be let under international competitive bidding
and that because of the competitiveness of local suppliers, few international
firms would be attracted to bid.
Disbursement
62.       The Bank would reimburse at the rate of 51 percent of total expendi-
tures for civil works, equipment, vehicles and technical services of agencies
participating in the program, against appropriate documentation, and 56 per-
cent of the rediscounts of the development credit component administered by
FIRA, against certificates of expenditure. As agreed for PIDER I, documenta-
tion for the credit component and for civil works by force account would be
retained within Mexico and held available for inspection by the Bank during
the course of supervision missions. The statements of expenditure, certified
by the Secretariat of Finance, would reflect the expenditures made by each
agency in each approved micro-region. The loan is expected to be disbursed
in four years, 1978 through 1981.
Project Risks
63.       The project has risks.  First, while two-thirds of the micro-regions
would be in the higher rainfed areas (over 700 mm annually), the remaining
third would be located in areas with less rain where the introduction of
irrigation, crop and pasture improvement and water conservation works would
be emphasized to reduce farmer risks. Improved field demonstration closely
tied with intensified extension efforts would be emphasized under the Project.
Assurances have been obtained that the improved extension services (PRONDAAT)
would be applied in PIDER II micro-regions (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.13). The operational soundness of this approach has been demonstrated under
PIDER I. Secondly, while on average the estimated rates of return at micro-
region level embody expectations about final outcomes that are reasonable and
realistic, the caliber of local leadership and of staff will bear importantly
on these outcomes. It would be unrealistic to suppose that staff and leader-
ship quality will be uniform. So, in some regions, expectations may not be
fulfilled while in others better than anticipated results may be achieved.
However, the PIDER coordinating mechanism has demonstrated a capacity to
respond quickly and flexibly to problems of execution, and the CIDER will
continue to undertake major evaluation efforts as a basis for ongoing adapta-
tion of the program in the light of changing needs and circumstances.   More-
over, the Project would emphasize responsiveness to local needs, self-help



- 22 -
activities, creation of users' associations, and the development of local
leadership in order to improve the probability that the Project investments
and services would eventually lead to a self-sustaining development momentum
at the local level. Thirdly, previous efforts to promote rural industries in
Mexico have met with mixed success. The PIDER rural industry project will
provide extensive technical assistance in organization and management of
industries as opposed to merely providing buildings and equipment.
Project Impact
64.       The project would benefit areas with a total rural population of
about 1 million. Beneficiaries targeted for project support have family
incomes ranging from US$250 to US$750, placing them in the lower 40% of the
national income distribution.  Under the proposed project, about 46,000 farm
families would benefit from directly productive activities. Some 32,000 farm
families (190,000 people) would be expected to achieve a near doubling of
income over a period of eight years. The incomes of an additional 14,000 farm
families benefiting from the 34,000 ha to be irrigated would be expected to
triple from present levels at full development. Some 200,000 people would
have access to improved rural infrastructure; about 65,000 man-years of
temporary employment and 30,000 permanent jobs would be created. Rural
industries supported under the project would provide the equivalent of full-
time employment to approximately 4,000 persons. The industry component is an
important model for further rural investments to increase job opportunities
for the large number of rural unemployed and underemployed.
Economic Evaluation
65.       The estimated average economic rate of return for the project as a
whole is 23.7 percent; this would vary for micro-regions, ranging from 13.2 to
36.5 percent. In computing the rates of return, only the costs and benefits
of directly productive and productive support components have been considered.
The costs of social investment (10 percent of total project cost) have not
been charged against the project, nor have the benefits from improved health
and education, social awareness, and community development been credited to
it. In calculating the economic cost of labor, shadow prices varying by
micro-region from 100% of the minimum government daily wage to 52% were used.
The differences reflect mainly the relative uniformity of officially deter-
mined wage minima vis-a-vis variations in the minimum supply price of labor,
the latter being influenced by severity of rural underemployment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S. A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the Banco de
Mexico, S. A., the report of the committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of a Resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 23 -
68.       The special conditions of the project are listed in Section II of
Annex III.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
May 31, 1977






fO 4 p.
TABLE 3A
MEXICO             - SOCIAL INDICAroRS DAoT4 SHEET
LANC AREA (THOU KUI2I       
LAND AREA _THO_                                NEXICO                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES l1970)
TOTAL     1912.5                                     MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      948.9                     1960      1970   ESTIMATE          BRAZIL        CHILE      sPAINm
GNP PER CAPITA (USAI                   420o.o    7O.0      1i-o.o             54O.o       40.o      1560.0
_ _---------------          
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION IMID-YR, MILLIONI          36.0      50.4       60.1              92.8         9.7       33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      18.0      26.0       30.0              11.0       13.0        67.0
PER SO. KN. AGRICULTURAL LAND       35.0      52.0       63.0              49.o       60_0       105. 
VITAL STATISTICS
AVERAGE BIPTH RATE I/THOUI          46.1      43.8       42.0              38.4        32.9       21.0
AVERAGF DEATH RATE (/THOUI          14.0      i0.2        8.6               9.9       11.0         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOUI       74.0      68.5      52.0              110.0       79.0        27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRS)      56.3      62.4       64.7              59.7       60.6        70.5
GRCSS REPRCcUCTION RATE              3.2       3.1       3.0                2.6         2.2        1.4
POPULATI')N GROWTH RATE R15
TOTAL                                3.1       3.4       3.3                2.9        2.4         1.1
URBAN                                4.9       4.8       5.1                5.0        3.5         2.0
URBAN POPULATION (K OF TOTAL)         50.7      58.7       63.3              56.0       76.0        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      44.2      46.2      46.3               42.0       39.0        27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                      52.1      50.1      50.3               55.0       56.3        62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                    3.7       3.7       3.4                3.0        4.7         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.9       1.0       1.0                0.8        0.8         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.7       2.0       1.8 /i             1.5        1.6         1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)          ..      55.5     321.1              250.0      403.5
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMENI            ..        ..      13.1                1.6
EP'LOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       11300.0   13000.0   16600.0            29600.0     2900.0     11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGPICULTURE   I)       54.0     I45.o      41.0               44.0       21.0       25 .0
UNEMPLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCEI           ..        .         ..                 ..        4.1S        1.1
INCCmE DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC*D BY-
HIGHEST 5s OF HOUSEHOLDS            28.6 Ia   27.2       30-7              35.0       31.0
HIGHEST 208 OF HOUSEHOLDS           58.1 7    5 8.1     60.2              62.07&     55.8
LOWEST  20S OF HOUSEHOLOS            3.7       3.4       2.1                3.0 j      4.8
LOWEST  40t OF HOUSEHOLDS           10.S      10 T.7     8.2               10.0       1 13.0
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_  _ -------_-_   - _ _ _  _ _---- _ _ _ 
s CWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS            ..      37.1        ..               45.0
s OWNED RY SMALLEST 10o OWNERS          ..       0.3        ..                1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
_ _ -  --- _   -  _  --__-------
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            1800.0    1480.0        ..             1910.0     2210.0 A    7 40.0
PCPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2830.0    1620.o /c                    3 3220 0   5830.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          590.0     960.0     830.0 &            260.0      270.0      220.0
PEP CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (K OF REQUIPEMENTS)       107.0     1to.0     115.0              109.0      101.0      107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             65.0      65.0      61.0               o4.0       71.0       81.0
-CF WHICH ANIMAL ANO PULSE        29.0 /d   28.0 /      *-               39.0       32.0       40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4           12.7       9.8       8.4                 ..        3.9         0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      81.0     106.0     107.0 /d            87.0      103.0      131.0
SECONDARy SCHOOL                   11.0       23.0      24 0        2       8.0       36.0       57.0
YEARS OF SCHCCLING PROVIDED
IFIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0      12.0      12.0              13.0        12.0       11.0
VOCAT IONAL ENROLLMENT
it CF SECONDARYI                    24.0      24.0        ..              17.0        33.0       20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)               62.0 /    76.0       76,0              68.0       90.0       94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER POOM (AVERAGE)             2.6       2.2        ..1.0                        1.3
OCCUPIED CWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (K)                    76.0 I     61.0  b     ..              73.0 2      40.0/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 ..       59.0        ..              48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY 1K)                    ..      28.0        ..               8.0
CONSUMPTI ON
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        95.0     276.0     311.0               60.0      143.0      214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)         14.0      24.o      31.0              25.0        18.0       71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)         313.o     567.0     707.0             491.0       806.0     1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              2.8       3.2       2.5                2.7        5.0        5.8
SEE NnTES AND CEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



am
ades" otfou.l" noted, data for 1960 ret.r to aw yenr betwo. 1959 and 196, for 1970 betwen 1968 and 1970, and for Moat Recent Ratimat. baUteen
1973 and 1975.
a am' pwr anita eolat dot 6. ot refisot the agudf1mmt d.,eusant of ploe In Asget 1976.
dp ain baa boem a"leoted as -    objectivn nocntry beomae. it. per natita men.n is bl1.r than Mmdicc' , and bacoum both ncuntriea have in c
the isportanne of touxim and tho oianflunc of nearby rich., countries.
SMOD  US      A   19631      t 3holud.. aidwifer7 and euvman     amxdlaoi.sj    ag  1962i    Zg   1961-62,    Le  Six yews and cverj      4C   Inside
~22~  196J4-66;   &    Inside onlay    /a 3Doleding assistant across.
M00T ERXCT ISTflCUSe      /a  1973-75 official .etimatej     /b 1970-75s     /a   DAtin of populaticn under 15 and 65 and nove to total labor
faresl    Li 1n7        /i 1972.
RRA=      19Z0    Ai honoical.27 actie poplaUtions         &   Snapital paomonnlj      La  Melde inly.
0     2 =    AiGyso Sntiagi         /b  Paweomnal in government s.reiloos-colys     /a  Inaida only.
M2A       j,O     ALi hplqmnt. offln. aatimtaj        A    Registered, not all pmoainn    in tbo oontry.
RB, May 26, 1977
nWVXTIiU O? SOCIAL INICATORS
Land Araa (thou- 2                                                                    ou.tn      . orion Par.o     - Popl.tion divided by n0bar of practticig
T To- otal SurfaceSr.. c-priolg land aras ad Linlad wetars.                        male        ala radu-te nuea      t-ilod" or ea.rtified" nur ..a. aod
Astir. -Moat r.'c.t .atisate of agiulua         ara  od tempOrar ily or p5..-          .miliary parnnnl with training or experienc.
neatly for  rops. p-mcres,   arkat & kitohen gardans or to lia failo..             Pou1otiosn Per hoanitl bad - Popultiot divid.d by oisber of hoapita1 hod.
evail.bl. in pubLn nod privan  S.-ar.I and *p..i.iisad hoapital ond
GNP omr -solts (Wi) - GE? per c.pita ..tinat.a at current arkat pricas,                hsbbilitation oata:nltd*. m-Iig bin           .nd d.t.blainaocta for
caloioIted by .m   -conerain cathod na World Bank Atlna (1973-75 booLal;             oatodi.1 and proacativ   care
1960; 1970 and 1975 data,                                                          Per canit. sunoly of oalori.a (% of reewirsoaau) - Conptcad frn  -negy
aq.1-lalet of met food aupplina availabl. in coutry par capit. par day;
Populatito sad vital atatistic,                                                        ovailabla auppli.a omeprian dmaa tic production * iports len anport., aod
Ponulation (sid-y-a nillion)   As of July firnt: if not -avelbla, avoraga              thins, In atock; oat ..pplino ...lcde .obtal food, aend., quantitia. uaod
of two, an-7ar natinatma; 1460, 1970 nod 1975 data,                                  in food proce-ing and loan.. in distribution; roquirnnta waro .ntinntad
by YAO b ..d.00 ph-  ilnialoda f or --Ina attiviy and health .onad-
Populaion d-nit, - oar Os-ar ho - Mid-y-a population p.r squr     kilmoart             acing a-vc     tal taap-.nrtc, body weight., age and non diatrihutioa   of
(100  notaoa  o  totl am .  ofpo:Pulatio, and n11io.in                                                 101 for wnat. at houahbld imoe.
pop1aio h aary-no       oar   - of nogrio. land - Conptsd a. abowe for              frtit      uoyfOranfrm              arday) - Protnin noatant of par .apita
agrituItural land only.                                                              net aupply of food pa;rtda,;oat auPPIly of food is dafinad on bwov; roquire-
mento for oil ,toutrins eatablinbed by USDA E.cnmi RD.aaarh Sarviens
Vitalat1   ntc                                                                         provid. for a ninian  allonanc  of 60 er-, of total protein par day. ond
Crud. hirtb rota oar thound. ayearna - Anoa lion birth. per ithunand of                20 grin of on1Ina  and pal.. p-toint, of which 10 gr-o ObOld ho .ninol
nid-y..r popuintion; ten-year -ritboeti. everegn  anding in 1960 and 1970.           prot.in; thoa stand.rda are Io.ar than thoac of 75 gm    of totai p-otein
nod fivn-y*ar -vrag. amding in 1975 f or most rmeant extineta.                       and 23 garm  of -nim1 protein an on -oareg for tho ,aorId, propoSod by FAO
Cr,,d. death rats par thcuaand. overag. - An-o,a death. par tbouand of mid-year        in tho Third WorId Food Survy.
population; ton-year aritinasti. vaeragas endtng In 1960 and 1970 and f iv.-       Por -Pnit. protein -unoly fran acnhal and pilan - Protein aupply of food
oeaeaeading is 1975 for not rooet eatinata.                                   dnrived fran nnnL-1 and pu1... in grina par day.
,lf.ner Soclirrtn fthou) - Annua d.ath. of infant. ond.r 0- y.ar of as.              Death rat  (/thou) Mon  i-4 - An-usl dnatha par thousand in ag. grop 1-4
,par t= ,aadliv. birtha.                                                              year, to children in this nan groop; .ngoosted oasa   niao     of
Lifn as  Stme    t birt ib fre) - Avr.rnp  -br of yenrn of life reasining at             tmalurtion.
birth; unualy five-year overnag. ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for devnloP-
ing co,mtri...                                                 g~~~~~~~~~~~d-otion.
;roon reord=  .io  rate - overage nishn  of live daghtnre a wo-   will hoar           Adloated enro1lnentrratio - _rina-, sohool -ifnrollnat of all agee as par-
in hor norma reprdctiv. period if eh. epreenprsent           ge-ep-ific              c-anin. of p64"r acoaepopulation          -inodn  c hildre  nand 6-1l year
fertil Ity rain.; moolly fiv-year v.ragoa noding in 1960, 1970 and 1975              but adjuatd for different length. of primay sducation; for cootrina with
for develping mam.oieeleducation, anollant nay encood 1001 SI-n-cam                                                                            pupils..no below
Ppopl.tion groth rote M1  - total - Conpcod annua grooth rst.. of mid-year              or abowe the offi.in1 school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                        Adluwtod an1olnet rstio - ..oondrv School - Conputed Se bhov; -noodar
Population gr   h rib t  MI  - urban - Conputed liko growth rate of total              education requires nt lacet fou year. of approved prinary itsirution;
population; diffemnt d.finitioco of urban am. my affect cnparbility of                providon gannrn1, voction-l o- teacher troinig iatruttion. for pupil.
dnia n..g to,ottril-                                                                  of 12 to 17 yearn of age; corepondence courses am   ge...rally -acided.
Urban onulatibo  (-1 of torsi) - Otilo of urben to tota  poP.Intion ; difftrent        er.o     holnnrvedfitadscnd 1llvta                    Total year. of
dfiioaoorban area  may nffact Oc"abeility of data Soog counctrin.             nodoldg;atfe7t lee,Veati_ intruto                    may ho partially or
05  trcue nrc )-t  ChIdre  (0-14 year.), wokblg-eg. (15-64 y.nre),            Voctional enrollmet Cl of encondary) - Vocationa    i-titictioca, include
and rtirnd (65 years an   over) as p-atanag     of mid-year populattion,              technical, idutrial or othr progres     hitih oprnte Ind.ped.ntly or as
Age doeMdeocy ra tio - Ratio of populatin onder 15 nod 65 and ovr to tboec              d.partuanit of ecrondary i-t itutiocan.
of age. 15 thro'h hi.                                                              -Adlt literacy rote (%) - Lit-rt. adc1t (eble to red end -rit.) a. par-
icLonon  denondency ratio - Ratio of popultion ondr 15 ond 65 and over to               ...ntags of total adult popul.tioc aged 15 years and over.  -
the labor force in e:gtgroup of 15-64 years.
foniiy planning -t tcetoefc     live. thou) - Cunlative nunhr of Scepor toui
of birth-control device. under aupice  of national faniiy plnning prngrem           P       pen ar roan (urbnn) - Ave- eoag oc brof p-roon per roo  In occpied
L..c iconpti_o.                                                                      convenIonal dwellings in urban -rae    dwellinge exclude nn-peem-net
Femily P-olanm   -  oe 7    f naried Sae)     Pecnan      of e   ird ""ne  of           tiructur: ad unoccpied pa-t..
chl-otigae('15-44 yerhpooe       li-oto      dei, toalere                    ouid d"ellin. without opipd water (7.) - Oc-pied convetional dw.iiioge
aeIt    m   g  group.                                                              in urbon and ruro Inmna without imidn or outaid. piped w.tor focilitina
ae percetage of all- oupiod dvliing.
ftniovoot                                                                             Acc... to electricity Cl of all, dwelinn) - Conventional doellinga with
Total lnhor force (th-oand) - Oconanicaly acti-n parvon, including   armd               electricity In living quarter. a. percent of total dumIling. torban and
forcee and uneplyed hot eolding bhunew1v. stdente, etc..; definition.-. rural                 a..
Invario    co:tirie  am nMt canparable.                                           Rura dwellin," cnneted to al1otriclty a7) - Conputed on above for rur.i
Labor force In  giutr      (7.) - Agrioultuca1 labor forc  (i  forming, forestry,       dwellings only.
bunting and finbig) an p-arctage of total labor force.
Unmaplored (7X of labor force) - Unspioyed em  -:uaIIy defined an pr.on  who          ConnoPtio
non able and  illing to tak. a Job, out of a Job on a given day, remand out         Radio receivers (oar thou pop) - All typon ofreive for radio br.adc.ets
of a j ob, and aebing work for a specified ninin    period not mncnding on           to geeral public per thowo"d of populati"n; -nolde" uIicemed receivere
week Say not be canpareble hotwee   cotiri.. due to different definition              In omntrig, and In yearn whan registration of radio  eta yea, in effect;
of unplyed and noncom of data, e.g., employmet office atetinLica, .aple               datm for recent ynar my not ho   anparable Sinc  noe.. coutriea aholinhed
eu-vye, canpul1oy anmploymet leua        .licensig.
pa.!ooner cara (oa touo) - Pa...eeger care canprise ootor coca neatiog
10ci dia'trihution - Prerat.go of private bncoo   (both in ca.h ond bind)               less than aight pomna  Inoldee onbulanon, hoareen and military
rciebyrichost 51, ribhast 201, pooreat 20X, and pooret 401 of hooae-             ehiclon.
holds.                                                                              Elnotri.ity fhkh/yr par cap) - Annua con,aption of iaduatri.1, cnril
public and priva te ee-tri.iry In kilonatt bour par -npit., generally
Distribution of land menhrip - Percetage. of land opwned by weethibiet 10.              booed on prodotion data,   ithoutalonc     for I-a. in grid. but allow-
and poorest 101 of land   nanin                                                           for luports and emport of el1ctri.icy.
Newaorict (kg/yr par cap) - Par capitaS.. anua caunption In kilogrin
Re-lt, and Nutrition                                                                    estimated fran donatic production pin net itport. of noenprint.
pom'Iit!io oa   heyalian - Population divided by msher of prncticig
pbooae  ulified fran a medical school at ni-verity level.



.40t00>                   a  o a.ooooo    0-    aoaooo       0   oat,               -               10  .0000 0000  .0.00,0,0.. 00000.000    j
oa000      '  i'      to o.ICCoOtoo.l0o  000.  0.-.0000C00    H0.OtoO                               o o'oao    W0    0000000000
..aro.oo  s-i'.. pop...,  oOO.0   0.   000        -  .00000.0     0.o.  0.O0000    000000       0-  000    0000a00000000000000000                         0000.00    0
o <0.0     0   00000      0  00 000.0     -O    .0000-00     0   000      0    00    0.  0 *a0000 00     0000.      100.  OOoOOoooOO          .0
o.oC.000   0   .00        0  -000    00   .00   000.00       0   *OCOO    a  0000       00000C000101     .0000000         0005000000          0
000          0.0        0    00000000.0001000              -    00. > o""         - oa"nooaoooooa                o.0                       -
00000 .0.00000000 00 0 0 0 000000 0 oOO 00 - 00 0 00o.'0 10 0 - 100 0.00 
0.0.0.00.0.00001<                      <Cl        0.   .000       ,aa   0  0,000     0. ....     0.    aaootaooooo                 tO  0      0   00     00000000
000 0 0000 o-o                    0   .00        0.                -    Oato       0. .-.01        ,a'a'o  0  Oobo0.0 0.       0000             061
o0aano0o9oo                 0     0    -              0.00   0   COO    000000     0   tO       0.    00   0. 00    0   0       OO0             .
000000       0000        -.. a     a 00          '    *0                       0 o         a .o.'-o.oOOO 0 00                          00           000.00      0
oOOOaOa.00000 00                         0 00
aaaaoo 0000        0                    C         -    00.0       0,00     0000....              0. 0.      0   00   000.0       oa    0.         00         -00.0    a
00000001         00                0  0          0    -.  a      0    z     o'   00          o   00.0         0        0       0          a   -n       "a0v0      
000.00.000                              0     oCt                 .0  0'.0  0                00          0    0000
o oOoo.aO. CCao *                      00         0                            00    0           00    0.0.      0.     .00
0                             -                 00                          .        0   00       000000.0    0
000000.000000                      g                             00       0        .0                 00               a'           a      0.  0<       gOO0j
00000.40         .                                                 0      0   0                 a                                               oo       oat,   0   a
- 0OCOaOO.....000                     .0              .o         0.0      0   0                                         00            a      -
000 00 000 0 -  .01000
0   CO 000000'                     0   .0              0.0        -.0                                                    0             0      00  00       000   00
00000.0.000...'                    0   0               00         0'..              0                                                                          0
0                  0                                                                 0,0          000  0.
0001<      00    0                                     on         oo       0         o                                     S0
0                   00         00                 0                                     0                                 0   0
0.a0o0.o'.                                              0        0
.0000000                           00                  00                           00
0                   0'                                                                I0,.'004
C C.,.,      o' O0,00,t                -                 .0              00.0,0040.000   00
010,0004                OOtCJO04to Lot   t0.00           0,00' 0004040040000
to*00       00000     0101000CC                         00000100000000000
0.00.0000                        0.0.0.                                            01.00.0.                04000'00000A00   000000000        00000010004000000004
0.000000'                           00004
00.00    000.                                                                                                                                         04     04 04             00
00000                                                               -     04C..t   000.000.                -                o.o  0           0.000,00  04040' 0'
00004.000                                           a..a00      0-0.00                  .0010004         00104           CC0040400C400 0.
2So             0104000      00 04                            0'tot004                             040400 0010.0    010000C.t0      O04040104 00               CO  -
0   0  00                        000CC                            0400C40.00       0,0o040,4               0C00000CC040,4   0.t40000.        CC.4..J0.04t0010004C.0
000000                           OC0,0.0
'-000.00                    -                                                      0000                                                                          50
0000                      .0                                                                                                           2        00
0000     Ct'0                  a                   0000.004000          04.00040.  (0 ..004 0.
50             0400             04004        0   0000,0000400,0000   0
0.  00000.        .01    100                                                   0                                                         0   0.
OOOtO            000.00CACCO                  0..000C4C40 00     000040 CCC  0   .0000.00  0             01000. toO  0.   0.004        0   00000.000000000  00 00     CC
0.0000000           1 00000                     0001000000.       0' to 01000000  0  0404000  0  000000    0.000.00000004   .0000000     0   00-0.0040000004     0       00
.0000000000           0000000        00004         01040' 0.0000      010.CC04 000  0  0.00.00  0  000.00  0000000400000000     0010.00      004040.00000000000000.  0      0
5     0.                     040000         04LotCCto0004      .0000404010  0  0000CC                  0.00C.0000'00    00010.0.001  00  .O00CCCCCC0.0404000
000                                  0.0CC                                                                 0                                 0                       CO
000                                                                                                        0                                 .0                      CC
00                    to         0                  00.040.0000       00000100100000'                     ..       -          ...                                          too
00001001    0.0                  00                04                              00  0.040               0   0004  0          000400       0   000000000000.00  CC
I     ,                                                                             00  0400.040.0.00   00000040.        0000000'C40.0000 00                   '0
00                    *0I*00*0'00I8 -                                00,4.'400'0      00400               00  00000000000      000400000.   0   000000000000000.8   0
804.00000.0                                                  04*.'*
0000000000                    00040040004       01040.000400     00040
000100      000101     0.01000000.      0000000004   00'00000..0 000000              0,0
0450               00.0000000                      0 *0*.                .              .              .              .              0
0.000000     00.00                0  0.0400000.0000100000.00           0004000000.00.004040                   8
0.0   0    0.00                00    0000                                          0                                                                  0.     0.   00  0
00                            000
S0oo                           04
too                   - I       000                                   000    0000  0   000000. 0               0000  -          000400       0   0100000  000.00  CC 00      -
00                    0000400000                    C**C*            ''''         CO    ' '                   ' -   0           -           0  0o0
00                      00000.00,0                                   0000000004       00000000     000001     0CJCC,40004     01000000.    00400000.0040000.00000                     S
001000000000                                    00000000         0.0000                             01040400040.'      0  000000000010000.000          00
100                   0101t04100     00.0                             0000010.00      0000                    00000000000.0    000.0.000        040000000000.000.00  .0
00.                                  00000.                           0101000400   .0  00.04                   0000000000000    000000000        0000000040.000004   .0
04000                                         0                                                                 .
00                            0
00                                            .000000004                          0               .0              .0.0000.      0   0'
0000000001000                            0.00.00004       040000          000.0000  00000   0
040.00000                                       00.00000000      000000                  0000000000004040004               0.000000000000.  00        ItO
000000000000     0000040      0000       00000100.000     0000000004       00040001000.0000000
00000000000      0.000                   0001010.0000     00000010         00040.0400.0040.000         0
00                    00.0000 0 00000                                                  . .                .                 .                .                .                 1-0.
0000                             000001000004     00040.00     0.000      000.000000004000000100            00000000400100000              0
E                            500 0.0.00                               01000100        000.000                    001.001                                               00
00  0                                                                                                                                                                      00
0.0                                  00-04                            000.0000000      00000000     000401     0.0   0001.0.00.00000             0J001                     00          0
00                                   040400                           0000.00.0100     00010000     0.0000     0000.0400000     00000004         00400000000001000
0.0100                                                                                                                                             E
10           00
00    0.                              C C
00                                    , , ,                              CC Ct        0000.        010000     00010.000.000'   0400000000       00.000000040,0              00.0
0                                                                                                                                                                            0000
0     0      0                                                        0.00.0.0000      0000000      00400      00040.0000000    00000000         0.000101010.00000000        10000
C0'''C           . . . . . . ..01 00
0.000000000      00000400     00000.     00000000000      00040000        0000000004000000400         loot,
04
0                01040. 00
0                004000300  00
0.               0004000000  0                                     04   -               C        --       000  04000'      040'040.00              0      0.            0000
.10 0      0     C                                0     0000     0.0.000      000000     0101001000.01    00000001         000001000.000000000         0000
00000000   0   C C C          CttCt             ''CC
0                                     '01' C 0400     0100000.     000101     0000001000000    0.000000         010000000000000.0000
040.0.     00                                                                                                                                              0
0.40001  a        0.000                                     0.0.0.       001       0100000040       01000t400        0000000  000.000            00.0
0          ' ' ' 000 *CtCCC                                  . . . . . . .                     ...0001
00000000       000000  0000                     0000C C 000      00000001     0.000      0000000.000.0    000404000        000000,000.000              000
totoC..' 0.00
000000.00'  0         00000                                                              04000000         000              00       00C  01            .000
.00. 000000      0000 10000                     0000000000       0000000      040000     00104010.0400    0000000101       00000000000400000000        0000
o    **0    .010                      040100000001     01000000
0000001        00C04  oo<o   'p''''                                          00000.     0000010000       00000.00         000004010004000101
0 0. 0. 00100 00 00   0000-   00.00400000                        000040                   CO0.0404        00000            0000000  000     00         -
004000000  00                             0
010  01     00   0000   00000.000    00                     00.0101                 0.000100040      00100040        00000000040000               00
0000 04 . ' ' 0101 ''''' 01                                      . . . ....00
000000  00000  00.00010000  Ic    , , . . . '     000000                   000010.010000   0040004.0        0100000.010000400            0
00  0000       0                                                                                            00
CC  0              0                 00
0   0              0                 0                0
.0             50                   o                       00               0            54               0
000000.0          00  00000   000.00400          0400000000   0  0.40004                  000000.0400     0.0000       0   00000.000000     00        ICC
50     0.0000                                                                                                                                  CO
000    001000.00          O.000004 000     000000                  .00.00000000     00400000         01000000400000
0001                                   o - -                                                     00..001
000000                        '-0             to                                                         H       -                          0          00
0                                                                          0                                   04          00
0                                    50                C                                                        0                                              0
0004  0CC                 CC    0000000000       00.0000                 00040400000.     00.00000         040.0400000000000           CC            0.
04040.  000                 0     00001000104      0040000                 0001000000400    00000000         040400000000000.000         0



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(USs million at current prices)
Actual          Preliminary Estimates               Projections
1970      1974         1975       1976         1977        1978        1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including N.F.S.)                2,745.4   6,063.7    6,081.5     6,800.8      8,123.4   10,213.9     14,136.8
Imports (including N.F.S.)               -3,416.9  -7,763.6    8,636.6     8,278.0      8,001.9    9,305.4     12,261.1
Resource Balance                           -671.5  -1,699.9   -2.555.1    -1,477.2        121.5      908.5      1,875.7
Interest (net)2/                           -301.3    -908.5   -1,266.5    -1,697.3     -2,295.5   -2,577.6     -2,598.2
Direct Investment Income                   -267.5    -549.1     -657.5      -636.6       -619.4      -668.4      -793.6
Workers Remittances                         122.7     158.1       174.6      193.0        219.6       249.1       316.1
Current Transfers (net)                      55.3     113.4       123.4      146.9        158.3       173.0       189.1
Balance on,Current Account               -1,062.3  -2,886.0   -4,181.1    -3,471.2     -2,415.5     1,915.4    -1,010.9
Private Direct Investment                   322.8     678.1      748.8       688.1        669.4       766.3       943.3
Public M and L.T. Loans
a.  Disbursement (gross)                  781.5   2,968.8    4,322.8     5,850.2      5,777.5    4,954.8      5,789.4
b.  Repayments                           -474.7    -541.8      -852.8   -1,343.0     -2,401.4     3,726.7    -5,258.9
c.  Disbursements (net)                   306.8   2,427.0    3,470.0     4,507.2      3,376.1     1,228.1       530.5
Other Capital                               534.8    -182.2       127.4   -2,057.1       -630.0       138.7      -187.7
a.  Public short-term                      59.0     642.0      927.0       880.0       -300.0      -300.0      -300.0
b.  Other Capital n.e.i.                  475.8    -824.2     -799.6    -2,937.1       -330.0       161.3       112.7
Change in Reserves (- = increase)          -102.1     -36.9     -165.1       333.0     -1,000.0      -217.7      -275.6
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
PUBLIC M AND L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                        146.8     289.0      310         315                      -           -
IDA                                         -         -                      - 
Other Multilateral                          112.3     162.0       161.1      150.0         -          -           -
Governments                                  81.0     129.1       120.0      151.7         -          -           -
Suppliers                                    69.7      57.4       200.0      300.0         -          -            -
Banks and Financial Institutions            434.4   2,145.0     3,181.0    4,432.8         -          -           -
Bonds                                       -         100.0       210.0      350.0         -          -           -
Total                                       844.1   2,822.5     4,182.1    5,699.5         -          -           -
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
EXTERNAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)                         3,226.9   8,003.1    11,473.1   15,980.3                   Outstanding and Disbursed
Interest on Public Debt                     216.9     576.1       810.5    1,027.5                         on Dec. 31, 1976
Repayment on Public Debt                    474.7     541.8       852.8    1,343.0
Other Debt Service (net)                    224.3     332.4       436.2      669.7                    $ Millions         Percent
Total Debt Service (net)                    915.9   1,450.3     2,099.5    3,040.2
Burden on Export Earnings (%) 3/                                                        Public M & L.T.
a.  Public Debt Service                    24.0       18.0       26.1       33.9          Loans
b.  Total Debt Service                     31.8      23.3        33.6       43.5
c.  Total Debt Service and Direct                                                     IBRD            1,166.9           7.3
Investment Income                      44.8      32.1                             IDB               593.0          3.7
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                            Governments       820.2           5.1
a.  Interest as % of prior years                                                      Suppliers         410.4          2.6
D.O. and D.                             7.4      10.3        10.1        9.0      Bonds           1,043.2          6.5
b   Amortization as % of prior                                                        Financial In-
years D.O. and D.                      16.3       9.7        10.7       11.7      stitutions
IBRD Exposure                                                                           n.e.i.         11.946.6         74.8
a.  IBRD Debt 0. and D. as % of                                                       Total Public
Public Debt 0. and D.                  18.0      12.2         9.2        7.3      M & L.T.
b.  IBRD Debt Service as % of                                                         Debt           15,980.3        100.0
Public Debt Service                     7.8       8.4         6.8        5.0                    .-. . -
IDA Exposure
- Not applicable.
1/ Preliminary estimate based on Mexican data
2/ Includes interest on short term private and public debt
Includes worker remittances



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (As of April 30, 1977)
------ US$ Million -------
Loan                                                           Amount Less
Number    Year          Borrower                Purpose       Cancellations  Undisbursed
and Terminations /1
28 loans fully disbursed                       1,286.7
793      1972   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Tourism               22.0          0.7
820      1972   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Ports                 20.0          0.3
824      1972   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Industry              35.0          2.6
825      1972   Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and Nacional
Financiera S.A.            Railways             75.0           3.2
909      1973   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Water Supply          90.0         57.8
934      1973   Siderurgica Lazaro
Cardenas-Las Truchas
S.A. and Nacional
Financiera S.A.            Steel                70.0           3.3
968      1974   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Roads                 90.0         67.4
969      1974   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Irrigation            77.0         29.1
970      1974   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Irrigation            47.0         44.3
1022      1974   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Airports              25.0         16.6
1053      1974   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Integrated Rural
Development         50.0         47.3
1110      1975   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Integrated Rural
Development        110.0         78.3
1111      1975   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Irrigation          150.0         150.0
1112      1975   GUANOMEX and Nacional
Financiera S.A.            Industry             50.0         33.0
1186      1975   Banco Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Publicos S.A.   Water Supply          40.0         39.7
1205      1976   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Industry             50.0          45.0
1217      1976   Nacional Financiera S.A.     Agricultural and
Livestock Credit   125.0         86.0
1232      1976   Ferrocariles Nacionales
de Mexico and Nacional
Financiera S.A.            Railways            100.0         95.2
TOTAL                                          2,512.7        799.8
Of which has been repaid                         412.0
Total now outstanding                          2,100.7
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid      56.9              35.4
Total now held by Bank                         2,065.3
Total undisbursed                                             799.8
/1   Loan No. 1308 for US$95 million for a steel project was terminated in April 1977
at the request of the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1977)
Fiscal                                                                US$ Million
Year            Obligor                  Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1958/59    Industrias Perfect Circle,
S.A. /1                        Industrial Equipment     0.8      --     0.8
1958       Bristol de Mexico, S.A. /1     A/C Engine Overhaul      0.5              0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A. /1           Twist Drills             0.3      --     0.3
1962/65/   Compania Fundidora Fierro y
66/68    Acero de Monterrey, S.A.       Steel                    2.3     21.4    23.7
1963       Tubos de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. /1                        Steel                    0.9      0.1    1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey, S.A. /1       Sodium Sulphate          0.8      --     0.8
1964/66    Industria del Hierro,
S.A.                           Construction Equipment   --       2.0    2.0
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A.         Iron Ore Mining          1.5      --      1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana, S.A.        Textiles                12.0      --     12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel Periodico,
S.A. de C.V.                   Pulp and Paper           /2       /2     /2
1973       Cemento Veracruz               Cement                  10.5      --     10.5
1974       Cancun Aristos Hotel           Tourism                  1.0      0.2     1.2
1975       Mexinox, S.A                   Steel                   12.0      2.8    14.8
Total Gross Commitments                                42.6     26.5   69.1
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayment and Sales                                    15.4     22.0   37.4
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                      27.2      4.5   31.7
Total Undisbursed                                      3.0       0.2    3.2
/1   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off, sold,
redeemed or repaid.
/2   US$25,000.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 793     Zihuatanejo Tourism Project:   $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973. Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1977.
The airport opened more than a year ago and is being served by
domestic airlines from international points. It is expected to
be included in the next bilateral air agreement with the US.
In the tourist zone, two hotels are open for business (534
rooms) and several others are under construction. By June 1977
over 1,500 rooms are expected to be available.
Ln. No. 820     Ports Project:  $20 Million Loan of May 17, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: August 17, 1972. Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
The project is in its final stages of execution. Various
actions to insure proper operation, maintenance and user
charges are being discussed with the government.
Ln. No. 824     Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:   $35 Million Loan
of June 2, 1972; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1972.
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
All funds under this project have been committed and over
90 percent disbursed.
Ln. No. 825     Second Railway Project:  $75 Million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effectiveness Date: August 17, 1972. Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
Progress in implementation, procurement and disbursement is
satisfactory. Freight traffic during 1976 was maintained
at the level of 1975. Locomotive and freight car utilization
has improved largely because of the introduction of unit
through trains and improved communication and information
systems introduced during the past year. The financial
situation which had improved in 1975 deteriorated in 1976
due to increase in real costs and wages.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:   $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30. 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
All project components are either in operation, or about to be
completed. The Texcoco component has been delayed due to lack
of counterpart funds.
Ln. No. 934    Las Truchas Steel Project:   $70 Million Loan of
September 12, 1972; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1973.
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The plant was inaugurated in November 1976. About 94 percent
of the loan has been disbursed.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:   $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
Substantial delays have been encountered in the initiation
of project works because of the shortage of budgetary allo-
cations. Substantial cost increases caused by price escala-
tion have also been encountered. The government has requested
a change in the scope of this operation and this request is
being analyzed.
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;   $77 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
Construction is proceeding rapidly; irrigation service has been
started on 20,000 ha of the Las Animas unit in early 1977. In-
tensified manpower training, extension and farm-planning efforts
are needed to keep pace with construction, especially since
85 percent of the area is to be settled by ejidatarios under
collective farming systems. Cost inflation and some changes in
project design have resulted in an overall increase of 71
percent in the cost of this project.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:   $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction of major project works remain behind the original
schedule. Total project costs have doubled over appraisal
estimates. Rephasing of the project is being examined by the
Government.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:   $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
Because of budget constraints, some contract awards have been
rescheduled. The Airport Authority (ASA) has an adequate
financial position. The cost accounting system and the
financial policy study have been completed.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:    $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Although the quality of works has been satisfactory, first-
year goals have not been achieved due to inadequate budget
allocations. Counterpart funds for 1977 are adequate;
reprogramming of project activities is under preparation.
Ln. No. 1110    Integrated Rural Development Project (PIDER I):   $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Progress is satisfactory and project investments are generally
on schedule. Reforms to strengthen the extension, farmer orga-
nization, and credit components are being implemented. Decen-
tralization efforts are moving quickly ahead; many PIDER
central staff are now located in the respective states and
micro-regions. Greater emphasis is being given under the new
PIDER management to investment analysis, community participa-
tion, cost recovery, and investment operation and maintenance.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The current and near term situation in the irrigation dis-
tricts is significantly different than foreseen at appraisal
in that the need to reduce water losses now appears to be
significantly less. The government is currently completing
a study to determine the appropriate scope for this project
which will be discussed with the Bank shortly. It is currently
anticipated that the revised project would cost around $120
million of which $50 million would be foreign exchange as
opposed to a cost estimate at appraisal of US$386 million.
Pending completion of this study and project replanning, no
expenditures have been incurred.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:   $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Project execution has been delayed by difficulties in pro-
curement, by uncertainty among suppliers resulting from
the devaluation of the peso and by financial constraints
in Guanomex.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:   $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The agreements for subprojects in Mexicali have been signed
and it is expected that the agreements covering the Morelia
subproject will be signed soon. Initial delays in executing
the project and the change of administration have resulted
in a slippage of about six months.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:   $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
About 34 percent of the loan has been committed to industrial
subprojects.
Ln. No. 1217   Fifth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Project:    $125 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976.
Closing Date: January 1, 1980.
Commitments under this project are running ahead of schedule.
Funds for medium-income producers and agro-industries are
expected to be fully committed by August 1977. The recently
formed National Rural Credit Bank has been declared eligible
for rediscount of up to US$15 million under this project
thereby increasing the rate of commitment of funds to low-
income producers.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:   $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Execution of the project is satisfactory; the track rehab-
ilitation and telecommunications programs are on schedule.
Tenders have been called for the Bank-financed rails, components
for cars and track/workshop machinery but award of contracts has
been delayed due to the imposition of substantial budgetary cuts.
This will reduce purchases to be made during 1977, and force a
rescheduling during the following years.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3 pages
MEXICO
RURAL DEVELOPMENT - PIDER II
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project:  approximately one
year. Date of technical, economic and financial feasibility
studies: January, 1976.
(b) Project prepared by the Secretariat of the Presidency:
June, 1976.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: January, 1976.
First Bank mission to consider project: July, 1976.
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: July, 1976.
(e) Completion of negotiations: May 23, 1977.
(f) Planned effectiveness: September, 1977.
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) Continued intensive supervision.
III. Special Conditions
(a) Micro-region investment plans will be agreed by the Bank and Borrower
and must include at least 70% of total investment cost in productive
investments, the estimated return on which must equal at least 10O
(para. 45);
(b) A ceiling of US$32,000 would be continued for small-scale irri-
gation projects of 25 ha or less and the maximum investment per
family would be US$5,000; a per hectare ceiling of US$2,500
equivalent would be imposed; to be eligible, a family's pre-
project net agricultural income would have not to exceed US$2,500
(para. 49);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3 pages
(c)  for irrigation works, about 10% of investment cost would be
recovered; such additional amounts as are reasonable based on
the capacity of beneficiaries to repay would also be recovered
(para. 60);
(d) prior to construction of each proposed irrigation project,
technical and socio-economic feasibility studies would be made
(para. 57);
(e) interest rate and re-discounting arrangements would be automatic-
ally adjusted to correspond to those applicable to low-income
producers credit under other Bank loans for agricultural credit
(para. 47);
(f) soil and water conservation works would focus on labor intensive
improvement of partly eroded slopes, and technical and economic
conservation plans would be prepared prior to construction (para.
57);
(g) labor intensive techniques would be used on project works where
technically and economically appropriate (para. 57);
(h) to improve the rainfed extension service, PRONDAAT operations
would be implemented in the 20 PIDER II micro-regions no later
than December 31, 1980 (para. 57);
(i) construction of feeder roads would be scheduled to minimize
conflict with agricultural tasks (para. 57);
(j) feasibility studies for productive investments would be under-
taken; individual studies costing up to US$15,000 would be
contracted at the discretion of the state SPP representative,
and studies over US$15,000 would be subject to the approval
of the Director of PIDER at the federal level (para. 57);
(k) the Government would submit a plan for the development of a
pilot rural industries program by June 30, 1978 (para. 46);
(1) new investment commitments for individual projects would include
written agreements with the beneficiaries that provide for adequate
operation and maintenance arrangements (para. 57);
(m)  for the productive investments:   (i) cost recovery and/or cost
contribution rules would be negotiated and agreed upon in writing
with beneficiaries prior to construction; and (ii) beneficiaries
would be given the option to defray their repayment obligations
through labor and material contributions (para. 60); and



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3 pages
(n)  installation costs for rural electrification would not exceed
US$150 per person and villagers would pay the regular CFE rates
which cover the full cost of operation and maintenance and a
portion of investment cost (para. 60);
(o) a minimum contribution of cash, labor or materials of 15% of
investment costs of rural water systems would be made by
villagers either at the outset or during construction; full
payment for operation and maintenance costs would be obtained;
and there would be a limit on government's share of system costs
of US$100 per person benefited (para. 60); and
(p) eligibility criteria for self-help funds would be relaxed to
include villages without potable water and electricity; and a
maximum equivalent to US$40 of materials and equipment per
beneficiary would continue to apply (para. 49).



IBRD 1278.
110-l                                                                                                                                                         APRIL 1977
UNITED   STATES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIE SAE
O                            -                          U      N   I  T    E  D                 S     T   A    T   E    S 4- ,.t 
MEX CO
\  ~ ~~~~~  _._._.__._,_,_.n   .                                                                                                               :4e -< (UBA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-_CB
_\  .'C           I ' '   '  - TS $ C)v HONDURAS
-30'                                                                                                                                                                                           ELSAL        INICARAOUA
I                                                                                                                                          COSTA RIA \  jT
SONORA                                                                        .0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~~~~       CANAL-U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OI
S         \                                                                                                                                                  T \> /   he boun'dno, bonro mn bin onp do now
__ q' ~~~~~-t  '  "'                       AHUC H  A  H U A                                                      EXISTING FIDER! MiCRO REGIONS                          by Ar
  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEL LLANO,A-n
o-                                                                                                          ( a   X  ) '  /  8 ENSENADA, B.C N
Mt  I                                                                       ii        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 BAJA CALIFORNIASUR
ev       coe      vC OA H U I L A                                                 -                                $ HECELCHAKAN,Cm.                                       -,
I                        ~~~~~~~~~~~0IXTLAHUACAN, CoI..9                       :
0<  -  .  1 .                                                                                               C N U E VO 0 PARRAL.Chih.
c,                                                                                 07~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ FRANCISCODVILLA.Dgn..
I                                    'ow -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* ~~~08 ERtANCISCODZARCOU.Dgo 
NU E V 0                         02 GUADALUPE VICTORIA. Dgn.
I  0  v  /                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ JERECUAND, Ut- 
ffiRk   <  9,,   S   <X}>  >.L EO.N .,,      NORESTE DE GUANAJUATO, G-n.                    / C
.7   Ut                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  OMETEPEC, Ur..
II k                      \   D--U- R A N                                                            G ,  VALLESDE IGUALA. r,.
C                                                                                                 0 ~~~~~~~~~~IORIENTE DE MORELOS,Mo.,
rT (IA  /  '-'           ~~~~n1 PDNIENTE oEMORELOS. Mn,
PROPOSED PIDER 1 MICRO REGIONS                                                                            1                                 SUA UE NUEVD LEON
2 AMFALCOOtro..jITMU                                                                                                                          ITCDn
CIHUATLALCO C"ro.                  \' J           j          <  2f x          LJ~       8 /~   S A       4   A                          C VALLESCENTRALES,Onn.
D CIHUATLAN, Jal.                                   J%                1        I      ,/\J                 ~   r@CIUL 
CHCRIAUTLA. Pue.
VALLARTA,J                                        I                                              L U I                                  @ ZACAPIAXTLA,Pn.
(3PARRAS, Conk.TOSi-                                                                                                 n"                     MACAEORUALA, PL..
o TLAXCALA NURTE                                     Ni                                        >      P P0 T               0                 V A LLE, ALA. S.L.P.
TLAXCALA SUBRu                                                                                                                            COSALA-ELOTA, Sin.
(2) GRAL TRiAS-SATEv6,Chih.                                 t      \ NA?ARIT(e  , ,J    1 AGUA5 /    \ f < r< 2 ~ *         \           M) MOCORITO8ADIRAGUATO S                                   |'
o ORAL                                              NAYARI~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t AGUAS                   MOCOBITO BADIRAUUATOD Sin
SIERRA DE TABASCO                                                           C   i        ADUAS        -       O            '-i            SUB DESINALDA     '3NJ
LITORAL CESTE DE YUCATAN:-                                                    '       9CINTS@UAlmU C_                                                                                        A N    09/
20   RAMDS AOM8RIERE. Ceonk                                                                  DsGUANAJUATOC )    I      ,                    SUH DR YUCATAN E YUCATAN
20'   SOMBEERETE, Cnn.                      (.L                             -N1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -'.2' ' z.  EBESNILLO-CALERA, Zoo.                   '                 ZUMRIENEL.-CLERA.I..  r  COZME
 IZUCAR DE MATAMOROS, Puo.      LOCATION OF AREAS                       J       I S C 0                  \gtIDALOO1                       0  l 8 RANID-ERZ . H)A
 CALVI LLD JESUS MANIA' AOCTI.            O ARASRI GRNDE                                                                                                                                  '
 FRANCISCOSARABIA,Dn. D,                 Pider II                                       _              '     t'j      10I                                                      ( 1(I'
HBUASTECA Hger.                                                                                           QgBxir     (a.3(                                    , OUINTANA ROO/
I&CENTRO DR YUCATAN               P-Ide                                                                      ESC'-' ''1'-
 NORTEDECQUINTANARODO                    Other Pider (Not Ior)                      _EMICHOACAN                            L XICQ "F                                                     I 
SOTO LA MARINA, Ton.                   Inter-American Development Bank  COLIMA   I                         _  ,   ,_    LJE8LA         C r,                     "N.4,hz-<AMPECHE            0
AMU ZOOS,GUrn.                                                                                                                                                           C -A>MTE  E C  H E
MAZAHUA Men.                                                                                                  --A .                            '                C,
- ------ State Boundaries                       \                       U E R R E R                                        ' _  A i-                              BELIZE
InternOtional Boundaries                                                   rtuit-         XA     C   A     -
MEXICO                         -     'N            , e                         H         A        -
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-PIDER '                                                 I                                         GUATEMALA         ,'
/                   ~~~~HONDURAS
0     100    200    300    400    500                                                                                          H   O
KILOMETERS
1 lOp                                                            10I O,                                                                       .I EL'AA-V.O,



