CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1462 ME
Project Agreement
(Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
Dated July 5, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A. (hereinafter called Banxico).
WHEREAS United Mexican States (hereinafter called the
Guarantor) and Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower) have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement
(Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II) of even date
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank; and the Bank for that
purpose, has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty million dollars
($120,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement (Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II) of
even date herewith between the Bank and the Borrower;
WHEREAS the Guarantor, the Bank, the Borrower and Banxico
have agreed that Parts D and E of the Project be carried out by
Banxico in its capacity as trustee of Fondo de Garantia y
Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura and of
Fondo Especial de Finacimientos Agropecuarios and for that purpose
the Borrower has agreed to transfer to Banxico part of the
proceeds of the Loan to assist in the financing of said Parts of
the Project; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS Banxico, in consideration of the Bank's entering
in the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and
the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts D and E of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Banxico shall carry out Parts D and E of
the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate agricultural, industrial, administrative and financial
policies and practices under the management and supervision of
Fondo, and shall, at all times, make available, promptly as needed,
all sums and other resources required by Fondo to meet its operat-
ing expenses.
(b) Banxico shall, for the purpose of carrying out the
Project, make or cause to be made available, out of Fondo's
resources or otherwise, credit on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to the Bank, as required to achieve fully and promptly the
benefits of the Project.
(c) Banxico shall exercise its rights in relation to each
credit operation financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of
the Loan in such manner as to protect the interests of the Guaran-
tor, the Bank, Banxico and Fondo.
(d) Banxico shall cause Fondo to carry out its operations
in accordance with sound agricultural, industrial, administrative
and financial policies and practices under the supervision of
experienced and competent management.


﻿Section 2.02. Banxico shall enter into contractual
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Borrower
providing, inter alia, for the transfer from the Borrower to
Banxico of the proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of carrying
out Parts E and D of the Project. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Banxico shall not change or fail to enforce any
provision of such arrangements.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Banxico shall rediscount or otherwise finance sub-loans on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Banxico shall cause the proceeds of the
Loan transferred to it by the Borrower to be applied in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement and the Loan Agreement to
expenditures on Parts D and E of the Project.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Banxico shall
cause all goods and services financed out of such proceeds to be
used exclusively in carrying out Parts D and E of the Project.
Section 2.05. Banxico shall cause the Participating Banks to:
(a) establish and maintain separate accounts for recording
all of their receipts and payments for or in connection with such
Parts of the Project, including (i) amounts received from and
payments made to Fondo, and (ii) amounts disbursed to and received
from beneficiaries; and


﻿(b) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine
such accounts.
Section 2.06. Banxico shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan transferred to it by the
Borrower, to disclose the use thereof, to record the progress and
cost of Parts D and E of the Project, and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of Fondo and, in respect of
Parts D and E of the Project, of Banxico; shall enable the Bank's
representatives to inspect the farms and facilities financed under
Parts D and E of the Project, and any relevant records and
documents; and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank
all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of such proceeds, the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds, the administration, operations and
financial condition of Fondo and, in respect of Parts D and E of
the Project, the operations of Banxico.
Section 2.07. (a) Banxico shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts
D and E of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan.


﻿- 7
(b) Banxico shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
Parts D and E of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Loan, or the performance by Banxico of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Banxico shall cause the financial statements (balance sheets and
profit and loss statements) of Fondo to be certified annually by
an auditor acceptable to the Bank and shall promptly after their
preparation and not later than three months after the close of
Banxico's fiscal year transmit to the Bank certified copies of
such statements and a signed copy of the audit report.


﻿ARTICLE III
Effective Date and Termination
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Banxico thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions.
SeCtion 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed tc have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The address so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United State of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Banxico:
Banco de Mexico, S.A.
5 de Mayo No. 2
Mexico 1, D.F., M6xico
Cable address:
BANXICO
Mexico City D. F.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Banxico may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 11-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ E. Lerdau
Director
Country Programs Department
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
By Is/ Hugo B. Margain
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Terms and Conditions of
Part D and Part E Sub-loans
Yearly
Percentage     Rediscount Rates    Yearly
of Sub-loan    to Participating   Interest
Rediscounted        Banks          Rates
No more than    Private Public
1. (i) Part D sub-
loans to             90        6.50%    7.50%       9.50%
Part D sub-
borrowers
which receive
institutional
credit for the
first time and
whose members
net annual
family income
does not exceed
250 times the
daily minimum
rural wage for
the region
where they are
located
(ii) All other Part D
sub-loans and        90        8.00%   9.00%      11.00%
Part E sub-loans
2.   Interest and rediscount rates charged under all other
programs managed by Fondo will be adjusted from time to time, as
necessary, so that differences between interest rates do not
result in discouraging participation in the Project. In addition,


﻿- 13 -
the percentages referred to in the preceding paragraph shall not
be different from those that Banxico and the Bank shall agree from
time to time for other agricultural programs in Mexico to benefit
farmers with socio-economic conditions similar to those of Part D
or Part E sub-borrowers, to be financed out of the proceeds of any
other loan made by the Bank, and to be re-lent through Banxico.
3.   Leading terms and grace periods will be in accordance with
technical and financial plans. Repayments of principal of Part D
sub-loans and Part E sub-loans will range from 3 to 15 years and
will include grace periods of 1 to 3 years; provided that, in
exceptional cases and with the prior agreement of the Bank,
repayment of principal may extend for up to 20 years.
4.   (i) Fach Part D sub-borrower included in paragraph 1 (i)
above will contribute at least 3% of the total cost of each
on-farm investment project in cash, labor or materials; and
(ii) Each Part D sub-borrower included in paragraph 1 (ii)
above will contribute at least 5% of the total cost of each
on-farm investment project in cash, labor or materials.
5.   Each Part E sub-borrower included in paragraph 2 above will
contribute at least 5% of the total cost of each rural industrial
project in cash, labor or materials.


