LOAN NUMBER 1462 ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1977


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      LA   &   5            , 1977, between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty million
dollars ($120,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided and that Banco de Mexico, S.A.
(hereinafter called Banxico) undertake certain obligations to the
Bank as in the Project Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
shall cause Banxico to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable Banxico to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of Certain Parts of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, except Parts D and E
which will be carried out by Banxico, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural policies and practices and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Project shall be carried out in such regions as the
Guarantor and the Bank shall agree.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor-shall enter into the contractual
arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement
with the Borrower. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of
such arrangements.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall carry out all Parts of
the Project, except Parts D and E, in accordance with such
investment plans for each region as the Guarantor and the Bank
shall agree; provided, however, that: (i) not less than 70%
of the total cost of each such investment plan shall be for
investments in Parts A to N of the Project; and (ii) the estimated
return thereon shall not be less than 10%.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall maintain such organiza-
tional arrangements at the State level as shall be required for
purposes of coordinating the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Guarantor shall include in Part A
of the Project only such facilities as shall be justified in the
light of technical and socio-economic feasibility studies carried
out in accordance with the guidelines of SARH for irrigation
projects in effect on the date of this Agreement, and which,
in addition, meet the following criteria:
(i) the total cost of an irrigation project of 25
hectares or less shall not exceed: $2,500 equiva-
lent per hectare, $5,000 equivalent per family of
farmers and, in the aggregate, $32,000 equivalent;
(ii) the total cost of an irrigation project of more
than 25 hectares shall not exceed $2,500 equivalent
per hectare; and
(iii) the net agricultural annual income of families of
farmers benefiting from any irrigation project
included in the Project shall not exceed $2,500
equivalent per family before such project is
carried out.
(b) The Guarantor shall collect such water charges in
respect of the water supplied through the irrigation facilities


﻿-6-
included in Part A of the Project as shall be necessary to recover:
(i) all operation and maintenance costs of such facilities; and
(ii) about 10% of their investment cost, including contributions
in cash or kind made by the beneficiaries of such facilities to
pay for such cost.
(c) The Guarantor shall make its best efforts to recover, in
addition to the amount referred to in paragraph (b) (ii) above, as
much of the investment cost of such facilities as it shall be rea-
sonable taking into account the ability of said beneficiaries to
pay.
Section 3.06. The Guarantor shall, before carrying out Parts C
and H of the Project, except forestry, obtain by written agreement
with the beneficiaries of such Parts the right to require such
beneficiaries to: (a) operate and maintain adequately the facili-
ties to be constructed; and (b) repay as much of.the investment
cost of such facilities through repayment of credit, cash or kind
as shall be reasonable taking into account the ability of such bene-
ficiaries to pay.
Section 3.07. The Guarantor shall carry out the soil and water
conservation works included in Part B of the Project in accordance
with a technical and economic conservation plan.
Section 3.08. The Guarantor shall take such measures as shall
be necessary or advisable to:


﻿-7-
(a) enable Banxico to apply and cause to be applied
the credit policies provided in the Project
Agreement in respect of Part D and Part E sub-
loans; and
(b) ensure that farmers in the Project Area will be
provided with such short-, medium- and long-term
credit, fertilizer and improved seeds, as and when
shall be required to utilize adequately the
agricultural resources of the Project Area.
Section 3.09. In carrying out Part F of the Project, the
Guarantor shall, not later than June 30, 1978, (a) prepare and
furnish to the Bank a plan for the development of small scale
industries in the Project Area, and (b) give the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment thereon.
Section 3.10. In carrying out Part I of the Project, the
Guarantor shall ensure that contracts for feasibility studies
costing $15,000 equivalent or less will be approved by the repre-
sentative of its Secretaria de Programaci6n y Presupuesto in
the State concerned, and that contracts for feasibility studies
costing more than $15,000 equivalent will be approved by the
Direcci6n de Promoci6n y Operaci6n Regional of said
Secretarfa.


﻿-8-
Section 3.11. The Guarantor shall schedule the construction
of the feeder roads included in the Project in such manner as to
minimize conflict with agricultural tasks.
Section 3.12. The Guarantor shall use, or cause to be used,
where technically and economically appropriate, labor intensive
methods in the construction of the works included in the Project.
Section 3.13. In carrying out Part K of the Project, the
Guarantor shall, not later than December 31, 1980, extend its
Programa Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola en Areas de Temporal
(PRONDAAT) to the entire Project Area.
Section 3.14. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the investment cost per capita of the facilities included
in Part M of the Project shall not exceed the equivalent of $150,
including transmission from the main power grid to any village and
distribution to households; and
(b) the Guarantor shall cause the installation charges and
rates for the sale of electricity in the Project Area to be
charged and collected according to those applied generally
in Mexico for said purposes.
Section 3.15. Except as the'Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) the contribution of the Guarantor to the investment
cost of the facilities included in Part P of the Project shall not
exceed the equivalent of $100 per capita;


﻿-9-
(b) beneficiaries of Part P of the Project shall pay, in
cash or kind, 15% of such cost out of their own resources during
the period of construction and installation of such facilities;
and
(c) the Guarantor shall charge and collect such water
charges in respect of water supplied through such facilities as
shall be necessary to cover all operation and maintenance costs of
such facilities.
Section 3.16. In carrying out Part Q of the Project, the
Guarantor shall ensure that:
(a) villages without electricity and water supply will
benefit from Part Q of the Project; and
(b) not more than $40 equivalent of materials and equipment
will be provided for each individual.
Section 3.17. The Guarantor shall cause:
(a) the facilities included in the Project to be operated,
)   maintained and repaired in accordance with sound engineering,
public utility, financial and administrative practices; and
(b) in addition, the educational facilities included in the
Project to be, at all times, adequately staffed.
Section 3.18. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.19. (a) The Guarantor undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan transferred to the
Guarantor by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acqui-
sition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Guarantor to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor
shall cause all goods and services financed out of such proceeds
to be used exclusively for the Parts of the Project to be carried
out by the Guarantor.
Section 3.20. (a) The Guarantor shall, at the Bank's request,
furnish to the Bank, the plans, specifications, contract documents
and work schedules for the Parts of the Project to be carried out
by the Guarantor, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank*shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Guarantor: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained, records adequate to record'the progress of all Parts of
the Project to be carried out by the Guarantor (including the cost
thereof), the results achieved by such Parts of the Project, and
the extent to which the investment, operation and maintenance


﻿- 11 -
costs of the facilities provided under the Project have been
recovered as required by the provisions of this Agreement, and to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan transferred to the Guarantor by the Borrower, to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan transferred to the Guarantor by
the Borrower and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning such
Parts of the Project, the expenditure of such proceeds and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.21. The Guara-tor shall: (a) maintain, or cause
to be maintained, separate accounts to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
financial situation of the Parts of the Project to be carried out
by the Guarantor; (b) cause such accounts to be audited annually,
applying sound auditing principles; (c) promptly make
available to the Bank copies of such accounts, as so audited;
and (d) furnish to the Bank such other pertinent information
concerning such accounts as the Bank shall reasonably request
from time to time.


﻿- 12 -
Section 3.22. In carrying out Part R of the Project, the
Guarantor shall: (a) obtain such information on each of the
regions included in the Project Area as shall be required to
evaluate the effects of the Project on the development of such
regions, and (b) evaluate such effects, including changes in crop
yields and incomes of beneficiaries resulting from directly
productive investments, on the basis of such information.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any governmental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security
for any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such
lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, iho facto and
at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guar-
antor, in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall
make express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if
for any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other governmental assets satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿a14 -
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any of its political subdivi-
sions, or of any agency; and the term "agency" means any agency or
instrumentality of the Guarantor or of any political subdivision
of the Guarantor and shall include any institution or organization
which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the Guar-
antor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor or the
operations of which are conducted primarily in the interest of or
for account of the Guarantor or any political subdivision of the
Guarantor.
Section 4.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not take,
or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any of its
agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions to take,
any action which would prevent or idterfere with the performance
by Banxico of its obligations contained in the Project Agreement
and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary
or appropriate to enable Banxico to perform such obligations.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor
Section 5.01. Nacional Financiera, S.A. is designated as
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The Guarantor agrees that all notices and
requests given or made to the Borrower shall be deemed to have
been given or made also to the Guarantor.


﻿-16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By: NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By /
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/5/uki
Director
aDe,artm,.ent
Country   ogram         bbEan
L a t n  m e i c a  t O i - i c
R,egional


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to raise the standard of
living of low-income persons living in the Project Area by
increasing their incomes, by providing basic infrastructure
facilities and services, and by utilizing effectively technical
assistance and credit resources.
The Project consists of the following works and services in
the Project Area:
Part A:   Irrigation
Construction or rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation
facilities, including small dams, tubewells, pumping plants,
concrete lining of earth canals, and ancillary distribution
facilities, to irrigate about 34,000 hectares of farm land.
Part B:   Soil and Water Conservation
Construction of soil and water conservation works in partly
0A             and non-eroded slopes, including inter alia land levelling
and subsoiling, to improve or prevent the deterioration of
about 80,000 hectares of farm land.
Part C:   Infrastructure for Livestock*Development
Land clearing, pasture establishment, fencing, and construc-
tion of watering and handling facilities for the development
of beef, dairy, sheep, pig, poultry, rabbit and goat produc-
tion, and construction of beekeeping facilities.


﻿- 18 -
Part D:   Agricultural Credit
Making of medium- and long-term sub-loans to finance on-farm
investments for crop or livestock production and short-term
sub-loans to finance seasonal production.
Part E:   Rural Industrial Credit
Making of medium- and long-term sub-loans to finance rural
industrial projects consisting of planning and establishment
of primary processing or service-type rural industries, and
short-term loans to finance working capital therefor.
Part F:
A pilot program to finance village industrial projects
costing less than $35,000 equivalent and consisting of the
establishment of small-scale enterprises for manufacturing,
inter alia, ceramics, construction materials, furniture and
garments, and for processing agricultural products, and
working capital therefor.
Part G:   Technical Assistance
1.   Provision of technical assistance to rural and village
industries.
2.   Training in preparation and evaluation of rural and
village industrial projects.


﻿- 19 -
Part H:   Fruit Production, Forestry and Fishery Development
Development of orchard infrastructure and planting of fruit
trees on about 7,500 hectares; aforestation and reforestation;
and construction of cold storage facilities for fish.
Part I:   Feasibility Studies
Feasibility studies for soil and water conservation, irriga-
tion works and development of fruit production, livestock,
fisheries and forestry.
Part J:   Feeder Roads
Construction of about 2,000 kilometers of feeder roads.
Part K:   Extension Services
Provision of agricultural, livestock and fishery extension
services, including field testing and demonstration.
Part L:   Farmers' Organization and Land Titling Program
A program of assistance to improve the social and economic
organization of farmers and to issue land titles to farmers
in the Project Area.
Part M:   Rural Electrification
Installation of facilities required to supply electricity
to about 25,000 rural households. ,
Part N:   Rural Marketing and Nutrition
Provision of mobile shops and construction of small shops and
warehouses.


﻿- 20 -
Part 0:   Educational Facilities
Construction or renovation and furnishing of about 1,150
primary level classrooms.
Part P:   Rural Water Supply
Construction and installation of the facilities required
to supply water to rural households.
Part Q:   Self-Help Programs
Provision of materials for self-help activities such as
housing and sanitation improvements, and construction of
community centers and village workshops.
Part R:   Evaluation
Evaluation of the effects of the above Parts of the Project
in the development of the Project Area.
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part
A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines) including the pertinent provisions of the
General Introduction thereto, on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.   Whenever practicable, contracts for the purchase of goods
or civil works shall be grouped to form economic bid packages.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the purchase of goods or civil works costing
less than $250,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of the
Guarantor's ordinary procurement procedures.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,


﻿- 22 -
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Guarantor of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Mexico may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be.classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Mexico if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Guarantor and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Mexico equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿-23-
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in Mexico.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 24 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Guarantor shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request in
consultation with the Guarantor. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Guarantor shall promptly after the
execution of each contract and prior'to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan
Account in respect thereof, furnish to the Bank two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids,


﻿- 25 -
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Guarantor and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this   6      day of 4    , 197.2.
FOR SECRETARY


