Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15262-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION AUTOMATION AND RELIABILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
April 17, 1996
Infrastructure Operations
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1996)
Currency Unit = Thai Baht (B)
US$1 = B 25.0
BI = US$0.04
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
MW       -    megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh      -    kilowatt-hour
Gwh      -    gigawatt-hour (1 million kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOO       -    Build Own Operate
DDC       -    Distribution Dispatch Center
DEA       -    Department of Energy Affairs
DMS       -    Distribution Management System
DSM       -    Demand Side Management
EGAT      -    Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
EGCO      -    Electricity Generating Company
EIA       -    Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR      -    Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMDP    -    Environmental Mitigation and Development Plan
ESMAP   -    Energy Sector Management Assistance
Program of the World Bank
FIRR      -    Financial Internal Rate of Return
GEF       -    Global Environmental Facility
GIS       -    Geographical Information System
IPPs      -    Independent Power Producers
MEA       -    Metropolitan Electricity Authority
NEPO      -    National Energy Policy Office
NGOs    -    Non-Governmental Organizations
OECF      -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
OEPP      -    Office of Environmental Policy and Planning
p.a.      -    per annum
PDP       -    Power Development Plan
PEA       -    Provincial Electricity Authority
PTT       -    Petroleum Authority of Thailand
SCADA   -    Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System
SMC       -    System Management Center
WTP       -    Willingness to Pay
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30



THAILAND
Distribution Automation and
Reliability Improvement Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                      Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA).
Guarantor:                     Kingdom of Thailand.
Implementing Agency:           PEA.
Beneficiary:                   Not ;pplicable.
Poverty:                       Not applicable.
Amount:                        (a) US$67 million (Fixed Rate Single Currency Loan).
(b) US$33 million equivalent (Currency Pool Loan).
Terms:                         (a) Standard anortization term, grace period, and interest
rate for fixed rate US$ single currency loans with an
expected disbursement period of 3-6 years.
(b) Payable in 17 years, including five years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Commitment Fee:                0.75% on undisbursed loan balance, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:               Not applicable.
Financing Plan:                See para. 3.16.
Economic Rate of Return:       Distribution Automation:   13%.
Upgrading Distribution in
South Thailand:          12%.
Map:                           IBRD No. 27818.
Project ID No.:                42268.



p



THAILAND
Distribution Automation and
Reliability Improvement Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ..................1i
I . The Energy Sector                                            .I
A. Overview                                           .I
B. Energy Sector Institutions                                  .I
C. The Power Sector                                        .2
D. Sector Strategies and Issues                                 .6
E.  Demand Side Management and Electricity Conservation                         .7
F. Environment                                          .7
G.   Private Sector Participation and Reform in The Power Sector                  .8
H. Bank Lending for the Sector                                  .1
2. The Borrower                                               .13
A. Organization and Management .13
B. Restructuring of PEA .14
C. Staffing and Resource Management                                 .15
D. Operational Performance .16
E. Financial Management .17
3. The Project .20
A. Project Objectives and Description .20
B. Implementation .23
C. Environment .25
D. Cost Estimates .25
E. Financing Plan .26
F. Procurement .27
G. Disbursements .28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Thailand in February 1996, comprising Darayes Mehta
(Principal Power Engineer), Rebecca Sekse (Financial Analyst), Enrique Crousillat (Economist), Ranjit Lamech
(Restructuring Specialist), Maninder Gill (Resettlement Specialist) and Dirk Elsen (Counsel). Peer reviewers were Peter
Cordukes (lENPD) and Alfred Gulstone (AFTPS). The project was cleared by Mr. Callisto E. Madavo, Director, EAI and
Mr. Jayasankar Sivakumar, Chief, EAIIN. Ms. Theresa Gamnulo (EAIIN) provided substantial support in the preparation of
the report.



4.         Financial Analysis .......................................................                                                       30
A. Past Performance ..................                                                                                           30
B.  Present Financial Position ..................                                                                               31
C. Financial Outlook ..................                                                                                          32
D. Tariff Levels and Structure ..................                                                                               34
E. Financing Plan ..................                                                                                             35
5.         Project Justification .......................................................                                                    37
A.   Justification .......................................................                                                      37
B.      Economic Analysis ........................................................                                              37
C.   Risks .......................................................                                                              39
6.         Agreements Reached and Recommendation                                             ..................................... 41
A.   Agreements ........................................................                                                        41
B.   Recommendation .......................................................                                                     42
Annee
1.         Highlights of EGAT, MEA  and  PEA  Operations ....................................................... 43
2.         PEA's Distribution  Facilities ........................................................                                          44
3.         PEA's Demand Forecast ........................................................                                                   45
4.         PEA's Investment Program  ........................................................                                               46
5.         Terms of Reference: Regulatory Framework for the Energy Sector .......................... 49
6.         Electricity  Supply  Industry  Structure in Medium   Term  .............................................. 53
7.         PEA's Reform   Implementation  Plan .......................................................                                      54
8.         Dispatching  Infrastructure Configuration .......................................................                                64
9.         Upgrading  Distribution  in  South  Thailand: Project Data ............................................ 65
10.    Terms of Reference: PEA's Interfacing Arrangements with EGAT .......................... 66
11.    Supervision Plan ........................................................                                                           69
12.        Key Performance Indicators ........................................................                                             70
13.        Project Cost Estimate .......................................................                                                   74
14.    Procurement Packages .......................................................                                                        77
15.    Disbursement Schedule .......................................................                                                       78
16.        PEA's Past Financial Performance .......................................................                                        79
17.        PEA's Financial Projections ........................................................                                            82
18.        Electricity  Tariffs .......................................................                                                    87
19.    Benefits of Automation .......................................................                                                      91
20.        Calculation  of Unserved  Energy Value ........................................................                                  93
21.        Economic Internal Rate of Return ........................................................                                        99
22.        Documents in Project File .......................................................                                              101
Charts
1.         PEA's Organization  Chart ........................................................                                             102
2.         Organization Chart for Implementing Distribution Automation ............................... 103
3.         Project Implementation  Schedule (Distribution Automation) ................................... 104
4.         Project Implementation Schedule (Upgrading Distribution, South Thailand) ........... 105
m1
IBRD No. 27818



1. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. OVERVIEW
1.1   The consumptions of energy and electricity in Thailand have grown at high rates
over the past decade and particularly since 1986 due to the strong economic performance
of the country, arising from rapid industrial growth, and increases in exports, foreign
investment and tourism. In spite of this rapid growth, however, the energy situation in
Thailand remains characterized by relatively modest commercial energy consumption in
relation to the country's development (320 kilograms of oil equivalent (koe) of energy
consumption per capita compared with an average of 420 koe per capita for all of Asia).
This includes a relatively high share (35%) of traditional fuels in the final energy
consumption. The outlook is for rapid growth in commercial energy consumption as the
economy continues expanding. The primary commercial energy supply is projected to
grow rapidly at an average annual rate of about 8.0% over the next five years (1996-
2000) and then at about 5.7% for the next decade.
1.2   While much of the energy growth in the early 1980s was met by imports, efforts
in the 1980s to promote the development of indigenous energy resources had a visible
impact on the pattern of commercial energy consumption: the share of oil fell from about
90% of total primary commercial energy in 1980 to about 70% in 1990. During that
period, the shares of indigenous lignite and natural gas grew steadily, reaching 10% and
16%, respectively, by 1990. Due to the Government's continuing efforts, the share of
imported oil is anticipated to fall further to about 60% by the year 2005; it is, however,
unlikely to decline below that level. A major increase in the consumption of imported
coal (mostly for power generation) is projected in the late 1990s, and coal is expected to
attain a share of 8% of primary energy consumption after the year 2001.
1.3   The sectoral composition of energy demand has been marked by a progressive
increase in the share of the transport sector, which grew 11% p.a. through the 1980s and
by 1990 accounted for 70% of petroleum products consumption. Electricity consumption
has increased faster than energy consumption as a whole, averaging 14% p.a. in the last
three years. As a result, the share of electricity in final commercial energy consumption
grew from 11% to 15% in the 1980s, with a similar increase in the share of electricity in
primary energy use from 7% to 11 %.
B. ENERGY SECTOR INSTITUTIONS
1.4   The energy sector in Thailand is operated by a number of well-managed and
mature public institutions. There are numerous energy-related agencies, spreading across
many ministries and include several cabinet level committees. Energy policy and
planning is vested in key governmental organizations. At the highest level is the National
Energy Policy Council (NEPC) which is chaired by the Prime Minister. The National
Energy Policy Office (NEPO), the secretariat to NEPC, acts as its operating arm, and



2
functions primarily as a link between NEPC and the country's energy state enterprises
and conducts all energy policy work. NEPO is the de facto regulator of the energy sector.
Other departments involved in energy affairs are:  (a) the Department of Mineral
Resources, responsible for assessing and preliminary exploration of the country's coal
and petroleum reserves; (b) the Department of Energy Development and Promotion,
which conducts research and development and monitors energy sector activities; and (c)
the Department of Industrial Works, responsible for controlling industrial air and water
pollution.
1.5   Energy state enterprises enjoy a large degree of autonomy in the conduct of day-
to-day operations; however, they are subject to strict government control in all matters
relating to investment planning and financing.  Because of strict procedures for
controlling public debt, all loans made by energy state enterprises requiring government
guarantees must be approved by the Fiscal Policy Office of the Ministry of Finance and
finally approved by the Cabinet, and subsequently endorsed by the National Debt Policy
Committee.
1.6   The Petroleum Authority of Thailand (PTT) -- the dominant entity in the
petroleum sector -- is involved in downstream oil and gas activities; upstream activities
are carried out by the private sector. PTT is responsible, inter alia, for the purchase,
transport, processing and sale of natural gas. However, PTT competes with international
oil companies and has a third of the market share in the distribution and marketing of oil.
1.7   The power sector is primarily organized around three wholly-owned state
enterprises. The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) is the major
producer of electricity and is also responsible for developing and dispatching the bulk-
power high voltage transmission system. EGAT has the authority to purchase electricity
from  cogenerators or other private sources for distribution over the grid.  The
Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) and the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA)
own the distribution systems and some subtransmission facilities. MEA and PEA
distribute electricity purchased from EGAT to the Bangkok metropolitan area and the rest
of the country, respectively. Highlights of their respective operation are provided in
Annex 1.
C. THE POWER SECTOR
Electricity Demand
1.8   The power sector in Thailand has grown at a rapid pace over the past two decades.
The electricity market growth is among the highest in the world and has been fueled by
the country's high economic growth rate. Considerable progress has been made in
making electricity widely available, especially in provincial urban areas. Industrial
consumption has also been growing rapidly.



3
1.9   The outlook is for continued rapid growth in electricity demand over the medium
term.  The latest official demand forecast made by the national Load Forecast
Subcommittee (composed inter alia of NEPO, EGAT, MEA and PEA) envisages
continued high load growth related to the expected strong economic performance. Base
case demand growth rates for EGAT, MEA and PEA for the Seventh (1992-1996), Eighth
(1997-2001) and Ninth Plan (2002-2006) periods are summarized in Table 1.1. These
growth rates are considered to be reasonable and achievable. In 1994, Thailand electricity
demand was 10,709 MW. The demand is forecast to increase to 13,637 MW by the end
of 1996, to 19,899 MW by the end of 2001, to 26,392 MW by the end of 2006 and to
34,509 MW by the end of 2011.
Table 1.1: Forecast Demand Growth Rates
Fiscal Years                1992-1996          1997-2001       2002-2006
ending September 30
MEA Sales Growth (%)            10.2                 7.7             5.1
PEA Sales Growth (%)            14.0                 8.0             6.3
EGAT Sales Growth (%)           12.5                 7.7             5.7
EGAT Generation Growth (%)      11.1                 7.9             5.8
Source: Load Forecast Subcommittee.
Installed Capacity and Energy Generation
1.10  As of September 1995, the total installed generating capacity of the Thai power
sector was 14,672 MW comprising: (a) 2,690 MW hydro power (18%); (b) 6,701 MW
oil/gas and lignite-fired thermal (46%); (c) 3,094 MW combined cycle (21%); (d) 942
MW gas turbine; and (e) 1,245 MW purchased power (8%). Total generation from
EGAT facilities was about 78,880 Gwh in 1995 accounting for almost 100% of the Thai
total generation with PEA generating only 29 Gwh from its mini-hydro and diesel plants.
In addition, 742 Gwh were purchased from Laos, Malaysia and other authorities, 131
Gwh from small power producers and 29 Gwh from others. In 1995, EGAT purchased
about 6,811 Gwh from the Rayong Combined Cycle Plant (REGCO) of the Electricity
Generating Company (EGCO) (para. 1.25).
Losses
1.11  Total losses in the generation and transmission were approximately 7.7% of total
power generated in 1995, down from the 1994 level of 8.6%. The level has fallen in
recent years as problems with power line upgrades have been resolved. About 3.2% of
electricity generated has been lost in transmission lines and transformers in 1995, better
than the 1994 level of 4.1 %. Distribution losses as a percentage of power received were
about 4.5% for MEA and 6% for PEA, an achievement by both organizations which ranks
with the best performing power utilities in Asia.



4
Transmission
1.12  As of September 1995, the lengths of EGAT's transmission lines are: (a) 1,201
circuit-kilometers (ckm) of 500kV; (b) 9,086 ckm of 230kV; (c) 11,539 ckm of 115kV;
and (d) 296 ckm of 69kV lines. For high voltage substations, there are three 500kV; 43,
230kV; 124, 115kV; and seven 69kV; totalling 177 substations. The total installed
transformer capacity, excluding station service and generator unit transformers is 33,855
MVA. In 1990 the PEA Act was changed to enable PEA to also build 115kV
subtransmission systems. At present, PEA owns about 47 ckm of 69kV and 722 ckm of
115kV line; the HV line length is expected to expand to about 3,500 ckm during the Eight
Plan (1997-2001).
1.13  PEA's service area is approximately 510,000 sq km, accounting for 99% of the
total area of Thailand. Its distribution system in its service area in 1995 includes 195,144
ckm of medium voltage and 254,524 ckm of low voltage distribution lines and 28,126
MVA of transformer capacity. The growth of PEA's distribution facilities is reflected in
Annex 2.
Power Development Plan
1.14  Meeting increased load demand and improving the electricity transmission and
distribution systems will require considerable investment, estimated at about Baht 254
billion under the Eighth Plan. For a long-term profile up to the year 2011, the Power
Development Plan (PDP) recommends the installation of 33,676 MW of new generating
capacity, net of the retirement of 2,747 MW of existing power plants. By September
2011, the sector's total capacity will be 43,918 MW comprising of 11% hydro, 25%
conventional oil/gas fired, 7% lignite-fired, 11% imported coal-fired, 10% combined
cycle, 8% gas turbine, and 28% from independent power producers (IPPs) and EGAT-
TNB transmission lines. EGAT's PDP has incorporated the Government's privatization
program for the power sector which includes the selling of EGAT's power plants at
Rayong and Khanom to EGAT's first subsidiary company, the Electricity Generating
Company Ltd. (EGCO), and the power purchases from IPPs.
PEA's Investment Program
1.15  While the service areas of MEA are completely electrified, PEA is still in the
process of completing the electrification of the more remote areas of the country. To
date, PEA has electrified 98% of the villages in its service area. And, although PEA sales
only slightly exceed MEA's, it serves the preponderance of the country's population. At
the end of FY1995, PEA had more than 9 million customers compared with about 1.8
million for MEA. Currently, there is a wide disparity in electricity usage between the two
distribution utilities due, in part, to the intense industrial and commercial development of
Bangkok, and in part to the lower incomes and more recent development of the outlying
areas. But, this situation is changing.



5
1.16   With village electrification achieving its targets and being essentially completed
under the Distribution Reinforcement Project (Loan 3798-TH), PEA's investments in
rural electrification would be substantially reduced. Indeed, much of PEA's investment
requirements over the next six years will result from the growing demand from industrial
enterprises in PEA's service territory, and from the need to decrease losses and improve
reliability. It is these needs which underlie the project. The growth and change in PEA's
customer base and the Government's initiatives in the power sector are pushing PEA to
become a very different utility than it has been in the past. PEA thus faces a major
challenge to upgrade and expand its distribution systems to meet its increasingly
sophisticated power market. PEA's demand forecast is given in Annex 3.
1.17   Investments by PEA over the medium-term of about US$5.2 billion will be used
in part to finance continued distribution of power to the provinces, which began on a
planned basis in the early 1960s with the formation of PEA. PEA's investments over the
medium term would concentrate on: (a) expanding and reinforcing distribution networks
servicing large town centers; (b) providing direct 115kV service in high growth industrial
areas; and (c) introducing improvements in system operating efficiency through measures
such as the introduction of automation and control from regional distribution dispatch
centers. PEA's investment plan is detailed in Annex 4 and summarized in Table 1.2. The
plan, which is appropriate to the present circumstances, will be updated regularly to
reflect changes in the amount and geographical location of power demand. Agreement
was reached during negotiations that PEA would carry out an annual review and update
of its five-year investment program, discuss this with the Bank, and implement the
program taking into consideration the Bank's comments.
Table 1.2: PEA's Investment Plan (FY1995-2001)
(Baht billion)
Fiscal Year           1995    199"6    1997    1998    1999   2000j 2001
Transmission System and
Substation Development           7.3      7.4    14.6      9.6   10.2   16.0   19.4
Load Dispatch Center                -     0.5      1.0     1.0    1.3    0.9    1.0
Rural Electrification             2.0     3.4      6.0     2.7    1.6    2.0    2.4
Power Supply for New Economic
and Industrial Areas             0.9      1.1     0.1        -      -       -
Strengthening Operational and                                         I
Service Capability               0.1      1.8     8.0      8.1    2.9    1.1    0.9
Mini-hydro                        0.1       -      0.2     0.1       -      -      -
Submarine Cable                   0.1     0.3      0.6       -    0.2    0.7    0.6
Acquisition of Land and           1.1     1.7      1.6       -       -      -      -
Equipment
TOTAL                         11.6    16.2    32.1    21.5   16.2   20.7   243



6
D. SECTOR STRATEGY AND ISSUES
1.18  To meet the rapidly increasing demand for energy and to create an industry
structure that is both efficient and responsive to commercial incentives, the Government's
energy strategy calls for the following:
(a)   A phased privatization and restructuring program covering the principal
power sector entities, EGAT, PEA, and MEA.  The Government has
already created a publicly-listed generation subsidiary of EGAT in EGCO.
A first step has been the categorization of these entities as Excellent State
Enterprises -- which accords them less government control in their
operations and increased flexibility in financial management and in
establishing staffing and compensation structures.  The privatization/
restructuring program for PEA and MEA is being defined and
implementation is underway.  The current focus calls for increased
management and operational reorganization ( paras. 2.6 to 2.8).
(b)   A substantially increased program of investments in the power sector. The
Government envisages investments of over US$10 billion equivalent by
EGAT, close to US$5 equivalent billion by PEA and US$5 billion
equivalent by MEA during the Eighth Plan (1997-2001).
(c)   Involvement of the private sector in funding part of the large power sector
investments.   This stems from the Government's concern about the
magnitude of power sector investments and the broader implications of
incurring additional public debt for the purpose. A first tangible step has
been the public-listing of EGCO (a generation entity affiliated to EGAT).
A comprehensive private power solicitation program is underway for
3,800 MW of generation (para. 1.23).
(d)   A credible and transparent scheme for power sector regulation. The
existing scheme of regulation has been working satisfactorily, as
evidenced by operating efficiency and the lack of power shortages.
However, the need for orienting the regulatory framework to a more
commercial sector structure which has private investment has been
recognized (paras. 3.6 and 3.7).  Under the proposed project, the
Government will undertake a comprehensive study to define the structure
of the future regulatory system, including functions and procedures. (The
Terms of Reference for this work are at Annex 5).
(e)   A thrust towards energy conservation, both through economically efficient
pricing of resources and through other government directives. Concerned
with the rapid growth in energy consumption and its impact on the
economy and the environment, the Government is making serious efforts



7
towards fostering energy conservation in all sectors of the economy.
Some of the initiatives are described in para. 1.19.
(f)   A stimulation of industrial growth outside of Bangkok, with development
of infrastructure and granting of tax incentives to promote such growth.
This would create growth centers in the provincial areas relieving the
infrastructural strain from Bangkok.
(g)   Improvement of the efficiency of the distribution system and upgrading
and automating the system to operate at the higher levels of reliability
necessary for industry.
E. DEMAND SIDE MANAGEMENT (DSM) AND ELECTRICITY CONSERVATION
1.19  While pursuing a large power development program, the Government has planned
a thrust towards energy conservation. Its DSM program, supported by the Global
Environmental Facility (GEF) under the Distribution System and Energy Efficiency
Project (Loan 3598-TH), has a four-pronged approach: (a) provision of user and
manufacturer incentives and consumer education to direct practices and attitudes toward
energy efficient technologies; (b) development of efficiency standards and testing
capabilities to exercise control and monitor efficiency improvements; (c) development
and promulgation of building and appliance codes to allow for the enforcement of
minimum standards; and (d) continued pursuit of technological improvements and
adaptation to Thai conditions. The project is progressing very well and the current
demand savings target of about 1,100 MW over the next five years, substantially exceeds
the original target of about 300 MW.
F. ENVIRONMENT
1.20  In the last few years, the Government has placed a strong emphasis on
environmentally sound and sustainable development. Its 1992 Energy Conservation
Promotion Act, created an Energy Conservation Fund, financed by surcharges on
petroleum products and electricity. The Act provides for a rigorous enforcement of
energy conservation in factories and buildings. The Environmental Quality Act of 1992:
(a) substantially reorganized the environmental bureaucracy making it more responsive to
environmental protection; (b) established a Central Environmental Fund for concessional
financing of environmental projects by the private and public sectors; and (c) recognized
for the first time the importance of involving Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
in development. Gaining from its experience under the Third Power System Development
Project (Loan 3423-TH), the Government has increasingly emphasized involvement of
affected people and selected NGOs in environmentally sensitive projects and formalized
this in the evaluation of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs).



8
G. PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION AND REFORM IN THE POWER SECTOR
1.21  Power sector reform in Thailand began in 1992 with the issuance of the seventh
National Economic and Social Development Plan (NESDP). This Plan which covers the
period 1992-1996, led to the development of a Cabinet resolution for power sector reform
providing indicative targets for restructuring, corporatization and privatization in the
power sector. The main objectives of this resolution are to: (a) encourage the operation
of power utilities as commercial organizations with increased efficiency and flexibility;
(b) reduce the investment and debt burden of the Government; (c) promote private sector
participation in the power sector through IPPs and asset divestiture; and (d) utilize
energy resources efficiently. Progress towards achieving all these objectives over the last
three years has been substantive. Despite the slippage of some targets in a few instances,
many of the reform goals specified in the Plan have been achieved or are in advanced
stages of implementation. Commitment to continued reform is also clearly in evidence.
1.22  The Bank's operational involvement in the Thai power sector has facilitated
continuing inputs to the power sector privatization and reform process. The actions
undertaken are broadly in-line with recommendations in the Bank's study entitled "State
Enterprise: Improvement, Privatization and Private Sector Participation" (Report No.
1312-TH). These recommendations include: (a) EGCO to be fully divested and its
management made independent of EGAT; (b) the pace of introducing IPPs to be
accelerated; (c) EGAT to be divested into a number of generation companies, with EGAT
becoming a transmission and power pool company; (d) distribution companies and large
industrial consumers to be allowed to purchase directly from any power producer; and (c)
an independent regulatory agency to be set up when the Government's holdings of EGAT,
MEA and PEA shares are diluted. In regard to PEA, the study recommends: (a) removal
of subsidies between regions; (b) decentralization of management; and (c) fostering
competition through split up of the entity and monitoring and comparing performance of
the individual units.
1.23  The reform and privatization actions discussed below indicate both the success of
the Thai power privatization and reform effort in meeting stated objectives and its
conformance with World Bank recommendations for the sector.
Private Sector Participation
(a)   Asset Divestiture. During 1992, EGAT established EGCO as its subsidiary
company with an issued share capital of Baht 100 million divided into 10 million
shares of Baht 10 each. On September 30, 1993, EGAT held the entire equity
with the exception of 15 shares which were issued to EGAT senior management
to comply with SET regulations. In 1994, a further 186 million shares of Baht 10
each were issued, all of which are held by EGAT except for one million held by
the Crown Property Bureau and which increased EGAT's total holding to almost
192 million shares. In addition to the flotation of additional shares by EGCO
during the year, it also set up its own subsidiary, the Rayong Electricity



9
Generating Company (REGCO). In November 1994, a public offering of 204
million shares in EGCO raised Baht 4.5 billion. Presently, 50% of EGCO is
publicly listed, EGAT holds 48% of the equity and the Thai Property Crown
Bureau the remaining 2%. EGAT will further reduce its equity holding in EGCO
to below 40% by end-1996 by incorporating the Khanom Thermal Station under
EGCO.
(b)   Small Power Producers (SPPs) and Co-Generation. The first step taken by the
Government towards increasing private sector participation was allowing co-
generators and SPPs to sell power to EGAT. In 1994, a Co-generation Agreement
was signed with a private company to bring on line a new 60 MW facility.
Currently, there are 20 SPPs with a total installed capacity of 669 MW mostly
utilizing traditional fuels such as bagasse, rice husk, wood, etc.
(c)   Independent Power Producers (IPPsa.  To meet the ever increasing power
requirements, Thailand launched what could be the world's largest competitive
IPP solicitation program.  EGAT announced the first request for proposals on
December 15, 1994 to purchase 3,800 MW from IPPs in two stages. Stage I, for
1,000 MW during the years 1998-2000, and Stage 2, for 2,800 MW in the years
2001 and 2002. As of December 1995, 104 registered IPPs/bidders have formed
into 32 consortiums and have submitted 50 IPP proposals totalling 39,067 MW.
The evaluation of IPP proposals has been completed.
Enterprise Commercialization/Corporatization
(a)   The  two  distribution  entities, PEA  and  MEA, have  both  prepared
corporatization/privatization action plans.  The PEA action plan has been
approved by the Cabinet.  It is now in the phase of defining detailed
implementation plans to manage the transition from the existing organizational
structure to the future commercial organizations. PEA will be transformed over a
4-5 year period from a centrally controlled government agency, to regionally
decentralized corporate subsidiaries under a holding company structure.
(b)   EGAT has been classified as an "Excellent State Enterprise". PEA is to achieve
this status by mid-1996. The excellent state enterprise status requires: (i) return
on assets employed greater than 6%; (ii) labor cost below 10% of total costs; and
(iii) annual productivity increases equal to or greater than 2%. Achievement of
the excellent state enterprise status provides management with the authority to
devise and implement a suitable staffing and compensation system. This step has
had a major impact in improving management incentives and is crucial to
achieving a smooth transition to a commercial operating status.
(c)   EGAT's fuel purchases from PTT are now made on a sound commercial basis. In
the past, EGAT has been obliged to purchase all of its oil from PTT. Under the
Government's privatization program, EGAT was allowed in 1993 to purchase oil
on the open market, on a trial basis. PTT won the competitive tender for the trial



10
purchase, which was deemed a success. While the agreement for commercial
heavy oil purchases from PTT has been completed, a natural gas agreement is still
being negotiated and would be completed in 1996.
(d)   Plans for organizational restructuring of EGAT have been approved. These plans
while were effective by April- 1996 envisage the creation of six business units (i.e.
profit centers), and five operating units (i.e. cost centers). The business units are:
thermal generation; transmission; engineering; construction; mining and
maintenance. The operating units are: governors office and internal audit; hydro
power plants; administration; accounting and finance; policy and planning and
new business ventures. Asset restructuring for the creation of profit centers is in
progress. The business units will be corporatized in line with the broad sector
restructuring strategy of the Government. All transactions between business units
will be conducted on the basis of transparent transfer prices. Once this structure
is developed on a sound commercial footing, the business units will be either
wholly or partially privatized. The progress on privatization will depend on the
absorptive capacity of domestic capital markets.
Power Sector Restructuring
(a)   In February 1996, the National Energy Policy Office (NEPO) submitted and
obtained approval by the Cabinet for a medium-term structure for the Electricity
Supply Industry. This structure shown in Annex 6 envisages the formation of a
central purchasing agency comprising the existing EGAT transmission system and
hydro power plants. This entity will be an independent corporation. The thermal
plants under EGAT will be corporatized as an independent generation subsidiary.
All transactions between the central purchasing agency and power suppliers will
be based on fully-dispatchable power purchase agreements (PPAs) in order to
ensure productive efficiency in the power system.
(b)   The uniform tariff policy has required that retail sales of MEA and PEA be priced
uniformly throughout the country. EGAT's differential tariffs to MEA and PEA
have been the vehicle of subsidization from the urban to the rural areas. It has
been the Government's intention to eliminate the cross subsidy scheme from
EGAT's tariffs before its privatization. A Study on the Rationalization of Bulk
Supply Tariff to MEA and PEA is being undertaken with Bank financing under
the Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project (Loan 3884-TH). The study would
provide a model bulk power agreement with MEA and PEA, the first step in
formalizing MEA and PEA contracts that would eliminate cross subsidies. NEPO
expects the revised bulk tariff structure to be introduced in 1996.



II
H. BANK LENDING FOR THE SECTOR
Experience with Past Loans
1.24 The Bank has made 24 loans to Thailand for power, of which five have been made
to PEA (three for rural electrification and two for distribution reinforcement), one has
been made to MEA for improvement of its distribution system, and 18 have been made to
EGAT and its predecessor for financing the expansion of electricity generation and
transmission facilities. Three of the loans to PEA have been fully disbursed; while the
rest are under supervision: (a) the Distribution System Upgrading Project (Loan 3404-
TH) disbursed more slowly than expected at the initial phase of the project because of a
change in consultants and delays in land procurement for substations; and (b) the
Distribution System Reinforcement Project (Loan 3798-TH) has been delayed by about a
year in its implementation because of initial delays in finalizing consultancy contracts
and problems with design and procurement of transmission lines. The overall progress in
the implementation of MEA's Distribution System and Energy Efficiency Project (Loan
3598-TH) is satisfactory and about half of the work is now completed. Of the 18 loans to
EGAT, 17 have been fully disbursed and the only on-going project is the Lam Takhong
Pump Storage Project (Loan 3884-TH) which was approved by the Bank's Board on May
9, 1995 and signed on September 8, 1995.
1.25  PEA has completed three Bank-financed projects for rural electrification: the
Accelerated Rural Electrification Project (Loan 1527-TH, completed in 1983), the Second
Accelerated Rural Electrification Project (Loan 1871-TH, completed in 1987), and the
Provincial Power Distribution Project (Loan 2312-TH, completed in 1989).  The
corresponding Project Completion Reports (PPAR #6269 dated June 13, 1986, PPAR
#7756 dated April 1, 1989, and PPAR #9016 dated September 14, 1990) show that the
project objectives were largely accomplished. The design and procurement delays being
experienced in the two ongoing projects with PEA (Distribution System Upgrading and
Distribution System Reinforcement) have emphasized the need to procure land well in
advance of design and procurement activities. There is also a need for appointing
consultants early in the project cycle.  The shift to the development of 115 kV
subtransmission, to be followed by the introduction of the associated SCADA systems
under the proposed project, will require PEA to sharpen its skills in project management.
The proposed project addresses these issues through: (a) sufficiently advanced action by
PEA in recruiting consultants; (b) incorporation of computerized project preparation and
management techniques (the Bank has recently provided special training in the use of
CPM project management techniques); (c) more rational packaging of procurement
maximizing turnkey type installation; and (d) advance action in land acquisition.
1.26 With specific regard to PEA, the Bank's association has contributed to PEA's
institutional development, focusing particularly on improving: (a) strategic planning; (b)
project planning and implementation; (c) materials management; (d) distribution system
planning; (e) electronic data processing; and (f) manpower development. Findings and
recommendations of an institutional development study completed under Loan 2312-TH



12
were implemented with good results, with one noteworthy example being PEA's
corporate planning system, which has developed into an effective tool for articulating
corporate responsibilities and objectives and managing corporate activities. Under Loan
3404-TH consultancy services regarding institutional development resulted in
recommendations related to organizational structure and staffing, some of which have
already been implemented. A feasibility study for the privatization of PEA, included
under Loan 3798-TH, proposed a new organizational structure that would facilitate
PEA's transformation to a commercially operated company by FY98.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.27  The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), which was presented to the Board on September 24, 1994. Among the priority
areas for Bank assistance identified in the CAS is the development of physical
infrastructure. The proposed project directly supports this objective by: (a) supporting
substantial investments in the distribution infrastructure in the south of Thailand; and (b)
aiming to improve the efficacy of proposed massive investments in distribution
infrastructure in the whole country by modest investments in automating its operation and
control. The Government's power sector strategy is also consistent with the Bank's power
sector policy, specifically with regard to its commitment to improve sector performance
through efficiency improvements, corporatization and encouraging private investment.
1.28  Through sustained involvement over a number of years, the Bank has contributed
significantly to the development of the Thai energy sector. With a modest level of
borrowing, the Government is keen to continue this involvement. Bank advice and
assistance have helped the Government effectively address the issues of: (a) least-cost
investment planning; (b) supply- and demand- side management and resource pricing;
and (c) power sector restructuring and privatization. Much further work remains to be
done in actual implementation of the proposed sector strategies. In parallel with its
technical inputs, the Bank's continued operational involvement is needed to exercise
significant influence on Government policies towards evolution of the sector in an
economically efficient, financially sound and environmentally sustainable manner, and
for its orderly progress towards reform, restructuring and privatization.
1.29  Through rationalizing its interfacing arrangements with EGAT, the proposed
project would contribute towards an orderly regionalization and subsequent privatization
of PEA. Bank's association with PEA under the project would enhance implementation of
the recommendations of the PEA Privatization study (completed under Loan 3798-TH)
that would restructure and transform PEA into a commercially operated company by
1998. Further, the study on Regulatory Framework would, for the first time
systematically and in depth, investigate the issues and options in regulating the Thai
energy sector and define the regulatory framework most suited to the sector's increasingly
commercial nature and one that would involve private investments.



2. THE BORROWER
2.1   Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) is a state enterprise wholly owned by the
Kingdom of Thailand and comes under the direct supervision of the Ministry of the
Interior. PEA was established by the Provincial Electric Authority Act of 1960 to
consolidate the development of the country's electricity distribution systems outside of
Bangkok. The Act gives PEA the authority to generate, acquire, transmit, and distribute
electric energy and conduct business related to electric energy and other business
incidental to those activities that benefit PEA.
2.2   PEA serves customers over a large area. At the end of FY95, PEA had over 9
million consumers and nearly 30,000 employees. In FY95, over 99% of PEA's energy
requirement was purchased from EGAT, with the remainder purchased from Department
of Energy Affairs (DEA) and generated from its own mini-hydro and diesel plants.
A. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
2.3   As a state enterprise, overall guidance, policy and support are provided to PEA
by the Government through a government-appointed Board of Directors. The Board of
Directors is comprised of a Chairman (who has the position of Director General,
Department of Local Administration within the Ministry of Interior) and nine other
members who include both senior officials of the government agencies and departments
concerned with power distribution, and representatives from the private sector. The
Board terms are four years and members can be re-appointed. The Governor of PEA is
an ex-officio member of the Board as well as PEA's chief executive officer. In addition
to appointing the Governor, the Board also approves the appointments of all Advisors,
Experts, and any management at the level of Department Manager or higher. The Board
approves the PEA budget and reviews and approves financing and capital expenditure
plans before they are submitted to the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Council of
Ministers. The Board also approves purchases in excess of Baht 20 million.
2.4   Within PEA, decision making on projects, project management, capital
expenditures, and personnel are highly centralized. The Governor appoints project
managers, approves each new permanent position established, reviews the progress of all
projects and resolves project management issues, and approves all purchases above Baht
5 million.
2.5  In line with the Government's overall plan for the commercialization and eventual
privatization of the electricity sector, PEA is reviewing its organizational structure. This
re-evaluation is being conducted through a study (Feasibility Study for the Privatization
of PEA) being implemented under the Distribution System Reinforcement Project (Loan
3798-TH) with a view to the possible division of PEA into separate regional companies.



14
B. RESTRUCTURING OF PEA
2.6   The restructuring of PEA is intended to lead to its creation as a limited liability
corporate entity (i.e. corporatization) followed by eventual privatization.  These
objectives and related policy goals vis-a-vis electricity development are defined in the
1992-1996 Seventh National Economic and Social Development Plan (NESDP). PEA is
soon to acquire the intermediate target of being classified as an Excellent State
Enterprise, which would give it the authority to devise and establish a suitable
compensation and staffing system.  More importantly, the Excellent State Enterprise
status requires entities to achieve the minimum commercial benchmarks.
2.7   To adequately define a privatization strategy and begin implementation, PEA has
over the last two years initiated a comprehensive effort to commercialize and corporatize
its operations. A high-level privatization sub-committee was established to oversee the
activity.  Preliminary studies were undertaken in 1994, with the feasibility study
submitted in February 1995. The feasibility study articulated a phased restructuring
strategy for PEA and recommended a priority focus on operational and functional
streamlining. In particular, organizational restructuring and human resource and skills
upgrading were seen as crucial to any successful move towards privatization. The senior
management reviewed the feasibility study and requested additional detail on
implementation.  PEA working groups working with the consultant prepared a set of
action plans by end-1995. The implementation actions were developed to achieve the
following strategic vision for PEA:
(a)   PEA will decentralize the day-to-day management of operations to its four
regional distribution areas (i.e. regions).  This phased progression will
begin with the creation of business units with fully allocated costs (i.e.
cost-centers), followed by their transition to fully independent profit
centers by end- 1997;
(b)   Creation of a PEA Holding Company structure with the regional entities as
separate corporations under PEA. The Holding Company would provide
central services and policy guidance.   These central services could
include: coordination in tariff setting and power system management;
certain specialized engineering services; and assistance in financing of
major projects and overall debt management; and
(c)   Separation of non-core functions as separate subsidiaries with the view of
eventual spin-off if possible.   The non-core functions are pole
manufacturing and construction.  These subsidiaries should ultimately
compete for PEA business with the transitional arrangement of PEA
contracts to enable commercial operation.
2.8   It has been recommended that the restructuring of PEA be carefully phased and
sequenced with the intention of building important commercial capabilities in order to
achieve a successful transition to the private sector.  It is envisaged that the above



15
transformations could take up to 3-4 years to be adequately implemented. Annex 7
provides details on the implementation program and an indicative implementation
schedule.  Agreement was reached at negotiations that PEA  would restructure its
organization according to an agreed action plan as follows: no later than (a)September 30,
1996 for the operational decentralization of PEA distribution areas; (b)September 30,
1998, for the transition to fully independent utility profit centers; and (c) September 30,
1999, for the transition to a Holding Company Structure with regional utility subsidiaries.
Any revision of the said plan shall be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.
C. STAFFING AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
2.9   PEA's management and staff are professional and well-qualified.  As of
December 1995, PEA employed 30,961 persons, 1,974 at various managerial levels and
28,987 non-managerial positions consisting of engineers, accountants, technicians, and
administrative and other skilled workers. PEA has a young workforce, matching closely
the general population; about 40% (the largest percentage of employees) of the staff are
between the ages of 25 to 34. About 70% of the staff have received some form of higher
education, with 7% being university graduates. The 1995 mix of headquarters staff
(5,573) and field personnel (25,388) is 18:82 times. PEA's staff composition and
educational qualifications are presented in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: PEA Staffing Evolution
Increase
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95         1991-95
-I.... .   . . _ . R % p.a.
University graduates      2,540    2,765    2,841    2,880    2,248     - 2.2
Technical diploma         5,801    6,283    6,486    6,573    4,577     - 4.4
Vocational certificate   12,440   12,942    13,404   13,584   14,662     4.2
Others                    7,860    7,824    8,153    8,263    9,474      4.9
TOTAL                  28,641   29,814   30,884   31,300   30,961      2.0
Customer per employee      247      253       259     270      292       4.2
Gwh sales per employee    0.727    0.818    0.929     1.03     1.22     13.9
2.10   Due in large part to the rapid growth of PEA in terms of number of customers and
electricity sales, the number of consumers per employee consistently increased from 247
in FY91 to 292 in FY95; annual energy sales per employee increased from 0.727 Gwh to
1.22 Gwh, respectively. PEA's employee population has increased 8% in the last five
years. Of these, the headquarters staff has grown 0.1% compared to 20% for field staff.
With the fast pace of growth of field offices, ultimately the deployment and utilization of
staff resources will impact PEA's operational efficiency. It would be extremely difficult
for PEA to keep up with this demand while updating or improving its business process to
support additional demands of flexibility and responsiveness. Furthermore, operations



16
that worked well with a mostly residential customer base, served by a relatively small
employee population in the past, has become burdensome and bureaucratic as PEA is
now faced with a growing industrial base and a large employee population.
2.11  PEA's management has recognized the need for slower employee growth as
indicated by the drop in annual increases from about 17-19% in the early 1980s to annual
increases averaging 4% in the late 1980s and early 1990s. PEA's employee population
has now peaked and as its revenues taper from their current 17% increase from FY94 to
FY95, and as PEA, in complying with its Excellent Enterprise status, becomes more
efficient, it is clear that additional growth in workforce will not be needed for the near
future.
Training
2.12  Training within PEA is primarily the responsibility of the Training Center for
technical, non-technical, and management training and the PEA Vocational School,
which is responsible for developing "hotline" technicians. The Center, which has a
permanent staff of 102 employees (31 of whom are full-time instructors), is organized
into six sections including an audio visual section, training documentation section,
electrical system training, general equipment or mechanical training section,
administrative section and a section responsible for training evaluation. The Center
provides training at the head office, conference locations, local offices, universities,
technical institutes and at PEA's Training Center in Nakorn Chaisri District. While PEA
sends staff for external training, both in Thailand and abroad, much of PEA training effort
is in the technical areas; insufficient attention is given to supervisory and management
training and to staff development. Further, more employees need to be exposed to
training as the overall number of employees undergoing training (778 in FY94) seems
disproportionately low when compared to the total employee population (31,300). PEA
is currently reviewing its training role and developing a training plan that would increase
the number of trained staff, decrease administrative positions and increase instructors and
course developers.
D. OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
2.13  PEA uses four geographic regions - Central, South, North and Northeast - as the
basis of its four administrative regions. The three regions of South, North and Northeast
have roughly equal loads while the Central region, where much of the demand growth is
now occurring, is projected to serve more than half the total load by FY96. With the
rapid growth experienced by PEA during the past five years, the number of connections
provided by the utility has increased from 6.6 million in 1990 to 8.5 million in 1994, for
an average annual growth of 7%. The annual investment program increased even more
rapidly, from Baht 4,906 million in FY90 to Baht 9,305 million in FY94, or about 20%
per year. The relatively low level of capital investment in the late 1980s has created the
need for sharply increased capital expenditures in the early 1990s. Accordingly, PEA



17
will make the much needed upgrading and expansion of its distribution system, which
should prepare it for the expected continued high growth rates of the near to medium
term.
2.14  Throughout its history, PEA's market and development emphasis has been on
electrifying the country and uniting parts of its network. Village electrification projects
and other distribution system expansion projects to achieve those ends have played a
prominent role in all of PEA's project plans. The electrification process (reaching 98% of
villages and about 20% of families still to be connected), while still ongoing, is nearly
complete. PEA's system development is now increasingly dedicated to meeting the
requirements of growing high-density load centers. PEA has found it necessary to
develop its own 115 kV system to serve large load centers reliably and efficiently.
2.15  PEA operates its facilities satisfactorily. It conducts regular maintenance within
stipulated intervals, and the standards observed for major maintenance work are
satisfactory. Power losses for the institution as a whole amount to about 5% of electricity
purchases, which are low when compared to those recorded for other countries in the
region.
2.16  PEA has a good record in project cost control, implementation and management.
It has been a Bank borrower since 1978 and has been a recipient of five loans. It is
familiar with the Bank's procurement guidelines and processes tenders and awards
contracts equitably and expeditiously.
E. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Accounting
2.17  PEA's accounting system conforms to modem power utility practices. Head
Office Accounting Division has a staff of about 75 persons, of which 25 have accounting
degrees (although no one is a CPA) while the Finance Division includes 15 accountants
(one is a CPA). While the staff is qualified and well motivated, the lack of CPAs will
present a problem as reporting requirements become more structured and timely.
2.18  Most of PEA's accounting applications have been computerized.  Financial
statements are developed at each area office and regional centers and sent to the Head
Office Accounting Division on computer and diskette where they are consolidated.
Monthly reports are produced by the Accounting and Finance Divisions and financial
statements are summarized monthly and reported to the Board of Directors who provide
them to the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Corporate accounting has the responsibility for
designing the chart of accounts, developing accounting systems, controlling accounting
procedures, financial and cost analysis and preparing financial statements. Consolidation
of financial accounts is only partly computerized and an integrated accounting system
would help PEA achieve greater efficiency in its operations.



18
2.19  The budget process has been operating satisfactorily. The Budget Division is
responsible for preparing PEA's annual budgets for its capital and operating expenditures,
and prepares periodic reports to compare actual results against budgeted amounts.
Additionally, it prepares the financial analysis and projections; negotiates with the Fiscal
Policy Office, the NESDB, MOF, and foreign and local financial institutions; controls
disbursement of loans and government subsidy, and studies terms and conditions of
loans.
2.20  PEA's billing and collection system  is adequate.  PEA has over 9 million
customers from which revenues are collected. The customer bills are produced at the area
offices and sent to the provincial offices for distribution. Revenues are collected at the
provincial office with the assistance of outside bill collectors. Collections are deposited
into local banks and transferred daily (computerized, on-line transfer) to the Krung Thai
Bank in Bangkok. Industrial customers are charged 15% annual late fee on revenues not
paid within 15 days after the bill is delivered and service is cut off to non-paying
customers if the bill is unpaid after the next seven to ten days.
Audit
2.21   PEA has an Internal Auditing Department which reports directly to the Governor.
The Department, consisting of seven divisions and one section, has a staff of about 140
auditors and accountants who review the accounts of each regional office and of the head
office every three months. Each audit focuses on analysis, evaluations, suggestions and
observations involving financial management and accounting operations and managerial
controls. These audits are submitted to the Director of Internal Audit but only problem
findings are brought to the attention of the Governor.
2.22  PEA's Internal Auditing reviews the annual Action Plan and the audit
performance. Work is performed in conjunction with the Office of the Auditor General to
assess improvement in efficiency, economy and effectiveness.  In addition to the
performance audit, the Auditor General performs the external audit in accordance with
internationally accepted auditing procedures as well as guidelines set up by the Office of
the Auditor General. The submission of the reports to the Bank has always been timely
and the auditing arrangements are satisfactory. As provided for under previous Bank
loans, agreement was reached with PEA, at negotiations, that it would submit to the Bank
the audited financial statements within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Reporting and Management Information System
2.23  PEA has an extensive review and approval process related to decision-making,
performance management and information reporting approaches.  The management
information reporting at PEA has evolved along traditional paths typical of a large,
government enterprise and reflects PEA's culture of a primarily "top down" centralized
approach to management control and decision-making.



19
2.24 A Management Information System (MIS) is currently being implemented which
would include the fully computerized customer service system (including billing,
collections, and customer-related work orders), finance and accounting system, fixed
asset and inventory management system, and personnel management system. It is also
developing a transmission and distribution system management (TDSM) and an
engineering design and analysis system, financed under the Bank's Distribution
Upgrading and Distribution System Reinforcement Projects (Loans 3404-TH and 3798-
TH), respectively. The Bank-financed systems are expected to improve PEA's project
management, monitoring and reporting capabilities.
2.25  PEA's computer systems, established for its individual applications, have not yet
been integrated. Work is currently underway on an electronic data processing master
plan, and PEA has commissioned a consulting study to help achieve integration of its
various systems.
Insurance
2.26  PEA carries adequate insurance protection against fire for buildings and their
contents. No third party liability insurance is carried. This is the general practice in most
public enterprises in Thailand and given the characteristics of the risk for PEA is
acceptable. Insurance policies are reviewed and updated once a year. It was agreed, at
negotiations, that PEA would continue to make provisions satisfactory to the Bank to
provide insurance against such risks and in amounts consistent with appropriate practice.
Taxes
2.27  In accordance with regulations applicable to state enterprises, PEA is liable to
remit to the MOF a proportion of its net income. As advised by the Government's Budget
Bureau, PEA has been remitting taxes each year since September 30, 1992 at a level
which rose from 15% of net income to the current level of 30%. To achieve greater
independence from government regulation, PEA applied for "Excellent State Enterprise"
status in May 1993. PEA complied with a number of criteria to attain the status,
including being able to maintain a net income at a level that will permit remittance to the
MOF at the commercial rate of 30%. PEA expects to become an "Excellent State
Enterprise" in 1996.



I



3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1   The main objectives of the proposed project are to: (a) improve through
automation the efficiency and reliability of PEA's distribution network and strengthen its
operational capabilities; (b) upgrade the distribution system in the south of Thailand to
meet demand growth efficiently and at least cost; (c) strengthen PEA's engineering and
management capabilities through the integration of its Geographical Information System
(GIS) with the proposed Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system; (d)
help rationalize PEA system's interfacing arrangements with EGAT, an important step
towards its regionalization and subsequent privatization; and (e) help investigate the
issues and options for the regulatory framework for the energy sector. In addition, during
the tenure of the project, the Bank would assist PEA in its efforts towards restructuring
and subsequent corporatization.  The achievement of project objectives would be
monitored through specific performance indicators (para. 3.12 and Annex 12). The
components of the proposed project are:
(a)   Distribution Automation System comprising: (i) six control centers with
SCADA facilities in PEA Central Region Areas 1, 2 and 3, Southern
Region Area 1, Northern Region Area 3, and consolidation reporting
facilities in PEA's Head Office; (ii) about 2,100 remote-controlled
distribution line switching equipment; (iii) some 1,500 fault indicators,
150 remote terminal units and 75 Ultra High Frequency (UHF)
communications links; and (iv) construction of six control centers and
modification of about 150 existing substations;
(b)   Upgrading Distribution in South Thailand comprising: construction of
about 680 km of 115 kV transmission lines and about 20 associated
1 15/22/33 kV substations (total capacity about 1,350 MVA);
(c)   Consulting Services for: (i) detailed design and project management of the
Distribution Automation System including training of PEA technical staff;
and (ii) detailed design and project management of Upgrading Distribution
in South Thailand; and
(d)   Technical Assistance for: (i) rationalization of PEA's interfacing
arrangements with EGAT; and (ii) study of issues and options for the
regulatory framework for the energy sector.
Distribution Automation System
3.2   Thailand's Seventh National Economic and Social Development Plan (NESDP)
recognizes: (a) power system efficiency improvement; and (b) strengthening system
operational and service capability as two important factors that would contribute to the
achievement of a reliable electricity supply, vital for a sustained high economic growth



21
rate. Following a detailed feasibility study by consultants (Annex 22, Ref. 2) PEA and
the Government have decided on introduction of automated distribution practices that
would facilitate: (a) collection of operational and statistical data on the distribution
network that would help improve efficiency and lower operating costs; and (b) exercising
of remote control of operational devices in the network that would help reduce outage
times and unsupplied energy to consumers. The overall distribution automation project
involves the establishment of Distribution Dispatching Centers (DDC) in each of PEA's
12 administrative areas and a System Management Center (SMC) at PEA's head office in
Bangkok. Its first phase, which constitutes the proposed project, covers 28 of Thailand's
fastest growing provinces, and involves construction of DDC's for the Central Region
Areas 1,2, 3, the Southern Region Area 1 and the Northern Region Area 3. The proposed
project would involve installation of about 1,600 Remote Control Switches (RCS) in a
total of about 1,072 trunk feeder circuits with a combined length of about 62,000 km.
The switches would be controlled by about 156 RTUs installed in 156 substations.
Communications between the RCSs and the substations will be carried out on a UHF
radio point-to-multipoint network with an estimated 60 master radios and 15 repeaters.
Communications between the substations and the DDCs will be carried on the microwave
systems currently being established by PEA under a different project. The SMC would
be provided with Energy Management System, Data Compilation System and
Administration Applications software. The DDCs will be provided with SCADA,
Distribution Management Systems (DMS) software, the GIS and Automated Billing
System (ABS). A schematic of the system is given in Annex 8. Agreement was reached
at negotiations that PEA would ensure that the communication system required for
communication between control centers and substations shall be installed and be fully
operational in time to meet the commissioning requirements of the distribution
automation system.
Upgrading Distribution in South Thailand
3.3   An in-depth feasibility study undertaken by consultants (Annex 22, Ref. 3)
determined that progressive extension of 115kV lines and construction of new
115/22/33kV substations (instead of expanding distribution from existing substations)
would be the least-cost distribution option for the south of Thailand, and indeed for high
growth areas in rest of the country.  The substations under the project would be
substantially standardized in design, and would norrnally commence service with one
incoming 115kV line, one 25 MVA (rural areas) or 50 MVA (urban areas) transformer,
outdoor 115kV switching arrangement and indoor 22/33kV switchgear with five radial
feeder outlets. For consumers requiring a high degree of reliability, measures taken
would include looping 115kV lines, duplicating substation transformers and/or providing
load transfer facilities at 22/33kV. The 115kV lines under the project would utilize
concrete poles, and would be routed along existing roads thereby eliminating new right-
of-way requirements. Pertinent project data are given in Annex 9. Distribution beyond
the substation 22/33kV bus would be outside the scope of the proposed project.



22
Consulting Services
3.4   Provision has been made in the project for consulting services to assist PEA in
engineering, design, procurement and construction supervision of: (a) the Distribution
Automation component (including integration of the GIS and the DMS and extensive
training of PEA staff), amounting to about 450 staff-months (SM); and (b) the component
for Upgrading Distribution in South Thailand, amounting to about 45 SM. Consulting
services for the first phase of the Distribution Automation System (about 30 SM), which
includes basic design and preparation of bid documents, have already been engaged
following the Bank guidelines.
Technical Assistance
3.5   Rationalization of Interfacing Arrangements with EGAT. The main objectives of
this TA are to investigate the technical and economic aspects of transmission and sub-
transmission development in Thailand. This would provide a framework for the rational
division of ownership of transmission and sub-transmission facilities between EGAT and
PEA, an important step in the proposed regionalization of PEA into four companies and
the contemplated evolution of a separate national Transmission Company (terms of
reference are at Annex 10). This TA will be financed out of the Japanese PHRD grant
and consulting services (amounting to about 50 SM), have already been engaged
following the Bank guidelines. Agreement was reached at negotiations that PEA, under
the supervision of NEPO, would complete by no later than June 30, 1997 a study, under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, into the technical and economic aspects of
power transmission and subtransmission development in Thailand with a view to
providing a framework for the rationalization of transmission and subtransmission
facilities of EGAT and PEA; and review the study with the Government, EGAT and the
Bank and based on that review, by no later than December 31, 1997 develop an action
plan for the rationalization of the interfacing arrangements between EGAT and PEA
taking into account the Bank's recommendations as presented during the course of the
review.
3.6   Regulatory Framework for the Energy Sector. Currently, Thailand does not have
an independent regulatory body for the energy sector. The regulatory role performed by
NEPO has, so far, enabled the sector to function satisfactorily. However, with: (a) the
strong emphasis placed by the Government on mobilizing private capital to finance the
massive investments in the sector; and (b) the Government's plans to restructure the
sector and its entities and move them towards corporatization and eventual privatization,
the time is opportune to investigate the need for change and to review issues and options
for the evolution of a regulatory framework that would be able to shoulder the greatly
increased burden and the more complex nature of regulation in the future. Apart from
this, the regulation would need to be transparent and done in a way (through a set of
legally binding, transparent, fair and practical rules and regulations) that would induce
private entities to invest in the sector, and that would assure them their investment and
future income and market entry and exit.



23
3.7   The main objectives of the consulting study (amounting to about 40 SM) would
be to: (a) review the current regulatory framework for all facets of the energy sector (but
with emphasis on the power sector) and the proposed plans of the Government for
restructuring the various sub-sectors; (b) assess the needs for regulation of the energy
sector in the long-term in the light of the Government's objectives to attract private sector
participation, including the degree and depth of competition desired in the sub-sectors; (c)
investigate altemative regulatory arrangements and their merits and demerits; (d) define
the scope, functions and organizational arrangements for the most optimum regulatory
framework; and (e) assess the most suitable time frame and the stages through which the
current regulatory system could evolve into the most optimum system. Terms of
reference for the TA are at Annex 5. Agreement was reached at negotiations that PEA,
under the supervision of NEPO, would complete by no later than December 31, 1997, a
study, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, reviewing the regulatory
framework of the energy sector in the light of increasing private participation in the sector
and identifying issues and actions to reform.
B. IMPLEMENTATION
3.8   PEA will be fully responsible for the implementation of the physical components
of the project. Two project teams, each headed by a Deputy Governor, have been formned
for coordinating and managing the activities of the two project components, respectively.
In view of the complex nature of the Distribution Automation component, elaborate
organizational arrangements have been made for implementation as indicated in Chart 2.
The project teams will draw on: (a) design support from PEA's Engineering/Planning,
Civil/Architecture, and Procurement departments; (b) accounting support from PEA's
Economic/Budget and Accounting/Finance departments; and (c) construction supervision
support from PEA's Construction, Service and Transport departments, and from the
regional offices. The teams will have extensive consulting support throughout project
implementation. Installation of the Distribution Automation System facilities, as also of
the transmission lines and substations for Upgrading Distribution in South Thailand, will
be undertaken through single-responsibility turnkey contracts. All transmission lines
under the project will be pole-mounted, and will be routed along roads where PEA has
right-of-way, thus avoiding potential right-of-way problems. PEA is well advanced in
the procurement of land plots for the substations. The project implementation schedule
will, therefore, not be affected by land acquisition problems. PEA has prepared a Project
Implementation Plan in line with Bank guidelines (Annex 22, Ref. 1). The bar charts for
implementing the various project components are given in Charts 3 and 4. The project
would be implemented over the 1996-1999 period. The above implementation
arrangements are appropriate for timely execution of the project and are satisfactory to
the Bank.
3.9   The consulting studies for the regulatory framework for the energy sector (para.
3.6) and for the rationalization of interfacing arrangements with EGAT (para. 3.5) would



24
be implemented by PEA under the supervision of the National Energy Policy Office
(NEPO).
Monitoring and Reporting
3.10   Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project in terns of
physical execution and financial reports were agreed with PEA, at negotiations. It was
also agreed that PEA will furnish quarterly progress reports.  An Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) will be drafted by the Bank not later than six months after
closing of the loans and agreement was reached at negotiations that PEA would assist in
its preparation. PEA will adopt a plan for the operational phase of the project. PEA will
also prepare and make available to the Bank its own evaluation report, including a
summary report which will be attached unedited to the ICR. The evaluation would assess
the project execution and initial operation, its costs and benefits, the Bank's performance.
its own performance of the obligations under the Loan Agreements, and the extent to
which the purposes of the Loans were achieved.
Supervision Plan and Key Project Performance Indicators
3.11         Supervision of this project will extend over a period of three years, 1997-
1999. The key issues that would be focused upon are: (a) periodic reviews of PEA's
investment plan in keeping with changes in the economic scenario; (b) compliance with
financial covenants to assure the financial health of PEA while undertaking a large
investment program; (c) progress in the restructuring of PEA's organization; and (d)
technical supervision of physical implementation of the project components. The Bank
missions, accompanied with ESMAP staff as necessary, would also assist the
Government in: (a) addressing legal and regulatory framework issues for the energy
sector; and (b) rationalization of transmission arrangements between PEA and EGAT.
Supervision of the project would require expertise in power engineering, economics,
financial analysis, corporate restructuring and energy sector regulation. Three missions
annually for a period of three years (normally coinciding with supervision and
preparatory missions for ongoing and future Bank-assisted projects, respectively) are
foreseen for adequate supervision of this project. The total estimated staff inputs are: (a)
power engineer, economist and financial analyst -- 24 staff-weeks; (b) corporate
restructuring -- 5 staff-weeks; (c) regulatory framework -- 5 staff-weeks; and (d) legal
expert -- 4 staff-weeks (see Annex 11 for details).
3.12  The achievement of project objectives would be monitored during and after
project implementation through specific project performance indicators (see Annex 12).
The performance indicators in relation to the Distribution Automation component would
be: (a) System Average Interruption Frequency Index; and (b) Customer Average
Interruption Duration Index. In regard to Upgrading Distribution in South Thailand, the
performance indicator would be the Transformer Utilization Factor for each of the 20
substations under the project. PEA's performance would (apart from monitoring of
compliance with financial covenants) be monitored in terms of: (a) Gwh sales per



25
employee; (b) customers per employee; (c) overall system loss; (d) time for bid
evaluation; and (e) actual annual changes in the organization structure versus planned
changes. In addition to the perfornance indicators, target dates have been defined to
monitor progress in the implementation of the physical and technical assistance
components of the project.
C. ENVIRONMENT
3.13  A detailed Environmental Impact Examination (including route surveys) of the
transmission lines and substations to be constructed for Upgrading Distribution in South
Thailand has been conducted by PEA. This has concluded that neither the transmission
lines (which will be constructed in open areas along the right-of-way of existing roads of
the Highway Department), nor the substations will encroach on ecologically sensitive
forest areas, or affect any agricultural land. The Distribution Automation component of
the project does not involve construction of any new transmission lines or substations.
The equipment that would be procured would be introduced in existing lines or installed
in control centers in existing PEA substations or district office premises. The project, as
a whole, would, therefore, have no adverse impact on the environment and has thus been
classified under Category B.
3.14  The total land area required for the construction of the 21 substations is about 33
hectares. Land plots for the substations are being purchased by PEA from the owners
through a process of negotiations. Ten plots have already been purchased; negotiations
have been completed for 4 plots; negotiations for 4 plots are in progress; 3 plots
belonging to the Government have to be alloted to PEA. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that procurement of land required for the construction of substations will not
involve will not involve expropriation, involuntary resettlement or rehabilitation or
compensation.
D. COST ESTIMATES
3.15  The total financing required by PEA  for the proposed project (including
capitalized interest during construction) is estimated at about US$347 million, with a
foreign exchange component of about US$173 million. Details of the cost estimate are
presented in Annex 13. Costs are at January 1996 price levels and are based on estimates
prepared by the consultants and updated by PEA. Physical contingencies have been
assumed at about 10% of the base cost. Price contingencies are estimated on the basis of
escalation factors of 5% for the local cost components and 2.2% for the foreign cost
components following Bank guidelines. Table 3.1 summarizes the cost estimates for the
proposed project.



26
Table 3.1: Summary of Costs /_
Local T oreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total         Foreign
Item                                        I                    I                    as % of
Baht million /b               US$ million           T otal Cost
Distribution Automation                         450.0    1327.5   1777.5      18.0       53.1    71.1       74.7
Distribution in South Thailand
Substations                                   980.0     895.0   1875.0      39.2       35.8    75.0       47.7
Transmission Lines                           1075.0      600.0   1675.0     43.0       24.0    67.0       35.8
,Base Cost                                    2505.0    2822.5   5327.5    100.2        112.9   213.1       53.0
Physical Contingencies                          250.0     282.5    532.5      10.0       11.3    21.3       53.1
Price Contingencies                             492.5     415.0    907.5      19.7       16.6    36.3       45.7
Installation Cost                             3247.5    3520.0   6767.5    129.9        140.8   270.7       52. 0
Eng. and Admin. Overheads                       120.0     280.0    400.0       4.8       11.2    16 0       70.0
Duties and Taxes                                682.5        0.0    682.5     27.3        0.0    27.3       0.(
Sub-Total Project Cost                        4050.0    30.0   7850.         162.0      152.0   314.0       48.4
Consulting Services
Distribution Automation                        25.0      187.5    212.5       1.0       7.5      8.5      882 
Distribution in South Thailand                  0.0       25.0     25.0       0.0       1.0      1.0      100.0
Technical Assistance
Transmission System Rationalization             0.0       20.0     20.0       0.0       0.8      0.8      100.0
Regulatory Framnework                           0.0      17.5      17.5      0.0        0.7      0.7     100 0
Total Project Cost                             4075.0    4050.0   8125.0    163.0       162.0   325.0       4
Interest During Construction                    275.0     275.0    550.0      11.0       11.0    22.0       50.0
Total Financing Required                       4350.0    43250   8675.0    174.0        173.0   347.0
/a January 1996 price levels.
/b Exchange rate US$1 = B25.0
E. FINANCING PLAN
3.16    Table  4.2  summarizes the  expected  financing  sources for the  project.   Bank
financing would account for about 29% of the project cost (including interest during
construction) and about 58% of its foreign exchange component. The Bank loans would
be: (a) US$67 million in single currency, US$ denominated, fixed interest loan, with a 3-
6 year disbursement period and a 12-15 years maturity; and (b) US$33 million equivalent
in currency pool loan payable in 17 years, including five years of grace at Bank standard
variable interest rate. PEA would bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks for its
loans, which would be guaranteed by the Kingdom of Thailand. Other borrowings would
include local commercial bank loans and bonds for 5-7 year duration, with interest rates
of about 10% (para. 4.23).
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local      1     Foreign              Total              Pretg
IBRD                                 0.0              100.0               100.0                 28.8
Other Borrowing                      84.0              73.0               157.0                 45.2
Internal Cash Generation             90.0               0.0                90.0                 26.0
Total                               174.0             173.               347.0                 100.0



27
F. PROCUREMENT
3.17 All contracts financed by the Bank would be awarded on the basis of International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines,
published in January 1995 and revised in January 1996. Pre-qualification of bidders
would be carried out for the supply and installation of equipment and systems for the
distribution automation component.
3.18   A procurement plan for the project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review
and approval, prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid
for contracts. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank. The invitation to prequalify
or bid for each contract estimated to cost US$10 million equivalent or more shall be
advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under
paragraph 2.8 of the Bank's procurement guidelines. The bid documents would follow
the text of the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. The Bank's Standard Form of
Contract would be used for the consultancy contracts. In the evaluation of bids for goods
procured following ICB procedures, a domestic price preference margin equal to 15% of
the CIF bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and import taxes,
whichever is less, will be allowed for domestic manufactures. Prior Bank review of bid
documents and approval of contract awards would be mandatory for all contracts
expected to cost the equivalent of US$1.0 million or more. This would cover about 95%
of total contract value. Consulting services financed by the Bank would be awarded in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. All consultancy
contracts, except: (a) contracts with consulting firms expected to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each; and (b) contracts with individual consultants expected to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent each, will be subject to prior review by the Bank. The provisions
of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets,
shortlists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
expected to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent; or (b) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent each. However,
these exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference of
such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a
critical nature (as reasonably determined by the Bank); and (d) amendments to contracts
of consulting firms raising the contract value to US$100,000 equivalent or above or
amnendments to contract for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to US$50,000 equivalent or above. The total number of procurement packages is
foreseen to be 9 (Annex 14). A total of about 585 staff-months of consulting services
will be engaged under about 4 contracts (paras. 3.4 to 3.7).
3.19  Substations, transmission lines and distribution automation systems would be
implemented through single responsibility supply and install contracts. Conductors for
transmission lines would be fabricated locally out of aluminum ingots. The ingots would



28
be procured through ICB procedures and financed from the Bank loans. Local fabrication
of conductors will not be financed from the Bank loans.
G. DISBURSEMENTS
3.20  The Bank loans would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for
imported equipment and materials; (b) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally
manufactured items procured through ICB; (c) 70% of local expenditures for materials
and equipment procured locally; and (d) 100% of total expenditures for consulting
services. For all equipment and material contracts, disbursements would be made against
full documentation. As the number of contracts is small and manageable, Statement of
Expenditures (SOE) procedures would not be followed nor would a Special Account be
opened. However, PEA will ensure that each withdrawal application would not be less
than US$50,000 equivalent.
3.21  Annex 15 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loans and the
standard profile of disbursements for power projects in Asia. Considering the advanced
stage of preparation by PEA with consultants already in place for the Distribution
Automation component, the proposed loans is expected to be disbursed slightly faster
than indicated by the standard profile. The project is expected to be completed by June
30, 2001 and the closing date for the loans would be December 31, 2001.



29
Table 3.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS /a
(US$ million)
Project Component                            ICB            Other /1      N.B.FJr    Total
Cost
Goods
Distribution Automation /d                       90.4              0.0          0.0       90.4
(52.8)                                 (52.8)
Substations /d                                   71.7              0.0          0.0       71.7
(22.4)                                  (22.4)
Transmission Lines /d                            68.7              0.0          0.0       68.7
(7.3)                                  (7.3)
Conductors                                        10.3             0.0          7.5       17.8
(10.3)                                 (10.3)
Consultancies
Distribution Automation                           0.0              8.5          0.0        8.5
(6.5)                  (6.5)
Distribution South Thailand                       0.0               1.0         0.0        1.0
Technical Assistance
Trans. System Rationalization                     0.0              0.8          0.0        0.8
Regulatory Framework                              0.0              0.7          0.0        0.7
(0.7)                 (0.7)
Miscellaneous
Land                                              0.0              0.0         22.1      22.1
Eng. and Admin. Overheads                         0.0              0.0         16.0       16.0
Duties and Taxes                                  0.0              0.0         27.3      27.3
Total Cost                                      241.1             11.0         72.9     325.0
(92.8)           (7.2)                (100.0)
/A  Figures in brackets refer to financing from the Bank loans.
ib  Refers to the engagement of consulting services.
/Q  N.B.F. - Not Bank Financed.
/d  Procured through single responsibility supply and install contracts.



4. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. PAST PERFORMANCE
4.1    PEA's financial performance for the period FY90-94 has been more than satisfactory.
A summary of PEA's financial performance is presented in Table 4.1 while the detailed
statements are given in Annex 16.
Table 4.1: Summary of PEA's Financial Operating Statistics, FY90-94
(Baht million)
1990  j 1991   [1992   J1993              1994
Energy Sales (Gwh)                    17,805     20,812     24,379     28,819   32,296
Average Revenue (B/kWh)                  1.63       1.64       1.60      1.62     1.60
Operating Revenues                    30,264     35,799     40,806     48,583   53.981
lOperating Expenses                   27,022      3 1,645    35,316    42,292   47,691
Operating Income                       3,242      4,154       5,490     6,291    6,290
Net Income                             2,366      3,793       5,193     6,283    6,257
Rate Base                             27,316     30,023     33,529     37,678   41,539
Long-Term Debt (net)                  21,614     20,485     21,729     23,225   23,650
Primary Ratios:
Rate of Return (%)                     11.4       13.0       14.2       13.5    14.4
Debt Service Coverage (times)           2.0        2.4        3.2        4.2     4.5
Operating Ratio (%)                    89.3       88.4        86.5      87.1    88.4
Current Ratio (times)                   1.6         1.7        2.0       2.5      2.7
Debt to Total Capitalization (%)       54.9       47.8       42.7       38.4    35.5
Self-Financing Ratio (%)               63.8       53.6       99.7       58.8    56.4
(3-year average)
4.2    During the period FY90-94, PEA's energy sales grew at an annual average of about
17%, from 17,805 Gwh in FY90 to 32,296 Gwh in FY94. This very high growth rate was
due to the country's overall economic expansion in the period, PEA's extensive rural
electrification program, and the rapid industrial development, especially in the provinces
immediately adjacent to Bangkok. The growth also reflects the Government's policy of
regional diversification by encouraging economic growth outside the greater Bangkok
metropolitan area.
4.3    The sizable sales volume increase of the late 1980s and throughout the 1990s enabled
PEA to earn net income in FY90, which more than doubled in FY91 and continued to
increase by more than 20% per annum through FY93. Largely because of the rapid volume
growth, but also because PEA's capital investment program has been low in relation to its
sales growth, PEA's financial indicators have been excessively sound. The rate of return



31
(ROR) on net revalued fixed assets in operation averaged 13% in FY90-94. The self-
financing ratio, which was 100% in FY92 and averaged 66% throughout the period, was 56%
in FY94.
4.4   PEA has been extremely profitable because operating expenses have been maintained
at a level of about 88% of revenues on average throughout the period, as increases in major
expense items such as purchased power, operating and maintenance expenses, and
depreciation have kept pace with electricity sales. PEA's profitability was further improved
by its relatively low and declining level of financing charges. Interest charged to operations
of Baht 1.2 billion, which represented 4% of operating revenues in FY90, decreased to Baht
0.9 billion or 2% in FY94. The reason for this is not only a low level of capital investments
in the period but also PEA's reliance on internally-generated funds for more than 50% of its
funding requirements, and substantial use of low cost borrowings through OECF and KfW
(Germany) for a significant portion of its debt.
B. PRESENT FINANCIAL POSITION
4.5   In FY94, PEA experienced an increase in electric energy sales of 12% over FY93. Of
the total amount of revenues from electricity sales of Baht 52 billion, Baht 11.4 billion
(22%) came from residential customers, Baht 36.7 billion (71%) from business and industrial
categories and Baht 3.6 billion (7%) from other customers. The increase in operating
revenues was mainly attributed to the increase in electricity demand though offset by a
reduction in the average tariff by about 1.2% from Baht 1.62/kwh in FY93 to Baht 1.60/kWh
in FY94. Net income in FY94 dropped slightly by Baht 26 million, because of significant
increases in remittances to Government (77%) and foreign exchange losses (35%).
4.6   In accordance with regulations applicable to state enterprises, PEA is liable to remit a
proportion of its net income to the MOF at a level determined at year's end according to the
needs of the National Treasury. The remittance level of 15% of net income throughout the
period FY87-92, was increased to 21% in FY93, and was again raised to 30% in FY94, as
PEA seeks to conform to the Government's requirements for "Excellent State Enterprise"
status.
4.7   PEA's foreign exchange gains and losses on loan repayments arise as a result of
differences in exchange rates between year end and at the date of loan repayments. As of
September 1994, PEA's foreign long term debts of Baht 23.7 billion (net of current
maturities) were denominated 80% in Japanese Yen, 10% in US Dollars, 7% in German
Marks and the rest in other foreign currencies. The losses on foreign exchange which PEA
charged to its FY94 operations increased from Baht 385 million in FY93 to Baht 521 million
largely due to the substantial appreciation of the Japanese Yen.
4.8   As a result of the foreign exchange system adjustment initiated by the Government on
November 2, 1984, PEA revalues foreign currency loans as of September 30 of each year,
and spreads the loss over the remaining terms of the loans to a deferred foreign exchange
adjustment account. The amount written off to deferred foreign exchange adjustment account



32
increased by 7% over FY93. Even with the increase in PEA's long tern debt as a result of
the inclusion of the deferred foreign exchange account, its debt to equity ratio remained well
below the covenanted ratio set in previous Bank agreements at 60:40.
4.9     PEA's financial position has exceeded the range of acceptable perfornance due to an
underleveraged financial condition and the huge amounts of cash accumulated over the years.
The self-financing ratio based on a three-year average capital investment has remained at a
consistently high level while the rate of return on the basis of a revalued rate base has been
no less than 11% throughout the five-year period. PEA's capital structure has been more
than sound. The debt to total capitalization ratio has fallen dramatically through the five year
period from 1.2 in FY90 to 0.6 in FY94 while the debt service coverage has increased from
2.0 in FY90 to 4.5 in FY94. The current ratio has also increased from 1.6 times in FY90 to
2.7 times in FY94.
C. FINANCIAL OUTLOOK
4.10   The financial projections throughout the period FY95-2001 show a rationalization of
PEA's financial performance that would correct the overperformance of the past five years.
Projections of PEA's financial performance for the period FY95-2003 and the assumptions
underlying  these projections are presented  in Annex  17.  Key  financial indicators are
presented in Table 4.2 below:
Table 4.2: Summary of PEA's Financial Operations, FY95-2001
(Baht million)
1995       1996        1997       1998       1999      2000      2001
Energy Sales (GWh)               37,862      42,664     47,296     51,707      56,082   60,561   65,145
Average Revenue (B/kWh) /g         1.71        1.73       1.74        1.74       1.77     1.80     1.80
Operating Revenues               67,242      76.300     84,788     92,509    101.905  111.561   119,792
Operating Expenses               61,896      74.475     80,201     87,991      95,134  102,436  110,214
Operating Income                  5,346       1,825      4,587      4,518       6,771    9,125    9,578
Net Income                        6,057       2,251      3,668      1,860       1,670    1,959    1,142
Rate Base                       46,793       57,696     78,270    106,215    133,986  155,834  174,950
Long-Term Debt (net)             25,539      32,275     44,716     69,419      89,896  103,019  119,489
Primary Ratios:
Rate of Return (%)                10.4         6.6        6.4        5.3         5.6      6.1      5.9
Debt Service Coverage (times)      4.5         3.7        4.1        2.9         1.9      1.6      1.5
Operating Ratio (%)               92.0        97.6       94.6       95.1        93.4     91.8     92.0
Current Ratio (times)              3.1         2.2        1.8        1.9         1.8      1.8      1.8
Debt to Total Capitalization (%)  31.4        34.9       40.1       48.9        53.2     54.2     55.7
Self-Financing Ratio (%)          50.3        26.4       28.1       25.3        25.0     25.8     25.7
(3-year average)
/a Excluding VAT



33
4.11   PEA's capital investment expenditure averaged Baht 4.5 billion per year in the Sixth
Plan (FY87-91) and is expected to substantially increase to Baht 17.4 billion in the Seventh
Plan (FY92-96) and to Baht 22.7 billion in the Eight Plan (FY97-2001). During the next five
years alone, PEA will need to finance about Baht 142 billion to fund capital investment
projects.
4.12  While PEA's financial prospects continue to be bright, the challenge for PEA in the
near term is to be able to finance a high level of capital investments contemplated until FY99
and at the same time maintain an acceptable level of self-financing and rates of return to be
achieved for the next several years. These higher investments are necessary to rehabilitate
and upgrade the existing system, as well as to expand the system to include currently
unelectrified and partially electrified villages. PEA's current financial strength should allow
it to absorb and finance this growth.
4.13  PEA's projections show that an acceptable level of self-financing can be achieved in
FY98-01, the period of heavy capital expenditures, provided PEA is allowed to raise its
retail tariffs during the period and that EGAT's tariff to PEA, which has been recently
increased, remains at current levels. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that it will take measures, including but not necessarily limited to setting tariff
levels, so as to: (a) generate funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 25% of
the annual average of its capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred for that
fiscal year, the previous fiscal year, and the next following fiscal year; and (b) achieve a rate
of return on net revalued fixed assets in operation of not less than 4%.
4.14  The financial projections are based on the assumption that PEA would be able to
increase its average tariffs in FY95 by 7% from Baht 1.6014/kWh to Baht 1.7097/kwh and
marginally by about 1% to 1.5% in FY96 to FY01. The price of purchased power has been
projected to increase at the average rate of 6% from an average price of Baht 1.03/kwh in
FY94 to Baht 1.09/kwh in FY95. Any further tariff increases by EGAT to PEA, would
require commensurate increases in the PEA tariff. Any increases in PEA's costs would also
require appropriate changes in the retail tariff. A review of the existing bulk supply tariff and
recommended suitable tariffs for bulk supply to PEA and MEA is being examined in a study
on the Rationalization of Bulk Supply Tariff to MEA and PEA (para. 4.20) financed by the
Bank under the Lam Takhong Pump Storage Project (Loan 3884-TH).
4.15  Energy sales in FY95 increased by 17% from FY94 or from Baht 52 billion to Baht
65 billion. Operating income which dropped slightly in FY95 is expected to drop sharply in
FY96.  Contributing to this significant decline in operating income are the projected
increases in: (a) operating and maintenance expenses, and depreciation as PEA continues to
operate a rapidly expanding capital investment program; and (b) Government remittances on
the basis of 30% of PEA revenues against the previous level of 21%, in accordance with its
deregulated status. As a result, the operating ratio, which has been at levels of around 86-
88% in the past is expected to be 92% in FY95 and at its highest level of 98% in FY96.



34
4.16  PEA's projected financial ratios are expected to be satisfactory. The key liquidity
indicators (debt to total capital, self financing, debt service coverage and current ratios) are
projected to edge back into the range of acceptable financial performance during the near
term. The debt service coverage ratio would range between 1.5 to 4.5 times throughout the
projected period. The capital structure would also be more than adequate with long term debt
at its peak not exceeding 1.3 times equity or a comfortable ratio of 56/44. PEA's current
debt control test provides for Bank review of borrowing when the debt to equity ratio exceeds
1.5 times or 60/40 level. To ensure that measures are taken to maintain PEA's strong capital
structure, during negotiations, agreement was reached with PEA and the Government that
further debt would not be incurred if such additional debt would raise its total long term
indebtedness to more than 1.5 times its total capitalization. Under previous loans, PEA was
required not to contract short- and medium-term debt (debt which matures within five years)
in excess of 15% of its total debt outstanding. PEA has always complied with this covenant,
and at negotiations, it was agreed that compliance of this limit would be continued under the
proposed loans.
4.17  PEA's rate of return (ROR) on revalued net fixed assets in operation (revalued each
year according to an index published by the NESDB) is projected to be 10% in FY95 and
between 5.3% to 6.6% throughout the projected period. The ROR. which peaked at 14% in
FY93-94, has been consistently maintained at high levels in the past largely because PEA's
capital investment program has been low in relation to its sales growth. The substantial
decline in the projected ROR is largely because of: (a) the increased depreciation charges,
which in the past have averaged 8.8% of revenues but are projected to increase to an average
of 10.5% of revenues; (b) increased remittances which rose from a level of 15% of net
income (until FY93) to the current and projected level of 30%; and (c) the expanding rate
base, resulting from the substantial increase in investment beginning in FY96 when the
average rate base would grow by 23% and to peak in FY97-98 when the rate base would
grow by as much as 36% in each year. The projected ROR would, however, comfortably
meet the covenant of a minimum of 4% under the previous Bank loan (Distribution System
Reinforcement Project, Loan 3798-TH).
D. TARIFF LEVELS AND STRUCTURE
4.18  PEA and MEA receive power from EGAT at wholesale rates at several of their grid
substations. The bulk supply tariff is on the basis of long-run marginal cost pricing but takes
into account equity, social and development considerations as well as the financial needs of
the three utilities, EGAT, PEA and MEA. The tariff to PEA and MEA as currently applied,
comprises a flat energy charge. There is no demand charge or charge for variation depending
on time of use, and consequently, the tariff does not reflect the costs of supply and is
inadequate to give correct signals to PEA and MEA to improve their load factor, load shape
and power factor or foster conservation. The current tariff for bulk supply for MEA is Baht
1.47/kwh, whereas the tariff for PEA is Baht 0.96/kwh, although the actual cost of supply to
PEA is greater than the cost of supply to MEA. The difference in the tariff to the two utilities



35
is intentional, so that the urban consumers subsidize the rural consumers, the retail tariff for
all consumers in Thailand being uniform.
4.19  The current tariff structure, which is given in Annex 18, was revised as of December
31, 1991; before that it had remained essentially without change during the previous five
years but for a small reduction in 1987. With effect from December 1992, the Government
put in place an automatic adjustment clause, by means of which the retail tariff is adjusted
monthly as EGAT's costs change for fuel, taxes, foreign exchange and demand side
management. The electricity tariffs are set by a tariff setting committee composed of EGAT,
PEA, MEA, MOF, NEPO and NIDA. The committee meets monthly to determine the
automatic adjustment factor, reviews the relative rates periodically to ensure that they
accomplish the required cross-funding among the utilities, and prepares recommendations to
the NEPC on the proposed tariff increases during the tariff setting period every three years. It
was agreed during negotiations that under the loans, PEA would review by April 30 of every
year the adequacy of its tariffs to produce the required self-financing, rate of return and
debt/equity ratio obligations.
4.20  The adequacy and appropriateness of the tariff structure in Thailand is currently under
review through a study: "Rationalization of Bulk Supply Tariff to MEA and PEA" being
undertaken by the three electric utilities: EGAT, PEA and MEA in close coordination with
and under the guidance of the National Energy Policy Office (NEPO). The study aims to: (a)
review the current and future (under a restructured power sector) financial requirements of
the three utilities and propose a rational basis for setting tariffs consistent with their financial
objectives; (b) review the existing bulk supply tariff and recommend suitable tariffs for bulk
supply to PEA and MEA that would reflect actual supply costs and future structure of the
power sector; (c) review the need for a uniform national tariff and suggest a retail tariff
structure based on economic principles and equity considerations, including the necessary
transparent subsidy mechanism; (d) suggest a suitable time frame and transition strategy for
implementation; (e) suggest cost-effective metering arrangements for measuring and
integrating demand and energy for bulk supply to PEA and MEA; and (f) recommend draft
power purchase agreements for bulk supplies. Work on the study has commenced and
consultants have now been hired. The study is expected to be completed in July 1996.
E. FINANCING PLAN
4.21   The financing plan for PEA over the  project disbursement period (FY95-00) is
presented in Table 4.3.



36
Table 4.3: PEA Financing Plan, FY95-00
In millions           
Financial Requirements:
PEA Investments (including IDC)                   167,410         6,696        99
Working Capital Requirements                          875            35          1
Total Requirements                                  168,285         6,731       100
Sources of Funds:
Internal Cash Generation                           88,174          3,527       52
Less: Debt Service                                 30,189          1,208        18
Net Intemnal Cash Generation                         57,985         2,319        34
Borrowings                                           91,053         3,642        54
Equity and Grants                                      507            20          0
Consumer Contribution & Customer Deposits            16,930           677        10
Other Items (net)                                     1,810            72         I
Total Sources of Funds                              168,285         6,731       100
4.22   The proposed project, including interest during construction, represents 5% of PEA's
total investment program during the FY95-00 period. The proposed Bank loans of US$67
million and US$33 million equivalent are expected to meet about 28.8% of the cost of the
project but only 1.5% of PEA's total financing requirements for the period. During the
FY95-00 period, PEA expects to meet 34% of its capital requirements from internally
generated funds and 10% from consumer contributions and customer deposits. In addition to
the Bank loans, it will need to borrow funds totalling 54% of its total cash requirements. It
should have no problem borrowing these funds from the sources which traditionally have
supplied it (para. 4.4) as it has already has commitments for a large portion of its borrowing
needs over the period. Its debt/equity ratio and debt service coverage ratio suggest that it
should have no difficulty absorbing and servicing its anticipated debt (para. 4.16).
4.23   PEA has customarily relied largely on soft foreign loans from the Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan, the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany,
the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (KFAED), the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC) Fund for International Development. It also has several outstanding loans from the
Bank including two on-going loans which have not yet fully disbursed. PEA expects to
continue depending on foreign borrowing from these sources to finance the foreign cost of its
projects. No difficulties have arisen in the past in PEA's obtaining sufficient financing for its
projects; no difficulties are expected in obtaining sufficient cofinancing for this project.
Excluding CIDA loans which are interest free, interest rates on foreign loans from sources
other than the Bank range from 1.7% to 4% p.a. In addition, PEA borrows domestically from
commercial banks at current market rates.






5. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. JUSTIFICATION
5.1   The continuing surge in electricity demand in the PEA service territory has made
it imperative for PEA to expand and upgrade its system to deliver power to new areas
while maintaining acceptable levels of efficiency, service quality and reliability. The
project forms an important part of PEA's least-cost expansion program and its
implementation would contribute to the country's continued economic growth.
Distribution automation would bring in its wake numerous benefits to PEA's operations;
the principal quantifiable benefits would stem from improvement in operational
flexibility and significant reduction in unsupplied energy which would translate into
substantial economic benefits, especially to industrial and commercial consumers. In
supporting investments in the distribution infrastructure in South Thailand, the project
would contribute significantly to its capability to meet demand growth in an
economically efficient manner.
5.2   Through laying the framework for rationalizing PEA's interfacing arrangements
with EGAT, the proposed project would contribute towards an orderly regionalization
and subsequent privatization of PEA. Further, the study on regulatory framework for the
energy sector would, for the first time systematically and in depth, investigate the issues
and options in regulating the Thai energy sector and define the regulatory framework
most suited to the sector's increasingly commercializing nature.
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Distribution Automation
5.3     The two project components, Distribution  Automation  and Upgrading
Distribution in South Thailand are being undertaken in different parts of the country and
are thus not inter-related. Hence, the economic analyses of the two components are
carried out separately. The Distribution Automation Project is dealt with in detail in the
consultant's report (Annex 22, Ref. 2), while a discussion of potential benefits is
presented in Annex 19. A summary of benefits, indicating those that are quantified in the
economic analysis, is presented below:
(a)   Reduction in customer hours lost (unsupplied energy) due to faster
restoration of service following faults (quantified);
(b)   Reduction in operation and maintenance cost of substations (quantified);
(c)   Improved  information  for  planning   which  would  result  in
deferral/optimization of capital expenditure (not quantified);



38
(d)   Reduced system losses by optimizing network operating configuration
(not quantified);
(e)   Improved customer relations due to utility's ability to keep customers
informed about system conditions (not quantified);
(f)    More efficient management of energy during supply shortages and
emergencies (not quantified);
(g)   Improved voltage regulation (not quantified); and
(h)   Upgrading of staff skills (not quantified).
5.4   PEA has made a detailed evaluation of unsupplied energy that would be
recovered, based on statistics of faults and outage times on each of the feeders in the five
regions in which distribution automation would be introduced (Annex 20). The value of
unsupplied energy is based on a study entitled "The Cost of an Outage" done by
consultants for the Thai power system in 1986. The results of this study were updated
and adjusted specifically for the PEA system by EGAT, yielding a value of Baht
45.7/kWh in 1995 prices. The saving in operation and maintenance costs is based on a
reduction of 4 staff for each substation in the area and an increase of 10 staff for each of
the five control centers, with an average annual salary level of Baht 120,000 per staff.
5.5   Costs and benefits are evaluated in 1995 price levels over a project economic life
of 25 years. The costs comprise: (a) capital investments, net of duties and taxes, in the
distribution automation system under the project; (b) the annual capital costs of
investments in automation facilities on additional feeders that would be installed in the
future to meet the demand growth; and (c) the annual operation and maintenance costs
evaluated at 1.5% of the capital costs. The benefits comprise: (a) the value of unsupplied
energy (para. 5.4); and (b) the savings in annual operation and maintenance costs of the
substations (para. 5.4). Details of the analysis are at Annex 21. The economic internal
rate of return (EIRR) is computed at 12.7%. As many of the intangible benefits of the
project have not been quantified, the figure of 12.7% represents the lower bound of the
EIRR. The risk of cost overruns beyond 10% is marginal, in view of very detailed cost
estimates prepared by the consultants. The risks of: (a) demands not materializing
significantly as forecast in these high potential growth areas; and (b) delay in project
implementation beyond one year, both of which would affect project benefits are also
minimal. Sensitivities are, therefore, undertaken only to get a feel of the robustness of the
project's economic viability. The EIRR stays above 10% (the opportunity cost of capital
in Thailand) for an increase in capital costs of about 30% or a reduction in the valuation
of benefits by about 25%.
Upgrading Distribution in South Thailand
5.6   A detailed least-cost analysis of this project component was undertaken by
consultants (Annex 22, Ref. 3). For the forecast demand growth in the area, the analysis



39
considered two alternative scenarios (with the HV transmission voltage standardized at
115kV and the MV distribution voltage at 22/33kV, these are the only plausible supply
options): (a) With Project - this assumed construction of about 680 km of new 115kV
transmission lines and 20, 115/22/33kV step-down substations; and (b) Without Projict
(second best scenario): - this assumed that the demand could be met by expansion of
existing EGAT substations and adding 22/33kV feeders. Cost streams for the two
scenarios, over a project life of 30 years, considered: (a) capital investments excluding
duties and taxes; (b) the operation and maintenance costs at 1.5% of the capital costs; and
(c) the cost of losses evaluated at long run marginal cost of supply. With benefits (the
incremental energy sales) being the same for both scenarios, the benefit of the With
Projec scenario was considered to be the avoided cost of the Without Projec scenario.
The equalizing discount rates for the 20 sub-components of the project are tabulated in
Annex 9; all of these are above 13%. The equalizing discount rate for the project as a
whole is about 87%.
5.7    The EIRR for this project component is computed in 1995 prices for a project
economic life of 25 years, based on the following assumptions: (a) C=  include: (i)
capital investments in the 115kV lines and 115/22/33kV substations under the project
(excluding duties, taxes and IDC); (ii) investments in the downstream distribution
network to support the demand growth; (iii) the incremental operation and maintenance
cost of running the system expansion calculated at 1.5% of the incremental capital cost;
and (iv) the cost of energy evaluated at the Long Run Marginal Cost (LRMC) of Baht
1.45/kWh; and (b) Benefits are evaluated in terms of average revenue from incremental
electricity sales (after allowing for a system loss of 5.5%) at Baht 1.83/kWh, which is the
average revenue realized by PEA from electricity sales in 1995. The EIRR is computed
at 11.7%. This represents the lower bound of the EIRR, as the willingness to pay (WTP)
for electricity is much higher than the average tariff. Sensitivities for higher values of
WTP are indicated below. The risk of cost overruns beyond 10% is minimal in view of
very detailed cost estimates prepared by the consultants and experience on similar
projects in the past. Likewise, the risk of demand falling below 10% of the estimated
figure is low. The EIRR stays above 10% for a 10% increase in capital costs or a 10%
reduction in demand.
Case                                        EIRR%
Case I - WTP = 1.05xAverage Tariff                  16.0
Case 2 - WTP = I.lOxAverage Tariff                  20.0
C. RISKS
5.8   The project as a whole does not face any significant risks. The basic planning of
the Distribution Automation System has been comprehensively carried out during the
feasibility study stage. Detailed project design and development of bid documents, for



40
which consultants have already been appointed, should, therefore, proceed fairly
smoothly. The risk of delay in timely execution of the project, which could hamper
progress of industrial and commercial development in the area, could arise due to delays
in taking decisions on procurement.  In this regard, specific milestone dates for
procurement have been set and will be closely monitored by the Bank. Implementation of
the SCADA facilities is being planned through single responsibility contracting which
should result in speedy execution of the project. The risk of cost overruns is small; in any
case the project benefits are large enough to maintain project viability.
5.9   The basic planning for Upgrading Distribution in South Thailand has also been
comprehensively carried out during the feasibility study stage. Detailed project design,
for which consultants are expected to be appointed shortly, should, therefore, proceed
fairly smoothly. Implementation of the transmission lines and substations is being
planned on a single responsibility basis which should result in speedy execution of the
project. In view of advanced action taken by PEA in acquiring land for substations, this
activity is not expected to pose problems in project execution. PEA has already acquired
experience in the implementation of similar projects under the Bank's two current loans
(3404 -TH and 3798 - TH) and hence delays in procurement decisions are unlikely; in
any case this activity would be closely monitored by the Bank. The risk of load growth
not materializing as forecast is minimal, given the development potential of the area and
the very detailed estimates prepared for the demand forecasts.



6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS
6.1   During negotiations, agreement was reached with PEA that it would:
(a)   carry out an annual review and update of its five-year investment program,
discuss it with the Bank, and implement the program taking into
consideration the Bank's comments (para. 1. 17);
(b)   restructure its organization according to agreed action plans; any revision
of the said plans shall be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank
(para. 2.8);
(c)   submit to the Bank audited annual financial statements within six months of
the close of each fiscal year (para. 2.22);
(d)   continue to make provisions for insurance consistent with appropriate
practice (para. 2.26);
(e)   ensure that the communication system shall be installed and be fully
operational in time to meet the commissioning requirements of the
distribution automation system (para. 3.2);
(f)   complete, under the supervision of NEPO, by no later than June 30, 1997 a
consulting study, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, on
rationalization of PEA's interfacing arrangements with EGAT, review the
study with the Government, EGAT and the Bank, and, by no later than
December 31, 1997, develop an action plan for rationalization of the
interfacing arrangements with EGAT, taking into account the Bank's
recommendations (para. 3.5);
(g)   complete, under the supervision of NEPO, by no later than December 31,
1997, a study, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, reviewing
the regulatory framework of the energy sector in the light of increased
private participation in the sector and identifying issues and actions to
reform (para. 3.7);
(h)   carry out satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of the project
in terms of execution and financial reports and furnish the Bank quarterly
progress reports (para. 3.10);
(i)   adopt a plan for the operational phase of the project and make available to
the Bank its own evaluation and summary report (para. 3. 10);



42
(j)   so procure land for the construction of substations as will not involve
expropriation, involuntary resettlement or rehabilitation or compensation
(para. 3.14);
(k)    generate funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 25% of its
annual average capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for
that fiscal year, the previous fiscal year, and the next following fiscal year
(para. 4.13);
(1)   achieve a rate of return on net revalued fixed assets in operation of not less
than 4% (para. 4.13);
(m)   maintain a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 60/40 and a ratio of short and
medium term debt not exceeding 15% (para. 4.16); and
(n)   review by April 30 of every year the adequacy of its tariffs to produce the
required self-financing ratio (para. 4.19).
6.2    During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that it would:
(a)    undertake a periodic review of power rates to ensure that tariffs are adequate
for PEA to comply with the cash generation, rate of return and debt/equity
ratio obligations (paras. 4.13 and 4.16).
(b)   supervise the implementation of: (i) the study on Rationalization of
Interfacing Arrangement with EGAT (para. 3.5); and (ii) the study for the
Regulatory Framework for the Energy Sector (para. 3.7).
B. RECOMMENDATION
6.3   The proposed project is suitable for two Bank loans of US$67 million and US$33
million equivalent to PEA with the guarantee of the Kingdom of Thailand. The loans
would be: (a) single currency, US$ denominated, fixed interest rate loan with standard
amortization term and grace period and an expected disbursement period of 3-6 years; and
(b) a currency pool loan payable in 17 years, including five years of grace at the Bank's
Standard variable interest rate, respectively.



ANNEXES






-43--
Annex I
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Provincial Electricity Authority
Highlights of EGAT, MEA and PEA Operations
FY90          FY91           FY92           FY93          FY94           FY95
EGAT
Peak generation (MW)                     7.094           8,045         8,877          9.730         10.709       12.268
Annual load factor (%)                    69.5            69.8          72.0           72.9           74.2         73.4
Net energy generation (Gwh)             43,189         49,225         56,006         62,180        69,651        78.880
Energy sold (Gwh)                       39,369         44.773         50,771         56.558        63,661        72.779
Network losses (Gwh)                     3,821           4,453         5,235          5,622          5,990        6,101
Network losses (as % of generation)       8.85            9.04          9.35           9.04           8.60          7.7
Number ofemployees                      33.153          34,990        35,245         34,946        34,100        33.495
Employee per MW installed                    4              4              4              3             3             2
MEA
Peak demand (MW)                         3,124           3.519         3,993          4,265         4,755         5.337
Energy purchased (Gwh)                  18,623         20,777         22,946         25,359        27,526        30,603
Energy sold (Gwh)                       17,725          19,761        21,869         24,142        26,255        29.225
Losses (Gwh)                              898             926          1.077          1,218          1,271        1.378
Losses (as % of purchases)                 4.8             4.5           4.7            4.8            4.6          4.5
Number of Consumers ('000)               1,273           1,377          1,497         1,551          1,700        1.809
Sales/consumer(kWh)                     13,923          14,416        14,609         16,350        15,444        16.155
Annual load factor (%)                    68.1            67.4          65.6           67.3           66 1         65 5
Number of employees                     12,969          13,887        13,916         14,194         13,430       13,220
Number of consumers/employee                98             99            108            109           127           137
PFA
Peak demand (MW)                         3,763          4,282          4,983          5,780         6,341         7,374
Energy purchased (Gwh)                  19,352         22,531         26,178         30,960        34,357       40,253
Energy generated (Gwh)                      18             20             20            20             23           29
Energy available (Gwh)                  19,370         22,551         26,198        30,980         34,380       40,282
Energy sold (Gwh)                       17,932         20,954         24,379        28,819         32.296       37.861
Losses (Gwh)                             1,438           1,597         1,819          2,161         2,084         2,421
Losses (as % of available)                 7.4             7.1           6.9            7.0           6.1           6.0
Number of Consumers ('000)               6,586           7,082         7,546          8,044         8,460         9,035
Sales/consumer (kWh)                     2,723           2,959          3,230         3,583          3,817        4,190
Annual load factor (%)                    58.8            60.1          60.0           59.9          61.9          62.4
Numberofemployees                       27,380         28,641         29,814         31,006        31,300        30,961
Number of consumers/employee              241             247            253           259            270          292






-44-
Annex 2
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Provincial Electricity Authority
PEA's Distribution Facilities
A ~  ~       ~       ~      19       1    99      1    1992          1993         1994          19
1990          I             I2IIM1995
High Voltage Distribution
Lines (Circuit-Kilometers)
Medium Voltage
3.5 kV                                   61           61             61         119           119            73
11 kV                                                                                            
22 kV                                127,946      133,836        144,139     149,249      157,950       161,783
33 kV                                24,508        26,368        27,537      29,412        30,557        32,519
High Voltage
69 kV                                    31            31            32          32           36            47
115 kV                                   61           129           304          515          584           722
Total                                152,607      160,424        172,073     179,327      189,246       195,144
Increase (%)                            10.6          5.1            7.3         4.2          5.5           3.1
Transformer Capacity (MVA)
Medium Vol=ga1
3.5 kV                                   14            12            12          11            8              8
1 1kV                                    16            7              1           3            3             3
22 kV                                 8,897        10,930        12,901       15,139       19,052       20,493
33 kV                                  1,685        1,963         2,150       2,733        3,057          3,390
High Voltage
69 kV                                   480          480            240          80           80           NA
115 kV                                  589           814          1,373       3,830        5,926           NA
| Total                         |       11,680       14,205        16,676       21,796       28,126           NA
Increase (%)                            20.8         21.6           17.4[       30.7 1       29.0           NA






-45-
Anex 3
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Provincial Electricity Authority
Demand Forecast
Fiscal Year             1995      1996       197       1998      1999      2000     2001      2002      2003  j  2004
Energy Sales (Gwh)
Residential                      8,518      9,577    10,588    11,607    12,621    13,681    14,787    15,890    17,061    18,308
Small General Service            3,603      3,954     4,312     4,678     5,034     5,393     5,763     6,141    6,524      6,911
Medium General Service          10,559    11,963    13,253    14,442    15,613    16,838    18,089    19,385    20,745    22,159
Large General Service           11.655    13,416    15,086    16,641    18,208    19,783    21,384    23,018   24,659    26,390
Specific Business                1,122      1,239     1,349     1,452     1,552     1,652     1,754     1,857     1,964     2,071
Govmt. Institutions &
Nonprofit Organizations         1,632      1,781     1,917     2,040     2,158     2,269     2,375     2,481    2,587      2,695
Agricultural Pumping               119        131       141       152       164       175       186       197      208        218
Temporary                          545       603        652       694       733       770       807      844       883        923
Total Sales                     37,752    42,664    47,296    51,707    56,082    60,560    65,145    69,813    74,631     79,674
Electricity Provided
Free of Charge                    254       282        308       334       361      388       415       441       469        496
Total Electricity
Consumption                    38,006    42,946    47,604    52,041    56,443    60,948    65,560    70,254    75,100    80,170
Growth p.a.                      16.90/o    13.00/o    10.90/    9.3%     8.5%      8.0%      7.6%      7.2%      6.9%      6.8%
Losses(%)                        5.7%       5.6%       5.5%      5.5%     5.4%      5.4%      5.4%      5.3%      5.3%      5.3%
()-                             --II       -I-                          -         -              I--           -






-4$-
Anncx 4
Page 1 of 3
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
PEA's Investment Program
(Baht million)
1995      1996       1997      199f       1999      2000       2001
1. Accelerated Power System    F        125        -         -          -         -          -
Expansion & Reinforcement    L        75        -          -         -          -         -          -
T       200        -          -         -          -         -          -
2. Transmission System &       F        900        120       -          -         -          -
Substation Project          L        500        150       244
(U-Shaped Area)             T       1,400      270        244
3. Transmission System &       F        500       300        845
Substation Dev. Project     L       1,000       800      1,802
(V-shaped Area)              T      1,500      1,100     2,647       -          -
4. Distribution System         F        -         200        450        450       400
Dispatching Center Project   L        -         250       400        400       414
Stage I                     T         -         450       8S0        850        814
5. Distribution System         F       1,500     2,200     2,056      1,549
Reinforcement Project        L      2,000     1,995      2,064      1,686
Stage 5                     T       3,500     4,195      4,120     3,235
6. Acquisition of Land, Bldgs,  F                            -          -
Vehicles, Equipment &       L       1,070     1,650      1,630
Tools Project               T      1,070      1,650      1,630
7. Village Electrification Project   F  125        300       208
Phase IV                    L        600       470        564
T       725        770       772        -          -         -          -
8. Mini Hydro Project II       F         60         13       133         15
L        70         28        101        54        -         -
T        130        41       234         69        -         -          -
9. Power System Expansion      F        -          -         -
for Industrial Estates in  L        378        266
Provincial Areas           T        378        266        -
10. Submarine Cable Extension    F       80       200        402
to Ko Samui & Ko           L         52        100        149
Pha-Ngan Project           T        132        300       SSI



Anmex 4
Page 2 of 3
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
PEA's Investment Program
(Baht million)
1995      1996      1997      1998       1999      2000      2001
11. Automated Mapping         F        -          -         -         -         -          -         -
System Project             L         90       -         100        100       100       100        100
T        90        -         100       100        100       100       100
12. Transmission System &     F        300       400       493        -         -          -         -
Substation Dev. Project    L       400        500       652
Stage 4                    T        700       900      1,145       -         -         -          -
13. Additional Electrification  F      -
for Rural Electrified Village    L  590
T       590        -         -         -          -         -         -
14. Transmission System &     F        -         100        700       700       228        -         -
Substation Project         L        -         400      1,100     1,100       554        -         -
(I-Shapred Area)           T        -         500      1,800      1,800      782        -         -
15. Transmission System &     F        -         150       800        800       640        -         -
Substation Dev. Project    L        -         300      1,500     1,500       820       -         -
Stage 5                    T        -         450     2,300      2,300     1,460       -         -
16. Distribution System       F        -          -       1,298     2,162       540        -         -
Reliability Improvement    L        -       1,800     5,902      5,038     1,260       -         -
T        -       1,800     7,200      7,200     1,800       -         -
17. Rural Household           F        -         500      1,800       200       -          -         -
Electrification Project    L        700      2,120     2,690     1,610       -          -         -
T       700      2,620     4,490      1,810       -         -         -
18. Island Electrification    F        -         -          30        208       -          -         -
L        -         -         370       376        -         -         -
T        -         -         400       584        -         -         -
19. Transformer Load          F        -          -         -         -         -          -         -
Management                 L         10       -         -          -         -         -         -
T        10        -         -         -          -         -         -
20. Chiang Mai Waste          F        -          -         -         -          -         -         -
Power Plant                L       497        858       145        -         -         -         -
T       497        858       145       -          -         -         -
21. Power Distribution System  F       -          -         -         -        1,800     3,600     5,400
Reinforcement Project      L        -         -        1,100     1,100     2,200      4,400     4,400
Stage 6                    T        -         -        1,100     1,100     4,000      8,000     9,800



-48-
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
PEA's Investment Program
(Baht million)
1995      1996      1997       1998      1999       2000      2001
22. Transmission System &      F        -         -          -         -        1,600     3,200      4,800
Substation Development      L        -         -        1,200     1,200      2,400     4,800     4,800
Stage 6                     T        -         -        1,200     1,200      4,000     8,000     9,600
23. Distribution System        F        -         -          -         -         250        500       625
Dispatching Center Project  L        -         -         100        100       200        400       400
Stage 2                     T        -         -         100        100       450        900     1,025
24. Submarine Cable Extension    F      -         -          -         -          120       600       480
to Offshore Islands        L        -          -          15        15         30       120        120
T        -         -          15         15       150        720       600
25. Rural Household            F        -         -          -         -         400        800      1,200
Stage I                    L        -          -         300       300      1,200      1,200     1,200
T        -         -         300        300      1,600     2,000     2,400
26. Marketing Info. System     F        -         -          -         -          -         -          -
L        -         -         300        300       300       300        300
T        -         -         300        300       300        300       300
27. Communication System       F        -         -          -         -          -         -          -
Development                L        -          -         400       400        400       400       400
T        -         -         400       400        400       400        400
28. Demand Side Management    F         -         -          -         -          -         -          -
L        -         -          10         10        10         10        10
T        -         -          10         10        10         10        10
29. Hybrid Renewable Energy    F
L        -         -         -           30        30        30         30
T        -         -         -           30        30        30         30
30. Testing Center Development   F      -         -          -         -          -         -
L        -         -         -           30       120        120        30
T        -         -         -           30       120        120        30
31. Training Center Development  F      -         -          -         -          -         -
L        -         -         -           30       120        120        30
T        -         -         -           30       120        120        30
Total               F      3,590      4,483     9,215      6,084     5,978      8,700    12,505
L      8,032    11,687    22,838    15,379    10,158    12,000    11,820
T     11,622    16,170    32,053    21,463    16,136    20,700    24,325






-49-                                           Annex 5
Page I of 4
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Regulatory Framework for the Energy Sector
(With Emphasis on the Power Sector)
Terms of Reference
Background
The key governmental organization responsible for energy affairs in Thailand is the National Energy Policy
Council (NEPC). The NEPC is chaired by the Prime Minister, and its members include the National Economic
and Social Development Board (NESDB) and the Secretary General of the National Energy Policy Office
(NEPO). On behalf of the Cabinet, the NEPC approves policies, plans, and projects in the energy sector. The
NEPO, as the secretariat of NEPC, is the effective link between the NEPC and Thailand's state-owned energy
enterprises.  The functions and responsibilities of the NEPO are, among others, to:  (a) formulate and
disseminate NEPC directives; (b) formulate the broad commercial and operational responsibilities of the state-
owned energy enterprises; and (c) establish policy for the energy sector.  The NEPO therefore functions in
many ways as a "regulator" for the state-owned energy sector.
Currently, Thailand does not have an independent regulatory body for the energy sector. The regulatory role is,
as described above, performed by NEPO. These arrangements have thus far been satisfactory for the electric
sector because it is state-owned. There is no compelling reason to change these arrangements so long as the
electric sector, and particularly the transmission and distribution functions, remain state-owned. However, with
(a) the strong emphasis placed by the Government on mobilizing private capital to finance the massive
investments in the electric sector, and (b) the Government's plans to restructure the electric sector and its
functional units, and then move the units toward corporatization and eventual privatization, the time is opportune
to investigate the need for change and to review options for a regulatory system capable of managing the
requirements for transparent electric sector regulation in the future.
Objectives
The technical assistance study will assist the Thai Government in developing a legal and regulatory framework
for the energy sector. The key objectives of the regulatory system wpuld be the introduction of market based
mechanisms, fair competition and economic efficiency. The existence of a suitable legal and regulatory system,
including creation of appropriate institutions, is seen as a prerequisite for a commercially-oriented electric
system, especially when private enterprises begin to play significant roles. The most important of these roles
are the functions that require the greatest measure of transparency and predictability, namely, the granting of
licenses and the setting of tariffs. There are a number of different legal and regulatory frameworks in existence
in the world today; no one model or system is appropriate for every country or system, but whatever system is
adopted must reflect the cultural, historical, and political realities of Thailand. It is therefore critical that all the
work undertaken be consistent with the current situation, and with the Government's proposals to restructure the
energy sector. The main elements of this work, to be undertaken by the Government with the assistance of the
Consultant, are to:
1.     define the appropriate regulatory functions to be undertaken by the independent regulatory agency;
2.     delineate and separate the oversight responsibilities of the independent regulatory agency from that of
government agencies and ministries;
3.     devise suitable institutional forms for the conduct of these functions, as well as establish regulatory
procedures and mechanisms; and
4.     develop a suitable time frame and sequence of steps through which the current regulatory system could
evolve into the desired model of regulation.



-50-                                           Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
Scope and Organization of Work
Given the complexity of regulatory reform and the need for a process that is open to review and inputs by all
stakeholders, the technical assistance activity is proposed to be divided into five phases.
Phase 1: Counterpart Arrangements and Background Report
The Privatization Sub-Committee chaired by NEPO will oversee and direct the entire project. The Privatization
Sub-Committee includes members from the: Fiscal Policy Office; Comptroller General's Office; NESDB; Prime
Minister's Office; and, the three power utilities (i.e. EGAT, PEA and MEA). Other relevant agencies such as
PTT, Ministry of Interior and the Public Works Department will be invited to participate in the project. This
committee that comprised of the Privatization Sub-Committee and other relevant agencies (referred henceforth
to as the "Steering Committee") will be responsible for directing the work and implementing its
recommendations.
The Steering Committee will be responsible for: (a) setting up a working group to interact on a day-to-day basis
with the Consultant; and (b) carrying out the required analytic and conceptual work. It is envisaged that the
working group (the "Working Group") will include representatives from the principal government agencies, and
other state-owned entities involved in energy sector decisions and operations.
During Phase 1, the Working Group and the Consultant will: (a) complete reviews of the implementation of
electric, gas and other sector reforms to date, and of the prevailing institutional arrangements; and (b) prepare a
report describing their findings (the "Background Report"). It is anticipated that Phase 1 will be completed by
March 1997. The Background Report will form the basis of the discussions of issues and regulatory objectives
within Thailand in Phase 2.
Phase 2: Definition of Fundamental Principles and Scope of Energy Sector Regulation
Phase 2 will be completed during an approximately two week period of intensive discussions between the
Steering Committee and the Consultant following the Steering Committee's review of the Background Report
distributed by the Working Group and the Consultant. The main elements of Phase 2 are the following:
(a)    Presentation by the Consultant and discussion with the Steering Committee of international
experiences in, and theories of, energy sector regulation. The focus will be on clarifying the
concepts of legal and economic regulation and discussing the advantages and disadvantages of
different regulatory techniques;
(b)    Definition by the Steering Committee of guiding principles and objectives of energy sector
regulation in Thailand;
(c)    Preparation by Consultant of a report (the "Scope of Regulation Report") of the required or
desired scope of energy sector regulation in Thailand, with the inputs and approval of the
Steering Committee; and
(d)    Determination of the appropriate number of task forces that should be formed from the Working
Group to complete Phase 3.
It will be extremely important that appropriate coordination with all other on-going preparatory work related to
power sector and energy sector regulation be developed during this phase of work. These linkages should be
clearly defined and the other Consultants and working groups be invited to the discussions. The most important
of the on-going tasks that will have to be closely coordinated are:
-      Rationalization of Bulk Supply Tariff to MEA and PEA: The inception report was completed in December
1995. This activity includes work on the approach to tariff setting and regulation of tariffs.



- 5 1-                                       Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
-      PEA's Interfacing Arrangements with EGAT: This task has been initiated and work done will relate
closely to the appropriate delineation of the transmission and distribution system.
It is anticipated that Phase 2 will be completed in June 1997. The Scope of Regulation Report will lay the
foundations for discussions on the details and structure of energy sector regulation with the Working Group in
Phase 3, and will also be used in the workshop in Phase 4 as a starting point for discussions.
Phase 3: Preliminary Design of the Regulatory Framework
These Terms of Reference anticipate that pricing and licensing issues will be the two areas that will require the
most detailed review and input by the Government in order to provide guidance to the Consultant for the drafting
of laws and regulations in Phase 5. Therefore, these Terms of Reference describe the creation of two task
forces from the members of the Working Group and the Consultant ("Task Forces") to consider these issues. If
the Steering CommiKtee determines in Phase 2 that a different number of Task Forces should be created, then
the appropriate number of Task Forces shall be formed and the corresponding number of reports produced by
the Task Forces. Additional topics that could be appropriate for the formation of a Task Force include, among
others, the staffing, funding, and procedures of the regulatory authority, or the development of minimum service
standards for generators, the transmission entity, and distribution licensees.  The appropriate topics for
consideration by the Task Forces should become apparent as the Steering Committee reviews the Background
Report in Phase 2.
During Phase 3 the Working Group and the Consultant will focus on the topics as directed by the Steering
Committee. The Working Group and Consultant will divide into the appropriate number of Task Forces to
complete Phase 3 on a parallel-track basis. Three aspects of regulatory framework design that are likely to be
Task Force topics are:
1.     Price and Service Regulation
2.     Geographic and/or Scope of Service Licensing Regulation
3.     Gas Sector Regulation
The topics, which are outlined in greater detail below, are inter-related, and all conclusions of the Task Forces
must be consistent with the Scope of Regulation Report. The issues that are common to both topics relate to:
(a) the allocation of regulatory roles and responsibilities; and (b) the regulatory mechanisms and organizational
structure to perform these regulatory functions. These issues will be discussed by the Task Forces, as well as
in plenary sessions of the Working Group with the Consultant as and when required. It is anticipated that Phase
3 will be undertaken in September and October 1997.
For the purposes of example only, a non-comprehensive scope of issues that could be addressed by the task
Forces described above is as follows:
Task Force 1: Price and Service Regulation
(a)    Retail and bulk prices that may need to be regulated, including:
-      Retail consumer prices
-      Bulk transfer prices
(b)    Evaluation of mechanisms to regulate prices;
(c)    Principles to establish pricing policies, information needs for price setting/review; and
(d)    Administrative processes for price revisions.
Task Force 2: Geographic and/or Scope of Service Licensing Regulation
(a)    Evaluation of procedures and institutional responsibility for system planning, and the obligation
to serve;
(b)    Identification and evaluation of options to draw a balance between the need for appropriate
oversight of planning and investment decisions and the obligation to serve by a distribution
entity;



5 2-                                       Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
(c)    Reconciliation of the obligation to serve under a workable licensing and franchising framework;
and
(d)    Identification of methods and mechanisms to separate central and local responsibilities.
Task Force 3: Gas Sector Regulation in Thailand
(a)    Evaluation of structural options for the gas sector and market;
(b)    Introduction of competition in the gas sector; and
(c)    Price regulation of gas in a monopolistic market
Reports (the "Phase 3 Reports") as required to address the conclusions of the Task Forces, will be produced by
the Task Forces at the conclusion of Phase 3 and submitted to the Steering Committee.
Phase 4: Workshop - Energy Sector Regulation In Thailand
Phase 4 will be a workshop in December 1997 (the 'Workshop") to discuss the reports produced in Phases 1-3.
The Workshop will include the Steering Committee and additional senior policy makers, the Consultant,
representatives from the Working Group, the World Bank, energy enterprise officials, and energy sector experts
as appropriate to achieve a broad spectrum of points of view. At the Workshop the Consultant will present an
overview of the Scope of Regulation Report and the Phase 3 Reports. The Consultant will then lead discussions
of how the Phase 3 Reports are consistent with the Scope of Regulation Report, and answer any questions of
the Workshop participants regarding the consistency of these Reports with international practices.  The
Workshop participants will then discuss the implications of the Reports for Thailand, and attempt to achieve a
consensus as to appropriate legal and regulatory goals for a commercialized, and ultimately privatized, energy
sector in Thailand. The Consultant will produce minutes from the Workshop to record the consensus views, and
dissenting views (if any), of the Workshop participants. The Workshop will be important in developing a broad
consensus amongst policy makers in Thailand on the pace and scope of regulatory reform in the energy sector.
At present a three-day event is envisaged; one day for an opening session including an overview of the
Reports and a presentation of international experience in energy sector regulation, and two days for structured
discussions on the Reports to attempt to achieve consensus on the legal and regulatory goals for the Thai
electric sector. If necessary, the Workshop may be extended, or a second session called, so that by the time
the Workshop is adjourned a broad consensus on the Scope of Regulation Report and the Phase 3 Reports is
achieved. The Consultant shall modify the final versions of the Scope of Regulation Report and the Phase 3
Reports as necessary to reflect the Consensus of the Workshop. When the Workshop is adjourned, the Scope
of Regulation Report and the Phase 3 Reports (as finalized during the Workshop), together with the minutes of
the Workshop, shall be submitted to the Steering Committee for its official approval.
Phase 5: Drafting of Legal and Regulatory Framework
Based on the Scope of Regulation Report and the Phase 3 Reports as approved by the Steering Committee
following the Workshop (the "Final Reports"), the Consultant (with additional assistance from the Working Group,
if required) will begin to develop the elements of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework. Phase 5
outputs will include draft energy sector laws and regulations that incorporate the conclusions of the Final
Reports. The draft laws and regulations must clearly delineate the roles and responsibilities of the different
government agencies, and must clearly identify new and/or revised roles of existing institutions. The draft
framework should propose organizational structures and staffing for all institutions.
The Consultant should complete Phase 5 within 4 months of the issuance of the Final Reports.



ELECTRICITY SUPPLY INDUSTRY STRUCTURE IN MEDIUM TERM
Other Utilities                           Vk
PROJ ECTSPA 
IN                                                                              OhrSP
~~~PPA |Cgnrtr 
LAO PDR
EGCO                                          System
Direct Snles
In NeighIourlurhHb
Others                            MEA                              PEA
Distribution            l  2                  l   l
SystPmEA             l PEA2     PE,        PEA4
Dislrihbedlon  Distribution  Distrilhilion  Distribution
Users  Systelm  Syslem  Sysiemn  System
x
Users  Users  Users    ~~~~Users      a






-54-
Annex 7
Page I of 10
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Rellability Improvement Project
PEA's Reform Implementation Plan
A. Reform Background
The Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) is a wholly state-owned enterprise
responsible for distribution in all of Thailand, except for the greater metropolitan Bangkok area
which is serviced by the Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA). PEA, has over the last two
years, initiated a comprehensive effort to commercialize and corporatize its operations, with the
ultimate goal of privatization. This move is in-line with the Cabinet-level resolution for power
sector reform issued in September 1994.
To advance the reform effort within PEA a high-level privatization sub-committee
was established to oversee and manage the task. Preliminary studies were undertaken in 1994,
with the feasibility study submitted in February 1995. The feasibility study articulated a phased
restructuring strategy for PEA and recommended a priority focus on operational and functional
streamlining. This restructuring strategy was reviewed and approved by the Board of Governors of
PEA, who requested additional details on implementation. The phased approach to the
restructuring of PEA is seen as a three-step process spread over a 4-5 year timeframe.
Phase I       Operational Decentralization
PEA will decentralize the day-to-day management of operations to its four regional
distribution areas (i.e. regions). This phased progression will begin with the creation of
business units with greater operational autonomy with fully allocated costs (i.e. cost-
centers). This transition is expected to take around 2-years. Action plans for this phase
have been prepared and have been submitted for approval by PEA's Board of Governors.
Organizational restructuring and human resource and skills upgrading are seen as the
most crucial implementation challenges in Phase 1. Stress will be laid on the important
up-front change management process in order to decentralize headquarter functions to
the regions.
PEA is expected to be classified as an "Excellent State Enterprise" by mid-1996.
Achievement of the excellent state enterprise status provides management with the
authority to devise and implement a suitable staffing and compensation system. This step
will have a major impact in improving management incentives and is critical to many of the
changes planned in Phase 1. The excellent state enterprise status requires: (a) return on
revalued assets greater than 6%; (b) labor cost below 10% of total costs; and (c) annual
productivity increases equal or greater than 2%.
Figure 1 represents the existing PEA organizational structure. Figure 3 represents the
fully allocated regional cost center structure with greater autonomy accorded to regions
headed by Deputy Govemors rather than Assistant Governor's under the existing
structure.
Phase 2       Regional Profit Center Structure
From a fully allocated regional cost structure with wider central service support, PEA will
transition to fully independent utility profit centers. This transition is expected to take an
additional year after the implementation of regional cost center structure. Separation of
non-core functions as separate units will begin to be undertaken in this phase with
transactions with the regions based on transparent transfer prices. (See figure 4.)



-55-
Annex 7
Page 2 of 10
Phase 3        PEA Holding Company and Regional Subsidiaries
From regional utility profit center operation PEA will transition to a PEA Holding Company
structure with the regional utility subsidiaries. The Holding Company would provide
limited central services and policy guidance.   These central services could include:
coordination in tariff setting and power system  management;  certain specialized
engineering services; and assistance in financing of major projects and overall debt
management. Non-core profits centers created in Phase 2, will be spun-off in this phase.
These subsidiaries will ultimately compete for PEA business with a transitional
arrangement of continued PEA service contracts before embarking on purely market
operation (See figure 5).
B. Reform and Restructuring Implementation Actions
(Phase I - FY 1996-97)
The reform implementation actions for Phase 1 were developed by eight PEA
working groups defined along functional lines.   The working groups are: finance, human
resources, planning, management, regional restructuring, technique, corporate services and
construction and maintenance.   These groups were assisted by a General Consultant and
supervised by the privatization sub-committee. Owing to the functional overlap of the working
groups and the broad organizational restructuring planned, coordination in the development of the
implementation plans as well as in actual implementation is very crucial. Care has been taken to
ensure effective coordination between the working groups during all stages of restructuring. The
implementation plans developed by each working group are all part of the broader strategic
objective of creating an effective and efficient organization that would operate on commercial lines
and make the transition to private ownership possible. The key implementation actions in these
areas is summarized below:
Finance
The focus of the finance implementation actions are to: (a) develop a core of
expertise in private sector accounting standards and principles; (b) establish a system to identify
and allocate costs and profits associated with providing electric service; and (c) implement an
integrated computerized accounting system. The implementation elements are:
Activity                      Implementation Strategy                Schedule
Introduce private sector accounting  -  Define method to track costs and profits of
standards and practices            business units
-  Define basis of cost allocation for each function
and unit of PEA
-  Revise budgeting and reporting system to assist
management planning and control functions
Establish an allocated cost of service  -  Introduce technical expertise to utilize different
system                             cost allocation methods from the available load  FY 1996-97
profiles
-  Develop computer software and hardware skills
to utilize cost of service models
Implement     an     integrated  -  design system  for integrating disbursements,
computerized accounting system     personnelpayroll, receivables/billing, budgeting,
fund management, tax and asset register
-  create  appropriate  reporting  link to  PEA
management information system



-56-
Annex 7
Page 3 of 10
Human Resources
The objectives of the plan are to: (a) revise and enhance PEA personnel systems
for more effective human resource management and utilization; (b) develop better training and
career development practices; and (c) create a system for continuous manpower analysis to
meet demands and rectify shortcomings. To link into the broader organizational restructuring,
specifically the decentralization of regional operations, the intention is to create human resource
management capabilities in the proposed regional profit centers which operate under the policy
guidance of the PEA Holding Company human resource office. This decentralization will proceed
in  conjunction  with  the  introduction  of the  improved  human  resource  practices.   The
implementation elements are:
Activity                          Implementation Strategy                   Schedule
Analysis of present manpower stock    Consultant i.e. the Thailand Innovation Administration
Consultancy (TIACI) to complete review and
analysis.   Transfer of capability to PEA human
resource office
Rearrange and redeploy manpower
Improve salary structure           Revise salary structure based on consultant review   FY 1996-97
and benchmarking with comparable private entKties.
Develop   personnel  management  Staged design, development and implementation of
system                             a computer information system  linked to regional
systems
Reduce personnel expenditures      Define conditions of early retirement and contracting
out of services
Training and development           Develop suitable training courses for management  FY 1996, 97 and 98
and staff and coordinate with in-house of outside
I institutes
Management
The key objectives of the management reforms are to establish a framework to
decentralize then necessary administrative functions to the regions and also streamline the
monitoring function performed by senior management. The implementation elements are:
Activity                          Implementation Strategy                   Schedule
Transfer Division Functions of the:  Revise financial report compilation in accordance
- compilation section              with private sector accounting and financial reporting
- policy and monioring section     systems
from the Office of the Govemor to
other entKties                     Introduce new procedures for statistical review and
information flow to managers
Decentralization and rationalization of  Units to be rationalized:
functions under the Office of Govemor  - General Services Division                  FY 1996-97
- Investigation Division
- Administrative Division
Decentralize and transfer functions of  Coordinate transfer with Regional Working Group
the Office of Inspectors
Streamline  information  compilation  Improve information flow and reporting from:
and reporting to the Ministry of Interior  - Project and Planning Division          FY 1996, 97, 98
- Budget Division



-57-
Annex 7
Page 4 of 10
Planning
The  principal restructuring  tasks of the  planning  working  group  are:   (a)
reorganize planning and system development to prepare for its eventual role as the planning
entity of the PEA holding company; (b) form a marketing department in planning to direct sales
and develop new customer offerings of services; (c) form a central project management division
under the PEA holding company; (d) form a research and development department under
planning to monitor and improve system and component reliability; and (e) form a strategic and
corporate planning department. The implementation elements are:
Activity                          Implementation Strategy                   Schedule
Transition and restructuring of PEA   -  coordinate transfer of non-planning functions to
planning and system development to     regions e.g. design of medium-voltage systems.
central  planning  entity  for  PEA   -  form high voltage system planning division
Holding Company
Establish   marketing  functions in  -  coordinate development of marketing function
planning entity                        with then elimination of uniform national tariffs
and introduction of time-of-use and other rate
structures
Form  central project management  -  coordinate with construction and maintenance  FY 1996-97
division                               working group in separating responsibility for
large project management
Create  research  and development  -  develop capabilities for information collection and
department under central planning      analysis of system and component reliability and
performance
Form    a strategic and corporate
planning department
Regional Restructuring
The objective of regional restructuring is to successively transform the Regions to
business units (i.e. fully allocated cost centers), profits centers and subsidiary Regional
Distribution Companies. They must become autonomous entities with the capabilities to manage
their businesses like private companies. They will do so under the management, standards, rules
and guidelines established by the PEA Holding Company.   As much of the restructuring work is
directed at achieving successful regionalization of PEA, implementation will be a comprehensive
effort by all working groups.   The following are the key implementation responsibilities of the
regional working group:
Activity                          Implementation Strategy                   Schedule
Preparation  of organizational and  To be prepared in coordination with the Management  Plan   prepared  in
functional  plan  for  regions  for  and Planning working groups                    Jan 1996
submission  to  Privatization  Sub-
Committee for approval                                                              (Not yet approved)
Transfer of functions from  service  The Service Department will be transferred intact
department to the Regions          with all staff and functions from Technique to the  FY 1996-97
Regions
Retraining and redeployment of staff as required
Transfer  functions  of Distribution  The Distribution System Design Division (DSDD) will
System   Design  Division  to  the  be transferred intact with all staff and functions from   FY 1996-97
Regions.                           Technique to the Regions.
Retraining and redeployment of staff as required



-58-
Annex 7
Page 5 of 10
Technique
Technique is the department within PEA that provides engineering design and
services to other units of PEA.   The restructuring of Technique is driven by the objectives of
regional decentralization and streamlining.   The ultimate goal is to create Technique as a
subsidiary engineering company within the PEA Holding Company structure, selling engineering
services to the parent and other subsidiary companies. The implementation elements are:
Activity                     -_        _       _ 
Transfer administrative  control of  -   Coordinate with Management and Regional
Service Department to Regions         working groups
IFransiFr-tec-ive EquipmenT-and  -  Coordinate with Construction and Maintenance
Transformer Department (PETD) to      working group                                FY 199697
Construction and Maintenance
Training of managers and personnel  -  Coordinate with Human Resource working group
in the business operation of profit-
oriented engineering services firm.



FIGURE 1
PEA Organization                                             Board of Direors
January  1996
| O^ce of l | ~~~Asskstant 
Foreign
I Human Resources m                     |     IntemrD   l                                                  |   Office of
|    Developrmnt  l                  |     Auid ing      l                                               | The Governor
|   AuditienTrainingAAuditna    L                             Admini-           Extemal          Conference
Division          Center              Svc. Divisions       Administration                         straave          Cooperation    T     Service
t-n
I Plannling &                                      General    |      Publi          Investigation|
|   Evaluation    l                        |   Services    | |  Relatlons    |  |   Servloe                        0
Deputy Govemor            Deputy Govemor              Deputy Govemor                Deputy Governor          Deputy Governor          Deputy Governor
Planning &                                              Construction &            Economics                 Corporate
Technique             Sys. Development               Operations                    Maintenance               & Finance                Services.
Civil Eng./Archit.             Planning                 Region                Proj. Acceleration            Economics               Welf.&Mediral
&Implementa,tion             & Budget
-|   Engineering - ]                                                                                             - SystomIDev.   |     Region  2  |  |  Administration
Construction               Accounting  1
& Finance              Procurement   _d
_   Service        _   Inf. System Ctr.          _  Region 37   1      |    Maintenance                                         & Transport.             crD
Prot. Equip. I                                      L  Dsgn l     egion 4  |                                                                                  a7 
Transformers                                                                                                                                  .,      
0 e



FIGURE 2
PEA  Organization                                                 Board of Directors
January 1997
r Office of               |     Assistant
|The Inspectors    Gv e
Investigation and  Planning &~oreig
| Human Resources                                                                                                                     R             a'0Experts
Deelomn                                       I     lDevelopment                   Me
AudiAing                                                       The Governor
Personnel   L_ Training_                                         _
Division   |       Center             | Auditing       L         Audit                          | Extemal    l                            onference
|Svc. Divisions  | |Administration 2on                                                             Ser ic
C  Investigation andn            Planning 8                         General      EPublic
Legal Servic                  Evaluation                     | Services                               R  elations    o
Deputy Governor   |    |Deputy Governor   |           |Asst Govemor   |                eputy Governor       |Deputy Govemor  |          Deputy Govemor
Technique           Planning &                    Rein1         |Construction &S                       Economics               Corporate Svcs.
Tednique       _ ~~Sys. Development                                           Maintenance                & Finance    _
_ Assist Govemor|
Region 2            Proj. Acceleration                                     WeHf.&Meia _
Ml CiiEng.lArchit.   |   __FSys. PlanKnhg                                .      & Implementation    _        |Ecnms| 
Assist Govemor                                        & Budget
I Region 3 1 I Constn[ctionn
Engineering                Sutr. & Corp.                Region 3               Construction 
I  Plamning  I     I    -             E   I       .Mnan                     Accounting               Procurerment
InformationSys.                      Assist Govemor            Mamtenance        F          & Finance                & Transport.
-   Information Sys.   }  X             -           1    Region 4
q   Mktg. Planning   1                         |    Prot. Equip..
  Transformers &
System  sogn  _j       A        R & D       |                               |Substat. Maint.
R&D ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
x
0



FIGURE 3
PEA Organization                                                    Board of Directors
January  1998                                                       Ba    o
I  Audit 8alln
|  Lega                        GovmrGeno
Extemal                            Foeg
Affairs                            Experts
External      |
Cooperation              
.                   ~~~~~~Persne Resourc;e
_   Public                         Development
Relations
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Division    |     |Cne 
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Deputy Governor              Deputy Governor                Deputy Governor                  Deputy Govemor              Deputy Govemor              Deputy Govemor
Planning &              _       Region 1                      Construction &               Economics                 Corporate Svcs.
Technique             _ Sys. Development                                                    Maintenance                  & Finance
Deputy Governor|
Civil_Eng.Arhit.  Reg ion 2  lProj. Acceleration     _                                   | Welf.&Medical   W
E o o ic &
CiviiEng./Archit.Sys.Planning_ Deputy  Governor  7| Const nBud geit                     Administration
-|    Engineering                                           Regn 3 SoConstruction
ning                    Maintenance                    Acoounting              ~~~~~~~~~~~~Procurement
|  Informmtion Sys.                                                                                        I Plannig        FDeputy Governor  Maintenance  Accountinga|-  & Transport.
Prot. Equip.,
Transformers &
Sys. Design     l                                                                    Substation Maint.
OI0
D RD
tDg 



FIGURE 4
PEA  Organization                                               Board of Directors
January  1999
|Executive Director
Extemal Affairs &                   Audit &
Foreign Experts              Legal Investigation
Strategic                      HR Policy
Planning                       & Training
CENTRAL OFFICE
,................. .... .............. ..............................................
UTILITY SUPPORT CENTERS
PROFIT CENTERS
Deputy Executive
Manufactuging DirectorEManagineeng DirecDeputy Executive                                                           Director               Deputy Executive
Manufacturing            Engineering       1      .                      Director                Economics &                   Director
t    ..Planning            finance                  Administration
ManaginMa naging Dir                     Managig Diector                                Pai
Power Genera9tion               _.1}L&  uge                                                                                             Administrto 
Economics              Amnsration
Sys. Planning                co Budget
Con51giY L1 = t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Procuremrent 
Managing Director                                                   R&Durme
Construction                                 R & D                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Accounting   & Transport.
Contrutio
& Finance
~~~~~..... ............................................................. ..... .......
Managing Director          Managing Director            Managing Director         Managing Director
Region 1                   Region 2                     Region 3                  Region 4
UTILITY PROFIT CENTERS
x
C
0



FIGURE 5
PEA Organization
&  Board of Dirs.                              Strategic Plann                      HR Poeicy   Ti
.~~~~O P                       President                reWtn
|  Productinw                                      Foreign Experts                    Legal Investigation     |
EXTERNALI
INTERNAL.|Vice Proesidenlrn                                               c P Vice President
Board     1                   .              | Stratogk Pbn         |          |   HR Polak  & Training                  F
*ETERNAL
Constnction                   .           .ta
* IbIARKET                     .                                                       ~~~~~HOLDING COMPANY
SUBSIDIARIES
U YSUBSIDIARIES.CORPORATE SUPPORT CENTERS
:.
Manufaclurng.__                                                                                                                                                              o
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ...... ....... ... . ...  
.................... ..........I-----...   ....... .....                                                       Senior Vice President              Economics                  Administratlon
* INTERNLALL1                                                                                                         lann                        & Finance       __
SERVICE           i     Egneig                        .                                                    Sys. Planning                  Eomis            _    | Administratlon 
:SUBSIDIARIES:
Board of Dirs      d o        .                 B       o    r                              D o D                   B       o Dire.
..   Infbrmation Svcs.PP                                                                        gAionc                                             T
, .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
.,...................... ...............................
UTILITY SUBSIDIARIES
,.........................................................           .....       ...........            ..............
Board of Dire.                   Board of Dirs.       ||               Board of Dire.      | |       Board of Dirs.       |
| PEA Regio                        PEA Region 2            |         |     PEA Region 3        |     | PEA Region 4           | .p  
N    s oEm Uity                     Northeastem Ulity   |              |    CentralUtility      |     | SouthemUblity          | *1
,..............................................................................................................................
I''-



LEGEND                                                                                               LEGEND   GFIS  Geographic Facilltles
- __ -___-- NO. I ........ NO.n                                                                                        informallon System
------                                    DISATHIG.NFRSTU.UR                                              ABS   AutomnatedBilling System
----------- BACK-UP OPERATION                   DISPATCHING INFRASTRUCTURE CONFIGURATIQN                        SCADA Supervisory Control And
COORDINATION OF OPERATION                                                                                Data Acqulsiltlon
________   DATA                                                                                             EUS    Energy Management System
DC    DATA CONCENTRATION AND                       [>AH           UNCCUNT                u                      IS Eog   l omn System
PU SUBUASTER FUNCTIONS (SUBSTATIOII URU)- ''    STTS/HTODAA                        'IR                               IorRmocUt
v~~~~~~~~~UAI                                                  RTU    Remote  Icrminal Unit
DISTRINUTIO   .G.DlTRBUlO
GFIS/              DISPATCHWG_N                                                                                  DiSPATCHINCGnS
Assur^            CENTRCE(Nta t) ___________________________________                                                c mHR(N               (AR5ive
(Fulurs)      ~SCAOA/DU5                                                                                      3  .   gADU$
/   /\                                                / ~ ~ \SURCECENTRE_ __
/ I UUl/Li  EMOTE 
z  /         /                                   r                                vaIl-"ATERMINAL
x
c)  I Ct / M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0






-65-
Anex 9
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Upgrading Distribution in South Thailand
Project Data
Substation        115kV         Equalizing
Name of Substation          Capacity Nos.   Transmission    Discout Rate
________________________               x  MVA          Line  kM        (%)   /a
Bang Saphan2                             lx50            30.0            125.80
Khao Yoi                                 2x50            17.5            54.50
Kui Buri                                 2x50            27.5           530.00
Ranong 2                                 Ix50            45.0           990.50
Tha Sae                                  I x50           20.0            21.40
Ao Luk                                   Ix50            37.5            90.50
Kanchanadit                              I x50           35.0            80.10
Ko Samui                                 2x50            24.0            999+
Krabi 2                                  1x25            35.0            26.40
Nakhon si Thammarat 2                    IxS0            10.0            14.00
Pak Phanang                              2x50            30.0            88.50
Pa Tong                                  Ix50             7.0            12.80
Thalang                                  2x50            30.0            83.80
Wiang Sa                                 Ix50            75.0           205.00
Betong                                   1x25            110.0           117.00
Chana                                    2x50            40.0            48.10
Hat Yai 3                                2x50            13.0            19.60
Hat Yai 4                                2x50            10.0            12.00
Saba Yoi                                 Ix50            35.0            69.00
Cha Lung                                 1x50            25.0            23.50
Total Project                      26x50 + 2x25       656.5            87%
/_ Compared to distribution expansion at 22/33kV from existing EGAT substations.






-66-
Annex IO
Page 1 of 3
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Terms of Reference
PEA's Interfacing Arrangements with EGAT
A. Background
1.    Demand for electricity in Thailand is forecast to grow at a rate of almost 10% p.a.
over 1995 - 2000. The largest and fastest growing share of retail sales (accounting for
55% of EGAT's generation, up from 24% five years ago) is occurring in PEA's
distribution franchise areas. In these areas retail sales grew at an average of over 15% per
year over the last 10 years. Over the next decade, PEA will have to mature from a utility,
largely preoccupied with the Government's Rural Electrification (RE) program, to
become a more commercial organization faced with improving the quality of service to
its major industrial and commercial customers. PEA's distribution system in Thailand is
extensive. It includes 194,375 ckm of medium voltage and 769 ckm of high voltage
distribution lines and 28,126 MVA of transformer capacity. The bulk of PEA medium
voltage (MV) distribution is carried out at 22kV and 33kV, with 22kV constituting
almost 83% and 33kV almost 17% of the total network.
2.    Faced with the challenge, PEA is investing about US$2 billion for the 1993-1997
period in extending the provincial 115kV subtransmission, and reinforcing the MV
distribution systems to improve overall system efficiency, maintain MV system losses at
optimum levels, and importantly enhance the quality of supply. The investment program
will also substantially complete the rural electrification in the country, so that by the end
of the century, virtually all villages in Thailand will have access to electricity. A notable
feature of PEA's plan is that in building 65 new 115 kV substations (in comparison to 16
being build by EGAT in the same period), there will be a shift in responsibility from
EGAT to PEA for the future development of the 115 kV sub-transmission system.
3.    Continuing 115kV expansion will be needed to reinforce, at least cost, the
capacity of PEA's MV networks to reduce losses, and improve the quality and reliability
of power supplies to its consumers. Likewise EGAT's transmission system will also be
expanding, necessitating the construction of new high capacity EHV (220/5OOkV)
transmission circuits to provide the transmission infrastructure for stability and reliability
of its bulk supplies to PEA. Many of EGAT's new EHV lines interconnect main power
stations, and bulk supply substations, will be adjacent to the older 115kV circuits. These
will become increasingly redundant to EGAT's needs, and will increasingly be turned
over to radial operation more suited to PEA's needs. While some of these 115 kV lines
may be retained by EGAT, where they are critical to its operations, or where they can be
uprated in future, most other lines should be transferred to PEA in the interest of overall
efficiency in transmission and subtransmission operations.



-67-
Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
B. Description of Proposed Technical Assistance
4.    The TA would assist the Government to prepare the proposed project by financing
the investigation of the technical, economic and ownership aspects of transmission and
subtransmission development in Thailand, to assist in rationalizing interface
arrangements between EGAT and PEA and thereby determine the appropriate costs of
supply for charging purposes. The study should consider a number of technical issues in
arriving at its conclusions, which will be used as a basis for negotiations with regard the
transfer of existing 115kV transmission assets. The study will be done utilizing PEA's
GIS facilities to map the structure of the existing and planned 115kV subtransmission
systems, and hence determine costs of supply to PEA rural, urban and industrial service
areas. The approach to be followed, and incorporated in the consultants TOR, should be
generally as detailed below:
(a)   Digitize all of PEA's MV service areas based on the extent of supplies
from   115/22kV  substations.  Using existing and forecast demand
characteristics for each service area, estimate: (i) load densities
(kW/sqkm); (ii) service characteristics (MVA fault level/reliability index);
and (iii) costs of supply from the main EGAT 220/500kV supply point to
the respective load center in S/kW/km. Costs of supply will be assessed
using standard unit costs for different types (pole, single, double circuit,
etc.) of 115kV lines, substations (dependent on fault level, redundancy
capacity, outgoing feeders, etc.), and 22kV bulk feeders taken from the
115/22kV substations up to the demand center (from which the 22kV
distribution lines emanate); and including the EGAT capacity charges for
each of the existing bulk power substations;
(b)   Review the basis for establishing new 115kV supply points in terms of
EGAT technical requirements (fault levels, reliability, cost of land, ROW,
etc.) and determine how costs are allocated to PEA and EGAT
respectively in selecting locations for new substations;
(c)    Review the range of costs of supply computed, and group them according
to the characteristics of each service area (e.g. region, rural flat, rural
mountainous, urban low density, urban high density, industrial estate, etc.)
to identify anomalies in the cost of supplies and the reasons for any
significant differences;
(d)   Examine alternative methods for reducing per unit supply costs by
extending PEA subtransmission and/or reinforcing distribution lines,
assuming new points of supply can be made available from the nearest
EGAT transmission lines, and estimate the costs of doing so using
standard rates for the extensions involved;



-6'8-
Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
(e)   Review EGAT's concerns with regard to transmission system integrity and
transfer capacity taking into consideration ROW restrictions, future
expansion requirements and determine if transfer of existing lines to PEA
would be technically feasible;
(f)   Investigate condition of facilities that would be transferred to determine if
uprating is feasible and desirable and estimate the approximate value of
the assets involved, and the costs of operating the maintaining the lines;
(g)   Recommend  technical  and  pricing  policies  for  transmission/
subtransmission/distribution interface design and a basis for determining
the allocation of costs of installing a new points of supply; and
(h)   Perform specific studies of individual cases in more detail to verify the
broad findings of the study.
C. Technical Assistance Timetable
5.    The study should be completed over nine months requiring about 50 man-months
(local and foreign) of input with assistance from PEA counterpart staff responsible for
GIS mapping. It will require the services of specialists in GIS applications design, power
systems analysis, transmission planning, and equipment valuation. Outputs will include:
(a) the establishment of a comprehensive GIS subtransmission planning system
identifying PEA networks and their respective supply and cost characteristics; (b)
information that can be used by PEA for determining the true costs of supply to its
respective service areas; and (c) report and recommendations to be used as a basis for
discussions between PEA and EGAT. The following schedule is proposed for project
preparation.



I



-69-
Annex  1I
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Supervision Plan
Staff-Days
Calendar Year                        1996                   1997                 1998
TM  FA  PP LE TM  FA IPP LE TM  FA PP LE
Physical Implementation                     10      -     -   -   10    -    -   -   10    -   -
Investment Prograrn                          3      -     -   -    3    -    -   -    3    -   -
Dialogue on Tariffs                          3      -     -   -    3    -    -   -    3    -   -
Compliance with funancial covenants           -   12      -   -      -  12                    12    -
Restructuring of PEA Organization            3    3    12   3    3    3    8   3          3    3   5      3
Progress of Regulatory Framnework Study      3      -   12   4    3    -    8   4         3    -   5      4
Progress of PEA Interface with EGAT Study    3      -     -   -    3    -    8    -    3    -   - 3
TOTAL Staff-Days                            25    15   24    7   25   15   16   7   25   15  10           7
Number of fields visits /a                   3    3      2    1    3    3    2    1    3    3   1         1
Expertise:    TM: Task Manager (Power Sector Issues)
FA: Financial Analyst
PP: Private Power/Regulatory Framework Expert
LE: Legal Expert
/a The costs of field visits would be shared with other power projects in Thailand.






-70-
Annex 12
Page 1 of 4
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Key Performance Indicators
Project Objective        Performance Indicator                 Remarks
A. Improvement in     1. System Average Interruption    Evaluate annually over
Distribution          Frequency Index (SAIFI).       1996 to 2001.
Reliability.
2. Customer Average Interruption  Evaluate annually over
Duration Index (CAIDI).        1996 to 2001.
Targets: As in attached Table 1.
B. Maintain Overall    1. System Loss (%).              Evaluate annually
Distribution                                        from energy purchase
Efficiency.       Target: To reach 6% but not above    and sales data, 1996 to
7%.                       2001.
C. Meet power demand  1. Annual utilization of project  Record annually, 1996
in South Thailand     substations (% Demand/         to 2001.
Efficiently.          Capacity).
Targets: As in attached Table 2.
D. Restructure PEA    1. Complete Reorganization.       Prepare timely Action
Organization.      Target: 4 years.                  Plans for each year.
2. Annual Reorganization.         Review progress in
Target: Follow Charts In Annex 7.   implementation each
year.
E. Improve Manpower  1. Gwh Sales per Employee and      Record annually, 1996
Utilization.          Customers per Employee.       to 2001.
Targets: As in attached Table 3.



-71-
Ane  12
Page 2 of 4
Table 1: PEA System Reliability Indices (Targets)
Industrial                   Town                       Rural
YEAR         SAIFI        CAIDI         SAIFI         CAIDI        SAIFI         CAIDI
1995          3.9          43.5           8.4         46.3          13.2         71.6
1996          3.8          40.0           8.3         43.0          13.0         67.0
1997          3.7          37.0           8.1         40.0          13.0         62.0
1998          3.5          35.0           7.9         37.0          12.5         56.0
1999          3.3          32.0           7.5         35.0          12.3         51.0
2000          3.0           30.0          6.5          32.0         10.0          47.0
2001          2.5           27.0          5.5          29.0          8.5         45.0
Remark: SAIFI - System Average Interruption Frequency Index (Time/Cus./Year).
CAIDI - Customer Average Interruption Duration Index (Min/Time).
The figures are based on Forced Outage Interruptions.



-72-
Annex 12
Page 3 of 4
Table 2: Loading of Project Substations
Utilization Factor %  (Targets)
Install       1998            1999             2000             2001            2002
Substation         (MVA)   Load        %          L     oa d           Load  %  Load     %      Load    %
_  (MW)   Util.  (MW)   Util.  (MW)   Util.  (MW)   Util.  (MW)  Util.
Bang Saphan 2                  50    11.3   27%        12.4   29%       13.5   32%      14.3   34%       15.5  36%
Khao Yol                      100    24.4   290/%    26.5   31%        28.8   34%       31.6   37%       34.0  40%
Kui Buri                      100    22.1   26%       24.0   26%       26.1   31%       28.8   34%       31.0  36%
Ranong 2                       50    18.1   43%        19.2   45%      20.3   48%       21.1   50%       22.2  52%
Tha Sae                        50    15.9   37%        17.8   42%       19.7   46%      21.3   50%       23.4  55%
Ao Luk                         50    12.4   290/c    13.9   33%         15.5   36%      17.2   40%       19.0  45%
Kanchanadit                    50    18.5   44%       20.0   47%       21.5   51%       23.1   54%       24.7  58%
Ko Samui                      100    28.2   33%       30.5   36%       32.4   38%       34.3   406/o    36.0  42%
Krabi 2                        25      9.6   45%       10.6   500/o    11.6   55%       12.6   590/o    13.6  64%
Nakhon Si Thanmarai 2          50    23.2   55%       24.4   57%       25.5   60%       26.8   63%       28.0  66%
Pak Phanang                   100    30.8   36%       33.0   390/o    35.2   41%        37.5   44%       39.8  47%
Pa Tong                        50    25.2   590/o    26.4   62%        27.5   65%       28.7   68%       29.9  700/.
Thalang                       100    26.1   33%       30.3   36%       32.4   38%       34.5   41%       36.7  43%
Wang Sa                        50    11.6   27%        12.5   290%      13.5   32%      14.5   34%       15.6  37%
Betong                         25      6.1   290/c      6.5   31%       6.9   32%        7.3   34%        7.8  37%
Chana                         100    23.0   27%       24.7   29%       26.6   31%       28.5   34%       30.5  36%
Hat Yai 3                     100    28.2   33%       30.4   36%       32.8   390/o    35.2   41%        37.6  44%
Hat Yai 4                     100    24.8   290/o    26.8   32%        28.8   34%       31.0   36%       33.1  390/o
Saba Yoi                       50    15.8   370/o    17.2   40%/a    18.8   44%         20.4   48%       22.0  52%
Cha Lung                       50      5.1    12%       7.5   18%       10.9   26%      15.2   36%       20.8  49%/.
Substations are planned on -the basis of a maximum % utilization factor of 75%.



-73-
Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
Table 3: PEA Manpower Utilization (Targets)
Year                Gwh Sales/Employee         Customer/Employee
1995                        1.22                      2.92
1996                        1.50                       3.07
1997                        1.60                       3.21
1998                        1.80                      3.34
1999                        2.00                      3.47
2000                        2.10                       3.63
2001                        2.30                       3.76
Key Target Dates
A.  Construction and Project Management
Appoint consultants for:
Distribution Automation (Phase 2)                      06/96
Upgrading Distribution South Thailand                  09/96
Regulatory Framework for Energy Sector                 09/96
Invite bids for:
Prequalification for Distribution Automation           06/96
Distribution Automation                                01/97
Upgrading Distribution in South Thailand               01/97
B.  Institutional Development
Finalize implementation schedule for training
program for PEA staff                                     12/96
Study for rationalization of transmission system
Complete study                                         06/97
Formulate action plan                                  12/97
Complete study for regulatory framework
for energy sector                                         12/97



-74-
Annex 13
Page I of 3
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Project Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
Locl         rEin      lowta
A. Distribution Automation
Civil Works                                   11.5         -         11.5
Automation System
Fault flow indicators                     0.0         0.2         0.2
Remote control switches                   1.4        20.6        22.0
Poles and structures                      0.7         0.2         0.9
Hardware                                  0.2         0.2         0.4
Remote terminal units                     0.2         1.5         1.7
SCADA/DMS System
System management center                  0.1         2.2         2.3
Dispatching centers                       0.7         8.9         9.6
Auxiliary facilities                      0.7         1.9         2.6
Remote terminal units                     0.0         2.8         2.8
Substation Equipment
Annunciators                              0.0         4.0         4.0
Relays and cables                         0.0         3.9         3.9
Communications
UHF master radios and repeaters           0.1         0.8         0.9
Towers, batteries and chargers            0.1         1.7         1.8
System Integration                            0.3         2.7         3.0
Installation and commissioning                2.0         1.5         3.5
Base Cost                                18.0        53.1        71.1
Physical contingencies                         1.8        5.3         7.1
Price contingencies                           4.8         7.4        12.2
Installation Cost                        24.6        65.8        90.4
Eng. and admin. overheads                     2.8        11.2        14.0
Duties and taxes                              14.6         -         14.6
Total Cost (Distribution Automation)     42.0        77.0       119.0



-75-
Annex 1a
Page 2 of 3
Local     Foreign     Tal
B. Upgrading Distribution in South Thailand
Substations
Land and preparation                         17.4        0.0        17.4
Civil works                                  21.0        0.0        21.0
Transforners                                  0.0       14.4        14.4
Switchgear                                    0.0       19.8        19.8
Control, protection, communication and auxiliaries   0.0  1.6        1.6
Installation and commissioning                0.8        0.0         0.8
Base Cost                               39.2        35.8        75.0
Physical contingencies                        3.9        3.6         7.5
Price contingencies                           6.7        4.6        11.3
Installation Cost (Substations)         49.8        44.0       93.8
Eng. and admin. overheads                     1.0        0.0         1.0
Duties and taxes                              8.7        0.0         8.7
Sub-Total Cost (Substations)            59.5        44.0      103.5
Transmission Lines
Poles and foundations                         8.3        0.0         8.3
Conductors                                    5.8        8.0        13.8
Insulators and hardware                      0.0        16.0        16.0
Installation and commissioning              28.9         0.0        28.9
Base Cost                               43.0        24.0       67.0
Physical contingencies                       4.3         2.4         6.7
Price contingencies                           8.2        4.6        12.8
Installation Cost (Transmission Lines)  55.5        31.0       86.5
Eng. and admin. overheads                     1.0        0.0         1.0
Duties and taxes                             4.0         0.0         4.0
Sub-Total Cost (Transmission Lines)     60.5        31.0       91.5
Total Cost (Distribution South Thailand)   120.0    75.0      195.0



-76-
Annex 13
Page 3 of 3
Locsl     Foreign     Totaw
C. Consulting Services
Distribution Automation                       1.0        7.5         8.5
Distribution in South Thailand                0.0        1.0         1.0
Total                                    1.0         8.5         9.5
D. Technical Assistance
Transmission System Rationalization           0.0        0.8         0.8
Regulatory Framework                          0.0        0.7         0.7
Total                                    0.0         1.5         1.5






-77-
Annex 14
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Procurement Packages
No. of Packages
Distribution Automation
Switches and RTUs                                          2
SCADA, Control Centers and Communication System            1
Building for Distribution Automation  /a                   I
Upgrading Distribution in South Thailand
Substations                                                I
Transmission Lines                                         3
Aluminium Ingots
Conductor Fabrication /a
/a Not financed from the Bank loan.






-78-                                 Annex 15
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Disbursement Schedule
IDA             Estimated Disbursement                 Disbursement Profile
Fiscal Year       Annual          Cumulative         Project     Country Standard /a
(US$ million)                            (%)
1996              1.0               1.0              1.0               1.0
1997             8.0                9.0              9.0               6.0
1998            33.0               42.0             42.0               22.0
1999             33.0              75.0             75.0               52.0
2000             19.0              94.0             94.0               74.0
2001              6.0             100.0             100.0              90.0
2002                                                                  100.0
/a Standard Profile for Power Projects in Asia.






-79-                                                     Annex 16
Page 1 of 3
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
PEA's Past Financial Performance
Income Statement
(Baht million)
Years Ending September 30                                                    ACTUAL
1990            1991              1992              1993             1994
ENERGY SALES (GWh)                                         17,805           20,812             24,379           28,819           32,296
SALES INCREASE (%)                                             20               17                 17               18                12
AVERAGE TARIFF (B/kWh)                                        1.63             1.64              1.60              1.62             1.60
Operating Revenuel
Energy Revenue                                             29,033           34,219            39,028            46,711           51,718
OtherOperatingRevenue                                       1,231            1,580              1,778            1,871            2.263
Total Operating Revenue                                    30,264           35,799             40,806           48,583            53,981
Oerating Expenses
Purchased Power                                            20,124           23,430            25,617            29,908           32,884
Fuel and Oil                                                  116               27                29               31                33
Operating and Maintenance                                   3,529            4,109             4,804             5,963            6,408
Depreciation J./                                            2,722            3,116             3,428             3,992            4,520
Rcmittance to Govemment                                      370               578               871             1,670            2,952
Total Operating Expenses                                   27,002           31,645             35,316           42,292           47,691
Operating Income                                            3,242             4,154             5,490            6,291             6,290
Non-operating Income                                          770             1,350             1,406             1,564            1,632
Non-operating Expenses
Interest charged to Operations                              1,157            1,130              1,023             961               982
Foreign Exchange Loss                                        415               481               547              385               521
Other                                                         74               100               132              225               162
Total Non-Operating Expenses                                1,646             1,711             1,702            1,571             1,665
Net Income                                                  2,366             3,793             5,193            6,283             6,257
AVERAGE RATE BASE                                          27,316           30,023             33,529           37,678           41,539
RATE OF RETURN                                               11.4              13.0              14.2             13.5              14.4
OPERATING RATIO (%)                                            89               88                 87               87               88
J/ On revalued basis.



-80-                                                  Annex 16
Page 2 of 3
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
PEA's Past Financial Performance
Funds Flow Statement
(Baht million)
Years Ending September 30
ACTUAL
1990            1991              1992             1993            1994
SOURCES OF FUNDS
In1malSources
Operating and Other Income                                 3,523            4,923             6,216          7,244              7,239
Add: Depreciation                                          2,722            3,116             3,428          3,992              4,520
Other Non-Cash Items (Nct)                                    58             (40)               (78)         (250)              (317)
Total Intemal Sources                                   6,303            7,999              9,566        10,986             11,442
Customer Deposits                                            323              343                345           356                421
Govemment Contributions                                      712              592                869            180               579
Grants and Consumer Contributions                          1,169            2,006              2,293          2,213             2,466
Borrowings                                                 1,193             1,234             1,305          1,137             1,647
Change in Other Assets, Liabilities (Net)                     41               83                389           669                311
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                  9,741           12,257             16,103        16,179             16,866
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Investment                                         4,906            6,165              7,934          8,089             9,305
Debt Service
Interest                                                  1,157            1,H-30             1,023           961                982
Principal                                                 1,378            r,443              2,681          1,852             1,217
Total Debt Service                                      2,535            2,573              3,704         2,813              2,199
Sinking Fund Bonds and Notes                                 590              697                595           423                325
Increase in Non-cash Working Capital                        (61)             1,331             (772)          3,423               899
Increase in Cash                                           1,771            1,491              4,642          1,431             4,138
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital                   2,300            3,519              4,465         5,277              5,362
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                              9,741           12,257             16,103        16,179             16,866
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                                        2.0               2.4               3.2            4.2               4.5
3 YEARS AVERAGE INVESTMENT                                 5,079            6,335              7,396          8,443            14,223
SELF-FINANCING RATIO (3 YRS., AVE.) (%)                       64               54                100             59                56



-81-                                                  Annex 16
Page 3 of 3
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
PEA's Past Financial Performance
Balance Sheet
(Baht million)
Years Ending September 30                                                  ACTUAL
1990          1991            1992           1993            1994
ASSETS
Faxcd Assets
Plant in Service                                             58,375          67,483          76,753        87,322           98,198
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                              (21,418)       (25,711)         (29,113)     (33,739)          (39,032)
Net Operating Plant                                          36,957          41,772          47,640        53,583            59,166
Work in Progress                                              3,390           4,110           2,973         2,616             3,483
Total Fixed Assets                                        40,347          45,882           50,613       56,199            62,649
Cash                                                          5,659           7,150           11,792       13,223            17,361
Receivables                                                   2,440           2,534            2,980        4,665             5,315
Inventories                                                   6,000           6,804            7,028        9,365             8,247
Other                                                           548            688             1,141        1,348             2,203
Total Current Assets                                       14,647         17,176           22,941       28,601            33,126
Other Assets                                                   1,214           1,911           1,178          922             1,303
TOTAL ASSETS                                              56,208          64,969           74,732       85,722            97,078
EOUITY AND LIABILITIES
Eguitv
Paid-in Capital                                               2,370           2,961           3,831         4,010            4,589
Retained Earnings                                             5,908           9,702           14,895       21,178           27,435
Grants and Consumer Contributions                               416        --  481              534          564               645
Revaluation Surplus                                          10,258          12,198           12,377       13,509            14,761
Less: Deferred Foreign Exchange                             (4,545)         (4,330)          (5,196)      (5,700)           (6,097)
Total EquitY                                                                              26441        33.561           41.333
Long-Term Deb
Long-term Debt                                               23,057          23,168          23,581         2,442           26,114
Less: Current Maturities                                      1,443           2,683            1,852        1,217            2,464
Long-term Debt (Net)                                     21,614          20,485          21,729        23,225           23,650
Customer Deposits                                              2,550          2,893            3,238        3,594             4,015
Other Liabilities                                                 15             19               20           37                67
Consumer Contribution (Rev.)                            _           __1349
____________________________ .47I                                             123  
Accounts Payable                                              2,688           2,085           3,720         3,052            3,555
Current Maturities                                             1,443          2,683            1,852        1,217            2,464
Other                                                         5,144           5,454            5,714        7,188             6,173
Total Current Liabilities                                   9,275          10,222           11,286       11,457            12,192
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                                  56,208.        64,969           74,732       85,722            97,078
DEBT AS % OF TOTAL CAPITALIZATION                                 55             48               43           38                36
LONG-TERM DEBT AS % OF TOTAL CAPITALIZATION                       53             45               41           37                33
CURRENT RATIO                                                    1.6             1.7             2.0          2.5               2.7



m I



-82-                               Annex 17
Page 1 of 5
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
PEA's Financial Projections
Revenues
1.        The average price of electricity is about/B 1.68 per kWh sold in 1995 and is expected
to remain at about that level throughout the projection period. This constant tariff assumes that the
EGAT tariff to PEA remains constant through the period. Further tariff increases by EGAT to PEA
would require commensurate increases in the PEA retail tariff. The EGAT price is, of course,
dependent on the cost of oil. Increases in the price of fuel (as well as increases in foreign exchange
costs, taxes, and demand side management costs) would be incorporated into an automatic fuel
adjustment clause and the tariffs would be raised (or lowered) accordingly.
2.         Energy sales are expected to grow on average 10% per year through 2003, based on
projections made by the Load Forecast Subcommittee. These projections include near-term
electricity sales increases which already have been contracted in industrial estates, and over the
longer term are basically extrapolations of recent trends checked against econometric models
involving assumptions on the growth of the gross domestic product.
3.        Other Operating Revenues include: (i) revenues from sales of electrical equipment,
(ii) rent from properties, (iii) revenues from installation, inspection and other fees. (iv) revenues
from  connection  fees. (v) revenues and  subsidy  from  construction  for cuLstomers. and
(vi) miscellaneous reveniues.
4.         Power purchased from EGAT is at/B  1.09/kWh in 1995 and is expected to remain at
that level throughout the projection period. Losses within the PEA system are currently about 5%
and are expected to remain at about that level.
5.        Distribution expenses are projected on the basis of unit costs and the additions in line
length and substation capacity in PEA's expansion program. Other operation and maintenance
expenses, including General and Administrative expenses, are based on current levels, inflated at
4% per annum.
6.        Depreciation is based on the straight-line method on revalued fixed assets using an
average rate of 4.5%.
7.        The rate of remittance to the Government of Thailand is assumed to be 30%
throughout the projected period. (The net income for tax calculation purposes is based on
unrevalued depreciation.) This rate of remittance is higher than the 21% which PEA paid during



-83-
Annex 17
Page 2 of 5
the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan period, but was increased in order for PEA to qualify for
efficient state enterprise status in 1995.
8.         Bonus to Employees are projected to be 9% of net income.
Equity
9.         Equity contributions represent the Government of Thailand's funding of rural
electrification projects.
Foreign Exchange Losses
10.       Deferred foreign exchange losses represent the profits and losses from exchange rate
variations on long-term debt. The projected figures are the amount on PEA's accounts at the end of
FY 1995 less than the incremental amounts which are scheduled to be written off over the
remaining period of PEA's existing loans. The amounts shown in the income statement and
balance sheet reflect currency movements against the Baht through December 31, 1995.
Borrowings
11.       Future foreign loans have been assumed at annual interest rates varying from 3% to
10.75% and for terms of up to 18 vears including from 5 to 10 years of grace. Local borrowings
have been assumed at annual interest rates of 6% to 10.75% and for terms of 5 to 10 years.
12.       Accounts receivable are projected to be 36 days of revenues.
13.       Accounts payable are estimated to be 35 days of expenses.



THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Provincial Electricity Authority
Finsncial Projections
Income Statement
(Baht million)
Years Ending September 30                 1995         1996           1997           1998          1999           2000          2001           2002           2003
ENERGY SALES (GWh)                                      37,862         42,664        47,296         51,707        56,082         60,561        65,145         69,813         75,100
SALES INCREASE (%/.)                                        17             13             II            9              8             8              8              7             7
AVERAGE TARIFF (B/kWh)                                    1.71           1.73          1.74           1.74          1.77           1.80           1.80          1.81           1.81
Qpemrin Raevng.
Energy Revenue                                          64,734        73,971         82,376        89,988        99,286        108,848        117,009        126,307       134,960
Other Operating Revenue                                  2,508         2,329          2,412         2,521          2,619         2,713          2,783          2,876         2,992
Toal Operating Revenue                             67,242         76,300        84,788        92,509        101,905        111,561       119,792        129,183        137,952
Operatng Expenses
Purcsed Power                                           44,391        52,837         58,482        63,673         68,970        74,391         79,939         85,583        91,412
Fuel and Oil                                               34             38            40             45            49             55             59            63             68
Operating and Maintenance                                7,S10         9,805          9,942        10,576         11,144        11,591         11,789         12,169         12,562
Depreciation                                             5,212         6,541          8,101        10,015         11,871        13,458         15,264         17,177         19,094
ReminUce to Governuent                                   3,411         4,216          2,817         2,786          2,339         2,217          2,391          2,367         2,537   a
Bonus                                                    1,038         1,03S           819            896           761            724           772            765            816
Total Operiding Expenses                           61,896         74,475        80,201        87,991         95,134        102,436       110,214        118,124        126,489
Operating Income                                         5,346          1,825         4,587          4,518         6,771          9,125         9,578         11,059         11,463
Non-Operating Income                                     2,586          2,396         1,430           797            859           904            957          1,014          1,071
Ngin)smfm Exres 
Interest chwged to Openm                                 1,069         1,163          1,538         2,644          5,147         7,298          8,614         10,136        11,561
Foreign Exchange Loss                                     670            646           646            640           637            590           590            589            439
Oder                                                      136            160           165            171           176            182            189           195            202
Total Non-Oceratint Exoenses                        1,875          1,969 __      2,349          3,455         5,960          8,070         9,393         10,920         12,202
Net Inconc                                               6,057          2,251   _    _3,668          1,S60         1,670          1,959         1,142          1,153           332
AVERAGE RATE BASE                                       46,793         57,696        78,270        106,215       133,986        155,S34        174,950       195,223        214,000
RAT'E OF RETURN                                           10.4            6.6           6.4            5.3           5.6            6.1           5.9            6.0            5.8
OPERATIN  RATIO 1,%                                         92            98-            95            95             93            92   .92                      91            92
OQ :s
O  _
tFt
x



Funds Flow Statement
(Baht million)
Years Ending September 30                  1995         1996          1997         1998          1999         2000          2001         2002           2003
SOURCESOFFUNDS
Internal Sources
Operating and Other Income                                7,126        3,414         5,206        4,504         6,817        9,257         9,756        11,289         11,893
Add: Depreciation                                        5,212        6,541         8,101        10,015       11,871        13,458        15,264       17,177         19,094
Other Noncash Items (Net)                                (460)         (360)        (473)         (580)        (673)         (803)         (858)        (921)         (1,125)
Total Internal Sources                                11,878         9,596       12,834        13,939       18,015        21,912       24,162        27,545         29,862
Customer Deposits                                           541          457           469          493           528           557          594           637            682
Government Contributions                                    297            0             0            0             0             0            0             0              0
Grants and Consumer Contributions                         3,275         2,474        2,362         2,188         1,997        1,799         1.600        1,627          1,592
Borrowings                                                3,176         8,257       14,029        26,383       23,188        16,020        19,906       21,461         19,499
Redemption of Bonds & Notes                               1,156            0             0            0             0           584            0             0              0
Change in Other Assets, Liabilities (Net)                     i           14            13            13           15            15            2         (540)          (411)
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                                20,323       20,798        29,707       43,016        43,743        40,887       46,264        50,730         51,224
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Capital Investment                                       12,020        27,352       31,986        37,176       33,370        25,506        28,896       30,028         28,317
Debt Service
Interest                                                  1,069        1,163         1,538        2,644         5,147        7,298         8,614        10,136         11,561
Principal                                                 2,464        1,350         1,535        1,588         1,681        2,712         2,897         3,435          4,278
Total Debt Service                                     3,533         2,513        3,073         4,232        6,828        10,010        11,511       13,571         15,839 |c
Sinking Fund of Bonds & Notes                               266           72            78          556         2,594         4,278        4,970         5,712          5,713             1
Increase in Noncash Working Capital                       1,077          725           646          508           589          651           437           940            797
Increase in Cash                                          3,427       (9,864)       (6,076)         544           362          442           450           479            558
Increase (Decrease) in Working Capital                 4,770       (9,067)       (5,352)        1,608        3,545         5,371        5,857         7,131          7,068
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                            20,323       20,798        29,707        43,016       43,743        40,887       46,264        50,730         51,224
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE (TIMES)                               4.5           3.7          4.1           2.9          1.9           1.6           1.5          1.4            1.4
3 YEARS AVERAGE INVESTMENT                               16,226        23,786       32,171        34,177       32,017        29,257       28,143        29,080         29,073
SELF-FINANCING RATIO (3 YRS.,AVE.)(%)                        50           26            28           25            25           26            26            25             26
e 5
M (D
X
0  --
o



Balance Sheet
(Baht million)
Years Ending September 30           |    1995           1 i996        1997          1998     |    1999    [    2000            2001    [    2002            2003
ASISET
Foxed Asset
Plant in Service                                      114,374       138,740       176,473        219,711       261.341       296,785        337.128       379,808       422,542
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                        (45,528)     (52,799)       (62,218)      (73.947)      (88,007)      (104,207)     (122,855)      (144,155)     (168,211)
Net Operating Plant                                    68,846        85,940        114,255       145,764       173,334       192,578        214,272       235,653       254,311
Work in Progress                                        3,050         9,835         9,037          9,434         9,364         9,279          9,104         9,336         9,512
Total Fixed Assets                                 71,896         95,775       123,292       155.198        182,698       201,857       223,376        244,989       263,843
Current Assets
Cash                                                   20,788        10,924         4,848          5,392         5,754         6,196          6,646         7,125          7,683
Receivables                                             6,770         7,765         8,693         9,495         10,478        11,487         12,348        13,329        14,242
Inventories                                             9,096         9,885         9,723         9,511          9,288         9,058          8,813         8,910         8,976
Other                                                   2,656         2,688         2,723          2,758         2,794         2,833          2,873         2,915         2,958
Total Current Assets                               39,310         31,262        25,987        27,156        28,314         29,574        30,680         32,279        33,859
Other Assets                                              429           491           560          1,106         3,690          7,374        12,346         18,059        23,774
TOTAL ASSETS                                       111,635       127,528       149,839       183,460       214,702        238,805       266,402        295,327       321,476
EOUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equitv
Paid-in Capital                                         4,886         4,886         4,886          4,886         4,886         4,886          4,886         4,886         4,886
Retained Earnings                                      33,485        35,736        39,404         41,264        42,934        44,893        46,035         47,188        47,520
Grants                                                   797            811           823           835           845            855           865            874           883
Revaluation Surplus                                    16,574        18,898        21,698         25,528        33,539        36,594        43,367         50,966        59,381
Less: Deferred Foreign Exchange                       (5,671)        (5,025)       (4,378)       (3,739)       (3,102)        (2,511)       (1,921)        (1,876)       (1,851)
Total Equity                                       50,071         55,306        62,433        68,774        76,102         84,717        93,232        102,038       110,819   CO
TerIn De
Long-tenn Debt                                         26,902        33,810        46,304         71,100        92,608       105,916        122,924       140,949        156,172
Less: Current Maturities                                1,363         1,535         1,588          1,681         2,712         2,897          3,435         4,278         4,256
Long-term Debt (Net)                               25,539         32,275        44,716        69,419        89,896        103,019       119,489        136,671       151,916
Consumner Deposits                                      4,556          5,013         5,482         5,975         6,503          7,060         7,654          8,291         8,973
Other Liabilities                                         100           104           107            III           116            120           124           129            134
Consumer Contributions (Rev.)                          18,598         20,796        22,859        24,729        26,396         27,847        29,103         30,375        31,609
CuntaLUfWi
Accounts Payable                                        4,439         5,381         6,000          6,533         7,077         7,633          8,202         8,781         9,380
Current Maturities                                      1,363         1,535          1,588         1,681         2,712         2,897          3,435         4,278         4,256
Other                                                   6,969         7,118         6,654          6,238         5,901         5,512          5,162         4,763         4,389
Total Current Liabilities                          12,771         14,034        14,242        14,452        15,690         16,042        16,799         17,822        18,025
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                       111,635       127,528       149,839       183,460       214,702        238,805       266,402       295,327        321,476
DEBT AS % OF TOTAL CAPITALIZATION                          33            36            41             50            54            55             56            58            58
LONG-TERM AS % OF TOTAL CAPITALIZATION                     31            35            40             49            53            54             56            57            57
CURRENT RATIO                                             3.1            2.2           1.8           1.9           1.8            1.8           1.8            1.8           1.9
OQ D
(D X
Ul,
o --
I,n






-87-
Electricity Tariffs                                                Page I of 4
Schedule 1 Residential
Applckaon
Applicable to the elecrcity used In dweling plac, monasterls and churches of any religions Including Its
compound through a single watt-hour meter.
Monthty Rate
1.1 Consumption not *xceed 150 kWh. per month.
Energy charge:
First  5    kWh.  or less                      S OO         Baht
Next  10   kWh.  (6th    1Sth)                 0.70         Baht/kWh.
Next 10   kWh. (16th - 25th)                   0.90         BahtVkWh.
Next 10   kWh. (26th - 35th)                   1.17         BahtVkWh.
Next 66   kWh. (36th   100th)                  1.58         BahthkWh.
Next 50   kWh.  (101st.  150th)                1.68         BahtkWh.
Next 250  kWh. (151st-  400th)                 222          BahtlfkWh.
Over 400  kWh. (401st -  up)                   2.53         Baht/kWh.
Minimum Charge: 5.D0 BahtJmonth
Note:.
If a customers monthly energy consumptIon exceds 150 kWh. for 3 consecuttvely monthx, the customnr will be
classified under 1.2 of schedule 1 in the next month.
1.2 ConmumpUton more then 150 kWh. per month.
Energy charge:
First  35   kWh.  or les                       89.00        Baht
Next 115  kWh.  (36th -  150th)                 1.14        BahtVkWh.
Next 250  kWh.  (151st-  400th)                 2.22        SahtAkWh.
Over 400  kWh.  (401st- up)                     2.53       SBatikWh.
Minimum Charge : 89.00 Bahtlmonth
1. For customers who Instfled meter ess than 5 Amp220 V.1 Phas 2 Wies, If monthly energy consumptIon
Is not more than 150 kWh. for 3 consecutively months, the customer will be reclassified under 1. 1 of schedule 1 in the
next month.
2. Resientil customers who installed meter over 5 Amp. 220 V. I Phaw 2 Wire will be classified undwr
1.2 of schedule 1.
Schedule 2 Small General Service
Applicable to the beKtrkcity used for business or state enterpri", Industrbl or othes Including It compound
with a maximum 15-minute Integrated demand of ess than 30 kW. through a single wat hour meter.
Monthly Rate
Energy charge
First  35   kWh.  or les                       94.00        8aht
Next 115  kWh. (36th -  150th)                  1.14        BahtkWh.
Next 250  kWh.  (151st-  400th)                 2.22        BahthkWh.
Over 400  kWh. (401st- up)                      2.53        Baht/kWh.
Minimum Charge: 94.00 Bahtlmonth
Notes
In any month If a maximum 15- minute integrated demand Is equal to or more than 30 kW., the customer
will be classified under schedule 3-5 depend on the case.
Schedule 3 Medium General Service
Applcation
Applicable to the eletricity used for business or state enterprise, industrial or others including its compound
with a maximum 15-minute integrated demand of 30 kW. and lee than 2.000 kW. through a single demand meter.
3.1 Average consumption of the last 3 consecutively months not exceed 355,000 kWh. per month
Monthly Rate
3.1.1 At Voltage of 69 KV. and above
Demand charge                                   188.00       Baht/kW.
Energy charge                                     1.03       BahtVkWh.
3.1.2  At Voltage of 11.33 KV.
Demand charge                                   210.00       Baht/kW.
Energy charge                                     1.07       BahtUkWh.
3.1.3 At Voltage of less than I 1 KV.
Demand charge                                   237.00       Baht/kW.
Energy charge                                     1.10       BahV/kWh.
Minimum charge  : The minimum charge will be computed aS 70% of the total amount of
maximum demand charge of the last 12.month period ending wlth the
current month.



-88-                                                 Anncx 18
Page 2 of 4
Notes:
1. Government office which is industrial, if energy consumption of 30 kW. and less than 2,000 kW. will be apply
this rate.
2. If meter is installed on the load side of transformer that belongs to the customer, another 2% must be added
to both total demand and energy consumption in order to cover the unmeasured transformer loss.
3. In any month maximum demand is less than 30 kW, this rate will be apply, but not less than the minimum
charge. For the case such demand has been dropped below 30 kW. for 12 consecutively months and the next month
demand is still below 30 kW. the rate will automatically change to schedule 2.
4. If average consumption of the last 3 consecutively months exceed 355,000 kWh. per month and has not
installed TOD meter, this rate will be apply.
3.2 Time of Day Rate
Monthly Rate
3.2.1  At Voltage of 69 KV. and above
Demand charge
18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.    (On Peak)        : 240.00         BahtjkW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m.    (Partial Peak)   :  32.00         BahVkW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.    (Off Peak)       : No demand charge
Energy charge                                :    1.03        BahtUkWh.
3.2.2  At Voltage of 11-33 KV.
Demand charge
18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.    (On Peak)        : 305.00         Baht/kW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m..   (Partial Peak)   :  63.00         BahtlkW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.    (Off peak)       : No demand charge
Energy charge                                :    1.07        BahttkWh.
3.2.3  At Voltage of less than 11 KV.
Demand charge
18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.    (On Peak)        : 356.00         Baht/kW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m.    (Partial Peak)   :  73.00         Baht/kW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.DO a.m.    (Off Peak)       : No demand charge
Energy charge                                :    1.10        BahtlkWh.
Minimum charge: The minimum charge will be computed as 70% of the total amount of maximum
demand charge of the last 12-month period ending with the current month.
Notes:
1. Govemmenl office which is industrial, if energy consumption of 30 kW. and less than 2.000 kW. will be
apply this rate.
2. In any last 3 consecutively months, average consumption is less than 355,000 kWh. per month, this rate will
be apply but not less than the minimum charge. For the case such demand dropped below 30 kW. for 12 consecutively
months and the next month demand is still below 30 kW. the rate will automatically change to schudule 2.
3. In case of customer's characteristic has been changed too much decreasing for consecutively period, the
customer may be considered on a special permission to apply any appropriated rate by PEA.
4. This rate will be billed to customer who already installed TOD meter. For the others who has not installed
yet, PEA. will be finished it within December 31, 1992.
Schedule 4 Large General Service
Application
Applicable to the electricity used for business or state enterprise, industrial or others including its compound
with a maximum 15-minute integrated demand of 2,000 kW. and over through a single demand meter.
Monthly Rate Time of Day Rate
4.1 At Voltage of 69 KV. and above
Demand charge
18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.  (On Peak)                : 240.00         Baht/kW
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m,  (Partial Peak)           :  32.00         Baht/kW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.  (Off Peak)                 No demand charge
Energy charge                                       :   1.03        BahtVkWh.
4.2 At Voltage of 11-33 KV.
Demand Charge
.18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.  (On Peak)                  305.00        Baht1kW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m.  (Partial Peak)           :  63.00         BahttkW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.  (Off Peak)                  No demand charge
Energy charge                                       :   1.07        BahtikWh.
Minimum charge : The minimum charge will be computed as 70% of the total amount of maximum
demand aharge of the last 12 - month period ending with the current month.



Annex 18
-89-                                                   Page 3 of 4
Notes:
1. Government otfice which is industrial, if energy consumption of 2,000 kW. and over will be apply this rate.
2. In any month if maximum demand is less than 2.000 kW., this rate will be apply but not less than the
minimum charge. For the case such demand has been dropped below 30 kW. for 12 consecutively months and the next
month demand is still below 30 kW. the rate will automatically change to schedule 2.
3. In case of customer's characteristic has been changed too much decreasing for consecutively period,
the customer may be considered on a special permission to apply any appropriated rate by PEA.
Schedule 5 Specific Business Service
Application
Applicable to electricity used for any hotel or guest house or other facility ofterring lodging to customers
including its compound with a maximum 15-minute integrated demand of 30 kW. and over through a single demand
meter.
Monthly Rate
5.1 Normal Rate
5.1.1  At Voltage of 69 KV. and above
Demand charge                                     236.00         BahtVkW.
Energy charge                                        1.03        BahttkWh.
5.1.2  At Voltage of 11-33 KV.
Demand charge                                      274.00        BahUkW.
Energy charge                                        1.07        BahtUkWh.
5.1.3  At Voltage of less than 11 KV.
Demand charge                                      296.00        BahtVkW.
Energy charge                                        1.10        BahtUkWh.
Minimum charge : The minimum charge will be computed as 70% of the total amount of maximum
demand charge of the last 12-month period ending with the current month.
Notes:
1. If meter is installed on the load side of transformer that belongs to the customer, another 2% must be added
to both total demand and energy consumption in order to cover the unmeasured transformer loss.
2. In any month maximum demand is less than 30 kW., this rate will be apply but not less than the minimum
charge. For the case such demand has been dropped below 30 kW. for 12 consecutively months and the next month
demand is still below 30 kW. the rate will automatically change to schedule 2.
3. If average consumption of the last 3 consecutively months exceed 355.000 kWh. per month, the customer
will be classified under 5.2 of schedule 5.
5.2 Optional Rate: Only for average consumptIon ot the last 3 consecutively months exceed 355,000 kWh.
per month.
Monthly Rate Time of Day Rate
5.2.1  Al Voltage of 69 KV. and above
Demand charge
18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.  (On Peak)            : 240.00         BahtUkW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m.  (Panial Peak)        :  32.00          BahtUkW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.  (Off Peak)           : No demand charge
Energy charge:                                  :    1.03        BahtVkWh.
5.2.2  At Voltage of 11-33 KV.
Demand charge
18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.  (On Peak)            : 305.00          BahtVkW.
08.00 a.m.-18.30 p.m.  (Partial Peak)           63.00         BahtVkW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.  (Off Peak)            : No demand charge
Energy charge                                        1.07        BahtVkWh.
5.2.3  At Voltage of less than 11 KV.
Demand charge
18.30 p.m.-21.30 p.m.  (On Peak)               356.00         BahtUkW.
08.00 a.m.-1B.30 p.m.  (Partial Peak)        :  73.00         BahtVkW.
(only the excess on Peak)
21.30 p.m.-08.00 a.m.  (Off Peak)            : No demand charge
Energy charge                                   :    1.10        Baht/kWh.
Minimum charge : The minimum charge will be computed as 70% of the total amount of maximum
demand charge of the last 12-month period ending with the current month.
Notes:
1. In any last 3 consecutively months, average consumption is less than 355,000 kWh. per month, this rate
will be apply but not less than the minimum charge. For the case such consumption has been dropped below 355.000
kWh. per month for 12 consecutively months and the next month the consumption is still below 355,000 kWh., the
customer will be reclassified under 5.1 of schedule 5 or schedule 2 depenid on the case.
2. In case of reducinc the size of transformer less than 500 KVA., the customer is considered to apply 5.1 of
schedule 5 or schedule 2 depend on the case.



-.90_                                               Annex 18
Page 4 of 4
Schedule 6 Government Institutions and Non-profit Organizations
Application
Applicable to govemment institutions and those esablished by the local Administration Act and to non-
govemment organization offenring free of charge service, placs holding religions cerernories including its compound through
a single watt-hour meter. Not applicable to state enterprises, embassies. office buildings of intemational organization.
Monthly Rate
Energy charge:
6.1  At Voltage of69 KV. and above
First 19,000 kWh. or less                          14,800.00       Baht
Over [0,000 kWh. (10,001 st-up)                        1.48        BahVkWh.
Minimum charge: 14,800.00 Bahtlmonth
6.2  At Voltage of 11-33 KV.
First 300 kWh. or less                               495.00        Baht
Over 300 kWh. (301st-up)                               1.65        BahtlkWh.
Minimum charge : 495.00 Bahtlmonth
6.3  At Voltage of lss than 11 KV.
First 10 kWh. or less                                 18.70        Baht
Over 10 kWh. (list-up)                                 1.87        Baht/kWh.
Minimum charge : 18.70 Bahtmonth
1. The places holding religions ceremories and its compound under residential rate are allowed to be changed
to apply this rate.
2. If moter is installed on the load side of transformer that belongs to the customer, another 2% must be added
to both total demand and energy consumption in order to cover the unmeasured transformer loss.
Schedule 7 Agricultural Pumping Service
Applicable to govemrnment agricultural agencies, officially recognized farmer groups, agricultural cooperatives or
;anner operating water pumps for agricultural pumping through a single watt-hour meter.
:mUhd Rae
Enrgy charge:
FIt 100 kWh. or less                                      117.00         Baht
Over 100 kWh. (101st-up)                                    1.17         Baht/kWh.
Minimum charge : 117.00 Baht/month
1. If meter is Installed on the load side of transformer that belongs to the customer or belongs to PEA.(only
In cse of the Installation of a low voltage meter to C), another 2% must be added to both total demand and energy
consumption In order to cover the unmeasured transformer loss.
2. In c_e of using power during 18.30 p.m. - 21.30 p.m., the bill will be automatically charged under schedule
2 or 3 depend on the case.
Automatic Adjustment Clause
Should there be any change In expenses beyond control by the utility 2 stang per unit, an adjustment will be
made accordingly at a flat rate applied to each kilowatthour sold. The customers would be notified by PEA. in the
elct  bill.
EFFECTIVE DATE : DECEMBER 1, 1991.
PROVINCIAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY.



-9 1--
Annex 19
Page I of 2
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Benefits of Automation
Benefit                                     Description
Reduction in Customer                 A faster response to faults will lead to a reduction in the
Hours Lost                            number of customer hours lost. There are a number of
elements which will make up this reduction, as follows:
(a) swift notification of the occurrence of a fault;
(b) rapid identification of the approximate location of the
fault;
(c) immediate switching to restore supply to customers fed
from healthy sections of network; and
(d) dispatch of crews directly to the fault area.
Other benefits include improved service to customers,
improved cash flows, societal economic benefits, higher
customer confidence in PEA, etc.
Improved Information for Planning     The proposed system will provide much-improved
information for planning purposes. The historical archive
feature will allow feeder and substation load profiles to be
examined in detail and will eliminate the need to make
assumptions about daily load profiles, the variation of load
throughout the year, load factors, etc.
Deferral/Optimization of Capital      Better information for planning will lead to more efficient use
Expenditure                           of capital: it will be possible to defer some projects based on
improved information regarding actual loads, load profile and
likelihood of coincident occurrence of relevant factors.
Reduced System Losses                 The proposed systems can be used to reduce distribution
system losses in several ways by allowing:
(a) the optimum choice of Normally Open position;
(b) the operation of certain plant in parallel (i.e. where a fast
response may be required to decouple the paralleled plant
in the event of a fault, etc.) This might include
paralleling two transformers which have different
characteristics, or closing a N.O. point on the network
between two separate distribution substations;
(c) the switching out of lightly loaded transformers in bulk
supply substations during periods of low load; and
(d) voltage control improvements, i.e. losses can be reduced
if the distribution voltage is kept as close to is upper limit
as possible.
Reduced Manning of Substations        The implementation of a SCADA system would allow
demanning of substations.
Supports Future Development of Full-  The existence of a SCADA system will be a pre-requisite for
Scale DMS                             the development of a full DMS system, which would be
linked to the customer billing and facilities information
systems.



-92-
Annex 19
Page 2 of 2
Benefit                                       Description
Efficient Operation of the Power Network   Having centralized monitoring of the complete distribution
system will allow the efficient operation of the networks.
Efficiency improvements will consist of optimum network
sectionalizing (to minimize losses or to reduce the risk of
faults for important customers), anticipation of overloads
allowing switching to alleviate any problems, fast response to
fault trippings, etc.
Reduced Manpower Required to Operate   With all information being reported automatically to a central
the System                              monitoring system which has remote control facilities, the
utility will be able to carry out switching and fault finding
using far less resources.
Improved Customer Service               In addition to the tangible improvement in the continuity of
supply, there will be an intangible improvement in the level of
customer service arising from the faster restoration of supply
and from the utility's ability to inform customers of the likely
delay in restoring supply.
Management of Energy during Supply      During power system emergencies (i.e. major storms,
Shortages and Emergencies               insufficient generation to meet demand, etc.) a SCADA/DMS
system will allow the equitable sharing of available resources.
Remote control facilities will allow load shedding to be
carried out from a single location.
The accurate balancing of load will allow a minimum safety
margin to be used during rota load shedding/restoration by
preventing large swings in demand while circuits are being
switched in and out.
During such periods, it would be possible to reduce system
demand by reducing the distribution voltages by say 5%.
System security will be improved by the ability to carry out
rapid load shedding in the event of a major system
disturbance, possibly preventing a complete collapse of the
system.
Improved Voltage Regulation             Real-time information about the voltage in feeding substations
(via the SCADA system) and out on the networks (via the DA
system), together with (future) calculated information based
on the correlation of customers with the distribution network,
will allow accurate and optimum control of the distribution
system voltage.



CALCULATION OF UNSERVED ENERGY VALUE
Region Cl
Load forecast (GWh)              Awlage GWh per hOUI         Arege        Average   Length od  number of  Intelruptions           Urnsirvd  mneigy (MWh)             Reduction unserved enrrgy (kWhl|
Fiscal tidustriusal  ksmes  Residential   Total   kidus tia  Busmness  Residential    ime of  number of    main   interrupis    tim pe   Industrial   Business  Residnal    Total    ReductLon    Iovd        Total
yea                                                                 *       wrteruptions  intefrripMts   cacu  per feeder     yeas                                                   unserved    repai
other                                  Other                   paerm n     (k)                                                       Oe                   e y         tim
A       6        C         D          E        F        G         H                        J          K          L           M            N          O          p          O          R           S          T
1997     3,901      600        818    5,320    0445    0069          0093         4140       00703   12.773          4 28         295        1,314       202        275      1,792         831       224       1055
1998     4,584      722        980      .265    0 521    0.082       0112         41 40      0.0703   12,773         4 28         2 95       1,537       243        330      2,111         979       264       1.243
1999     5,211      854       1.157    7.222    0 595    0 097       0 132        41 40      0 0703   12,773         4 28         2 95       1,755       288        390   , 2.433        1,128       304       1.432
2000     5.526      922       1.250    7.698    0831      01os       0143         41 40      0.0703   12.773         428          295        1.881       311        421      2,593       1,205       324       1,527
2031     5.853      993       1,347    8.194    088       0 113      0 154        41.40      00703   12.773          4 28         2 95       1.971       335        454      2.780      11.280        345      1.625
2002     8,187    1.088       1,448    8.701    0 708    0 122       0 i85        41.40      0.0703   12,773         4.28         295       2.084        359        488      2.931       1,359       366       1.725
2003     5.527    1,142       1,553    9,221    0 745    0130        0177         41.40      0.0703   12.773         4 28        2 95       2.198        385        523      3,106       1,440       388       1.829
2004     6.873    1.218       1.660    9.751    0 785    0 139       0 189        41 40      00703   12.773          4 28         2 95      2.315        410        559      3,284       1,523       411       1.934
2005     7.285    1.291       1.780   10,338    0.832    0147        0 201        41.40      0.0703   12.773         4 28         2 95      2.454        435        593      3,481       1.t15       435       2,050
2006     7,700    1,365      1.S6    10.925    0 879    0 156       0 212        41.40      0.0703   12.773         4 28        295        2,594        460        826      3,680       1,707       460       2.186
2007     8.118    1.439       1.960   11.515    0.926    0.164       0.224        41.40      00703   12.773          4.28        295        2.734        485        66O      3,878       1,799       485       2,283
2008     8.530    1.512      2.060   12.102     0974      0173       0.235       4140        00703   12,773          4 28        295        2.873        509        894      4.076       1.890       510       2.400    'I
2009     8.s39    1.585     z2159   12.683      1.020    0181        0248        41.40       0.0703   12.773         4 28        2 95       3.011        534        727      4.272       1.981       534       2.515
2010     9.342    1.856      2.256   13.254     1 068   0o189        0 258       41.40       0.0703   12,773         4.28        2 95       3.146        558        780      4,46.4      2.070       558       2.628
201 I    9.734    1.725      2,351   13.811     1 111    0 197       0 268       41.40       00703   12.773          4 28        2 95       3.279        581        792      4.852       2.157       581       2.739
2012    10.114    1,793      2.443   14.349     1.155    0 205       0.279       4140        0.0703   12.773         4 28        2 95       3.406        804        823      4,633       2,241       804       2.84
2013    10.478    1,857      2.531    14.86w    198    0212         0289        41.40       0.0703   12.773         428         295        3.529        82m        t52      5.007       2.322       e2        2,948
2014    10.792    1.913      2.651   15,356     1 232    0.218       030         41.40       0 0703   12.773         4.28        2 95       3.835        644        893      5,172       2.399       647       3.045
2015    l1.116    1.970      2.731   15.817     1 269    0225        0.312       41.40       00703   12,773          4.28        295        3.744       864         920      5.327       2,471       668       3.137
2018    11,418    2,024      2.8S0    16,244    1303    0231         0 320       41.40       0.0703   12.774         4 26        2 95       3.a45        682        945      5.472       2,538       884       32m
2017    11.690    2,072      2.872   18.634     1.334    0.237       0 328       41 40       00703   12.775          4 26        295        3,938        ass        97       5,83        z5s         700       3.299
2018    11. 936    21181     2.932   16,963    1 363    0 242        0 335       41.40       0.0703   12,778         4.28        2.95       4,021        713        968      5.722      2.t53        715       3,369
2019    12.150    2.1S4      2.985   17,289     1.367    0.246       0.341       41.40       00703   12.777          4.28        2 95       4,.04        728      1,008      5.825       2,701       726       3,430
2020   12.333    2,186       3,030   17.548     1 408    0250        0346        41.40       0 0703   12.778         426         29 4a155                737      1,021      5.913       2,742    7_           3,411
A * Fiscal yew                                                       H IDf24J365                       M * MAo                              R - v0.5(1.pJ
B, C, o a Load hrw4ml, ptrottd by badt tieact wotr  WP               I  Ave  tm Wm  tIn               N C Fidt                              s 10D S. o.25
E * B C*D                                                            J ' Aerage Is pw kmn              0 * G1OLtO                           T * ROS                                                           91
F   s81241'M                                                         K C Av_ag lek* d s mi  cgcut      P p  HekODO                                                                                           t   rt
G * Cfl24iN                                                          L ' . o il edt                    oNWOP                                                                                                 t-
00 R
s0iiCA#l"_t.XLS



CALCULATION OF UNSERVED ENERGY VALUE
Region C2
Load forecast (GWh)               Average GWh per hour        Average      Average   Length of  number of  Interruptions            Unserved enea   MWh)                Reduction unserved ener9y (MWh)
Focal Industrial Business  Residenbal   Total  IndusUial Business  Residental   time of     number of    main   interruptions    tme per    Industbial   Business  Residential    Total    Reduction   kmprovd   Total
yeat                         +                                              intermuptions  intefrnptions   circuit   per feeder  year f                                                 unserved     repair
other                                  Other                    per km      (km)                                                       Other                 enec        time
A       a        C          D         E         F        G          H           I          P            K          L            M           N           0          p          a           R          s          T
1997     i.809    1,214        983    3,968      0.205    0.139       0.110        34.90       0.0475   13,024         3.77         2.20        453        304         241        999        458         125        581
1996     2.160    1.495       1.144    4,799     0.247    0.171       0 131        34.90       0.0475   13,024         3.77         2.20        541        375         287      1,203        550         150        700
1999     2.534    1,755       1.340    5.,29     0.289    0.200       0.153        34.90       0.0475   13.024         3.77         2 20        835        440         336    . 1,411        845         176        821
2000     2.727    1,8&t       1.445    8.060     0.311    0.218       0.185        34.90       0.0475   13.024         3.77         2 20        B83        473         362      1,519        894         190        884
2001     2.921    2.025       1,552    6.498     0.333    0.231       0.177        34.90       0 0475   13,024         3.77         2.20        732         507        389      1,828        744         204        94O
2002     3.124    2,189       1,B65    8,957     0.357    0.248       0.190        34.90       0.0475   13.024         3.77         2 20        783         543        417      1.743         797        218       1,015
2003     3.333    2.317       1,782    7.432     0.381    0.285       0.203        34.90       0.0475   13,024         3.77         2 20        835       51          448      1,883        851         233      1.084
20D4     3,509    2.470       1.902    7,681     0.401    0 282       0.217        34 90       00475   13.024          3.77         2.20        879        619         477      1,975        903         247      1.149
2005     3.719    2.619       2.018    8.354     0 425    0.299       0.230        34 90       0.0475   13,024         3.77         2 20        932        658         5S0      2,093        957         262      1,218
2008     3.931    2,7B8       2.131    8.830     0.449    0.316       0 243        34.90       0.0475   13,024         3.77         2 20        985        894         534      2.213       1,011       277       1.28U
2007     4.143    2.917       2.246    9.307     0.473    0.333       0.258        34.90       0.0475   13.024         3.77         2.20       1.038       731         563      2.332       1.088       292       1,357
2008     4.355    3.06B       2.361    9.782     0.497    0 350       0.269        34.90       00475   13.024         3.77          2 20       1.091       7B8         592      2.451       1,120       30t       1.427     P
20O9     4.564    3.213       2.474   10.251     0.521    0.387       0.282        34 90      0.0475   13,024         3.77          2.20      1.144        805         620      2.569       1,174       321       1,495
2010     4.769    3.358       2.585   10.712     0 544    0 383       0.295        34 90      0 0475   13.024         3 77          2 20      1.195        841         848      2.884       1,227       338       1.582
2011     4.969    3.499       2.694   11.162     0.567    0399       0308          34.90      0.0475   13.024         3.77          2.20      1,245        877         875      2,797       1,278       350       1.828
2012     5.163    3.635       2.799   11.598     0 589    0.415       0.320        34.90      0.0475   13,024         3 77         2 20       1,294        911         701      2,908       1,328       383       1,692
2013     5.349    3.786       2,900   12.015     0.611    0.430       0.331        34.90       0 0475   13.024        3.77          2 20      1.340        944         727      3.011       1,376       378       1.752
2014     5.509    3.879       3,023   12,412     0.529    0 443       0.345        34.90      0.0475   13.024         3.77          2 20      1.301        972         758      3,110       1.421       389       1,810
2015     5.675    3.998       3.114   1Z784      0648     0 458       0.355        34 90      0 0475   13,024         3 77         2 20       1.422       1.001        780      3.204       1.464       400       1,85
2016     5.828    4.104       3.198   13.129     0 88S    0.468       0 365        34.90       0.0475   13.024        3.77          2.20      1,480       1,028        801      3.290       1,504       411       1,915
2017     5.968    4.202       3.274   13.444     0.681    0.480       0.374        3490       0.0475   13.024         377          220        1,498       1,053        821      3,389       1,540       421       1.981
2018     8.093    4.290       3,343   13.727     0.869    0.490       0 382        34.90       0.0475   13,024        3.77          2.20      1,527       1,075        838      3,440       1,572       430       2.002
2019     6.203    4.368       3,403   13.974     0.708    0.499       0.389        34.90      0 0475   13,024         3.77         2 20       1.554       1,094        853     3.502       11.6C        438       2.038
2020     B.298    4,433       3.454   14,183     0.719    0 50        0.394        34 90       0.0475   13,024        3.77         2.20       1.578       1,111        8we      3,554       1,824       444       Z009
A = Fiscat yeaf Vow                                                     =  243S                          M = bLd                              R = Q0.5{1-.(M)
B.C. D= Load forecast, proeted byload forecastvxorwng group           I aAveragetine of faut             N= F    010b0                         S C QiO.5xO.25
E = BC*D                                                             J = Average faultt per km          0: GxMx1O                            T = R.S                                                          OQ
F = 8124r385                                                          K = Aveage length od ram circuit   P = H1000                                                                                                 X
G = CJ24M35                                                           L  .hoK/1B4 feeder                 Q * N#O+P                                                                                              O  GO
t-h1
00
*062'iL'NtU.xLs



CALCULATION OF UNSERVED ENERGY VALUE
Region C3
Load forecast (GWh)              Averag GWh per ho         Average      Avrsag    Lwngth df  nurnber d    Inerrupbons          Unserved ner yf (MWh)              Reduction nerved one  (MWh) 
Frscat Indusurrl Business Rewdormal   Tota    kdusrL  Bus  Rednal   brne el              number o    rMain  interruptions    brnt per  ns l    Business   Resinl   Total    Reduction    knprd            ToWl
year                                                                      h mtefrupons  interuptons   circua    per feeder  year                                                 unserved     repair
_th er              _                 Other                   p r km     (km)                                                     OthFg_Otr               iy e"
A       B        C         D         E        F         G         H           I           J         K          L                       N          0           P         o          R          s          T
1997     3,43       587        756    4.746     0 391    00 85      00 06       50s e       0 0538   12,332        4 23         3 59      1.402       232         309     1,943        914        243       1,157
1990     4.038      68         890    5,594     0 481    0 075      0 102        0.89       0 0538   12,332        4 23         3 59      1.53        273         364     2,291       1.078       286       1,384
w9o      4.692      778      1,035    5,s0     0.53      00 89      0 118       50 89       00538   12,332         4 23        3 59       1.921       318         424     2.863       1.253       333       1.588
200      5.035      834       1,111    6.e0     0 575    0 095      0127        so a        0  0538   12,332       4 23         3 59      2,082       341         455     2,65        1.345       357       1,702
2001     5,388      893      1.190    7.471     0815    0102        0 36        50.80       00538   12,332         4 23         3 59      2,205       385         487     3,059       1,439       382       1.822
2002     5,755     9S4        1,273    7.s92    0 857    0109       o is        50 so89     0 0535   12,332        4.23         3 59      2,357       391         521     3,268       1,538       409       1,948
2003     8,133     1,017     1,357   8a50       0.700    0.118      0 155       508 9       00538   12.332         4 23         3 59      2,511       417         55s     3.484       1.839       435       2.075
2D04     6.520    1.0e2      1.444    0.047     0.744    0124       0 l8s 5      o ae       0 053    12.332        4.23         3 50      2,870       443         591     3,704       1.743       463       2.206
2005     6.912     1.147     1.531    9,590     0.789    0 131      0 l75       50.89       0.0538   12,332        4.23         3 59      2.830       470         827     3,927       1.848       491       2.338
2wac    77306      1.213      1,618   10.138    .834     0.136     .0185        50.89       00536   12332         4 23         359       2,991       497         683     4,151       1,953       519       2.472
2007     7.700    1.278      1,705   10884      0 879    0.146      0195        50.e8       0 05M    12.332        423          3 59      3.153       523         es6     4.375      2.058        547       2.8o 0
2xe      5.003    1.343      1.793   11.220     0924    0153        o2M5        5089        00535   12.332         4 23         3 59      3.314       sso         734     4.506      2.183        575       2.73e    U
2000     8.481    1.408      1.87    111716     09 6s    0161       0214        so 0s       o 0536   12.332        4.23         3 59      3,473       578         769     4.818      2.267        602      2.870
2010     8.,83    1,471      1.983   12.297     1 012    0 1u       0e224       so 50       0s036   12.332         4 23         359       38,29       802         04      5,035      2.38e        829      2.999
2011     9.235    1533       2,046   12,614     1 054    0.175      0 234       so 58       0e053    12.332        423         3 50       3.781       828        8M3      5.247      2.409        656      3.125
2012     e9s.   1.593        2.125   13.313     1.095    0.182      0243        so59        00538   12.332         4.23        3.59       3.929       852        870      5,451      2.585       681       3.246
2013     9.S41    1,660      2.202   13,793     1 l35    0 118     0e251        50 e9       00538   12,332         4,23        3 59       4.070       676        902      5.648      2.857        706      3.383
2014    10,239    1.700      2.3c0   14,248     1.160   0o94        0 264       50.89       0 0538   12,332        4.23        3 59       4,193       60e        946    s5.34        2,745        729      3.474
201     10,546    1.751      2.379   14.675     1.204    0.2W       0 m         so es       0.0538   12.332        4,23        3 59       4.318       717        974      6.000      2.827        751      3.579
2016    10,831    117961     .443   15.072      1 235    0205       0.279       5089       0o03    12,332          4 23        3 59       4,435       736       1.000     6.171      2.904        m        3.675
2017    11,001    1,841      2,502   15.433     1 266    0.210      0 286       so.9        0.0538   12,332        4 23        3 59       4,541       754       1,024     6,319      2.973        790      3.763
201:    11,324    1,880      2554   1S,757      1.293    0.25       0 22        so 89       00538   12,332         4,23        3.59       4,637       770       1,048     6,452      3,03.       807       3,642
2019    111.52    1.013      2.6o   18,041      1.316    0216       0297        50.89       00 3o   12.332         4 23        3 50       4.720       783       1,085     6.566      3.091       821       3,912
2070    11,700    1.942      2.839   18,262    1.33      o.m       0.301        so s       0e0534   12,332        4.23         3.5S      4.791        795      1,081     6,667       3.137       833       3,70
A * Facl yew                                                       H *(24M5                         MeobLP6                             R * e  5(1. S )
S, C, D   Load trece   dd by bd brecaet ewrin gW-                  I Aveae We of 11"                 N * FxlWOWO                         S e C.oDI.25
E * B+Cvo                                                          J AveregIAhprm kup                s0r Gx*e1OD                        TeRvS
F  0 241365                                                        K * Aveage length d mm ck4        P * HeIsIOODO
G * u24QoS                                                         L Jd WM57 hede                    q * N CbP                                                                                             (  X
W
0  0
*0e2C"UtLP.XLS



CALCULATION OF UNSERVED ENERGY VALUE
Region SI1___                                                                                                      ___
Load torecast (GWh)        |                     hour         Average      Average   Length ol  number of  Interruptions            Unserved energy (MWh)               Reduction unsered eerngy (MWh)
Fiscal  Industrial Business  Residential   Total  Industrial Business  Residential   time o  number of    main   interruptions    tme per    Industrial   Business   Residential    Total    Reduction   Improved  Total
veal                         *                                       +       interruptions  interruptions   circuit   per feeder  year                               +                  unserved     repair
other                          -       Other                    psi km     _(km)                                                       Other -                           time
A       1        C          0         E         F        G          H            I           J          K          L            M           N           0           p                     R          S           T
1997       719      407         496    1,622     0.082    0 047       0.057        59 27       0.0382    9,047         5.97         5.B9         483        274         333     1,091         518        138        854
1998       853      489         597    1.939     0.097     0.056      0.068        59 27       0.0382    9,048         5.97         S 89         574        329         401     1,305         819        103        782
1999     1,003     5s0          710    2.294     0.115    0068        0.081        59 27       0.0382    9,049         5.97         5.89        875         390        478    . 1,543         733        193        926
2000     1.084      629         771    2.485     0.124    0.072       0.088        59.27       0.0382    9,050         5.97         5 90         730        424         519     1,672         794        209       1,003
2001     1.169      681         835    2,685     0.133    0.078       0.095        59 27       0 0382    9,051         5 97         5 90         787        458         562     1.807         858        228       1,084
Z02      1.259      735         903    2,897     0 144     0.084      0103         59.27       0.0382    9.052         5 97         5 90        847         495        808      1,950         928        244       1,189
2003     1.354      793        974    3.121      0.155     0 090      0.111        59.27       0.0382    9,053         5.97         5.90        912         534        650      2,101        997         283       1,260
2004     1,455      853       1.050    3.358     0 166    0097        0.120        59 27       0.0382    9.054         5.97         5.90        979         575        707      2.261       1.073        283       1,356
2005     1.542      905       1.113    3,559     0 176    0.103       0 127        59 27       0 0382    9,055         597          5 90       1.038       609         749      2.397       1,138        300       1,437
2006     1.830      956       1.176    3.762     0 186     0.109      0 134        59 27       0.0382    9.058         597          5 90       1,098       644         792      2.534       1,203        317       1.519
2007     1.718    1.008       1.240    3,965     0196     0.115       0142         5927        0.0382    9,057         597          590        1,157       679         835      2.671       1.268        334       1,b02    u
2008     1 806    1.059       1.303    4.168     0 206    0 121       0.149        59 27      0.0382    9.058         5.97         5.90       1.216        713         878      2.807       1,333       351       1,b84     0'
2009     1,892    1,110       1,366    4,368     0.216    0127        0.156        5927       0.0382    9.059         5.97         590        1.275        748         920      2.942      1,397        368       1,765
2010     1.977    1.180      1.427    4.564     0226      0132       0163         5927        00382    9,060          597          590        1.332        782         961     3.075       1,460        384       1.844
2011     2.060    1,209       1 487    4,756     0 235    0 138       0 170        59 27      0 0382    9.061         5.97         5.90       1,388        814       1.002      3.205      1.521        401       1,922
2012     2,141    1.256      1,545    4.942     0.244     0.143      0 176        59 27       0.0382    9.062         5.98         5.90       1,443        846       1,041     3,330       1.581        416       1,997
2013     2.218    1.301       1.601    5,119     0.253    0 149      0183          59.27      0.0382    9.083         5.98         5 90       1.495        877       1.079      3.450      1.638        431       2,069
2014     2.284    1.340       1.664    5.288     0.261    0.153       0 190        59 27      0 0382    9.064         5 98         5 90       1.540        903       1.122      3.564       1,692       446       2,136
2015     2,353    1,380       1,714    5.447     0.269    0158        0.196        59 27       0 0382    9,065         5.98        5 91       1,586        930       1.155      3.672       1.743       459       2.202
201t     2.416    1,418       1,760    5,594     0 276    0.162       0 201        59 27      0.0382    9.065          5.98        5 91       1.629        950       1,186      3.771      1.790        471       2,261
2017     2,474    1,452       1,802    5,728     0.282    0.188       0 206        59.27       0.0382    9,065        S.98         5 91       1,668        979       1.215     3,881       1,833        483       2,316
2018     2.526    1,482       1.840    5.849     0.288    0169        0 210        59.27      0 0382    9.065         5.98         5 91       1,703        999       1,240      3,943      1.872        493       2,364
2019     2,572    1,509       1,873    5,954     0.294    0.172       0.214        59.27      0.0382    9,065         5.98         5.91       1,734       1,017      1.263     4,014       1,90'        502       2,407
2020     2,810    1.531       1,901    8,043     0 298    0.175       0.217        59 27      0.0382    9.065          5.98        5.91       1.760       1.032      1,282      4,074      1,934        509       2,443
A = Fiscal year                                                       H  D/24/365                        M = InLi80                            R  Q= O.5{1.(31))
B, C, D = Load torecast, projected by toad torecast working group     I = Average time ot tautt          N = FxMxlO00                          5 n= QW0.50.25
E = B*C-D                                                             J  Average faul per km             O = GxMxi0DO                         T = R.S
F = B,241385                                                          K = Average length ot main circuit  P = HxMxulOC                                                                                              0 t
G = C1241385                                                          L = JK/58 t1eeder                  a= N+O.P                                                                                                   m  X
0  C)
#08i2C/UiNLI'P.X1-S 



'0
0 0
co
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dO                                                              a           n"% CVW   I@                                                                                        a.. 
lN.IS.C2.L1oI)dP                                         d00*N*0                        AAOOOIWl                                                                      IOCLO *
(l oweC ll   h                                   A-  p          S. * n                             eOOM e      0 d                                                                                                           JU01  oL *  * J
SPAI.lS.C2L.132 kSA4O p                                       StL- 0-0~   S                           1000 j Wi  00                WW   S9  00q k ow                     Dd.   itaeow i m.012 pgq qAllp.op4e.  se"o90 001 . a 3 a
An-. p-1..   W1 ' C eue01 SSISs A                                              So as C-                   n SC          C 101        SeOCAW                 u H             e     *e         e00n                                       C
,IAS         LCL it       000         Sol         ago           LCI      MO                      LLI          AOV I        n n CO OPt 0"t05                     80e0 w        filO CM1 a                      EPIo a    iOOl sK                0 on 
*ol Ca        IEC of       S          COL                      UC I       PLO         cn          nIc         nOL          asC           Still   "t100            ff *lIS tis              Ise      via00     tOu           c 0K8   FOKI      C06        Mt
oMCI          1LAOL       All        ASl          An    e      oCnI      t s    e      e         e            toC&         OD             sli   "too            80eww    e     OC    sn1 a          Ioe        Ol           t       se u ItIS            of" 
(A            U.   CID AL oil         IU&          cs          nRL       in          KS           of          Pat           NSc         Kf 1    sla Rf            P oreor     m  a       s8e        ne a 1       s      50 I        IIC&      SI        UoC
(DO  11       ICli n        I         101         Ol ess         oc      1ns         LP           fcD           nC1         eC t          10 Ce      40 n08 *A                           810 *50              A  CCLI I*               I o1 C  o cccIM|fc       e
"I            AIl III     too         Oil         CL          9111       AMS         plt    C      1          AOs          meC           setI   "nt05o          oS80         LOS          la        two  e cUc    I  I   | i I                .5   O    t
Ice0 Di         L PSIt    sit         CAl         its         gItl       OK0        Lgm          IO1          Peg           W OIL        Pl        use 0610It8                 Was0       gCID a    000       08CC     UOI         Oak I      ISI        lo
(101 o                     I      lAt Os        1         ALA         SAl        OtEt         at         set eAL                  SeC CLOOl    n6000                   ff80         e0o        LeeO a      00o       LiL       sM  I       s n       oss        sO*
0-00o        9VA09         Its        nIz         Cw           ISO's      05          caL         u           to        c    11SC        11s05      6a 0                     Lo           ga AO SUDS eles c    1s aI I    LEas                          s.K
AsOt          SA-1L        LOOI        Oil        SiA          Sia0s     gm           SOC         tit         mgL           SC           lL, NDS                8f ILleas    P i            sc    0"00        CISC      S   M09     aU    Om            010
Oct 6    *    Cn s  seT   Sig         iz      s    w      c     is         t     u     K         co       C        c       of 14    n       v     "too         Ow es,        Ma    e     MCe       Mooe  tec           "I   ne  ac           A"e 
lOl           0111Ps      ADS        eol          CEo          I'  CK      A CS n      C E        01          Lo           SOC           41        "o4    S     8*f           IleS       I         cw0       sal       teC t       Us        DID
M0I            iI to      UIS         off         lit          I"         III         lit C0I                 AOL          SC            0101    "to            S8      CO sr             00 1 a0   SON       Keg tsee  AOL I        sO       Lrv         eX
1400          (ACi        5.           WOl         K           MS        am           Su          IAI         peL          SOC UtAl p              WIDO         80fw         KID          am0       Ors        te801   LIS         Ogg       01 
LisLA         Off It       000        GG          Sal          ISA        SIE         SOL        CCI          AGE           SO C         01001       isa           i ff150"c80  ff1       0000      0000      L         KL  If      CEO       AM        ___
00            11a          rot        Co          UK           VIA        ALL         A           KI           OtL         S C      U     lOl Di  C100            Sf   I      LcS         OnG       coo a     OalL C     0 "C   CU            PC        mm
0K0           Ael II       cIrA                   sc           in        ICE          gA L          t         III nC C1001    "too                              Sf Uc        CAI          "Do nT  CIO  eS    O                    LEC       IsL        teox
Olt0          (sPOL        PKtMU IS               CSC O0                              DuL        II           Nor          SOC           CIoOll    "too00       80a          11011          s  wODS  tED       I60      Gig         ISO       GEE       low
el cO         Me      sn   AO           l         LK           am        N            LiE        Pat          to n         Si tC         n1 01     "1o0         R U          0 0          AD u Se   o  0e       ea01    LAO         CEO       AIC       *  ex
In     I         S S       ICC        St          CAL         ar         SVC          1eS La                  re  c        u    c1100 CU             100        8   0ff       e   ew0  e    too00   CUOU O               Cs           n       CA IX
IS            0003 A      sic                    WC 0r         o         OSK C At                 es          to           SOC ncloA               OlS          80f  t nUSo               CDP*      IC*S 0ee6          lE#          Mr        art n0c
Ditl             A        Ot                      li Ot       SA          Al          Atl         at          Prs          SC C     U      0      St euS        Ra* or         000        eSS        L        KIC    I  Ite Ps               O* S Ot
A            n                                   IS                                 0 d  o                                 1          _           r             I                      0                    3         a            2          _
P..-s         As-..                    wd&       OIA0*                                                          *          01ff   6        V    lia98011090p  ,Aslo*oSI         I
`P  _-1   rn    -          4mdAi         _.,_L".t                                                                                                                                w t .4 4mo                            V_        PS-. .4 P...
II  D.'     10 1010(       AShe  d   p..w. ..0y.                         Iwoj AS0, p10fl             P       o00~    _01              P101    d100j             04010           01110 tIM  ObIM              -        01000101010
w@qt_.D    lfq re  tq8wd "'  PPl    "                    t   r  waz~~WAN A4-P s-n                       lb_ASII    Is_ 40-8      wwv                          *_      MD'                            sAI*eq
. _                                                                                           _[EN u016.d
-3n1VA AMON3 3AuSaNfl i0 NOuvNnlnYva



CALCULATION OF ECONOMIC INCREMENTAL VALUES
____________   __________   B enefit  |________   _________   ________   ________   _________  C ost   __________
Fiscal     Reductions in      Value      Increase in   Number of  Reductions   Economic   Number of  Number of                 RCS                       RTIU                Total
'ear         unserved       unserved     Revenues    substation    in O&M        capital     fkeder      feeder for    Number       Capital      Number       Capital
sales         energy                                  c ost                               incerased
(GWh         (Baht/KWh)   (?I Baobt) |               (M Baht)    (M _ _bt)    (circuit)     (circuit)     (set)      (Msti  ht)   (M Baht)
A              11             C            D            1i           F C                       H            I            J           K           (             M            N
1996                          45.7              0.(                                   248          644                       17         67.76           60          5.40        73.16
1997                          45.7              0.0                                   474          644                       358        137.83         119         10.71       148.54
199I           1.45           45.7             66.3      137          40              552          644                       358        137.83         119         10.71       14S.5
1999           1.69           45.7              77.2     137          40              646          644                       358        137.83         119         10.71       148.54
2000           1.S2           45.7              83.2     137          40              329          644                       358        137.83          119        10.71       148.5
2001           1.94           45.7              88.7     137          40               44          665       21               53         20.21           Is S.58                21.7
2002           6.24           45.7             285.2     137          60                           686       21               53         20.21           1          1.58        21.7
20t3           6.66           45.7             304.4     137          60                           707       21                53        20.21           I 8        1.58        21.7
2(04           7.09           45.7             324.0     137          60                           728       21               53         20.21           18         1.58        21.7
2005           7.51           45.7             343.2     137          60                           749       21               53         20.21           1           1.58      21.7
2006           7.94           45.7             362.9     137          60                           770       21               53         20.21           18         1.5S        21.7
2007           8.37           45.7             382.5     137          60                           791       21               53         20.21           1 8        1.58        21.79 
2008           8.80           45.7             402.2     137          60                           all       20                50        19.25           17         1.50        20.75   'o
2009           9.22           45.7             42 1 .4   1 37         60                           83 1      20                50        19.25           1 7        I1.50       20.7
2010           9.63           45.7             440.1     137          60                           851       20                50        19.25           17         1.50        20.75
2011          10.04           45.7             458.8     137          60                           871       20               50         19.25           17         1.50        20.75
2012          10.43           45.7             476.7     137          60                           891       20               50         19.25           1 7        1.50        20.75
2013          10.43           45.7             494.0     137          60                           911       20               50         19.25           1 7        1.50        20.75
2014          11.16           45.7             510.0     137          60                           931       20               50         19.25           1 7        1.50        20.75
2015          11.50           45.7             525.6     137          60                           951       20               50         19.25           17         1.50        20.75
2016          11.81           45.7             539.7     137          60                           971       20               50         19.25           17         1.50        20.75
2017          12.09           45.7             552.5     137          60                           991       20               50         19.25           17         1.50        20.75
2017           12.35          45.7             564.4     137          60                          1.991      20               50         19.25           17         1.50        20.75
2019           12.57          45.7             574.4     137          60                          1.031      40               50         19.25           1 7        I.50        20.75
2020          12.76           45.7             583.1     137          60                          1.051      20               50         19.25           17         1.50        20.75
A = Fiscal Yewr                                         G = Financial Capital                              K = J x 0.3S5
B = Rcduction in unserved cnergy sale                   H = Number of feeder                               L = Number of RTU
C = Value unservcd energy                               I = Number of lecder of increased                      year 1996-2000- capital of projet
D= DxC                                                  J = Number of RCS                                      year 1996-2000 = J/3
E = Nwnbcr of substations                                  year 1996-2000 = capital of project             M = L x 0.090
F= I(Ex4)-(5xIO)xI0000x121/1,000,000                       year 1996-2000= Ix2.5                           N = K + M                                                                         X
0 C



-99-
Annex 21
Page 1 of2
THAILAND
DISTRIBUTION AUTOMATION AND RELIABILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Internal Rate of Return: Distribution Automation
(All figures in Baht million unless otherwise stated)
Benefits Stream                        Costs Stream
Year      Benefit    Reduction    Total    Project   Additional   O & M    Total       Net
for Increased  in O & M    Benefits  Investment  Investment    Costs  Costs  Benefits
Sales      Cost
1996                                          248                             248       (248)
1997                                          474                             474       (474)
1998           66         40        106       552                             552       (446)
1999           78         40        118       646                    29       675       (557)
2000            83        40        123        329                   34        363      (240)
2001            89        40        129         44                   34         78        51
2002           285        60        345                   22         35         57       288
2003           304        60        364                   22         35         57       307
2004           324        60        384                   22         35         57       327
2005           344        60        404                   22         36         58       346
2006           363        60        423                   22         36         58       365
2007           383        60        443                   22         36         58       385
2008          402         60        462                   21         37         58       404
2009          421         60        481                   21         37         58       423
2010          441         60        501                   21         37         58       443
2011          459         60        519                   21         38         59       460
2012          477         60        537                   21         38         59       478
2013          494         60        554                   21         38         59       495
2014             J        60        570                   21         39         60       510
2015             6        60        586                   21         39         60       526
2016           .40        60        600                   21         39         60       540
2017           553        60        613                   21         39         60       553
2018           564        60        624                   21         40         61       563
2019           575        60        635                   21         40         61       574
2020           583        60        643                   21         40         61       582
EIRR  =       12.7%



-100-
Annex 21
Page 2 of 2
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Economic Internal Rate of Return
Upgrading Distribution in South Thailand
(All figures in Baht million unless otherwise stated)
Incremental     Energy  | Incremental |_|                         Investment                   &M        Total        Net
Year   Demand (GWh)     Cost          Sales GWh| Revenue    Project I Distribution    Substation |Cost              Cost       Benefit
1996   .-                      -                          -         23.0                   -               -          23.0       (23.0)
1997              1,113       64.6          1,052        77.0       70.0           50.8                     1.8       187.2     (110.2)
1998              2,049       118.8         1,936       141.7       60.0           43.0                     3.3      225.1        (83.4)
1999              2,223       128.9         2,101       153.8        -              7.9                     3.4       140.2        13.5
2000              2,406       139.5         2,274       166.4                       8.2                     3.5       151.2        15.2
2001              2,605       151.1         2,462       180.2                       8.7                     3.6       163.4        16.8
2002              2,818       163.4         2,663       194.9                       9.2                     3.7       176.3        18.6
2003              3,044       176.6         2,877       210.6                       9.5                     3.8       189.9        20.7
2004              3,299       191.3         3,118       228.2                      10.7                     4.0       206.0        22.2
2005              3,539       205.3         3,344       244.8                       9.8                     4.1      219.2        25.6
2006              3,803       220.6         3,594       263.1                      10.8           -         4.3      235.7        27.4
2007              4,070       236.1         3,846       281.5                      10.8           0.9       4.5      252.3        29.3
2008              4,333       251.3         4,095       299.7                      10.5           4.4       4.7      270.9        28.8
2009              4,588      266.1          4,336       317.4                      10.1           3.5       4.9      284.6        32.8
2010              4,854       281.5         4.587       335.8                      10.4           3.1       5.1      300.1        35.6
2011              5,128      297.4          4,846       354.7                      10.7           4.4       5.3      317.8        36.9
2012              5,412      313.9          5,114       374.4                      I I0           4.4       5 5      334.8        39.6
2013              5,712       331.3         5.398       395.1                      I 16           2.6       57       351.2        43.9
2014              5.712       331.3         5.398       395.1                                    -          5.7      337.0        58.1
2015              5,712       331.3         5.398       395.1                                               5.7      337.0        58.1
2016              5.712       331 3         5,398       395.1                                               5.7      337 0        58.1
2017              5.712      331.3          5,398       395.1                                               5.7      337.0        58.1
2018              5,712      331.3          5,398       395.1                                               5.7      337.0        58.1
2019              5,712      331.3          5,398       395.1                                               5.7      337.0        58.1
2020              5,712       331.3         5,398       395.1                                               5.7      337.0        58.1
2021              5,712      331.3          5,398       395.1                                               5.7      337.0        58.1
2022              5,712      331.3          5,398       395.1                                               5.7      337.0        58.1
2023              5,712      331.3          5,398       395.1                                               5.7      337.0        58.1
2024              5,712      331.3          5,398       395.1                                               5.7      337.0        58.1
2025              5,712       331.3         5,398       395.1      (20.0)         (62.4)         (9.6)      4.3      243.6        151.5
EIRR    =        11.7%
Notes:
Energy Cost evaluated at B1 .45/kWh.
Revenue evaluated at B1.83/kWh.
O&M Cost evaluated at 1.5% of capital cost.



-101-
Annex 22
THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Documents in Project File
1.  Project Implementation Plans (2 Volumes).
2.  Distribution Dispatch Center Project - Technical Requirements and
Economic/Financial Feasibility Report - MONENCO AGRA INC. - March 1994.
3.  Feasibility Study on Transmission System and Substation Development Project -
Third Stage (I-Shaped Area) - Black and Veatch International - November 1994.
4.  Initial Environmental Impact Examination for the Third Stage Transmission System
and Substation Development Project - PEA.
5.  Initial Environmental Impact Examination for Distribution Center Project (First
Stage) - PEA.
6.  Resettlement and Compensation Report for the Third Stage Transmission System
and Substation Development Project (I-Shaped Area) - PEA.
7.  Feasibility Study for Privatization of the Provincial Electricity Authority, Thailand -
Southern Electric International - February 23, 1995.
8.  Provincial Electricity Authority - Privatization Implementation Program Action
Plans, 1995 - Second Draft - Southern Electric International, General Consultant






CHARTS






PEA's ORGANIZATION CHART
|Board of Directr 
Govemo
| Otfice o0   l                 Assistant 
The InspGoecnrors7
Fofeign
Experts
|Human Rsuce         ||                          Intemal                                             _| Of fice of 
|    Devel=pmnt a                        |      Audi tng                                                       |The Governor|
Personnel           Trainin=               AudiWng                Audit                                Admini-            External          Conference
Division          vCener               Svc. Divisions        Admiistraton  |strative                                   Cooperation          Servire
|   Planning &    l                          |   General             Public          Investigation  |
|   EvalLption  l                            |   Services           Relations           Service
Deputy Govemor             Deputy Govemor               Deputy Governor                Deputy Governor           Deputy Gqvernor           Deputy Governor
Planning b                                                Construction &             Economics                 Corporale
Techniqw_ Sys. Developmenlt_   Operations                                             Maintenance                & Finance                 Services.
J   Civd Eng /Arch  |   M       Planning      l        q  Region   |            Proj. Accee6alion               Economics                Welf.&Medical
& Implementation               & Budget
-|    Engineefinng  l       System Dev      |           Region 2  |                                                                  | Administration
Construction                Accounting
& Finance               Procurement
TrMaIntenane                                                 Trn



I



Organization Chart for Implementing Distribution Automation
Pn4int Uug
Dmply Guuo (IPuah
A="nm Co                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr.qualflcon Sdecllommsd             BdAebc  .
1                                                                                  OB Evabatou Csowdr |.                              Ld Pu  Co_ u
D[ws*r d S*m   D op..d Dip.      Oa*nini                                                    L
M Oku  d  ERolaUKq Cup             V.Mi*_                                                        DP    of Sydw         G Du                          Rinppsudia Fm.
D-p bbiapd    l       _ C     Div.                                                             Aei.Dbum    o Dup Dip.          Muem               Labd  DLv.1 r
AssUl   - dC.im *                                             ,                                        Ca _m..n Emigmuin                          Foausp F_mmumd Ek.
Engirnakig mi Sal*6 Oh.  "mi                                                                   md Sayq Civ.                    Umw                Flws DiM.
AwL11 M   gooe fdo-d          . Rn_bgr                                                           m  dLup S   kb                1011111Db   r
_  mamw Of $yawn A*msdon Div.      MCmnI"
-Dima d dPasso Sp      d nidWar Opumifte *        I.m
- Aud OL edol   d PhubO.p                          Depip Lnd.
m- _wdS  __k *
- m gvdom-         . -. P  d S    Div.d
-     d Thodmgahwed od_meue Dib. *               Muukm
-hrg d|fDIIbII U. D_ Dl.                           Mmi.
- ~ ~~~a U_dyIW                                Mmmi
-Lhinud    I   O  PmDacm      k                                        PEA:S CUUi.pUsn
MmgMofOpmar ad b_dry ODi. 1,2.3  _mbM
MAmWoE OpeguiMW aI hIa  h. I (SWA4               mmo
Masgmw of OpwAi soad InditeClv. 3 941mwMak
hMang. of SypmaAaiola Dlv. I                      I Imin mid Semi.
E _*w Slb P.jsd ad P_g Olr. @d.d                 lbmr i d AnL Sact
* IyPa.. foCr iio   W& Cunudd b I ",i at1
-  ogu.i  E e sS- Sytin AS*uiidke Dl.                                      - Doiti DwSyima DoWpO.  EI ic AdaiM  Ai m I (c
Camwwftkafia Engpwoft and :Sa* Dii.   - S5LM Cm" Div.                      -  9SHkw a Rd; div.        - Eledic AbminltirAon lA. 2 (C_ M)
- Camubak EnrnemuIng and Sioly DIV.     - AidirbWn Dlv.              Ek%ic Adu"inbion Aa 3 (Cw.4
- Rsom Dir,                             - Lqp wfIV                   E        Vbnl ka A," I (Soa4
- Ec     o S M he  Enguieiing Div.      - Forn Pnnl OS.           -    k         d  M  3  )
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TrarsnAlvn S5we and S#6*A1fmen gign DIX



---



THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Project Implementation Schedule
(Distribution Automation)
1996                               1997                                   1998
Task Name                 M   A M  J  J  A  S 0  N  D  J  F M  A M  J  J A  S 0  N  D  J  F  M  A M  J  J  A  S O  N  D
Pre-Qualification
Ist Stage Bidding (Technical)
2nd Stage Bidding (PriceyAward Contract
Detail Design/Manufacturing                                                                                       -
Erection and Installation
(until Dec. 1999)
I-






THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Project Implementation Schedule
(Upgrading Distribution, South Thailand)
Transmission Construction
1996(2539)         1         1997(2540)                   1998 (2541)             1999 (2542)
Description                     J|F|M|A|M|J|JIAISIINID| JF |M|J|JASOND J|F|M|A|M|J|JIAISIINID JJ FF|M M A M0JA
Transmission (Lot 1)      km.                   so   |      mP    BE
Bang Saphan 2           30                                                                       Cl
KhaoYoi                 33                                                                       CH
Kui Buri                27.5                                                                     CN
Kanchanadit             70
Pak Phanang             30                                                                       CN
Hat Yai 4               10.5                                                                     CH
Saba Yoi                35                                                       -C
Chalung                 15.5                                                                     CN
Transmission (Lot 2)                          rjW s|B                   8
Tha Sae                 20                                                             C;
Aoluk                   37.5                                                    I.
Pha Tong                 7                                                              .CN
Ta Lang                 30                                                                            cm
Wiang Sa                 75                                                     |                                            I
Chana                   30                                                                            Cm
Hat Yai 4 (looped line)  5.5                                                                          CN
Transmission (Lot 3)                                                |SD    | eP |        I   BE   I& kc|
Betong                  110                                                                                     CH
|; 1^  |  Land Acquisition             BE      Bid Evaluation
[:   ] SD  |Survey & Design            AL      Approval
|       EIP  |  Bid Preparation     F-AC  |  Award Contracts
|~  Bl |Bid Invitation              | CN       Construction



THAILAND
Distribution Automation and Reliability Improvement Project
Project Implementation Schedule
(Upgrading Distribution, South Thailand)
Substation Construction
1996 (2539)                 1997 (2540)                 1998 (2541)                 1999 (2542)
Description                      J|F|M|A|M|J JASONDJ|FMAM  J I J|A|S|O|N|D JlF|M|A|M|J J|A|S|O|N|D JIFMAMJJASOND
Substation (Lot 1)
| SD |IBP I Bi  E JAL A:C
Bang Saphan 2           1x50                                I                           N 7   .  . ::   CN
Khao Yoi                2x50                                           :N
Kui Buri                2x50                               ci                           N
Ranong 2                1x50                                                           CN .
Krabi 2                 2x50                                                      -.
Ko Samui                2x50
Pha Tong                1x50
Ta Lang                 1x50                                177777  7-                                          .
Hat Yai 3               2x50                                                           ON
Chana                   1x50                                                       40-
HatYai4                 1x50
Hat Yai 2 (SWCH)        2x50
Chalung                 1x50                                177 77 7                   c    :..
Substation (Lot 2)              jI                      Z   :i::>-     i
Tha Sae                 1x50                                                                     CN     L.::
Aoluk                   2x50                                         1           :: a
Kanchanadit             1x50                                  .N
Nakhon Si Thammarat 2   1x50                                                                     W O.]N
Pak Phanang             2x5017 777:. .
Wiang Sa                2x50                                                                    CN
SabaYoi                 1x50                                              -w CN
Betong                  2x50 
|  Land Acquisition          7BE|  Bid Evaluation
|T       Survey & Design          ';Ak|  Approval
|SdR     Bid Preparation                    Award Contracts
|  Bid Invitation           l         Construction



MAP



I



M YA N M A R             i                ng lo   )          0      50      100    150    200- kI,OEIER              P
MYANMAR~~~~~~~~,                                                          O             0 lSMSNA2),A
r   ,         >                 / f                                                                   T r R    /  l I]
.o. Hon9g S1   r                             , _                 LAO  PEOPLE'S                                      _
k )   j-ioYOO  j        \.            DEMOCRATIC                               ,
fK    ;            AhEA N t       \ A E                                   REPUBLIC
9~~~~~~ }  0NiofM8) Nn '-C'r
r  -   (   f  A-bfn   /\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i                                _ ~~~~~  M.AILAY5
L,, ~       ~~                                   ,,        / (                                 tSf                 !\*
^'s~~~~~~~(                              / )  {j                                                       N  -_.--   <*teb ho 
I.         J                                                              N Nt,lothor,
Tk      0 ph.n ... 6k~ ~ ~~/0500-
N    -                                                                        AREA Nt   SO.1  NokSoios         j
To   PSk.-'rlo       .P-ndoL,  -                                           e<1 i-i    -
\  Eomphq.og Ph..0       ARLA N '
-'~ ~    ~    ~     I ,1                  ct.r.yopJro 0  .T. |f                                            (  ot   -
!        F       > -     0 uothon o_ono.hoyphm r1t  <      'e        I)i I                    Yolo.oion    
i l      /    .,I                                                             o,.o . nophon
r-.                                                           I                  -                 Uhon ~~~~~~~.  
r j   ,   J   Ubog Ihoo~~~ ARE A N                                    ':  tS -            oKoeon 
.       __                                 XLhon RoRbosiChmlNrrr                                        RoRomr)or,_
8         0 '- -' I--5th;rhS-'I           4,t)haoRokho.o oJ BoOR.-,/,
4.. T1V \   i      ;l , h>"i E    r,, n
Ktqs hono. b.,  D'SoN-gob;rs  J~               AREA  C I
MYANMAR   SmSogim@'Somo  eonr                                  R      r
|   *sPh Khoburz          A REACg 2     
ANDAMAN                                                        ' 
SEA                          0                                                   lo{CAMBODIA
A)  TP-h-gp Kh       So Kh
((At g                 0N#h..~Gulf
AREAS i                     Til ci iAoi ITAcl
1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   Ru' mphohnn.o
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    I                                                     L A N D
0   @S;tiDISTRIBUTION AUTOMATION AND
o u                           RELIABILITY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
'   AREAA                                       2  _
S,  \  9          slF~T..moo                                         pROJECT COMPONENIS
- -                                                           *    DISTRIBUTION DISPATCH CENTISR tDCCQ
R  E  GI 0     N                                                  *    SYSTEM MANAGEMENT CENTER ISMCI
9K,.b )_                                                     L   ,PROJECT AREA (DISTRIBUTION SOUTh THAILAND)
>   nLv  s^onolung                            I ~~~~~~~~MEA SERVICE AREA
T,ng                                                    RIVfRS
_t   Ss0DLhb                         *  ~~~~~~~~~NArlONAL CAPITAL
ANDAMANPROVINCE BOUNDARIES
SEA                                                              CAMBODIAREA 5A3 ,  AREA OUNDARIES
w5  Er, B   -   Gulfl              h            NERNAIIONAL BOUNDARIES
d            O......
t~~~~~~f                                                                                                                               ,,0idnGS  >llMAASA  
_  .. bd A.,wDO01rexsmrO
IS    /18=                                     MA A    S 1,4 









IMAGING
Report No:       15262 TH
Type: SAR



