Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10768
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
(LOAN 2288-IND)
JUNE 19, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of currency - Rupiah (Rp)
EXCHANGE RATE
Appraisal Year Average (1983):US$1.00 - Rp 700
Intervening Years Average (1984-90):US$1.00 - Rp 1,630
Completion Year Average (1991):US$1.00 - Rp 1,950
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS  -     State Ministry for National Development Planning
BRI       -     Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DGF       -     Directorate General of Forestry
DGT       -     Directorate General of Transmigration
ERR       -     Economic Rate of Return
GOI       -     Government of Indonesia
IPK       -     1989 Log Utilization Decree
JMT       -     Junior Ministry of Transmigration
Lahan I   -     Food crop lots
Lahan II  -     Tree crop lots
MMT       -     Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration
MOT       -     Ministry of Transmigration
PMU       -     Project Management Unit
PTP       -     Publicly owned estate enterprise with limited liability
Repelita  -     Five-Year Development Plan
RSI       -     Resident Staff in Indonesia
SAR       -     Staff Appraisal Report
TA        -     Technical Assistance
TAD Team  -     Transmigration and Area Development Team
(German bilateral assistance)
FISCAL YEAR
GOI:    April 1  - March 31
PTP:   January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCLIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oflice oE DirecterCeiwal
Opeatwmn Evakutizim
June 19, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on INDONESIA
Transmigration IV Project (Loan 2288-IND)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitlad
"Project Completion Report on Indonesias Transmigration IV Project
(Loan 2288-IND)n prepared by the East Asia & Pacific Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL US ONLY
PROJECT caPLIOE RFOR
TRAISHZGATZOE IV PROJECT
(Loan 2288-IUD
71fb1. of Contents
Evaluation Suary.*.-   .....   ........*....* *
PART I    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE    .  . .  . . . . . .      1
Project Identity  . . . . *. . . . . . . . 
Background  . . . . .         . . . . . .                   *      1
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . .      2
Projoct Design and Organization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
Project Implemntation  ..................... * .........           6
Project Reosults . . . . . . .               . .  . . . .   . . . . .  . . . . .  10
Prcejct Sustainability   ...................                      12
Bank Performance  * . . . . . .                                         12
BorrowerPerformance ......................                        13
Project Relationshipe   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Consul    ticn     s ..........................                   15
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
PART II   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVS  . . . . . . . . .    16
Comment on Factual Info-mation .            . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Comments on World Bank Ana1ysis U Part I . .  . . . . . . . .     16
Project Planning and Organization . . ............                16
Evaluation of World Bank Performance .  . .            . .        20
Evaluation of Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
PART III  STATISTICALINFORRMATION  ...........    .. . . . .* .    22
1. Related Bank Loan and/or Credits   **         .......          22
2. Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . .  . *       *   .    23
3. Loan Diaburoement  . . .. . . . . .                            25
4. Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
5. Project Costs and Pinancing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
6. Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
7. Status of Major Covenante  *.      ....        ...             32
8. Use of Bank Recourcee s  -                                              33
This Jocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance|
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlc authorizadion. 



P&a. No.
Annex - Tables:
1.       Marau Wahau - Financial Costs and Benefits of
Hybrid Coconut Development  ....  .  .      ..............    .    35
2.        Sangkulirang - Financial Costs and Benefits of
Eybrid Coconut Development  . . . . . . . ...    . . . .        36
3.       Marau Wahau -Farm Incume for a 3.5 Ha Farm. ........               37
4.        Sangkulirang - Farm Income for a 3.5 Ha Farm  . . . . . . . .    38
5.        Price and MUV Indices and Exchange Rates  . . . . . . . . . .    39
6.        Sangkulirang - Financial and Economic Costs . . . . c  . . . .    40
7.       Marau Wahau - Financial and Economic Costs  . . . . . . . . .    41
8.    M arau Wahau - Economic Price De&.ivfcion . . . . . *       *         42
9.        Sangkulirang - Economic Price Derivation  . . . . . . . . . .    43
10.      Marau Wahau - Food Crops Production and Economic ValiAe  . . .    44
11.       Sangkulirang - Food Crops Production and Economic Value . . .    45
12.      Coconut Production and Economic Benefits  . . . . . . . . . .    46
13.      Marau Wahau - Economic Analysis .............. .    47
14.      Sangkulirang - Economic Analysis  .........                        48
MAPS:
IBRD No. 16770, 16771, 16772.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
(Loan 2288-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Transmigration IV
Project in Indonesia for which Loan 2288-IND in the amount of US$63.5 million was
approved on May 24, 1983. The Loan became effective on September 6, 1983, and
was closed on March 31, 1991, three years and three months behind schedule. Due
to Loan savings from devaluations, only US$38.6 million representing 612 of total
loan amount was utilized. A total of US$17.5 million vas cancelled during the
project implementation period and an undisbursed balance of US$7.4 million was
cancelled at the closing of the Loan account on August 8, 1991.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared by
an lAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme mission which visited Indonesia in
September 1991. Its preparation was based on a review of the Staff Appraisal
Report (3943a-IND) dated April 19, 1983, the Loan Agreement dated May 31, 1983
and a review of the Bank's supervision reports and project files, field visits
to the project sites, discussions with Borrower's project staff and interviews
with World Bank staff associated with the Project. Part II was prepared by the
Borrower.



*- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IflDOlSIA
TRANSMIGRATIOI IV PROJECT
(Loan 2288-ID)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.      This Project was the Bank Group's fifth lending operation associated
with the Indonesian transmigration program. The objective of the Project was to
support the Government of Indonesia (GOI) in its efforts to implement the
acceleratod transmigration program under the Fourth Five-Year Plan (Repelita IV,
1984185 to 1988/89). This was to be achieved by providing financial assistance
primarily for a first four-year time-slice of a ten-year transmigration peogram
intended to settle about 14,000 families in East Kalimantan. Under the project,
6,000 transamigration families were to be settled at Muara Wahau and Sangkulirang
sites, with smallholder coconut production as their main source of income. The
Project was also intended to strengthen the coordination of the ongoing four
Bank-assisted transamigration projects through provision of technical assistance
(TA) to the Special Unit established under Transmigras:on III (Loan 2248-IND),
in the Ministry of Transmigration (MOT).
Implementation ELnErience
2.       The Project was implemented between 1983 and 1991 and the original
closing date (December 31, 19871) was extended four times, finally to March 31,
1991, just over three years behind schedule. The delay was largely caused by
poor performance of the land clearing contractors, which impeded progress of
subsequent activities of settleme.t and farm development. Three of the four
-ntractors aborted their contracts in 1985, mostly due to a serious fall in
iber prices coupled with a lower timber yield than that anticipated by the
contractors.  They were replaced by two timber concessionaires in each area
through direct contract negotiations. Parallel to this, the coconut development
by two public estate companies (PTP VI and PTP XXVI) also experienced prolonged
implementation as a -.sult of the increased planting area from the original 8,500
ha to 11,132 ha, and partly due to unexpected serious damage caused by wild boar,
resulting in the ni -d for substantial rehabilitation and fencing works. The IPK
(Log Utilization Permit) decree issued in 1989 also delayed the coconut
establishment. Besides this, project implementation was also affected negatively
by the unexpected scaling-down of the GOI transmigration program under Repelita
IV because of budgetary constraints caused by declining oil revenues since 1986,
and rising debt repayments.



- iv -
3.       The planned TA for strengthening MOT's Special Unit for coordination of
the four Bank-assisted projects wae revised to provide assistance to MOT in
developing effective managementimonitoring system for transmigration programs,
using the project settlements rs a model to develop the site/provincial
mechanisms, because the unit esta,lished under the Transmigration III Project
proved to be ineffective. Over 1,000 man-months of consultants were employed
under the revised TA component. The performance of the consultants however was
less than satisfactory in some aspects.   The management information system
developed by the consultants was not adapted for use at lower skill levels after
the departure of the consultant.
4.       At  completion,  the final project cost was  US$64 million;  about
47 percent lower than the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimate, reflecting
substantial devaluation of the Rupiah. In Rupiah terms, the actual project cost
(Rp 101 billion) was about 20 percent higher thar. the SAR e timate, mainly
because of increases in the coconut developmenrt area, civil works (site
preparation and roads) and a substantial increase in TA. The Rupiah devaluation
also led to significant loan savings and US$24.9 million of the total Loan amount
of US$63.5 million was canceled.
Prolect Results
5.       Overall, the Project was successful in achieving the primary objectives
of the first phase development as envisaged by the SAR, albeit with some
modifications and prolonged implementation period. The Project has settled 5,566
tranemigrant families, about 450 loss than targeted at appraisal and has created
the physical potential for the development of farming models based on
coconut/food arop production for these settlers.
6.       However, overall production of coconut and food crops can only be
estimated at this early stage of development. SAR targets of coconut peak yields
(3.9 tou/ha dry copra for each site) may not be achieved given the present
uncertainty of further GOI support for coconut marketing and maintenance. The
revised estimate made by PTP VI and PTP XXVI (the implementing agencies of the
coconut component) at completion are around 3.3 ton/ha (Huara Wahau) and 2.3
ton/ha (Sangkulirang).
7.       As for food crops, SAR targets (paddy 1.5 ton/ha;, maize 1.25 ton/ha;
gro'undnut 0.9 ton/ha) at full development could be achieved in a short period as
some of thk early settlers are already attaining these levels. However, present
uttlization of Lahan I area (40 to 60 percent) is much lower than the SAR
expectation, and full utilization is urlikely to be realized largely because of
the continuing inadequacy of agricultural support services.   Overall food crop
production would therefore be significantly lower than the SAR estimate.
Consequently, economic rates of return (ERR) for Muara Wahau (6.0 percent) and
Sangkulirang (4.5 percent), are lower than SAR estimates of 11.5 percent and
11.0 percent respectively.
8.       The  Project  created  both  positive  and negative  effects  on  the
enviroment and local communities.   The coconut development contributed to



- v -
reduced erosion and soil depletion of about 11,000 ha of all lands cleared under
the Project; all the coconut area is planted with cover crops and maintenance
is generally satisfactory. Lahan I was provided vith small contour bunds to
promote contour cultivation and the introduction of tree crop/permanen.t
vegetative strips, but chis concept was not widely adopted. About 200 families
of Dayak communities in the Muara Wahau site lost some of thei-r lands because of
the Project. A compensation program providing assistance for establishing u
smallholder pepper plantation was agreed with the affected local farmers but this
has not yet been implemented.
Sustainability
9.       In developing Muara Wahau and Sangkulirang transmigration settlements,
the Project has only completed the first step needed to establish the physical
base for the development of coconut/food crop production by the settlers. The
success of the Project will depend upon:  (a) the future price of copra; (b)
arrangements for copra marketing at the sites; and (c) the level of GOI support
services available to the settlers.   The settlers' ability to raise their
agricultural incomes will, to a great extent, be influenced by these two factors.
Findinas and Loessons Learned
10.     Major lessons to be learned from project executior. are that:  (a) the
planned four-year implementation period was too short for execution of a project
of this magnitude in an isolated environment (a minimum of six years would be
needed); (b) for a first-phase transmigration project involving tree crops
development, it is important to plan the tree crop establishment for all
transmigrant families to be settled under the first phase period and not to leave
the completion of tree crop planting for a follow-up project; (c) appropriate
measures to protect tree crops and food crops from wild animals and possible fire
should be considered during the project formulation stage; and (d) it would be
wise for the borrower not to agree to a first phase development loan like this
project, unless it is prepared to finance the follow-up either through external
assistance or its own resources.



PROJECT CONPLE'ION REPORT
INDONESIA
TRANSHIGRATION IV PROJEIT
(Loan 2288-IND)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROH BAKK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identitv
Project Name: Transmigration IV Project
Loan No.:     2288-IND
RVP Unit:     East Asia Region, Country Department III
Country:      Indonesia
Sector;       Agriculture
Subsector:    Food Crops, Tree Crops, Agricultural Support Services and
Rural Infrastructure
Iack& round
1.1       The Transmigration IV Project was the Bank Group's fifth lending
operation directly associated with the Indonesian transmigration program. The
first transmigration project (Loan 1318-IND) was approved in 1976, followed by
the Transmigration II Project (Loan 1707/Cr. 919-IND) in 1979, the Swamp
Reclamation I Project (Loan 1958-IND) in 1980, and the Transmigration III Project
(Loan 2248-IND) in 1983. Since approval of Transmigration IV in 1983, there have
been two other Bank-assisted projects in support of the transmigration program.
These are the Swamp Reclamation II Project (Loan 2431-IND) and the Transmigration
V Project (Loan 2578-IND), approved in 1984 and 1985 respectively. All these
projects overlapped to some extent in both preparation and implementation. They
are interactive to allow complementary arrangements in implementing a follow-on
project while lessons derived from one may be incorporated in an ensuing project.
1.2       Until the mid-1970s, the scale of the Government of Indonesia (GOI)
transmigration program Was modest, partly dva to shortage of funds. In the late
1970. GOI, prompted by its improved resour, position from increased oil revenues
and by growing concern about shortfalls in rice production, decided to accelerate
its program under the Repelita III (1979/80 - 1983184).  The target was to
resettle 500,000 families, mostly landless farm laborers from Java, to areas with
a low population density, mainly in Sumatra, Kalimantan and Sulawesi.  This
represented a sevenfold increase over settlement rates achieved during Repelita
II. To achieve this target, GOI reorganized the transmigration program, the most
significant change being the transfer of implementation responsibilities from the
Directorate General of Transmigration (DGT) in the Ministry of Manpower and
Transmigration (MMT) to the line agencies normally responsible for each sector.
In addition, GOI decided to extend the establishment of settlements to
Kalimantan, Sulawesi and other islands--rather than concentrate mainly on
Sumatra.    Accordingly,  the  Inter-Ministerial  Committee  responsible  for
transmigration requested the Bank in June 1979 to identify sites for an eventual
project in East Kalimantan, Central Sulawesi or Maluku. A Bank identification



-2-
mission visited the potential sites in July 1979 and reported that of these, East
Kalimantan was the moat promising as site identification studies had already been
started by a Getman bilaterally-funded technical team (TAD).  A sacond Bank
mission in October 1979 recommended to GOI that they develop funded settlements
at Nuara Wahau, a.t isolated inland area, and Sangkulirang near the coast in East
Kalimantan. Plans were underway for the construction, with the assistance of the
German Government, of a connecting road between the sites.
1.3       Origitally, the Project was intended to be one of the components of the
Transmigration III Projectl1 (i.e. East Kalimantan Settlement component) and was
prepared as such by GOI with the assistance of the TAD team during 1979 to 1981.
Transmigration III, including the East Kalimantan component, was appraised in
September 1981. In view of the large number of unresolved issues (Part III,
Table 2), a post-appraisal mission visited Indonesia in January 1989. Largely
because of disogreament amongst GOI agencies on the timber utilization
arrangements proposed by the Directorate General of Forestry (DGF), the Bank
decided to exclude the East Kalimantan component from Transmigration III. The
component was subsequently reformulated and appraised as Transmigration IV
towards the final year of Repelita III (1983/84).   By the time of final
processing of the Project (early 1983), achievements under the Repelita III
transmigration program were much greater than foreseen by the Bank.!'
Encouraged by this, GOI proposed to settle 750,000 families in planning the
Pepelita IV program (1984/85 to 1988/89). To overcome coordination problems
encountered under Repelita III, GOI again reorganized the program implementation
arrangements for Repelita IV. The most important change was the formation of a
new Ministry of Transmigration (MOT) which was intended to have the authority
necessary to overcome the persistent coordination problems experienced by the
Office of the Junior Minister of Transmigration (JMT) in the MHT.  The internal
organization of the newly formed MOT and its relations with the line agencies,
however, were not well defined at the time of project approval in May 1983.
Project Objectives and Descrigtion
1.4       The objective of the project was to support GOI in its efforts to
implement the accelerated transmigration program under Repelita IV. This was to
be achieved by providing financial assistance primarily for a first four-year
tranche of a ten-year transmigration program intended to settle about 14,000
families in East Kalimantan. Under the Project, 6,000 tranamigrant families were
to be settled at Muara Wahau and Sa_.gkulirang sites. In addition, the Project
was  intended  to  otrengthen   ha  coordination  of  ongoing  Bank-assisted
transmigration projects (Transmigration II, III, IV and Swamp Reclamation I)
through providing technical assistance to the new MOT.
It Tranamigration III originally compriseds (i) East Kalimantan settlement; (11) Detailed
topographic mapping and settlement design for sites identified under Tranuamgration I1; and
c111) Training of higher level DG Transmigration staff.
3, Actual achieveient was some 366,000 families (GOI-sponsored tranamigrants), which was about
twice the namber projected by the Bank.



-3-
1.5       The principal components of the Project as apptaisbd weres
*   Site PreDaatcion:  (a) land clearing of 17c500 ha comprising 9,000 ha for
settlement infrastructure, housitig and food crop production lots, and 8,500
ha for coconut plantations; (b) construction of access roads (60 kn),
village and primary collection roade (250 1  , secondary village roads (125
km) and the Batu Ampar inik road (45 km); and (c) constructi.on of a wharf
and storage facilities and of two landing strips for light aircraft;
*   Communitv Development:   (a) construction oi 6,000 settler houses arid
provision of sanitation and water supply; (b) establishment of community
facilities in 17 new villages; and (c) transportation of migrants to the
site and provision of subsistence supplies for one year;
*   Agricultural Develonment:  (a) application of lime, provision of seeds and
soil conservation supplies for one year and of fertilizer and pesticides
for up to three years; (b) planting of 8,000 ha of hybrid coconut trees for
eventual allocation to transmigrants; (c) establishment of the firat 500 ha
of a 1,000 ha coconut nucleus estate; (d) distribution of chickens and
development of a poultry rearing station; and (e) establishment of two
Rural Extension Centers, two Plant Protection Brigades, two farmers'
Cooperative Centers and 17 Villare Cooperative Units, and a 15 ha seed
farm; and
*   Technical Assistance and Program Coordination:  (a) provision of technical
assistance (150 man-months expatriate and 50 man-months local) for
designing the Batu Ampar link road; supervision of land clearing and road
construction; development of safe water supplies, introduction of a soil
conservation program, establishment of tree crops and preparation of
contract documents for processing facilities; and (b) staffing and
equippin- of the Special Unit to be established under the Transmigration
III project for coordination of Bank-assisted projects and provision of
technical assistance for the unit (250 man-months expatriate and 250 man-
months local).
1.6       The Project, phased over a four-year period, was estimated to cost
US$121 million, with civil works, and vehicles and equipment, altogether
accounting for e-.&t 60 percrnt of the total.  Against this, an IBRD Loan of
US$63.5 million was negotiated ih January 1983. The Loan Agreement was signed
in May 1983 and became effective on September 6, 1983.
Proiect Desizn and Organization
1.7       Project concept. The Bank's Transmigration Program Review (Report No.
3170-IND) completed in 1981, laid a clear conceptual foundation for designing the
Project, which was shared and understood by both the Bank and GOI.  The major
conclusion of the review was that income prospects from rainfed food crops were
limited and a greater role should be given to mixed farming systems and tree
crops in upland transmigration schemes. The report also recommended that a major
effort be made to promote better recovery and utilization of timber from areas
that were to be cleared.



- 4 -
1.8       Proiect desian.  Major concerns in the design of this Project were the
choice of a farming system and the development of procedures to ensure better
timber utilization. The TAD team, which assisted GOI in preparing the Project,
initially proposed a food crop-based farming system with some introduction of
minor tree crops such as coffee and cloves. The Bank reviewed this proposal with
the TAD team and concluded that reasonable ncomes could not be assured from food
crop production alone given the difficulty of providixig good extension services
and the limited access to the market.  Bank and GOI off'cials agreed that tree
crops'3 should be introduced under estate management in the early settlement
period but also food crt-ps for subsistence purposes. Subseqaen,ly, the estate
management of settlers' tree crops (coconut) was designed following a nucleus
estate approach, wherein a PTP (GOI estate enterprise) would operate a central
estate and processing factory surrounded by transmigrant settlements growing
coconut for processing at the central factory. PTP VI (based in North Sumatra)
and PTP XXVI (baced in East Java) were selected by GOI for the establishment of
theii nucleus estates and the project settlers' coconut plantation.
1.9       With regard to timber utilization, a major focus in design was to
develop replicable arrangements to ensure utilization of commercially valuable
timber in sites to bi used for transmigration, because many under-populated areas
of the Outer islands which were suitable for transmigration were heavily
forested.  Although selectively logged before used for transmigration, these
areas were usually left with large stands cf commercially valuable timber which
were destroyed during land clearing. The project sites had two representative
cases: Sangkulirang site had been selectively logged with an estimated timber
density of 40 m3/ha, and Muara Wahau site had not yet been logged with an
estimated timber density of 60 to 100 m3/ha. There were two major interrelated
reasons for timber wastage.   First, only concessionaires, not land clearing
contractors, had the legal right to extract timber. Secondly, GOI regulations
which restricted export of round log to promote domestic processing, had the dual
effect of limiting logging to the capacity of domestic processing facilities and
of reducing the domestic price of logs. These factors reduced the incentives for
the concessionaires themselves to remove other than the most valuable timber.
To overcome the legal obstacles to timber extraction, the Bank agreed with the
DG Forestry that either the land clearing contractor would be given the right to
extract residual timber in case the concessionaire would r.ot be prepared to log,
or land clearing contracts would be negotiated with the concessionaire to ensulre
effective timber utilization and minimize costs. DGF also agreed that they would
help the contractors find domestic orocessing facilities with excess capacity and
thereby ensure that salvage timber would be purchased and processed.
1.10      The other feature of the project design was that the Project was
packaged as an initial fou--year slice of a ten-year development program at the
3V At the time of appraisal, rubber was planned to be developed under the project. However, at
the post-appraisal, GOI proposed to plant hybrid coconuts rather than rubber. Although the
decision was undoubtedly affected by depressed rubber prices, the agreement was based on the
early bearing of hybrid coconuts, reduced labor requirements, simplified processing and the high
demand for edible oils In East Kalimzantan. The Bank's post-appraisal mission accepted this
radical change as they had no objection to this proposal on either agronomic or economic grounds.



- 5 -
sites, implying that 8,000 ha of the programmed 12,000 ha of coconuts would be
planted in the project period; some settlers would only receive coconuts in a
second phase. The appraisal mission assumed that the Bank would finance the
second tranche. However, reference to this assumption and to the fact that the
project covered a ten-7ear program was watered down in the final SAR for legal
reasons. In the event that the Bank did not finance the completion of the ten-
year program, an assurance was obtained that GOI would complete the establishment
of 2 ha coconut per family on the remaining 4,000 ha.
1.11      Pro1ect scope and scale.   Given GOI's strong comimtment to the
transmigration program under Repelita III and IV, the scope and scale of the
Project as appraised, was generally appropriate. Timing of the Project was also
appropriate as it fitted in well with the above GOI program and also the Bank's
-.ecomendations of the Transmigration Review.
1.12      Prolect nreparation.  Technical aspects of the project preparation by
GOI with assistance of the TAD team were considered satisfactory, meeting the
appraisal requirements. However, developing the timber utilization procedures
and the actual arrangement prior to project approval by the Bank required
considerable time as well as inputs from the Bank. A component to strengthen the
Special Unit was prepared by NOT with the assistance of consultants, but this
proved to be impractical (para. 1.28).
1.13      Proiect orsanixatlon.   The implementation arrangements  including
overall coordination by the newly formed MOT and the roles and responsibilities
of the line agencies were not well-defined because a reorganization was underway
for Repelita IV at the time of appraisal. However, the Bank agreed with GOI that
the Project would be implemented with the same arrangements as those to be used
for the GOI-funded transmigration program. It was also agreed that the Project
would strengthen the coordination of the Bank-assisted projects by MOT through
technical assistance.
Pro1ect Imnlementation
1.14      There were a number of variations between planned and actual project
implementation and the most important are reviewed in this section.   Other
changes are given in Part III, Table 4 in comparison with SAR targets.
1.15      Implementation nerLod.  The original Closing Date for the Project, as
agreed, was December 31, 1987, four years and three months after the Loan became
effective (September 1983). Mainly because of delays in land development at each
site (para. 1.17) which had repercussions on the implementation of other project
components, the Closing Date was extended four times, finally to March 31, 1991.
The actual implementation period was seven and one half years with three years
and three months delay in implementation compared to the planned period.
1.16      In retrospect, the planned implementation period was obviously too
short. The appraisal mission initially proposed a six-year disbursement period,
but this was shortened on the grounds that a shorter first phase tranche would
be less likely to run the risk of committing funds that might not be spent within



- 6 -
the proposed six-year tranche. The decision to implement the Project in the
shorter four-year period was also based on an optimistic assumption that the
Project would be part of a program to promote East Kalimantan area development
in which transmigration had an important role and parallel development would take
placa in the area under the Repelita IV program. In addition to the 10-year
program of 14,000 families to be settled at the project sites, some 50,000
additional families were planned to be settled thereafter as the nucleus of a
major development effort in East Kalimantan.   Unfortunately, GOI budgetary
constraints caused by falling oil revenues and rising debt repayments, have
limited the implementation of the planned Repelita IV program. Consequently, two
project sites remained as relatively isolated development poles. Discussions
with some of the Bank staff who supervised the Project and GOI project staff
indicate that a minimum of six years would be necessary to implement this type
of project in a similar isolated environment. It was also indicated that the
isolated location of project aites was one of the major factors affecting overall
implementation performance.
1.17      Site Dreparation. Among many site preparation works, land clearing for
settlement infrastructure, roads, house lots and Lahan I area (food crop lots)
were the most problematic to implement until late 1986, which impeded progress
of subsequert activities of settlement and farm development. The project sites
were under logging concessions, and when allocated for transmigration, the value
of the estimated timber yield was credited to the four land development contracts
in arriving at a contract price for the work. The SAR estimated yields however
proved to be excessive4/ and the unit price of timber in 1984/85 declined by
about 50 percent compared to 1983, leadir.g to three of the contract being aborted
by end 1985. Besides the lower recovery of timber, these aborted contractors had
managerial and technical shortcomings which prevented them from completing the
work. They were replaced by the original surviving contractor at Muara Wahau and
by a main timber concessionaire in the Sangkulirang area through direct
negotiation. However, apart from the delay incurred by the poor progress of the
dissatisfied contractors, the process of canceling contracts and arranging new
ones took over a year. Consequently, plans were set back by about two years.
The new contracts were signed in September 1986. The work at both sites was
virtually completed by end-1989, satisfying the contract specification in
general.
1.18      The land development procedures applied under the Project- were meant
to serve as test cases for improving utilization of commercially valuable timber
in transmigration sites to be developed. The experience of the Project indicated
that land clearing by the timber concessionaires through direct contract
negotiation provided the best means of avoiding further delays in project
implementation. The replicability of this arrangement in other transmigration
sites has not yet been tested on a large scale because land clearing in new areas
6 The recovery values of timber were about 10 m3/ha (SAR eatimate: 40 m3/ha) at Sangkulirang and
40 ms/ha (SAR eastimate: 60 to 100 m3/ha). These lower values were partly a result of the forest
fire which swept through East Kalimantan in 1982/83.



- 7 -
has been deferred since 1986 due to GOI budget constraints in the tranemigration
program.
1.19      Road construction.  There were some noticeable and justified changes
in the planned road construction. The original plan to finance the design and
construction of the Batu Ampar-Muara Wahau link road was modified to finance one
section of the Sangkulirang-Muara Wahau all-weather road (known as Section III
of the Projasam road), which was to be connected to a motorable logging road
linking up with Batu Ampar (see Location Map No. 16771). An extension of the
Projasam road to Maloi from Kaliorang, and two access roads, connecting
Kabun/Kolek and Kabun/S. Durian were added to ensure good access from the coast
to the Sangkulirang settlement site.
1.20      Communitv develomment and relocation of transmiarants.  The delay in
site preparation works adversely affected the subsequent development of
settlement infrastructure including houses for settlers, and village facilities
such as offices, schools, health centers etc. In addition, the progress cf these
facilities had also been delayed mainly due to:  (a) shortage of timber for
building construction, especially at Sangkulirang; and (b) disagreement between
the housing contractors and road builders in the use of roads which were under
construction. The slow progress of house construction thus delayed the arrival
of settlers, which in turn affected the rate of development of the coconut area,
which requires settlers' labor. The first arrival of a group of transmigrants
(270 families) was in December 1985/January 1986 at Muara Wahau but the bulk of
transmigrants arrived in 1987, 1989 and 1990 because of delays in housing
construction. The total number of families settled as of August 1991 was 5,566
comprising 3,026 at Muara Wahau and 2,540 at Sangkulirang. The SAR target of
6,000 families was revised downwards in the course of implementation because of
the unavailability of suitable land for houses and Lahan I lots for 6,000
families.
1.21      In selecting transmigrants, the SAR as well as the Loan Agreement
specified that priority would be given to families with at least three persons
over 14 years of age because of the expected labor shortages in settlement areas.
However, adherence to this proved too difficult since "availability" overrode
"priority". Muara Wahau transmigrant families had 2.5 persons over 14 years of
age per family, on average, and Sangkulirang families 2.3 persons. Many families
arrived with very young children.   About 80 percent of transmigrants were
recruited from Java (51 percent), Nusa Tenggara (21 percent) and Bali
(8 percent). The rest are local transmigrsnts. NOT data indicate that over
90 percent of settlers were farmers before arrival.   However, the mission's
impression, based on discussions with the settlers and project staff at both
sites, was that a significant number of settlers had no farming experience prior
to arrival. So far, only 132 transmigrants (about 2 percent) have left and have
been replaced mostly by local transmigrants.
1.22      Agricultural develogment. The most significant change which took place
in between project appraisal and actual implementation was the coconut
development program. A number of modifications to the original plan envisaged
for hybrid coconut development were made. First, the planned coconut area was



- 8 -
expanded from 8,000 ha to 11,132 ha so that all the project setUlers would
receive 2.0 ha of coconut each under the Project. The SAR plan was to establish
8,000 ha and allocate this to two-thirds of the total project settlers at a rate
of 2.0 ha per family. Completion of the remaining 4,000 ha coconut area and the
allocation to the remaining one-third of the project settlers were assumed to
occur in a second phase together with the adoption of appropriate
marketing/processing arrangements. The contribution of GOI budgetary constraints
and loan savings resulting from a substantial devaluation of the Rupiah in 1986,
however, led to a decision to expand the coconut planting program to cover the
full 2.0 ha per settler, since the reduced budgets expected under Repelita IV
were very likely to result in many project settlers being left without the
intended production area of coconut. The Loan Agreement was therefore amended
to this effect in 1987.
1.23      The second important change to the SAR plan was that the two 001 estate
enterprises, which were executing agencies for the coconut development program,
decided not to develop their intended nucleus estates at Muara Wahau (1,000 ha
by PTP VI) and Sangkulirang (2,200 ha by PTP XXVI). The Project was to finance
only 500 ha of the estate at Muara Wahau, and the SAR assumed that the remaining
500 ha as well as the Sangkulirang estate would be developed in the second phase
period by PTP VI and PTP XXVI, which had committed themselves to do this at the
time of appraisal. However, PTP XXVI found that the prospects for financial
viability of a nucleus estate based on hybrid coconut were not favorable at
Sangkulirang, taking account of future price expectations and the suboptimal
climate. PTP VI, although it had signed the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the
intention of establishing the first 500 ha estate at Muara Wahau, informed the
Bank in 1988 that it was in process of a consolidation and rationalization of its
investments which precluded the establishment of the planned nucleus estate at
Muara Wahau. The Bank supported this position. This decision adversely affected
the settlers because the nucleus estates would have facilitated adequate
extension, input supply and processing of settlers' produce and also would have
attracted reasonably good staff to the area.
1.24      Progress of coconut development was slow for a number of reasons as
explained below.  Logging operations for the Lahan II (tree crop) area were
contracted to concessionaires, but since the logging was not tuned in to the
PTP's coconut planting program, it led to delays in land clearing. Secondly, a
new decree on log utilization (IPK) issued in 1989 by DGF, stopped all progress
for nearly one year to allow the Project to obtain the IPK permit for about 6,000
ha of land yet to be logged and cleared for coconut development. The planting
program which commenced in 1985/86 at both sites, was initially affected by poor
on-site management requiring some replanting.   The problem was subsequently
resolved but the slow arrival of settlers required for tree crop establishment
and maintenance labor, constrained progress. The labor shortage was overcome
partly by employing local people and partly by organizing settler groups
belonging to the block. From 1988 onwards, wild boar caused serious field losses
in young palms.   Seasonal forest fires, mostly due to shifting cultivation
practiced in the surrounding f.rests, also burned substantial areas of coconuts
(over 2,000 ha in total). According to both PTPs, these damages were expected



-9-
but not to the extent that actually took place. About 3,100 ha of rehabilitation
and 270 km of fencing for pig control were carried out.
1.25      The SAR assumed that the Project Hanagement Unit (PHU) would provide
all fertilizer and support services on credit until trees were mature (Year 4)
and they would train farmers in appropriate maintenance and collection methods.
However, the Project did not establish the PHU to provide such services.
Instead, both the PTPs have been maintaining coconut trees. About 260 ha of
coconuts are expected to be ready for harvesting this year but the coconut land
has not yet been allocated to settlers. The SAR also assumed that in Year 5,
after the disbursement period, the two PTPs would build copra processing
factories and assist Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) in credit recovery. The PTPs,
however, abandoned their intention of building such processing factories when
they dropped their plans to establish the nucleus estates. To this end, although
the Project succeeded in establishing coconut plantations, it is most likely that
marketing and processing arrangements will be delayed, with adverse consequences
for the growers.   In hindsight, it would have been better if more secure
arrangements had been made to ensure the participation of both PTPs in the
nucleus estate operation.   This might have included, inter alia, financial
incentives, management or other contracts for operating the processing factory
or coconut establishment and possibly maintenance.
1.26      Apart from a delay in implementation, the food crop development program
has, by and large, been implemented, according to the SAR plan. Lahan I lots (1
ha/family) on sloping land were developed for rainfed farming of traditional food
crops using contour strips associated with the contour bunds or lines. Lime
application was partially done at the time of land clearing because in the
meantime some doubts about its effect arose. Subsequently the funds were used
for cover crop planting combined with application of phosphate fertilizer.
Although this had not been foreseen at appraisal, rainfed paddy lands were
developed at Sangkulirang (240 ha) and Muara Wahau (100 ha) whenever the
opportunity presented itself.
1.27      Agricultural support services including Extension Centers,  Plant
Protection Brigades and Farmers' Cooperative Centers were also established
according to the plan. A number of demonstrations on soil conservation in the
Lahan I areas were conducted with the help of Technical Assistance (TA)
consultants. The results, however, were less than expected largely because of
the transmigrants' lack of interest and deficiencies in the extension service,
even though fruit tree seedlings were distributed free-of-charge to encourage
adoption.   About 880 ha of Lahan I transmigrants adopted soil conservation
methods recommended by the consultants. This included alternating strips of
annual crops with permanent vegetation (including fruit trees and contour lines
of shrubs and grasses) in an alley cropping system; the consultants worked
through and trained extension staff.   After departure of the consultants,
maintenance appears to have been inadequate. Present utilization of Lahan I lots
(40-60 percent), is much less than the SAR ettimate
(80-90 percent).  The main reasons for this, according to project extension
staff, include: (a) better off-farm job opportunities; (b) difficulty in
marketing surplus food crops due to remote location; (c) limited transmigrants'



- 10 -
learning period in dry farming on poor quality soils; and (d) limited
availability of dry farming technology.
1.28      Technical Assistance (TA).  The most noticeable cnange that occurred
in the planned TA was fssistance to the MOT Special Unit to strengthen the
coordination of Bank-assisted projects. The Special Unit was established in MOT
in 1984, but MOT found that the Unit was ineffective. Recognizing this the Bank
proposed modifications to the TA to assist MOT in developing an effective inter-
agency management/monitoring system for transmigration schemes in general;
hence, the consultant assistance at site, provincial and central levels using
this Project as a model scheme on which the system could be pioneered. GOI
agneed to this and thus the planned TA for the Special Unit was changed. About
1,040 man-months of consultants were engaged for this from August 1985 to March
1991. The consultants' performance is assessed in para. 1.46. The SAR allocated
about 500 man-months of consultancies for strengthening the Special Unit,
however, the actual allocation was twice the SAR estimate due to the prolonged
implementation period and the expanded role of TA in developing integrated
management and interagency coordination for the transmigration program as a
whole.   Similarly,  the other TA for project implementation,  particularly
supervising consultants for the project works in these isolated project areas,
increased substantially. SAR estimate for supervising consultants was grossly
underestimated as can be seen in Part III, Table 4B.
1.29      Project costs and loan disbursement.  As detailed in Part III, Table
5A, the final project cost was Rp 102 billion (US$64 million) compared with the
appraisal estimates of Rp 85 billion (US$121 million). The increase in total
project cost in Rupiah terms and the decrease in US dollar terms was due to
substantial devaluation of the Rupiah over the project implementation period,
which also led to significant Loan savings.   Of the total loan of US$63.5
million, the actual disbursement was US$38.6 million in total. The balance of
US$24.9 million was canceled. The actual loan allocation to civil works and
equipment was significantly reduced compared to the original plan, reflecting the
Rupiah devaluation.   However,  the allocation for consulting services was
increased by nearly two and one half times as mentioned in para. 1.28.
Proiect Results
1.30      Overall, the Project was successful in achieving the primary objectives
of the first phase development as envisaged by the SAR, albeit with some
modifications explained earlier and with a prolonged implementation period. As
can be seen from Part III, Table 4, most of the SAR physical targets were
achieved.    In  fact,  achievement  under  some  components  such  as  coconut
development, construction of roads, and village facilities exceeded the SAR
targets which were revised during the course of implementation to meet actual
needs.
1.31      The Project was suxccessful in relocating 4,466 families (excluding
local transmigrants), from *vercrowded inner islands and also in crf -ing the
physical potential for the development of farming models based on coco..Jt/food
crop production for tha settler. Given that only a small portion of the coconut



- 11 -
area has come into bearing and only a part of Lahan 1 (40-60 percent) is being
utilized, yields and overall production of coconut and food crops can still only
be estimated. Future projections of coconut yields made by PTP VI and PTP XXVI
based on their experience show that peak yields are expected to be lower (Muara
Wahau 3.25 ton/ha and Sangkulirang 2.25 ton/ha) than the appraisal estimate of
3.9 tons of copra/ha. Ae for food crops, yields of the main crops are now closer
to the SAR estimate (paddy 1.5 ton/ha, maize 1.25 ton/ha and groundnut 0.9
ton/ha), and would exceed the target in terms of "yield per ha".  However,
because of various constraints to full utilization of the Lahan I area (para.
1.27), overall production would be lower then the SAR estimate at full
development but self-sufficiency in foodgrain production for the sites would be
attained (see Annex 1).   The impact of strengthening MOT's management and
monitoring system was below expectations for reasons explained in para. 1.46.
1.32      Reevaluation of Economic and Financial Imgact.   The financial and
economic analysis has been carried out in 1990 constant prices. Two typical farm
models for 3.25 ha were prepared to represunt family incomes of transmigrants at
both Marau Wahau and Sangkulirang. The analysis included incomes from 1 ha of
food crops, 0.2 ha of home garden, 2 ha of hybrid coconut and off-farm employment
(see Annex 1). At full development, annual net income of a tranamigrant family
net of debt repayment is Rp 2.6 m...lion at Marau Wahau and Rp 1.1 million at
Sangkulirang. This represents a decrease of about 30 percent (Muara Wahau) and
about 70 F rcent (Sangkulirang) when compared to appraisal estimates expressed
in 1990 prices, largely due to differences in coconut yield projections.
1.33      The economic rates of return (ERRs) were recalculated separately for
the Marau Wahau and Sangkulirang settlements. The reestimated ERRS, calculated
aver 35 years, are estimated at 6.0 percent for Marau Wahau and 4.5 percent for
Sangkulirang, or 5.5 percent and 6.5 percent lower than the appraisal estimates
of 11.5 percent and 11.0 percent respectively. The lower ERRs are due mainly to
cost overrun (20 percent), reduced coconut yields (20 percent to 40 percent) and
price of copra (10 percent average), and a delay in benefits (2 years for food
crops and 3-4 years for coconut).   ERRs of Marau Wahau and Sangkulirang
settlements would increase to 8 percent and 9 percent respectively, if the
coconut yield of 3.9 ton of copra is used as assumed at appraisal.
1.34      Environmental and Social Effects.  The Project had a mixed effect on
the environment. The coconut development contributed to reduced erosion and soil
depletion of about 60 percent of all lands cleared under the Project. All the
coconut areas are planted with cover crops and the maintenance is generally
satisfac'tory, though some rehabilitation is needed for the area recently damaged
by fire.  Small contour bunds were provided for Lahan I on sloping land to
encourage certain cultivations and promote a system of alley cropping; this was
only partially successful (para. 1.27).
1.35      Muara  Wahau  site  was  in  production  forest  before  project
implementation.    This was  able  to be reclassified  as  conversion  forest
(i.e., eligible for agricultural development) for clearing under the Project, as
it was understood that about 20,000 ha of existing conversion forest on the west
bank of the Wahau river would be reclassifi3d by the DGF into production forest.



- 12 -
According to the provincial DGF, this was not carried out. During the project
implementation period, it was found that there was a need for protection of some
of the fauna which ware displaced from the Muara Wahau site due to land clearing.
Meetings were held and a study to establish a nature reserve was discussed
between the Bank and GOI in 1988, but a specific study was not commissioned
pending discussions by a bilateral agency for a program in this area. No action
eventuated to the PCR mission's knowledge. Wildlife had caused damage to young
coconut plants and food crops, and settlers reacted by trapping and baiting the
animals (wild boar, porcupines and monkeys) before the fencing works were
completed.   Damage as well as the trapping of these animals has now been
substantially reducee by fencing.
1.36      Three contiguous Dayak communities in Huara Wahau site lost some of
their land because of the Project. To compensate for this, GOI agreed to provide
funds for establishing a smallholder pepper plantation for the affected local
farmers (about 200 families). However, this has not been implemented so far
because of delay in GOI budget allocation for this.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
1.37      In developing Nuara Wahau and Sangkulirang tranGmigration settlements,
the Project has only completed the first step needed to establish the physical
base for the development of farming models based on coconut/food crop production
by the settler.  The future success of the Project will depend on:  (a) the
future domestic price of copra; and (b) the level of GOI support services
available to the settler. The settlers' ability to farm their lands to raise
their agricultural income would be, to a great extent, influenced by these two
factors.
1.38      The responsible line agencies at present are not fully committed to
provide the support services needed to bring the project-established coconut/food
crops  production  to  the  level  expected  by  SAR.    The  line  agencies'
responsibilities, particularly for coconut marketing and maintenance, are not
well-defined. Furthermore, titles to coconut lands have still to be allocated
to transmigrants, although PTP VI and PTP XXVI recently initiated the working
out of a credit agreement facilitating payments for land titles by settlers. As
for the food crop production program, the project-established agricultural
extension services still need further strengthening, especially in dissemination
of dry land farming technology. Arrangements for credit for food crop production
and for the marketing of surplus production which are meant to be provided
through the project-established Farmers Cooperative Centers, are still not fully
operational. These shortcomings will have to be overcome as required. MOT and
the line agencies will be able to improve the si..ation, though it would probably
take some time to resolve the current problems encountered by the Project.
Bank Performance
1.39      The performance  of  the  Bank  in project  identification  through
negotiation was generally satisfactory. The Bank provided adequate resources to
meet the objectives and targets for project processing. In retrospect, it would



- 13 -
also have been better if the Bank had insisted on one of the conditions of
presentation of this loan to the Board, i.e. the proposed land clearing contracts
to be negotiated with the two concessionaires.   GOI was successful with the
contract negotiation with only one concesaionaire by the deadline set. The Bank,
however, decided to proceed with the loan presentation to the Board considering
that the intent of the condition was realized.  Further, it would have been
better if more safeguards had been provided to ensure the PTP's participation in
establishing their nucleus estates ard copra processing factories in the event
of a fall in the domestic price of copra (para. 1.25).
1.40      The Bank's supervisory effort was satisfactory.   A total of ten
supervision missions were fielded in the seven and one half years period. Good
continuity of staff was maintained between missions. Given that overall project
performance was rated "3" in the supervision reports during 1989 to 1990, extra
supervision at this final stage might have led the Government to address the
priorities of coconut maintenance/marketing, issuing titles of coconut lands and
credit repayment agreements which threaten projezt sustainability.
1.41      From the Bank's point of view, the lessons which can be learned include
the following:
(a) The planned four-year implementation period wat; much too short.   For
execution of a similar scale of transmigration project in an isolated
environment, a minimum six-year implementation period would be necessary
(para. 1.16);
(b) For a first phase transmigration project involving tree crop development,
it is important to plan the tree crop establishment for all transmigrant
families to be settled under the first phese period and not leave the
completion of tree planting for a follow-up phase (para. 1.22);
(C)  For protection of tree crops as well as food crops from wild animals and
possible fires, particularly in isolated sites surrounded by forest,
appropriate protection measures should be considered during the project
formulation stage (para. 1.24);
(d)  Attention should have been paid, at the project proparation and appraisal
stages, to environmental and social impacts of the project (paras. 1.35 and
1.36); and
(e)  The role of consultants assigned to assist in implementation/management
assistance should be carefully monitored to ensure that excessive
dependency on consultants does not develop.   This is especially so in
countries like Indonesia where the public sector is heavily geared to the
use of consultants in its operations (para. 1.47).
Borrower Performance
1.42      The overall performance of NOT and the line agencies has been generally
satisfactory, although there were some weaknesses such as time-consuming



- 14 -
bureaucratic procedures for cancellation of contracts or appointment of new
contractors, processing IPR permit., etc.  MOT, as the project coordinating
agency, recognizes that these weaknesses were partly due to the time-consuming
decision-making process involving three to four different levels (i.e. site,
Distriet, Province and Central), and different agencies at each level. One way
of reducing this process would be to give more responsibility to the provincial
Government.   This would not only shorten the process but also simplify the
eventual handing-over of administrative and management responsibility for the
settlement from the central government to the local government. On the other
hand, MOT would lose control over actual implementation of transmigration under
the existing GOI organizational set-up and the problem of centralized decision-
making by the PTPs would have to be addressed.
1.43      During project formulation, MOT demonstrated a strong commitment to the
Project for reasons explained in para. 1.2.  It appears, however, that their
commitment was somewhat eroded by the unexpected scaling-down of GOI's
transmigration program in 1986 and thereafter. With the benefit of hindsight,
GOI, as well as the Bank to some extent, was over-confident that the expandad
transmigration program under Repelita IV31 would be as successful as the
previous Repelita III. The expectation that the establishment of the settlements
would stimulate future spontaneous development in surrounding areas was also
optimistic. Contrary to expectations, the sites remained relatively isolated,
and the project staff's enthusiasm for the Project gradually diminished. On the
other hand, in the final year of project implementation (1990/91), PTP VI and PTP
XXVI, with the strong commitment of MOT, demonstrated their ability to complete
planting out of nearly 6,000 ha of coconut in one year (about 50 percent of the
total area planted).
Proiect Relationshiis
1.44      Through  its  long  association with MOT  from  the previous  four
transmigration-related projects, and sector reviews (1981 and 1986), the Bank
developed a good working relationship.   The arrangements  of supervision
responsibility to the Bank's resident staff (RSI) was beneficial in strengthening
the Bank and the Borrower relationship. Most of the project-specific problems
were resolved relatively easily without seeking Bank headquarters' advice. Tho
presence of RSI in the country and their staff relationships with GOI should not
be underestimated in this regard, p2rticularly in handling poor performing
projects like this.
1.45      The Bank and the Borrower relationships with other relevant parties
including the line agencies, consultants providing various services to project
implementation, and contractors for the civil works have been, by and large,
satisfactory. In retrospect, it might have been better if the Bank supervision
paid visits to individual line agencies' head offices and established more direct
contact with senior officials, because agencies such as the PTPs are highly
11 Actual achievement was some 230,000 families (GOI-spusored transmigrants), as against the
target of 750,000 families.



- 15 -
centralized in management and operation but they never aent senior officers for
the project implementation meetings with HOT in Jakarta nor in the provinces.
Consulting Sarvices
1.46      General  satisfaction  over performance  of  the project-funded TA
consultants for the site development including supervision of civil works, and
coconut/food crop development, was expressed by MOT and the line agencies.
However, the TA consultants engaged for strengthening the MOT management/
monitoring system at the site/provincial/central level did not result in a system
which was implementable after the consultants' departure. The system developtid
for the site and provincial levels required a level of organization and interest
which was beyond that commonly available in MOT, although it was very useful in
facilitating planning and agency coordination during the project period. To
illustrate, the Bank supervision mission in 1989 reported:  "......the site
management and coordination system (developed by the consultants), although
extremely comprehensive and useful if implemented, is too detailed in its present
form. . . The management information system for MOT must be integrated, must be
able to meet the essential requirements of the various end-users, must be
implementable, and must avoid the collection of excessive amounts of data which
do not make an important and identified contribution to management or integrated
operations."   This was further confirmed by the PCR mission's difficulty in
obtaining information relevant to the PCR. A contract extension was made in 1990
partly to allow the consultants to simplify their management/monitoring system
but the outcome was not satisfactory. Although the site/provincial/monitoring
system was not adapted for easy use throughout the transmigration program, it did
provide detailed and comprehensive progress records during implementation of the
activities of all agencies in each block at each site, in a computerized program.
This greatly fa:ilitated supervision by the Bank. Project expenditure and loan
use records were also available through the assistance provided to the Planning
Bureau by the Consultants.   A second part of the same consultancy provided
valuable assistance to the Planning Bureau in MOT in planning and interagency
coordination activities for the transmigration program as a vhole.
Proiect Documentation and Data
1.47      The SAR and the Loan Agreement were detailed enough to provide a basic
framework for the Bank, the GOI's project authorities and the Government during
project implementation with the exception of the following instance. The SAR
proved to be inadequate in presenting the Thasing of coconut development and the
allocation to settlers and local farmers.-  A more detailed presentation should
also have been given in the SAR with regard to the allocation of coconut in the
context of an overall 10-year program.   The supervision repvrts and other
relevant project documents available at the Bank generally contained sufficient
information for preparation of the PCR.
it See Fax memo regarding Trans.IV Coconut Estate Design from Chief, ARFA5, RSI to AEAIN, HQ,
dated April 24, 1985.



- 16 -
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM  BoRRowER'S PSPECTiVE
Commonts on Factual Information
2.1       On the whole the project implementation has covered the entire project
scope.   The data presented, if compared to the SAR estimate including the
modificatlon, reflect the success of the project in achieving the main target of
the First Stage Development, in spite of the fact that tho project duration has
necessarily been extended.
2.2       The production of coconut and food stuff could only be estimated during
the first stage. The ups and downs of the production were much influenced by
various factors. The second stage development would hopefully produce better
results.  This stage, however, of which the formulation is not very clearly
described in the SAR, might be difficult to be carried out.
2.3       The estimate of the production of coconut as revised by PTP VI and PTP
XXVI was below the SAR target. This estimate might have been achieved if the
maintenance, processing and marketing including the price of the commodity had
been supported satisfactorily by the Government in cooperation with the private
sector or through other assistance. Considering the large investment made and
the existing potentials, this matter should have been taken into account.
2.4       The production of food crops which according to estimation was planted
on the first plot (Lahan Usaha I/LU I) -.or only 40 to 60 percent would certainly
not reach the SAR target.  This small area, neglecting the condition of the
marginal land and continuous agricultural support, had also to consider other
factors. For example, when the PCR was in preparation (September 1991) it was
dry season. And what is most important was the determination of the settlement
pattern, whether the plantation pattern included food crops, and not the other
way round. Other activities that reduced the exploitation of land covered the
planting of hybrid coconut which required transmigrants as workers.
Comments on World Pank Anal_sis i'n Part I
2.5       In general we agree to the analysis made by the PCR tesm on all aspects
of the project.  However, we would like to present the following comments in
order to make the analysis more complete.
Project Plannina and Organization
2.6       ConceDt of Project.  Since the very beginning, Trans IV Projeet has
been designed on the basis of the concept of the Central Mahakam Area Development
(Kutai District) which represents a subsystem of the Development Plan of East
Kalimantan Province. The objective was to open up a new area in Central Mahakam
as a development center in order to improve the welfare of the community through



- 17 -
an agricultural pattern which could increase tne living standard of the
tranamigrants and surrounding population.
2.7       The pattern selected was integrated agriculture combinod with food and
plantation crops that were more suitable and had better prospects, compared to
food crops alone.
2.8       Project Planning.   The most important factor that determines the
success of the transmigration program is celecting the land that fits the
agricultural pattern to be developed. The change of the settlement pattern as
proposed by the TAD team, the implementation group for the feasibility study, was
more rational; the pattern was plantation supported by food crops (before it was
the reverse).
2.9       It is a great pity that the change from rubber to coconut was made
after the Post Appraisal. We know that since the identification of the project,
July 1979, up to the post appraisal, January 1982, this project was still part
of Trans III with rubber as its commodity. No reason, was mentioned as to the
change of the commodity, and the consequence was not explained in detail either
although the Government and the community are more familiar with rubber starting
from the planting, maintenance, post-harvest processing until the marketing. In
add.tion, timber had also been entered in the planning as a major component.
2.10      The objective was all right, however, the benefit of the timber as a
component of land clearing which was obviously known as a factor for the
smoothness of the project implementation created new problems. This matter might
not be taken into account very seriously.
2.11      Scope of Proiect.  From the point of the activities, the scope of the
project gave hope to success of the project; however, the desire to develop a
poultry center by means of distributing approximately 12,000 chickens and 1,200
head of cattle had not been studied intensively; it was still a test. Ultimately
it appeared that the project results were very unsatisfactory.
2.12      From the point of quantity, the target fixed might still be based on
the local potentials only, while the capabilities in terms of the technique,
management, experience and field condition were not taken into consideration
seriously. Also, the period for implementation was too limited; experience has
shown that a project like Trans I, with a resettlement target of 4,500 families,
requires approximately six years. Trans III which was designed for the same
duration had a target of 2,000 families only, although it is quite different from
Trans IV.
2.13      Project Organization.  It must be admitted that it is very difficult
to establish a project organization that can coordinate all the agencies that
implement a project, but it seems that both parties were confident that support
from the organization through technical assistance would solve the problems.
2.14      Project Implementation. Owing to the planning that did not take into
account the situation and condition of the field, the changes that occurred



- 18 -
(agencies, regulations, fund) and the determination of a rather ambitious target,
se'eral basic problems had arisen int he implementation of the project. As a
result, modifications had to be made and the implementation period extended.
Several problems occurred during the implementation hampering the smoothness of
work as explained below.
2.15      Pro1ect De._la. It is indeed true that the implementation period of the
project as agreed in the loan agreement was too short. However, in order to
complete the SAR target after the modification it still required 7.5 years.
2.16      The main reason is the delay of land preparation which represents the
major and first activity of the whole series of activities.
2.17      If we consider it once again, the delay of the land preparation had
been caused by various factors that had not been anticipated in advance during
the project planning which cannot be separated from each other.
2.18      The isolated locations, the selection of contractors (through a tender)
and the entrance of the value of timber as a component of the contract price had
all influenced the determination of activity priorities and increased the
uncertainty of the contract price (depending on the total production and price
of timber), with no support from Government regulations on right to fell trees
and restriction of timber export.   The opportunity to take benefit from
concession holders as performers of land clearing which was open in the SAR
(direct negotiations) had not been used since tho beginning, although it was
rather easy to know the condition of the area and to estimate ;.he approximate
volume of timber. The timber volume which could be calculated in the contract
price would surely reduce the risk of the contract price and attract the interest
of the concession holders. In order to reduce the risk of manipulation in the
commercial timber volume an independent supervision could be referred to.
2.19      When the problem of land clearing had been overcoms,  the many
activities in making preparations for structures (houses for transmigrants and
public facilitiss) carried out at the same time led to difficulties in the land
preparation. This matter had delayed the arrival of tranamigrants so that the
plantation work had to start from land clearing (semi manual), followed by
another delay in the coconut planting which required much labor.
2.20      Project Reformulation. The uncertain economic condition of the country
during Repelita IV was another constraint to achieving the target of the
increasing transmigranto' resettlement. The indistinct second stage development
and the slow progress of the project implementation gave rise to doubts in
achieving the target established.
2.21.     In this difficult situation the Government decided to reformulate the
project, that is to complete all coconut planting (2ha/fam.) during the first
stage of the project implementation and cancel some of the project work.



- 19 -
2.22      In 1988, PTP VI rationalized and consolidated its capital so that the
development of a nucleus plantation covering 520 ha at Muara Wahau was cancelled,
although the Subsidiary Loan Agreement had already been signed.
2.23      This decision seemed to be in contrast with the extension to set up
farmers' plots, because on one hand the capital expaision through credit was only
made temporarily, and on the other hand there was no guarantee that the credit
could be paid back, because it was not sure that the farmers' plots could survive
and be maintained properly, and the products processed and marketed. This matter
did not only give rise to new problems, but it also led to delays in the
attainment of project objectives.
2.24      The GoverLment should have had the courage to reduce the target of the
number of transmigrants according to the condition and to avoid a greater risk.
2.25      Organizational  and  Personnel  Suo2ort.    The  selected  form  of
organization has been made clear since the beginning, so that each implementing
agency could set up its institution according to the needs. This includes the
criteria  of  the  requirements  for  the  managing  personnel.    The  major
reorganization at the Ministry or Transmigration and the Directorate General of
Forestry during the early stage of project implementation has increased the
4;ecision making and widened the coordination. The frequent change of personnel
during the implementation has split up the responsibility according to the period
of assignment, and in order to understand the project condition (agreement,
constraints, problems, etc.) we had to start again from the very beginning.
2.26      Technical Assistance.  Generally, the technical assistance provided
during project implementation was satisfactory, particularly in achieving the
physical target of the project. In some cases, however, the assistance was not
fully satisfactory; the supervision consultant, for instance, was only provided
after the start of the activities.
2.27      There was no follow up of the recommendation of the study result (study
of the second production processing), neither application nor absorption of the
agricultural development technology.
2.28      The modification of the technical assistance for the World Bank
assisted special unit for Project Coordination into assistance for the
Development of the Monitoring/Management System of the Ministry of Transmigration
led to increasing the number of employeee at the locations, provincial and
central level.
2.29      Project Costs. The low absorption of the loan and the increase of the
Rupiah financing is in line with the project reformulation and the occurring
devaluation.   The increase of the consulting services was caused by the
additional implementation period and the modificatioa of the technical assistance
using expatriate personnelt while the increase of the Rupiah costs was due to. the
fairly large rehabilitation of the coconut planting not funded by the loan.



- 20 -
Evaluation of World Bank Performance
2.30      Since the very start until the end of the project the performance of
the World Bank was satisfactory. However, through experience in the project
implementation, the following may be important for formulating and planning of
similar projects in the future:
(a) determination of a firm settlement pattern and "key activities" which have
to be implemented in order to achieve the objective by paying more
attention to the aspect of resources;
(b) selection of commodities that suit the field conditions, with attention to
uncertainties and risks in the future;
(c) predict a field condition that is close to the reality including the
changes that may occur before and during the implementation. An analysis
study of the impact of the environment (Analisis Mengenai Dampak
Lingkungan/AMDAL) before the project implementation and an Evaluation Study
of  the  Environment   (Studi  Evaluasi  Lingkungan/SEL)   during  the
implementation would reduce the negative impact that may occur or positive
impact expected;
(d)  formulate a more rational project (scope, tduration, costs), distribution of
assignments and regulations that will not create uncertainties and
different interpretations during the implementation;
(e) determine a SAR target that puts emphasis on quality of settlements
(infrastructures, income, improving living standard) without abandoning the
quantity; and
(f) improve the quality of the supervision mission which puts more emphasis on
searching alternatives for problem solving and constructive suggestions
without neglecting the interest of both parties.
Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance
2.31      Although the physical target of the First Stage Development is
successful, the following items should be noted in planning an implementing
similar projects in the future:
2.32      Plannine Aspects
(a) Formulate more realistic projects taking into consideration the situation
and condition by identifying the problems (field, institution, personnel,
regulations, capital) including the alternatives for resolution so that the
risk can be reduced to a minimum.
(b) Give priority to quality rather than to quantity by determining a business
pattern with a distinct target and select methods that suit the technique,
management and other requirements of the facilities.



- 21 -
(c) Involve directly all implementing cgencieo in each stage of the planning so
that the whole aspects of the project can be carried out uniformly.
2.33      Implementation Aspects
(a) All the implementing agencies should be aware that the target can only be
achieved if all the involved agencies do not give priority to their own
interest but see the project aspects as one entity by determining the
policies, scales, priorities and coordination.
(b) A bright idea is necessary to set up an authorized agency for implementing
large scale projects so that the principles of professional management can
be applied. Personnel with clear criteria can be obtained from each of the
agencies that gradually can be reduced/supplemented in accordance with the
needs end progress.
(c) Involve senior officials (of a certain echelon) with the authority to make
decisions in each project supervision so that the condition of the factual
project can be known clearly.
(d)  Observation of the effectiveness of Work Relationships between the World
Bank and the Government. The relationship between the Government and the
Bank and between the Ministry of Transmigration and the concerned agencies,
consultants, contractors during the project implementation was excellent,
especially with the RSI staff who always gave assistance in strengthening
the cooperation between the Bank and the Government or between other and
the Government agencies and third parties. For the sake of increasing the
effectiveness in the future, it may be advisable that both parties
introduce to each other the existing differences such as work mechanisms,
orientation and perception. Appointment of personnel from both parties who
have much experience and are communicative will be very helpful and
understanding of the duties and responsibilities of each party will
certainly lead to a more effective relationship.



- 22 -
PART III.  STATISTICAL IlFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
LoaaVcikPupose                                        Year d      Stus            Conmarts
The                                                  Aa
Transmigratlon and  Settlement of 4,500 families and rehablli-   1977  Closed  PCR/PPAR Issued 1983/84.
Rural Dev. Project  tation of an existing settlement of 12,000  Aprl 1983
(Ln.1318-IND)    families In Lampung and South Sumatra.
Transmigration II   Settlement of 20,000 familles &     1979      Closed  PCR Issued 1988.
(Ln.1707/Cr.919-    upgrading of an older settlement wlth        Dec. 1986
IND)             4,000 families In Jambi & South Sumatra;
she selection and evaluation for 50,000
families.
Transmigration IlIl   Ste selection and evaluation for 300,000    1983  Closed  PCR Issued 1989.
(Ln.2248-IND)    families and settlement of 2,000 families      June 1988
In South Sumatra.
Transmigration V    Site selection and evaluation of 300,000  1985  Ongoing  Closing expected Dec. 1991.
(Ln.2578-IND)    families and institutional development
Swamp Reck&mWlon Reclamation of 9,000 ha of swampland   1980      Closed  PCR Issued 1988.
I (Ln.1958-IND)  and settlement of 3,200 families In South      Dec. 1987
Sumatra.
Swamp Reclamation Reclamation of 30,000 ha of swampland  1984    Ongolng  Closing expected Dec. 1992.
11 (Ln.2431-IND)    and settlement of 11,500 families In
South Sumatra.
/a Wordd Bank fiscal year.



- 23 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMTA3IZ
Rem                Dae Pbnwd          Die Rsvd           Dae AUW
Idetfcaton L       N.A                NA                 July 1979
Preparation /      NA                 NA                 1979 to 1981
Appras/a           NA                 N.A                Sept 1981
Post-Appraisa      NA                 NA                 Jan. 1982
Negotlations       Nov. 1982          Jan 1963           Jan. 24-28, 1983
Board Approval     March 1983         June 1983          May 24,1983
Loan Signature     N.A                NA                 May 31, 1983
Loan Effectivemss  NA                 NA                 Sept 6, 1963
Loan Cosing        Dec. 31, 1987      March 31, 1991     March 31, 1991
Loan Completon     June 30, 1987      March 31,_1991     Aug. 8, 1991
/a  The project was processed as a component of Transmtgratlon IIl up to post-appraia and then reformulated.
Comments
Major issues raised at each stage of the project cycle ae recorded in the
Project Briefs, the Issues Paper, the Decision Memorandum, the Minutes of
Negotiations, and a note to file on ED's comments are as follows.
Identification: (1) Project size (12,000 tranemigrant families proposed by
GOI is too large for Bank financing) and land clearing methods (manual versus
mechanical); (2) Selection of suitable farm models based on tree crops (rubber
vas proposed by GOI and changed to coconut later) and determination of
appropriate methods of tree establishment, management and provision of a
processing facility; and (3) Financing source of Maura Wahau-Sangkulirang road.
Preparation: (1) Alienation of the production forests in the proposed sites
for transmigration and timber disposal management; and (2) Feasibility of a
five-year disbursement or a time-slice financing of the proposed project, which
would require 6-7 years to establish rubber trees for all settlers and about 12
years before trees are in production.
Appraisal (Decision Meetin#):  (1) Now to ensure recovery of commercially
valuable timber before land clearing proceeds, given low timber prices and export
limitations of logo; and (2) A 6-year disbursement period (financing of a first
phase of a 10-year tranemigration program) recommended by the appraisal mission
is too long and 4 years would be an appropriate first tranche. The meeting
recommended that the appraisal miscion re-examine these issues after post-
appraisal.



- 24 -
Post-Appraisals Largely becauso of disagreement among 001-concerned agencies
for timber disposal arrangements proposed by DO Porestry, the Bank decided to
exclude the East Kalimantan settlement component from Transmigration III and to
consider it as a separate project (Transmigration IV) with the following two
conditions for negotiations: (a) all land to be developed under the project had
been alienated for transmigration; and (b) satisfactory bidding documants for
land clearing at Sangkulirang (selective logging already completed) have been
finalized.
Netotiationas   One of the conditions to the Board presentation  (ie.
finalization of GOI contract negotiations with two timber concessionaires for
land clearing at M. Wahau) agreed at the negotiation, was not strictly fulfilled
because one of the concessionaires did not wish to negotiate a contract with GOI.
However, the Bank decided to proceed with the Board prosentation considering that
the intent of the condition to reduce the uncertainty about obtaining such
contracts was realized.
Board Presentation: No records on the Board mooting are available in the
project file. A note on comments from two EDs prior to the Board meeting contain
a number of references to project benefits, economic analysis, fertilizer
subsidy, soil quality, etc. The most important coment appears to be a question
of the project impact on local people. It was considered that local people would
soon become the minority in the area and that the project would greatly affect
their local culture.



- 25 -
Table 3:  LOAN DISBURSDEUS
Cuwn  Esiniud wid AM  D bu-        _
PM$ million
Wodd Baic Fbll Yew      1983 1964 195 1    196  13 19M  1960 1991 1992
Appaisl Esmate          1.0  9.0  21.0  47.0  63.5  63.5  63.5  63.5  63.5  63.5
Aclual                  0.0  0.9  23   5.1  11.0  20.3  26.5  35.0  36.9  38.6
Aclalsa % of Esmate      0    10   11    1   17   32   45   55   58   61
Dat of Final DOwreSmenmit                   8 August 1991



- 26 -
fTbl A: PROJECT IMPLEUETATION
A. Physical Achievements /a
Items                           Unit  8*A  Target    Revised         Actual    A:tual as I of
Target                    8AR Target
1. Land Clearina:
- Housing lots                      ha      1,500         1,392        1,392            93
- Food crop lots (Lahan I)          ha      6,000        5,566         5,566            93
- Settlement facility lots          ha      1,500           760          760            51
- Coconut lots (Lahan II)           ha      8,500        11,132        10,868          128
Total                                 17.300        18.8S0        18.586          106
2. Settlements
- Housing for settlers            unit      6,000        5,566         5,566            93
- Dug veile                        unit     1,500         1,025        1,025            68
- Deep veils                      unit       N.A.         M.A.              2            2
3. Roads and Related Structureas
-Access roads                       km         60            84           84           140
- Village roads                     km        260           194           194           75
- Secondary village roads          km         125          320           320           256
-= 8Ampar & N  Wahau road           km         45             4            8            17
- Section III of Projasam road      ka         -             45           45
- Kaliorang a Halot road            km         -              9            9
-Kolek * Raubun road                km         -              5            5
- Kaubun * S. Duriam road           km         -              2             2
- Timber bridge                     M        N.A.           323          323
- Steel bridge                      m        N.A.            14            14
- Jetties/wharf                   unit       N.A.             4             4
4. Vlilaze Facilities:
- Village offices                 unit          17           18            18          106
- Village halls                   unit         17            18            18          106
- Primary schools                 unit         17            31           31           182
- Places of worship               unit         34            36           36           106
- Dispensary/balal pengobatan     unit         17            18            18          106
- Godowns                         unit         34            36           36           106
- RUD offices (coop.)             unit         17            18            18          106
5. Settlement Center FacilLtiess
- Project development offices     unit          2             2             2          100
- Junior high schools             unit          4             4             4          100
- Health centers                  unit          4             5             5          125
- Rural Extension Centers (BEC)  unlt           2             2             2          100
- Plant Protection Centers (PPC) unit           2             2             2          100
- Famers' Coop. Centers (FCC)   unit            2             2             2          100
6. Coconut Developments
- Estate planting                   ha        500           -             -             -
- Smiallholder planting             ha      8,500        11,132        10,868          128
- Collection roads                  ha        160           209          209           131
- Fencing                           ha        -             272          272            -
7. Othegg:
- RECIPPC staffing                 No.       N.A.            31            40           -
- FCC staffing                     No.          12           17            17          142
- KUD established                  No.         17            18            18          106
Is As of Augu8t 1991.



- 27 -
B. ConsultinW ervices
(man-months)
Items                                 OAR Lstimate   Revised       Actual   Actual as S of
SAR Estimate
1. Sunuort to HOT Snecial Unit: jg
- Local consultants                          250         NA.           765           306
- Espatriate consultants                     250         N.A.          273           109
Subtotal                                500         N.A.         1.038          208
2. Suoervision of Civll Works,
- Local consultants                          NA.         NA.         4,538 lb         _
- Expatriate consultants                     N.A.        N.A.          291            -
Subtotal                                 72         N       A    4.829        6AZ70
3. Wdrolozical Studles for Doeestic
gater muanly
- Local consultants                          NA.         N.A.            46           -
- Expatriate consultants                     NA.         N.A.           -             -
Subtotal                                 12         NA.             46          383
4' SuMoort to Food Crop Developments Le
- Local consultants                          NA.         N.A.          383            -
- Expatriate consultants                     NA.           .A.          -             -
Subtotal                                 36         N.A.          383          1.063
5. Sumuort to Coconut Developeent Id
- Local consultants                          NA.         N.A.             5           -
- Expatriate consultants                     NA.         NA.             30           -
Subtotal                                 Al         w A             35            83
6. Kiscellaneous TA LI
- Local consultants                          N.A.        N.A.           22
- Expatriate consultants                     N.A.        N.A.           -
Subtotal                                NA.         N A.           2
TOTAL                                   662         N.A.         6.353          960
LI The original TA was revised to strengthen management and the monitoring system.
/b Comprising 613 local engineers and 3,925 technicians.
L Including other consulting services related to general agricultural development of the project
In addition to the soil conservation consultancy provided to DG Pood Crops.
Ld Including reassessment of the tree component, study on coconut oil mill processing requirements,
and tecbnical and management consultancy services to the project's coconut development.
le Idlucing various studies conducted by consultants, which were not pl-aned by SAR (see Coments
of D. Studies, 6. Project Results of Part 111).



- 28 -
TSble St  PROJECT COSTS AID FINANCIIG
A. Project Cost
SAl              Actual       Actual as I of
BAR
Rp       US$      Rp       us$      Rp      Us$
billion mLllion billion million
Mara Wahau Develoumant
S8te Preparation                        9.99    14.30    18.81    12.19    188        85
Comunity Development                   10.79    15.40    10.37      6.97      96      45
Agric. Development - Food Crops ad       1.44     2.10     2.22      1.32    154      63
Llvestock
Tree Crop Developmentt
- Smallholder                           9.96    14.20    13.45      7.92    135       56
- Ectate                                3.26      4.80      -        -        --
Subtotal                           35.44    50.80    44.85    28.40    127       56
Sanskulftant Develonment
Site Preparation                        4.62      6.60    11.05     7.14    239    108
CoamuAnlty Development                  7.96    11.30    10.03      5.89    126       52
Agrlc. Development - Food Crops and      1.05     1.50     1.44     0.85    137       57
Llvestock
Tree Crop Development                   9.55    13.60    11.59      6.85    121       50
subtotal                          23.18    33.00    34.11    20.73    17         63
Protram CoordSnation & Technical
Aseistance
Special Unlt for Bank-assisted          3.82      5.50     6.90     4.02    181       73
Proj 2ts
Other Technlcal Aseltance               1.33      1.90    14.88     9.85   1,269    518
Subtotal                           5.15      7.40    21.78    13.87    462    18Z
Total Baseline Cost               63.77    91.20   100.74   63.00    161         65
Phyrical                           5.99      8.50      -        -        -
Price                              14.28    20.30      -        -                -
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan         0.70      1.00     1.53     0.94    219       94
TOTAL PROJECT COSS                 4i74    121.00   101.27   63.94    in j3
Come nts
Total project cost over a four-year period, including physical and price
contingencies and a front-end fta on the Bank loan, was estimated at Rp 84.74
billion or US$121 million. The actual cost of the project over an eight-year
period was Rp 102.27 billion, or 21 percent over the project cost estimated at
appraisal. Major factors contributing to cost overrun were the increases in the
physical targets, including lend clearing, coconut establishment; construction
of roads, bridges, jetties and village facilities; the unexpected fencing and



- 29 -
coconut rehabilitation due to dmage caused by wild pigs and fire;  and the
overall increase in technical assistance for the program coordination, project
Implementation and supervision, and studies. In terms of US dollars, because of
the significant devaluation of the Rupiah against the US dollar (Rp 700 at
appraisal in PY82/83 and Rp 1,630 during PY83/84 - FY90/91), the actual total
project cost was only US$64 million, or 53 peteent of the project cost estimated
at appraisal.
S. Protect Financin_
(US$ million)
(M) Proceeds of the Loan
Ites                          5AR         Revised      Actual   Actual as Z of hAR
Aug.87   Aug.90
Civil Workst
- P2rt A                     39.00    26.80   27.80                    58
- Part B                      3.00     1.10     0      22.66            0
Equipent & Farm Machlneryt
- Part A                      7.00     1.80    1.30    1.16            17
- Part l                      2.00     1.20     0        -              0
Conmultants' Services         5.50     10.00   15.10   13.87           252
Studies
Front-end fee                 0.94     0.94    0.94    0.94             -
Unallocated                   6.06     11.66    0.86     -              0
Canceled                       -       10.00   17.50   24.87
TOTAL                    63.50    63.50   63.50   63.50           100
Commten
From July 1986 disbursement and percentage for civil works was increased from
60 percent to 91 percent (100 percent net of taxes).
(ii) rinancial Soureos
SAZ         Actual
0O0         57.5 (48U)    25.3 (392)
I3BRD       63.5 (521)    38.6 (611)
TOTAL       121.0 (1OOS)   63.9 (1OOS)



- 30 -
ThlIG PbOJ6CT RESULTS
A. Direct BSnefit.
onU Ebtst              &Actual
1* Relocation of Peogle fro Overcrowded Island la
- No. of families                                   5,400                 4,466
- No. of people                                     27,000                18,434
2. Jobs Created by Project Works
- Land clearing for coconut development             9,000 man-years       11,000 man-year@ /b
- Coconut maintenance                               34,000 man-years      44,000 man-years /b
3. Tiab.r UtilIzation
Recovery volume                                  About 1.0 million m3 Not available but
substantially
- Recovery value                                    US$60 million         lower than 8AR
estimate L
/a Excluding local transmigrants.
lb Actual data not available. Estimated based on SAR projection; the increased man-year is due
to the increased coconut atea actually developed.
ic See para 5.4 of Part I.
D ISconomic Imnact La
Economic Rate of Return                                Bar Zstl t-            PCR Estimate
Muara Wahau Settlement                                     11.52                   6.0S
Sangkulirang Settlement                                    11.01                   4.5Z
Assumptions
- Project life                                           30 years                35 years
- Shadow price of agricultural wage                   Rp 570/men-day          Rp 950/man-day
la For details see Annex 1.
Co onts
The main factors contributing to lower ERRs than estimated at appraisal have
been cost overrun, lower projections for coconut yields and copra prices, and a
delay in benefits.



- 31 -
C. Financial Impact Le
Net Family Income at Full Development   PCR Estimate (Rp '000)
Maura Wahau Settlement              2,580
Sangiulirang Settlement              1,070
la For details see Anmex 1.
Comment
l.         PCR retained the same assumption for "without" project situation as
used at appraisal.
2.           Total incremental family income (net of debt repayment) at full
development (Year 13 for Muara Wahau and Year 11 for Sangkulirang) is about
30 percent to 70 percent lower than the appraisal estimates adjusted to 1990
prices respectively.
D. Studies
Studies        Purpose as Defined at hppraisal  status   Impct of Study
Hydrological Studies To determine appropriate water  Completed  Based on the study,
for Domestic Water  supplies and to prepare     in March  water supply works were
supply            contract documents for HOT     1986   planned and implemented
Comments
1.        A number of studies which were not included in the SAR were conducted
by TA consultants. They are:
(a)  Transportation of Transmigrants.
(b)  Agricultural Integrated Development S.ndies.
(c)  Studies on Selection of FCC/KUD Businea:  Model.
(d)  Socio-Economic Survey (1987).
(e)  Reassessment of the Project Tree Crop Component (1987).
(f)  Assessment of Coconut Oil Mill Processing Requirements in East Kalimantan
(1989).
2. Information concerning exact status and follow-up actions taken for the above
studies was not made available to the PCR mission. The Bank supervision reports
also do not contain the information with the exception of item (6) above -
Coconut Oil Mill Processing Study. Based on this study, the Bank supervision
mission in 1990 agreed with GOI that DG Estates will obtain final agreement by
all project responsible agencies/officials on location(s) and nature of copra
processing and coconut oil refining operation to facilitate detailed planning for
needed investments.   It also agreed that DG Coop. Business Promotion will
complete a study of coonnut marketing, collecting and copra processing at
village/settlement level. Unfortunately, neither action was taken before loan
closure.



-32_
Ta12 7: STATUS OF MAJOR COVENANTS
LDW,f: L-5  F         : IRANSCTmT IV EF  O/W/6  APP: QS/24r  SE=: 5:01AIM
-          1Wf~~~~~  t~~A1XE OR ST 
SW=                          =aIT Ml  ~   bUoTm4 cr- 0mSwT               GlWfT 07        STAIN DeKRPq=
_WJ                                                       _ _                  14  W;M    CT PIDIR     WtAllS 110
U>ffr. a.0143     CA                  2   1VI 9fflDW L1  TGB              RCR  DOaWUAN, BJrf nr VI OMI Nrf V=0
MT.8.)  C1  S/U 2F CF L4J 5TrAIE.
MT. 3.X          A.1A    UO/U        2 WAV4 FEAL  WiT  8  #               IPAG 14 wUDIc.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0, L.XM. 2   E    T. 
SAWT S.5               -WU~/       2  W       Wrq"r I K                     1 W         SPU O MITW 4
CM  D C2im  m.,R&                   aJ.1R  Wf   AS     W .
AT. 3.c          E           /0W2    4                              CME PI tRtIiE AT   ww wErlm  AMM  AVE DU MM
IE^r 1HE 6  o4                   .  .u   wwz 
Mr. 5.10         E 14/w              2 BCH4 RgilL     FNE   2  H 1 =t. 0X                ST UTY  SOOI     I     E.
1M ASS=  ITft  14 MADM SOt
SOL 1. PM 4      C.1     Ow/U        2      I      I    ITS s a .1))    1 Y
- =A Dt         _  ;MWE   TOE
-s'all-UNN?z                                              & MR
_  I Ic-          :      ,      .         .    . 



- 33 -
Table 8s USE Or ILAK 01SOURCIS
A.  Staff IM_t* (staff weeks)
Itge of Proj et Cycle                       Plamed    Rewised   Actual
Through Appraisal                             N.A.       N.A.      49.8
Appraisal through Board Approval              N.A.       N.A.       6.7
Board Approval through Effectiveness          N.A.       N.A.        A.A
Supervision                                                        88.0
TOTAL                                                        ,144.
Source: LeondLng Operation Timetable - Staffing Detallm.



- 34 -
B. missio$n
Stage of Project Cylel   Month/Tear    No. of    Days in      Specialization    Performance    Type of
Persons   Field la    R presented Lk   Rating Status Problem /d
Identificatlon /i         July 79         3         N.A.          C,AC,AP             -            -
Identification/           Oct. 79         1         NA.             SC                -
Preparation /A
Appraisal LI              Sept. S1        6          24       AP, AG, EC(2),                        _
El, TR
Post-Appraisal La         Jan. 82         4          23       AP, AG, EC, RP          -             -
Supervlsion 1             Nov. 84         2         N.A.           C, MN              2            M
Suporv1iion 2             Aug. 85         3          12          EC, 1N(2)            3           NA.
Superviaion 3             Jan. 86         1          7              AG                3           N.A.
Supervision 4             July 86         1         N.A.            AG                2           NA.
Supervlsion S             May 87          2          5            AG. TR              2           N.A.
Supervision 6             Oct. 87         2         N.A.          AG, TR              2           NA.
Rsview                   April 88         6         N.A.      AG, EC, SL(2),          2           N.A.
TR, PM
Supetvision 7             Nov. 68         1          6              AG                2           N.A.
Supervision 8             Aug. 89         3          6           AG(2), EN            3           N.A.
Supervision 9            March 90         3          11         EC, AG, TR            3           N.A.
Supervision 10            Dec. 90         3          12         EC, AG, TR            2           N.A.
PCR                       Sept. 91        2          20           AG, SC              --
l No. of days in field is not recorded properly in supervision reports. Figure. given in the table
are  ratiate  baed oan suprviston misslons aide-lsemolre.
lb Sp.cilizatlont ZC - Economist; El a Engineer; Ar - Agriculturist; TR - Tree Crop Specialist;
SL a Soils Specialist; PH * Project Management Specialist; AP a Anthropologist; RP - Rubber
Processing Specialist.
LI Performance Rating I - No significant problems; 2 - Moderate problems, significant but not
critical deviations frm project goals; 3 a Major problems, serious enough to require special
attention and usually Intensive supervision;  4 - As in 3, but the problems are not being
addresed adequately.
Id Type of Problems a  I   Financial; 1     a Managerial; P a Political;  T - Technical.  After Now.
84 supervision, types of problems according to the above classification were not recorded In
upervision reports because of a change in reporting format. Hovever, managerial problems wsre
almost alvays reported until the lat supervision mission.
/e The project was processed as a component of Transmigration III project up to post-appraisal.
C.  Costs
Data are not available on cost of staff inputs broken down by each
stase of the project cycle.



Msnu Wahau: Per Ha Financial Costs ad Bencfil of Hybrid Cocoaut Development (1990 Prices)
Usk UP             no1        YR30   13 t2   YR3   YR4   YR3    T36   137   Y18   Y19  YRIO  YRIl  YR12  YRI3   YR14  TR33    V1r6  Y137  Y183  YY19  YR20-25
YIS      dda&I of cWa                                    0.      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    450    750   11350    500   17C0   19C0   2200   3250   320   320   32U0   35    3250   3250                 325
tSco                                 spap                  0      0       0       0      0       0            15 55    10    510    g0    MO    Mo0   550    M5    5M0           50    M0    MO    550         MO
ols Dlk         00tp0)                                   0.0    0O       0.0    0.0    0.0    00   247.5  412.5  632.  862.0   91.0  045.0  12310.0  1257.5  1757.1  3157.5  7177.5   177       757.5  1787.5    I7573
=                kweac Ca                             -        -R*R  __ _ _______
1p2730u            33.9   I03    13.8    5.3    5.3    S3        J3   3.3    5.1    53         C3      8.3    5.3    5.3    5.3. 8.3         5 .3    S.3    5.3    5.3       5.)
-Uadid Lab_                      Sp 230Wi           401.1  204A.   378    155.6  142.9  140        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0             0.0
cmars, rcpr                                             40.4    0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    00. 0    0. 0    0. 0           0 .0    0 .0    0 .0    0 .0 0.0           0.0
Teel                                                    54.7   90.4   13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2  13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2  13.2   13.2   33.2   13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2   13.2   U3.2   13.2    13.2
Ua                                   BP 210h             0.0    3J.    9.0   21.0   30.0   30l0    30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0               30.0 300        30.0   30.0300        30.0   30.0   30.0   30.0       300
TSP                                   9250W              0o      6.4   18.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   o0                  0.0
3.4 3551                                                 0.0    0.0    0.0   15.2   15.2   17.3   17.3   17.3   17.3   17.3   31.3   17.3   37.3   37.3   17.3   17.3   17.3   17.3   17.3   17.3                17.3
"or                                  59 250              0.0    6.4  13.7    3.    44.7   55.9   55.9   S1 .9   55.9 55 .9 5               $5.5 11 .9   55.9 1    $.9 5.9    .C   $5.9    .9   31.9   51.9       31.9
3cats"                                                  76.0   11.3   33.0   43.0   41.6   33.4  32.4   2.4   38.4   35.4   38.4    8.4   33.4    3.4    3.4    MA    3.4   3.4    38.4    A.                     #A4         1
T        _-ostu3m                                        0A    3o.0   12.0   12.0    8.0    8.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    S.0    3.0    5.0    6.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0                 5.0        w
ISsi_                                                    0.0   431.1   34.7    0.0    0.0    0.       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0              0.0       uV
1ukdd                                                    OL5   759.4  317.2  296.4  295.6  301.3  162.8  362.5  362.8  162.5  362.  1362.  132J  1362.   162.8  362.   362.8  162.8  1362.   162.6    302.5                   3
3fficm                                                  351:4.0   15.4   13.4   13.4   35.4   ISA    15.4   35.4   15.4   I354    31.4  13.4   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4   15.4    31.4
Bad                                                       30   4"0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    *0                4.0    4.0       4.0
_ 8imc33                                                l5.      5      .0 5.0  3      .0 5.0 1.015.0 5.0$.0                 5       5.$5 5.0    50                3.0 3.0 9       .0    S.O     5       S.0      1.0
Ubsbilsadas                                              0.6    0.0  367.0    0.0    0.0       0      0.      6.0    0.0    0.0    o.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.           0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0
?S55_                                                    0.0     0.0  124.    12.4   12.A   32A    3L4    12.4   32.4   12.4   32.4   12.4   12.4    2.4   12.4   32.4    14    12.4   12.4   12.                12A
L      _ _gdflaa                                         0        .     0.0    0.0   20.0   20.0    0.        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0             0.0
sd"W                                                    24.7   454   315.4   36.    56A        6        .      8 36.8               3. 36J0  36 36J. 36J M5 36J             5    MA    36J    36J    368         36.8
MNqm_euI O,sLad (95)                                    6.    520   433    33.8   23.2   36.0   20.    2.    200    20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0   20.0                   20.0
Told Ce1                                               927.0  903J        9    I4.6   37.6  3U.0  239.   219.6  219.4   29.6  2193   2194   219J   219.6  219.   219.   219.   219.6  219.6  219S    219J
Ngg Bm         Defeo DBkc k2 -7.   40.5  495.9  -345.6  -554A  -396.0   27   m3.   412.9   41A   715.4  51.4   8.  1367.9 1357.9  1367.9 1357.9 137.9  1567.9 1367.9   1567.9
ma * u3.n
Cuiseil.; Px "Ip3 (a)                                                          3615.3  460.9  4321   44063  43
CuaSmiIr  bean (1)                                                                                   35.9  42.4  45.   462.7
La" again" ()                                                                                         0.0  1613   373.7   M.4    712.2  712.2  712.2  732.2  712.2  712.2  732.2   72.2  732.2   713.2            0.0
NO   MIt& A*u Dek Sewyb                                                                              2790   313    39.2   399       3.1  133.8  23.1  #5    51s6   555 US                54   3154    55       3557.9
_1ft  LAbow.                                                                                           is     64      91      96    303     01     33    330    132 3035          130    130    130    130        130
tm 3o P         Labow I -   .4                                                                        357    373    430    407       11   1077   2506   6552   6562   6532   6552   6552   6552   6552    32060
Tow 1 Imdsqodies.comvemopsd
*Asnlqeaqmmi  dIym 6 ski plndi
4Tioes afs MS PKsmai



NI~-w  tN of   pouhiu P-hmg Ad 5c-  e- gP              (S
011OO  P  Mg tsta   -I sq VP"   amoub w- bsmaI to
pamper" iN@ .1 USA
maca    sits   not   gist rI tel   ti   ts   ato1    t  Zts1  cOt   tDI   50    ci        K u   sict                                                                        uit    ASm  el           
aMt   rutl  cul  rWK  rSu rK          t  r ut  rWt cI ut  c-ac   S-ca   ctL   S-cc   iSD  crc 
ae      rel.  rs   c-asm  r-e.  o-s   rtns  I'm   rtn   i-as  aee   o-u  a-aCc  ea-l   eo                                                                                            (4 wsI shu ml
V-at  c-cs;  o-tc  c-mes  rct                                                                                 W  u        _         o
WSW  act. rice  I-tact os  cs                                                                                      (it Siw "    I     0
a-oat  owmi atcot am,  a toot ca, al woolt wtea  a cos               % osic   -   ric s pt scner smi a c                     ec vcc-   ui-c- cisc- StC-  Lt oI- rt- as-w          w
sc-t    c-c   0-io-e         a-Sc c-c   a-tc  a-s   a-ti  a-tC        a-ti   a-ti  a-ti  a-ti c-t s cc sc   6-es   r-nt  c-s   a-t     eec tc-c                              (ga)sqaasm
r0[Z   o-a   DCO   rott  01tU  C'lt   COU   01tU  eCO   foe   loe    F099  CoU   etc   vtt  tSt   *1   1'g    Vlt   Wat  Was  rU001                                                          O - 
wct    c-s   a-ct   cct   c-ct  c-ct   c-t   a-c    cc    c-t   cc    wi wt c      -    c-ct   c-g wt c-cn   rac   c-a   c-a       a-aC    c-al       a
ae      ca    ce    c-a   c-t   c-a    cs   cs   o            ce    o       ce    cs    cu   ce    ca    ce    ca    ce    ce    ec-    m- 
tre     eo    CFO    we      eo    ee    we    e0    we    oo    We         e    ee    ee0   oe    cIO   ee    ee    wev    rn   we    wev                                                     ml
a's     Wev   we we    "           Oev     ee we    eeo   we    ee   oe    we    ee    we    wev    Om    WU    re         Ws    We    ee    re                                          _ou
e-n     o-    ens   en W ei   v o ni   on   Weni o Wei   W ei   w o n    ons   won   Wei   Wei   woo  Wei   Won   Wei                          evel                                            _ o4
I      c-cat   c-a   L.    Lt         ct   Lc.t c          t   cI  Lt .s  c:n             rL.   ci   *Ls   -r n       t -    I c-c    Lc su       oe                                                      P
mgtt         mel  ctol  woo  Wtbl   MIE  tai  tW9P   VOl  tl  ta:tt'   lO  tCOit  tb    't V1                      WMz   L'Ug ruc g   "ist   tV   I'Ltt                                             1ll_
or         ev    ee    ee    ee    ee    ev    ee    w           ee    ee    ev    ev        e wo         ev    tre    r e     vo    r0t   l'tD   "                                               saw
Ws      we    Ws    we e-e    we    Ws    we    we    we    Ws    Qe    Ws    Ws                 e    We    we el           to   weXt era1   W*             _-Uad
-ta    c-a   a-a    ca    a-a   c-a cW    C-a   c-a   c-a   c-a   c-a   c-a   c-a   c-at   c-a               V c-a  a-     c-s c-         lo   eVa *- 1                                          amc
ee    ee  re    o-e    we    We    er  o           eo .   ee         We    wo  w   eo       r w    we .  .      .   e        we     e V    we           mod w14
r-c     r-n   ta-   V-a    s-n   a-O   sL-  tn1   st-   s-cl  r-a   t-U    -uL   rua  ts-l   t-l    aCI   a-m   c-c    cc   ct   a-a                        leC                                    ALU
wC-t    c-ct   c-ct   c-    c-t   cs   c-ct   c-t   oet   c-c   c-c   erc    rec   erc   c-ct   os   cWt   i-c    wic  c-s   rs    c-                       wuft                                  MG
c-al    ra    ct-   a-cc        rtc ca    a-   rat   rtc   ct- rac   c    t-      rtc-a    a    r-t   rtc  rat   ct-    c-tic-c         rc    a-a1 rigK                                            maL
ev  "     *v    e       ev    wre   wMe   .te       v    Wev    Wv    te       vo   ev0    n      ea    ev    .         ee       We    oe    **                                        o
we      "      we    *      o-e   ov    eo    "         v    we    ev    tv    we    oe    tre    ru    Wt   Vig OCCI   tPttl           Va    SIX tSti sottl
rc      -c   c-c   -s    iS    -c               cs   iCt   r-    -s    ct   rcs   rt   ct   Sc               rs   rc    CS    cl-c    s       c-sc       imftj
~~~~~~-f-  -   t--   -                                                                                              
C-a     c-a   c-a   tsc-a    -al   ia-   c-a   a-c a-    aa                 c-a   ae-   c-    ca    ait  c                c         se we    -o  e       mu 
acmc    etu   aM    asc   asc   asic  asMc  Osc   etu   esC   cMt   eon   OKt   ON    Om              a      a-a   a-    c       a-a    n      a                                        _      p
Q-ICU   tlLVA  XIU IIA U 95 5   LI VA  Of    St tlU  p1   U  VASm    a mIV   I nU oo11 *I       JU $11U   t U    *U    asU    * U pIU    CVA   I U    *IIAJmPIUII
(s90!U 0661) p=voPAa  o P1111H0   JP Fd  q U



Farm Income For A 3.25 Ha Fam In Mrau Whau
YR-I   YQ-;   YR-3   YR-4   YR-5   YR-6   YR-7   YR-s   YR-9  YR-IO  YR-II  YR-12  YR-13  YR-14  YR-15  YR-16  YR-37  YR-I8  YR-19  YRS-25
Gnu lsA.aia Vab (a)           21S.0   261.0   311.0   363.0   420.0  481.5  545.6  513.6   614.9   650.6  650.6   650.6   650.6   650.6  650.6   650.6   650.6  650.6  650.6    650.6               1
C ad*W                         35.0   40.      47.8    53.9    61.2   68.9    77.1    o2.0    8.0    91.9   91.9    91.9    91.    91.9    91.9   91.9    91.9    91.9   91.9            91.9
w   Piub                      134.0     K0    85.7    0.0       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0     0       0.0      0.0      0.0 
"a1 V   ohodstames            314.0   in.3   349.6  309.1   358.8   412.6  468.7   496.6   527.9   553.7  5S8.    558.7    558.7    55S.7    5sa.7  358.7    558.7    SS8.7   5s8.7       58.71
Not Vdnfdl Home Gadis (c)        20.0   90"   I0        100.0    100     000   100.0   30 . 0   100I.    300.0  IOD0.   100.0    100.0    I00.0    00.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    I00.0
Not Sm..fimCocam(4               0.0     0.0    0.0   O          0.0    55.8   62.6    74    79.8    6.2   226.2   556.2  1711.2  1711.2  1711.2  1711.2  1711.2  1711.2  1711.2   3135.8
LO  Tos (a)                      6.3    6.       7.5      .1     a7    2V.3   27.9   28.5    29.1    29.7   29.7    29.7    29.7    29.7    29.7    29.7    29.7   29.7    29.7           29.7
G0rs AmbIm  t Soakcs            87.3     0.0    0.0    0.O       0*      0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0      0 O  0.0        0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0
0ff-&= kcamw 0                 480.0  4SOD    430D   480.0  480.0   480.0  480.0   480.0  480.0   410.0  240.0   240.0   240.0  240.0   240.0  240.0   240.0   240.0   240.0    240.0
Tawlmhc.m.                     1635.0   VIA    93 t    3 U1.0  930.   102R.1  1093.4  1126.5  1152.6  111.2  1095.2  1425.2  253D.2  2530.2  2530.2  2580.2  2580.2  2580.2  2580.2   4004.8
Tda Lebow Rq.Isim (me              99     III    120    134       145    305      324    341    356    370    374         380     399     399     399     399     399     399     399       399
bu    oLenW m*b                  16S      7.9    7.7      h6      6.4     3.3     3.3    3.3    3.3       3.0     2.9     3.8     6.5     6.5    6.5      6.5     6.5     6:5     6.5      10.0
a) AmntI,. Ta. I MO2.
I) As   I. TaNs 2. cod"On c uebdlq lb.
* Asm 1. TaN S .
o_ lehau at 240_ .m-   p.y.  *mq po l-10at BP. M00%A mi 320 mn-da 1au0hs.
10



Farm Lnoom  For A 3.25 Ha Farm In Sangktling
T-X    1-2   13-3   1-4   T-R   13-4  1n-7  Vnt-8             134    13-10    1O-1I    R-12        1-13   n3-u4    WA-S   YO-16   YR-1-         YR-It     13-19   1R-20  nR20-25
Fe" _coD
us.1 Pw&m.sm van (a) 3O.A  255.7  331.4  3S2A   434.3  443.2  53.0  S.                               640.0    364.3    43.3      36.3    634.3    634.3    434.3    46.3    46.3    436.3   463.3    636.3    43.3
_C Ms()  -                               5A    45.0   522    52.2    ".0   73.3   2?.    838          84.2      93.$     93.5     lI.$      *I.      93.1      3.      03.5      93.5     93.n 9nn3          93.5     93.5
bow      e                               14       .0   a.?    0.0 O .          0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0 0. 0            0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       I
Nd  Yak. oodactime                      206    2141.7  30.1  295.4  348.3  389.9  459.6  454.2    $14.8    5448    544.8    5448           544.8    544.      44.8     44.8    544.8      44.4     1.8    544.8    344 .
Ha van ofllis. Godu  (c)                  20.0    QO    l.   300.0    MO 100.0     0.0   00.0  300.0    300.0    100.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    300.0
NHa  o         Sm ca0.0    0.0    0.                             0.0   42.0   85.0  30.0  135.0    139.0    352.4    317.4    317.4    317.4    337.4    312.4    331.6    313.4    317.6    317.6    317.6   2034.0              1
LITz ea(s)                                 OS     4.9    2.S    8.3   24.2    2.)   27.    28.5         29.1     28.7     29.7      29.7     29.7     29.7      29.7     29.2     29.7      29.7     29.2     29.2      29.7
OtW AeA    moso 4lu                               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   o0         0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
oA4rn lln  (0                            42     43.0  420.0  420.0  420.0  420.0  42D.0  420           420.0    420.0    140.0    140.0    140.0    140.0    140.0    340.0    140.        140.0    340.0    U40.0     3.0
Teol Fu.  _or.                          355.0    .8  8n2    8.3 97A4  847.4  MU.1  1310.2   1144.7   1138.2   1072.7    0127.7    32.7   3072.7   30.72.7 302.7    37. 12 3.7   I072.7   1072.2   2769.1
Tea Labowle  Ro m3         (mdl            10      III    330    133  219    313        334    354       363      386        9       389      39        3M       319               389       3t9      389      389       389
_dlSuIUIM IM                              35.4    di      4.A    5.9    3.0    3.1    3.2    3.1         3.1      3.1 3     2.       2.4      2J        2.8      2.4      2.8      2.J       25       2.8       2.8      2.3
a) AoimIt . Table I  i) .
I) Aome 1. Tek ). P.dadl  cod cm'  ltabE.
0) adbi3 5afO.DW y-.
di  lil . TW .
o kbd a  M4 mm-day pr ys  *aft  you LION mg p.1.70skId mg Sman-weys pryar Um f aBr.



- 39 -                                         ANNEX
Table 5
Wholesale Price and MUV Index and Exchange Rates
Wholesale                                                Exchange
Price Index                 MUV Index                     Rates (Rp
GOI-FY                     1990 = 100                   (1990 = 100)                     to USS)
83/84                             184                          146                         938
84/85                             168                          148                         1047
85/86                             158                          142                         1154
86/87                             143                          122                         1373
87/88                             125                          112                         1655
88/89                             116                          106                         1707
89/90                             108                          105                         1788
90/91                              100                         100                         1870



Sangkulirang: Project Financial and Economic Costs (Rp Million)
PEC (%)        YF83/84          YrS4           Yr85          Yr86           Yr87          Yr88           Yr89           Yr90
Sile PrePatioo                                         60          497.8          176.0         362.0         1903.2        4040.5         1679.3         1602.1         790.5
Cowmofty Development                                   40           17.6         183.0          186 7          199.0        1363.5         3001.3         3905.6         1169.5
ArkuicI    DeedoDmeat                                  60            0.0           9.5           21.1          109.5         325.4          401.1          365.5         204.7
Cocaom Developmet (a)
superisot                                             0            0.0            8.9           7.6           18.9           16.8          12.1           27.8          175.0
UVkiHbd labour                                        0            0.0          103.4          96.4          238.1         219.6          159.8          388.9         2289.2
Ura                                                 100            0.0           0.0            1.1            4.9           9.8           15.I           44.8           81.4
TSP                                                 l00            0.0           0.0            2.i           10.7           9.8           11.3           38.1          105.9
RP                                                  I00            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
MOP                                                 100            0.0           0.0            2.1           10.7          16.1           23.6           57.1          150.0
otha                                                  0            0.0          197.5         305.7          698.3          816.1         418.2         1611.3         3081.7
Subhltd                                                              0.0         309.8          415.0          981.6        108S.2          640.1         2168.0        5883.2
Project Coodlmion &
Tecliea Asaloee                                       40            0.0            7.5        1421.8         1105.8         1566.1        3571.9         3508.6         1706.4
Total (Cunent Priceal                                              515.4         6S5.8         2406.6         4299.1        8383.7         7293.7        11549.7        9754.3
WPI bWexs                                                           I.84           1.68          1.58          1.43          1.25           1.16           1.08           1.00
MUV Vldex                                                           1.46           1.48          1.42           1.22          1.12           1.06           1.05           1.00
Tol (D990 Cot    Priceui                                           832.2         1114.6        3661.9         5779.0        9982.1         8147.9        1234S.1        9754.3
Ttal Economic Coo (bl                                              494.4         601.9         2207.6         3934.2        7304.8         6801.6        10570.9        8306.S
FY84185       FY85/86        FY86187       FY87M88        FYW89          FY89190       FY90191
a) LC+LCCb)                                                         500            250            500           400            200             0           3230
Cueee  Planti  (ha)                                                             50             600           550            200            400          2830
Coeas R qplant  Qba)                                                                              0             0              0           1196             0
b) Mb following converon fctorn were tsv
CFs
Locl cost                                                          0.90
UNed Labour (tp 950mXd)                                            0.54
Utea                                                               2.19
TSP                                                                 1.4 84
Rack Pboebate                                                       3.57                                                                                                                   a
mOP                                                                 1.41
0%



Marau Wahau: Projet Financial and Economic Costs (Rp Million)
FEC (%)       Yr$3I84          YrS4          YrS           Yr86          Yr87          YrSS          Y,89          Yr9O
sib ?e _tim                                          60          410.6         525.2         877.3        672S.8        4484.9         3413.7        1879.0         490.5
Co.inkyDvelopmcat                                    40           42.6        1050.4        1152.2        1359.9         917.7         4319.0         S04.9         6S1.1
A reih3  DOVOopDU                                    60           0.0           28.0          32.8         146.2         457.2          651.1         736.0         167.3
Coot Devclopai(a)
&ySfaor                                             0            0.0           0.0          30.4          37.1           24.8          25.0          20.4         145.0
Uadod  bour                                         0            0.0           0.0         375.7          554.8         325.9         413.1         322.4        2316.4
Uni                                               I00            0.0           0.0           0.0           4.9           17.0          30.2          47.6          75.0
TSP                                                1o0           0.0           0.0           0.0           10.7          34.8           7.6          12.4          34.0
RI                                                100            0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           42.3          24.8          47.0
MO?                                                100           0.0           0.0           0.0           10.7          34.S          26.4          72.4         126.0               1
Oaks                                                0            0.0           0.0         372.3         1102.6         369.6         722.6        1462.0        4035.0               .
_IbWX -.0                                                                       0.0          778.4        1720.1         806.9         1267.2        1962.0        6778.4
Projec Cordha &i                                                                                                                                                                        I
Tech"  Aliamec                                      40            0.0           7.5         1421.8        1105.S        ;566.1        1571.9        3508.6         1706.4
TOWal (O ltt PIft)                                               453.2        1611.1        4263.0       11101.5        8232.3        11222.9        SS0.5        9523.7
WPl hkxit                                                         1.34          3.68          1.58          1.43          1.25           1.16          1.08          1.00
muvbs                                                             1.46         1.48          1.42          1.22           1.12          1.06          1.05          L.0O
T44d   l"       b coosum                                         733.1        2555.6        6483.4       14793.0        9765.1        12528.4        9498.2        9823.7
TOl Economic os tlbl                                             434.2        1525.5        3908.7        1314.S        7716.7        10440.8        S115.0        8230.6
FYS1156       PY867         FYS7/#8       FYWI9         FYS9190       PY90/91
a)
LC.L+ 0m)                                                        1500           100             0            250             0          3038
CM"~ 1bq (ha)                                                                  200             100           650             0          3038
CM"s 3qmh  (h)                                                                                42D            1S5           260          1026
b) Tk fblwing co 4vsuloactou won wma
Loed cam                                                         0.90
UUi LaboI r (Rp 930W                                             0.4S
Uni                                                              2.19                                      
Tap                                                               1.14
Rock Fo te                                                       I.57                                                                                                               tD7
MOP                                                              1.41                                                                                                                G



- 42 --
Annex
Table 8
Economic Price Derivation - Marau Wabau
1991      1995      2000              1985       1990       1995      2000
Coora (export parity) (b)                                                                                  Urea (export Paritv) (e)
World Price (US S/t) (a)                                                215        334       400               200        157        190       177
Ocean Freight                                                            45         45        45                 0          0         0          0
Fob Sunbays (USS/t)                                                     170        289       355               200        156       190        177
(Rp/t) (c)              317900    540430    663850             374000    291720    355300    330990
Handling & Wafrehou  (5%)                                             15895      27022     33193             18700      14586     17765      16550
TraaportHandling (Surabaya-Samaridd)                                  40000      40000     40000             40000      40000     40000      40000
Hangling & Waetbouw                                                   20000      20000     20000             20000      20000     20000      20000
Tranponrt/Handling (Samarinda-SAngkulirang)                           35000      35000     3500              35000      350       350t0      35000
Transport/Handling to Proj*et area                                    15000      150O       IS000            15000      15000      15000     15000
Economic Farn-gate Price                                            I9DDS    403409    520658              502100    416306    483065    4S7540
Rice/Paddy (import parity) (d)                                1985       1990      1995      200           TSP (imnpot Parity) (h)
World Price (US$1t)                                           318       28f7       237       252               178        132        168       168
Ocean Freight                                                  35        35         35        35                30         30         30        30
Cif Surabaym (USSI)                                           353       322        272       287               208        162        198       198
(Rp/I)        594099    541926    457m6    483021              388960    302940    370260    370260
Handling & Warehoue (5%)                                    29705     27096      22889     24151             19448      15147     18513      18513
Tramport/Handlng (Suabaya-Smnarinda)                        40000     40000      40000     40000             40000      40000     40000      40000
Handling & Warehoh                                          20        20000      20000     20000 20                       20      20         200020
Transport/Hanling (Sanarinds-Suliag)                        35000     35000      35000     35000             35000      35000     3S000      35000
Transpot/Handintg to Project are                            15000      15000     15000      IS150            15000      IS150      15000     15000
Economic Fam-gsate Price                                                                                    518408    428087    498773    498773
Rice                                                      703S04    649022    560665    587172
Paddy (65% net of milling coat)                           447473    411864    354432    371662
Maize (exo    oarity) (a)                                                                                  MOP (impon Parity) (i)
World Price (1JSSJt)                                          165        109        99        118              124         99        106       106
Ocean Freight                                                  30        30         30        30                22         22        22         22
FOB Suabaya (USS/t)                                           135        79         69       8U                146        121       128        128
(Rp/t)                                             252450    147730    129030    164560             273020    226270    239360    239360
Handling & Wa reouse (SS)                                   12623      7387       6452      822S             13651      11314     11968      11968
Transport/Handling (Surabaya-Samaxind)                      40000     40000      40000     40000             40000      40000     40000      40000
Handling & Warehoue2 2                                                           20000     20000             20000      20D00     20000 2D 000
Transpon/Handing (Samarinda-SangIkU- an)                    35000     3500D      35000     35000             35000      35000     35000      3500O
Transport/Handi   to Project Area                           1SO0      1          15000      I5000           1500      I500       15000     ISOO1
Econmnie FPam-gate Price                                   129t28     30344      12579     46332            396671    347584    361328    361328
Soyabeans (imnort Parity) (ft                                                                              Rock PhospbAte (import oarilV) (1)
World Price (US$1t)                                           330       246        247       221                50         41        46         46
Ocean Freight                                                  30        30         30        30                20         20        20         20
CIF Surabaya (US$/t)                                          360       276        277       251                70         61        66         66
(Rp/t)                                             673200    516120    517990    469370             130900    114070    123420    123420
Handling & Waerhoue (5%)                                    33660     2Sf806     25900     23469              6545       5704      6171       6171
Transport/Handfing (SUwabaYa-Samaun)                        40000     40000      4000      40000             40000      40000     40000      40000
Handlig & Wareboue                                          2X00      2 0        2         20                20         20000D    2C000
Transport/Handling (Samarma-Sangkuilr )                     35000     35000      35000     35000             35000      35000     3S000      35000
Transport &  Halind   to Projeetr1e                         1SO00     1500D      15OD0      15000            150        15000      15000     15000
Econ. Parm-gate Price-Soyaboan                             786860    621926    623890    572839             247445    229774    239591    219591
-oroundalt                                    350153    276757    276695    253923
a) World Beak's Commodity Price Fo-ats. December 1990, adjusted into 1990 coestant pricea.
b) Pbippines/ndonesia. buk cif NW. Rotterdam.cif
c) Rp. IV7OUSS I
d) Fob. Bankok. 5% bron. 10% diuAsted for quality.
e) US, No. 2. yeUow. fobGulfPol.
n US, cif Rolenlam.
g) Bagged8 fob N.W. Europe.
h) Bulk fb US gulf.
i) Bulk, fob Vancouver.
j) 72% BPL, FAS Casabl:Aca from 1981. 70% TPL cohacLt



- 43 -
Ar'nex
Table 9
Economic Price Derivation - Sangkulirang
1991     1993     2000            1985     1990      1995     2000
Corra (exeort Paritvy) Ib                                                                         Urea (exoont Parityv (a)
World Price (US S/1) (a)                                            215      334       400            200       157      190       177
Ocen Preight                                                         43       45        45              0        0         0         0
Fob Surabaya (US$/t)                                                170      289       355            200       156      190       177
(Rpt) (c)                                           317900   540430   663830          374000   291720   355300   330990
Handling & Waeboua (S%)                                           13895    27022    33193           IS700    14586    17765    16550
Transport/Handling (Sumbaya-Samarinda)                            5000D    30000    50000           soo00     50000   s5OOO      50000
Hangling & Wareboac                                               15000    15000   1500            is"00    is250     1s500     15000
Transport/Handling (Samarinda-Sanulrang)                          25000    25000    25000           25000    2S500     25000    25000
Tranaport/Handling to Project area                                 SoW0     5000    s50              so0      sow0      500       5000
Econotic Parn-gatw Price                                         207Ds   418409   533658           487700   401306   461065   442540
1985     1990      1995     2000
Rice/Paddy (imnou  Parliv) (d)                                                                    TSP (imoort Paritv) (b)
World Price (USS/t)                                       318       287      237       252            178       132      168       168
Ocean Frmight                                              35        35       35        35             30        30       30        30
Cif Surabaya (US$/t)                                      353       322      m         287            208       162      198       198
(Rp/t)                                     594009   541926   437776   483021           388960   302940   370260   370260
Handling & Warcbouae (5%)                               29705    27096    22889    24151            19448    15147    18513    18513
TranaportHanding (Surabaya-Suamrinda)                   5000o    50000    5000o    50000            5000o  s50         50000    seo0
HandIing&Wabouac hIS=0    15000    i3000    15000                                                   1500o    15000    15000    150C0
Tranport/Handling (Samarida-Sangliualng)                25000    25000    25000    25000            25000    25000    25000    25040
TransportiHandllng to Project area                       5000      5000     SO00      soo0           5O00    5so0       5000      5000
Economic Pamn-gate Prce                                                                            503408   413087   483773   483m
Rice                                                  708804   634022   565665   592172
Paddy (65% net of milling cost)                       4507U   415114   3s7682   374912
Maize (exeo1t 2rity) (eb                                                                          MOP  1u1oost mrdtv) (i)
World Price (USS/1)                                       165       109       99       II            124       99       106       106
Ocean Freight                                              30        30       30        30             22       22        22        22
FOB Swrabaya (US$/t)                                      135        79       69        88            146       121      128       128
(Rp/t)                                    252450   147730   129030   164S60          27302D   226270   239360   23936)
Handling&Warebouw (S)                                  12623      7387     6452      8228          13651    11314    11968    11968
TranaporaVHa i  (Surabaya-Samarinda)                    SOO       50000    5000      5000           50000    50000    5000      5000w
Handling h Waabuae                                      15000    1500      15000    15000           15000    15000    15000    15000
Tran_porVHasdlg (Samarinda-Sangkulirang)                25000    250    25000    25000 25000    25                     25000    2500
Tranxpotl/Handllng to Projet Aea                         500  so 0          soo0      s50            5so0     50o0     s50        500D
Economic Frumste Price                                 144828    45344    27579    61332           381671   332584   346328   346328
Sonbeana (import yftly) (lb
World Price (USS/t)                                       330       246      247       221
Ocean FreIght                                              30        30       30        30
ClF Sumbays (USS/t)                                       360       Z76      277       251
(Rp/                                      67320M  516120   517990   46957
Handlig & Warbma (5%)                                   33660    25suo     25900    23469
Tanpo_11ndln  (SrabAY-Smarlnda)                         50000    5000O    500o0      so50
Handlng h Watchneeo13 IS0                                         1300     Is50      1500D
TrnspoWrHan          2und         i2                                       2         25000W
Tranpott & Hadint to ProJect area                        SO        s500     5000      5
Ec:. Par-gate Price-Syabean                            791860   626926   6289    577839
-Orosmdut                          35237S   273982   279856   257133
a) World dBak's Commodity Pree Foseama, December 1990, adjusted inLo 1990 cnft prea.
b) i. bulk elf N.W. RdUerJam.cif
c) Rp. 1370USS I
d) Fob. B ungko. 5S broke  10% dilAcned for quailty.
e) US, No. 2. yeUlow, fob OUl Pos.
f) US,cif Roused.
g) Bagged  fob N.W. lungs.
b) Buk fob US gulf.
i) Buk feb Vanouva.
72% BPL. FAS Cubban: fum 1981. 70% TmL coatac.



Food Crops Area, Production and Economic Value
Marau Wahau
YfS86   FYt7   FYU8   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94    FY95   FY96   FY97    FY98    FY99 FY2000
W3- PMd
AJl_ 3b. Aea Co) (a)                               225    50       135     515      140
Pr4&Wtles(tem)                                     130     470     660    1330    1410    1670    1960    2250    2530    2750    2950    3070    3160    3180    3180
Pdvie(Rp. VO0f)                                   440      433     426      419     412      337      341     346      350     354      358     361      365     368      372
Dc.. Pwod. Valu (Rp.M)                            57.2   203.5   281.2   465.1   580.9   562.8   668.4   778.5   885.5   973.5  1056.1  1108.3  1153.4  1110.2  1183.0
WS- Malzc
A _m lbc. Am  a)                                   45      100      30      105      30    1600    3800    2100    2250    22n0    2250    2250    2250    2250    2250
PfO&Utim (to)                                      40      12D      160     270     330      360     400      430     450      460     470      470      470     470      470
A_  c. Aream   )                                   135     300      8O      310      85
Fcoedcs(t*                                         50      170     340      400      520     630     750      860     960    1050    1120    1150    3S80    IIS8        1180
ToldPro&Wtim (Ie)                                   90     290      500     670      850     990    IS50    1290    1410    1510    1590    1620    1650    1650    1650
PdheP.VDWA                                         3"0      90      70       50      30        9       10      11       12      13       20      27       34      41       46
ce. Prod. Va   (Rp3be                              9.9    26.1    35.0    33.5    25.5       8.9    11.5    14.2    16.9    19.6    31.8    43.7    56.1    67.7    75.9
A d hC. Ane Oaa)                                   4S      to0      30      105      30
F1o600 (NO                                             30 1 00    130       210     240      260     270      290     300      330      310     310      310     310      310
A _inml. AMR Co)                                   135     300      80      310      85      164      164     164      164     164      164     164      164     164      164
read  (SWa)                                        40      140      18D     310     380      460     520      600     660      730     780      790      81O     820      8
TeuI P    ma= (am)                                 70      240     310      520     620      720     790      890     960    1040    1090    1100    1120    1130    1130
Fre (. VW)                                        335      321     306      292     277      263     267      270     274      277     273      270      266     263      259
Fec. PrOdL Val  R.UO                              23.5    77.0    94.9   35.8   171.7   189.4   210.9   240.3   263.0   288.1   297.6   297.0   297.9   297.2   292.7
Teaieern PPr  Vain(Rp. )                           91      307     411      650     778      761     893    1033    3165    1281    1385    1449    1507    1535    1552
a) Aea at hi! develpuem
'-3ji
tD XZ
Ez



Food Crops Area, Production and Economic Value
Sangkulirang
Yr86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99  FY2000
WS-po V    Paddy
Au_le. uAmC) (a)                            0       20       60     390      490
PIO&MUM (tow)                               0       40       SO     310      640      600     940    1150    1340    1540    1730    1840    1970    2040           2040
WS-Lowlad PaddY
AJml be. Am 0()                             0       20       Is     I00      120
P_toa 3mm                                   0       2D       40     130      270      310     360      420      470     530      590      620     670      710       710
Total Pro"on (1wo)                          0       60      12(1    440      910    1110    1320    1570    10IO    2070    2320    2460    2640    2750            2750
Prle (Rp.000A)                              0      437      429     422      41S      341     345      350      354     358      361      365     368      372       375
NAe. Pw. Vau (Rp.1M)                       0.0    26.2    51.5   185.7   377.7   378.5   455.4   549.5   640.7   741.1 S37.5   897.9   971.5  1023.0    1031.3
Ahu  lee. Ams (ha)                          0       20       15     100      120
PieAudi. (No)                               0       10       30     100      200      230     250      290     320      350      360     360      360      360       360                            1
Ain  lot. Arma O)                           0       60       45     290      370
podaio nlem)                                0       20       40     133      210      340     440      530     640      730               50      690      910       910
TOal PO&M   0(a)                            0       30       70     233      480      590     490      620      960     360    1170    1210    1250    1270          1270
Ptde ft. 00A)                               0      105       i5      65       45       24      25       26       27      28       35      41       48       54        61
1A. PMd Vale (Rp.M)                        0.0      3.2     6.0    15.1    21.6    14.2    17.3    21.3    25.9    30.2    41.0    49.6    60.0    68.6              77.5
WS_oomm
Amh lc. Ana ha)                             0       20       15      100     120
_ ISeOM(WO                                  0       10       30      s0      160      170     180      190     210      220      230      230     230      230       230
A_1 l1c. Art& OM)                           0       60      45      290      370
fooian (3m)                                 0       2D      30      110      220     260      310      360     430      480      540     570      600      610       610
Teato PM&tka o0(                            0       30       60      190     380      430     490      550     640      700      770      800     830      840       840
Piea MP. 10l wl)O                           0      323      308     294      279     265      269      273     276      280      275     271      266      262       257
EO.q Prod. Value MA                        0.0     9.7     I.5    55.9   106.0   114.0   131.8   150.2   176.6   196.0   211 J   216.8   220.8   220.1             215.9
Tal Sm. Phed. Valhe ReMy                    0       39       76     257      505      507     604      721     843      967    1090    1164    1252    1312         1325
a) Ania al fHl &WAe1qMa
.)Jhll                        .                                                                                                                  &11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.



Coconut Production and Economic Benefit
I-rn i5-
FY9I  FY92   0         FY94   FY93   FYT%    FY97   FY98          FY99      FY2003    MM    FY2002   FY2003   FY2004  F12030   FY2010   FY2011 162012   1Y203    FY2014   1Y203    182016   182017
1M.NSff    Aoe4IgMAI           480    5O0    1200    1600    200    210    2250          2230       2250      22$S      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250         0         0          0       0
a8uAE     )                    4       40       409     409     409     409     408       409        409       409       409       409       409       409       409       4         409       40          9         0         0          0       0
YELD                                    410     80     1200    1600    I80     210       220        2250      2250      2250      22        2250      2250      2250      2250      2250   22*   0      2250      2250         0          0       0
UF*                                     43       43      43      43      43      4          3 43     43         45        43       45         45        4         45        43        43        45        43        4          0          0       0
YIELD                                           480     900    120    360    1i00        200        2250      2250      2250      223       2250      2250      2256      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250       2250         0       0
ARM                                             20      20      200     200     200       20         20        200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200       200        200         0       0
TN"                                                     480     S0     1200    1600      28        2300       2250      22        2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      22so      2250      2250        0         I
ABIA4                                                  2f96    1296    1396    5296      1196       ll96      1196      3226      2396      3296      3296      3296      2196      1196      1296      1196       1396    l296        1396       0        4
YEW                                                             480     8Co    320       1600       ls0o      2200     2250       2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250      2250    2250
ADA                                                            3230    32)0    3W        3230      3230       3230      3230      3230      3250      220       3230      3230      3230      3230      5250      3230       3230      3230   3250
TOYAL ORODUcnoo (FM)   296.3   348.8  622.8  1442.3  35S.4   2 79.   764.4    8762.3   9197.2   10943.5   11430.0  12430.0   11450.0  22430.0  214300   11430.0  12430.0  134350.0   3430.0   10509.8   30083    9985   7267.1.
W4OC SC   KEo         Tn       201     260      323     365     428     442    463        489        332       536       336       336       556       536       526 536   536       536       S5  36               536       556       356     536
MEIMEWtUF baU.N)              40.6    90.1   194.9  326.3  1486.2  2333.4  3331.4   4294.J   5016.1   S866.    6126.5    6126.5   6126.5   6226.5    6126.3    6126.5   6326.3    6126.5   6320.5    5633.2   5579.0   5337.8  3895.4
MAIUJ WAU
y.w                            450     750    250    2500    IND0    I0        220       320        3250      3250      3250      3250      2250      3250      3250      3250      32        3250      3250         0          0         0       0
a*Su                          233    2332    2331    2133    1331    331    21331        1233      1233      1235      1333       131                 3531      2352      1331     1232       1333       1331        0          0         0       0
YIELD                                  450      750   1230   2I0    2'700    1900        220       3250       3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250         0          0       0
AR*                                    364      24      364     154     264     364       264        364       364      j64        264       264       164       164       264       164       264       264       264          0         0       0
nELD                                           450      730   2350    3500    1700       3900      2200       1250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250       3250         0       0
A*fi*                                           630     650     60      65      650       650       650        650       650       650       650       650       650       650       650       650       650       650        650         0       0
TOLD                                                    450     750    2250   2I00       3700      2900       2200      3250      320       3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250       3250       0
*3*4                                                    4603    603     603     60        605       603        603       403        03      605        605       603       605       605       605       00S        305      603        603       0
YEW.                                                            450     750    2250      2500      2700       -M0       2200     3250       3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250      3250    3250
A81U                                                           3038    3036    3038      5038      3038       03s 8      038     3038      3038      3038       3038      3036      3035      3038      3038      3035      3031      3038    5038
TOTAL      o     DU      r      9.0  3072.2  2946.2  2944.9  5077.1   737.0  6746.0   11507.1   12602.9    4074.3  35623.2  28032.0  M8023.0   38822.0   IUII3     0   38622.0   38622.0   2882.0   288220   34485.3   13932.3   32839.8  9812.5
OMc          IoC130tW F        292     240      298     330     401     427     450       474       497        522       si2      522       523        522       321       522       522       323       523       322       522        521     23
T@FALiNmWOtP(3MJ04   115.0   262.7  360.0  2030.7  2046.2  2n8.2  3933.7   3454.3   6263.6   7332.8   8318.6   980.5    9O0.5   8900.5   9800.5   910.5    90.5   98003    9800.5   7346.8   7269.1    61628   5144.1
'-5
.-'
.N



- 47 -
Annex
Table 13
Marau Wabau: Economic Analysis (Rp.M)
Project  Coconut  Coconut       Food Crop.        Net value Net value
Cost (a)    Maint   benefit Prod. Cost  Benefit     of home  of cMer      Nct Benefits
Year                                      (b)                (c)          garden    labouw
PY83/84                424.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0        -424.0
FY84                  12U.5        0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0           0.0       0.0        -1288.5
FYS5                  3661.8       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0        -3661.8
FY86                 10048.3       0.0       0.0     63.1      91.0          40.6    216.0         -9763.8
PY87                  7561.4       0.0       0.0    211.1     307.0         130.6    696.0         -6638.9
FY8                   9758.7       0.0       0.0    275.3    411.0          154.6    824.6         -8643.8
FY89                  7993.6       0.0       0.0    461.1    650.0          247.2    1318.1        -6239.4
FY90                  8133.6       0.0       0.0    547.7      778.0        272.4    1452.5        -6178.4
FY91                   900.0    1976.5    115.0    610.9    761.0           272.4    1452.2         -886.8
FY92                   900.0   2013.8    262.7    674.5    891.0            272.4    1452.2         -710.0
FY93                   900.0   2132.1    580.0    687.0    1033.0           272.4    1452.2        -381.5
FY94                   900.0   2217.7   1030.7    799.4    1165.0           272.4    1452.2            3.2
FY95                   900.0   2277.0   2046.1    827.8   1281.0            272.4    1452.2         1046.9
FY96                   9C0.0   2306.5   2885.2    871.4    1385.0           772.4    726.1          1190.8
FY97                   900.0   2314.4   3935.7    894.4   1449.0            272.4    726.1          2274.4
fY98                   900.0   2389.8   5454.3    915.8    1507.0           272.4    726.1          3754.2
F1.'99                 900.0   2409.0   6263.6    919.3    1535.0           272.4    726.1          4568.8
FY2000                 900.0   2434.9   7332.8    918.9    1552.0            7.4      726.1         5629.5
FY2001                 900.0   2462.0   8138.6    918.9    1552.0            2.4     726.1          6408.2
FY2002                 900.0   2518.0   9800.5    918.9    1552.0            7.4      726.1         8014.1
FY2003                 900.0   2518.0   9800.5    918.9    1552.0           272.4    726.1          8014.1
FY2004                 900.0   2518.0   98C0.5    918.9    1552.0           272.4    726.1          8014.1
FY2005                 900.0   2518.0   98S0.5    918.9    1552.0           272.4    726.1          8014.1
FYr0iA                 900.0   2518.0   9800.5    918.9    1552.0           272.4    726.1          8014.1
FY207                  900.0   2518.0   9800.5    918.9    1552.0            2.4      726.1         8014.1
FY2008                 900.0   2518.0   9800.5    918.9    1552.0           272.4    726.1          8014.1
FY2009                 900.0   2518.0   9800.$    918.9    1552.0           272.4    726.1          8014.1
FY2010                 900.0   2518.0   9800.5    918.9    1552.0           272.4    726.1          8014.1
FY2011                 9S0.0   251S.0   9800.5    918.9    1552.0           272.4    726.1          8014.1
FY2012                 900.0   2518.0   98C0.5    918.9    1552.0            7.4      726.1         8014.1
FY2013                 900.0   2518.0   9800.5    918.9    1552.0           272.4    726.1          8014.1
FY2014                 900.0   1933.4   7546.8    918.9    1552.0            7.4      726.1         6345.0
FY2015                 9S0.0   1857.0   7269.1      918.9   1552.0          27.4    726.1           6143.7
FY2016                 9S0.0    1572.0   6168.5    918.9    1552.0          272.4    726.1          5328.1
FY2017                 900.0    1186.3   5144.1    918.9    1552.0          272.4    726.1          4689.4
ERR-      6.14%
a) Anmex 1, Table I1. Development coat included eoconut development but excluded bealth. education
and coopentive.. Recuneat coat of infrastacturn, agiculwmn and communUty scviccs IaS been
asmaned at 2% and 5% of its investment costs.
b) Annex 1. Table 16.
c) Aonex 1. Table 13.



- 48 -
Table 14
Sangirang: Economic Analysis (F.p.M)
Ptoject   CocOiA   Cot            Pood Crqo           Net Valre  Net Value
Cod(a)   MaidL    beait   Prod. Cost  Benefits       of 1on    of Katter      Not Benefits
Year                                   (b)                 (c)          gard       labow
FYO364                 491.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0            0.0       0.0             -491.0
FYS4                   568.9       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0            0.0       0.0             -568.9
FY15                  2175.6       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0            0.0       0.0            -2175.6
FY16                  3903.9       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0            0.0       0.0            -3903.9
FY67                  7620.2       0.0       0.0     27.1      39.0            9.0      U4.0           -7515.3
FY1                   6422.4       0.0       0.0     50.3      76.0           18.0     146.2           -6232.5
FY89                 10099.S       0.0       0.0    195.5    257.0            31.4    554.4            -9452.2
FY90                  8173.3       0.0       0.0    396.9    505.0           111.8    1066.1           -6879.6
FY91                   690.0    1452.4     40.6    442.5      507.0          228.6    1066.S             -741.9
FY92                   690.0   1809.1      90.7    495.8    604.0            228.6    1066.8           -1004.8
FY93                   690.0   1785.9    194.9    552.1    721.0             228.6    1066.S             -816.7
FY94                   690.0   1548.3    526.5    601.6    843.0             228.6    1066.8             -175.0
FY95                   690.0    15S5.4   1486.2    640.9    967.0            228.6    1066.8              832.3
FY96                   690.0   1615.6   2333.4    679.5   1090.0             228.6     352.0             1018.9
FY97                   690.0   1648.7   3331.4    712.0    1164.0            228.6    352.0             2025.3
FY98                   690.0    1676.7   4284.1    747.5    1252.0           228.6    352.0              3003.2
FY99                   690.0    1694.8   5016.1    768.4    1312.0           228.6    352.0              3755.5
*Y200D                 690.0   1715.0   5866.8    768.1    1325.0            228.6    352.0             4599.3
FY2001                 690.0   1723.5   6126.5    768.1    1325.0            228.6    352.0             4850.5
FY2002                 690.0   1723.5   6126.5    768.1    1325.0            228.6     352.0            4850.5
FY2D03                 690.0   1723.5   6126.5    768.1    1325.0            228.6     352.0            4850.5
FY20D4                 690.0   1723.5   6126.5    768.1    1325.0            228.6    352.0              4850.5
FY20D5                 690.0   1723.5   6126.5    768.1    1325.0            228.6    352.0              4150.5
FY2D06                 690.0   1723.5   6126.5    768.1    1325.0            228.6     352.0            4850.5
FY2D07                 690.0   1723.5   6126.5    768.1   1325.0             228.6    352.0             4850.5
FY2008                 690.0   1723.5   6126.5    768.1    1325.0            228.6    352.0              4850.5
1fY3W                  690.0   1723.5   6126.5    768.1    1325.0            228.6    352.0             4850.5
FY2010                 690.0   1723.5   6126.5    768.1    1325.0            228.6    352.0             4850.5
FY2011                 690.0   1723.5   6126.5    768.1    1325.0            228.6    352.0             4850.5
FY2012                 690.0   1723.s   6126.5    768.1    1325.0            228.6    352.0             4850.5
FY2013                 690.0   1723.5   6126.5    768.1    1325.0            228.6    352.0             4850.5
FY2014                 690.0    1584.3   5633.2    768.1    1325.0           228.6    352.0             4496.4
FY2O1S                 690.0   1565.6   5579.0    768.1    1325.0            228.6    352.0             4460.9
FY2016                 699.0    1493.7   5337.8    76F.l   1325.0            228.6    352.0             4291.6
FY2017                 690.0   1087.5   3895.4    768.1    1325.0            228.6     352.0             3255.4
Ecoocomi Rate of Return (ERR) - 4.56%
a) Aex 1, Table 11. Develapena cect includ eccst dmlopet but exclud hbrath. education
and copentivea. Rec   t coat of infruizuetu  auJtm a ommuli i    ervlcea baa beo
asmed at 2% and 5% of its invetment coa
b) Atuex 1. Table 16.
c) Amx 1. Table 13.



117                         ,   9119       ~~~~~IBRD  16,77
1170                                            519             JANUARY 190
BRUNEI  8nU                                                                  .
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~~~~~~~4
MALAYSI   (
0Ponutanak  ofSa
KALIMANTAN    Balikpapan 0                                                     1       
Ban jarmais,n.. ,.
1150<                                            .       " 0Tanjunaselor
MALAYSIA                ,                                      (                ' -
Tanjnred0                                                              2
-202
/               *            nX} K-
'RDe IRD  6771                              -l       '
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' .rr .,D---e 6R                                                     \
EAST                                              Sa.Mgkulrangaw 
KAL/IANTAN.
K                                                     N > --4                         INDONESIA
   j   - 2                             .   ;                SeS                   PROJECT LOCATIONS                            
EAST KALIMANTAN
Tenggarong -?' \                         PROJECT AREAS
\ Sam;2ri'n    d          iJ? ROADS (Existing)
ROADS(Under U onstruction)
ROADS(Studiedl
It /- 5 6> $6!9                RIVERS
,   \   -.                         7'/  /    g       -    -    KABUPATEN 8OUNDARIES
CENTRAL  KfAL/MATAN Vr.  -/- PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
B  kpapen                -   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
*~..       KILOMET,RS 0         20       40        60       sO
'    I>l         1 .        ~~~~~KILOM-ETERS               ,    
:   \  MILES    0  10   20     30     40
)Tanahgrog6'r/
-20                                             *         t1.20L
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/I.en, \d ,.~ f> ,n _vn J                    IIns napr rn  r_S ,pq,eM ma191 Bad,S .Ini adwn I, 5, rn,W  at 
Om.          a . n,ao.  a d If I     *, so D ae hon
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bar OnU,t0 h 0b8a aM sour0 On IOn F.o Ccr  nr*ol                                    wepra*p= O
)SOUTH.'Ko 109a a  le94, rw Ioner b.Or, aOOnnO Off ~ d
110 A MATA/                                                        P.,                        1190, A  r> ; 0.  r-  o W  W 1 .Wr
115             tAAl144AArAVt;                            1t.70                                               11,90



IBRD  1677
117000'                    JANUARY  198
BRUNEI
MALAYSIA S                /
u.  '..,Mz.^varawanau               ' 
KALIMANTAN               . 
.              .                ~~~~~~~~~110'                                                                                              1
This map has been prepared by  116050
The World Bank's stall exclusively
tor the convenence ot the
readers and is exclusvely tor the
,nternal use of The World Bank
and Ihe Inlernational Finance
Corporation The denomnations                                                   /
used and the boundanes shown             .         
on this map do not imply on the          i Lo  Bng
part of The World aank and the       \  1 o       au          .    -.                                                     l
International Fnance Corporation.
any judgment on the legal stalts                             / I'IAHAU
ot any ternrory or any
endorsement or acceptance of                                      TIMUR
such boundanes
.   .     ,>>/               <                       z      ~~~~~~~~PANTU/\'   Xi
/gXuarawahau \                         7  \|                                                                 \
\   /        >         J        9         0    ~~~~~~~            ~~Gungung\
_____          \Kongbeng
To Sangkulirang
1000'6
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Muarawahau Project Area
PROJECT:
'.,  *      SKP CENTERS
*          VILLAGE CENTERS
S.KP BOUNDARIES
,                       P                --    ~~~~~~~ACCESS ROADS
VILLAGE ROADS
RIVERS
g.z/                                                 *--   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS  0              2       4        6         8
MILES
1 1650                                                               o0       1      2      3      4       5
_ _      _           iE r     11605



IBRD 16772
117<'50                                                              JANUARY 1983
!;,}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1 I- 5 
BRUNEI.1
MALAYSIA S                                             ,I)
'.     <KALIMANTAN
.F                       /            J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
" -~fi  S                                                        1 /     x
___ __ __;.--__ __    - '                                                       I   1t''/^8
___                                I                    ,'        :        \~~~~~~~(                          'N      '
Th,s map has been prepared by
Tlhe World Bank s staff erguswvel\
to, the conven.e,n: of the                        \-
'e3ders and rs eactuswel4 for the
,ntere-ai ose of rhe World Bank
-1000    ammo tee lntemnat,ommatF ams-c                                {J_1o                       I>Kolek Camp
cmrPo'al.on The demme.n.'al,ons                                 I                                                 \ , -UI*C
used and the boundarmes stownfl
onm tIhS map do not moty on the
Part oi The World Bank and Ihe
nte-natonal F.nance Corpo!atfon. |
any u.Jgment on theleaslu                                                                                             ( 
of an, leml.ory O' an
endorsement or accepdta'ce of
s_zh boul:dar.es                                                                                              /            )
INDONESIA                                        ' 
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT                                                           -ZOAAG
Sangkulirang  Project Areas
PROJECT :K
U         SKP CENTERS
0050          *          VILLAGE  CENTERS                                                 0Kalrorang                                            0050
SKP BOUNDARIES
- -   ACCESS ROADS
VILLAGE ROADS
RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS   0           2      4        6       8
MILES                                 I
0o    1     2      3     4      6
117050                                                                   11800 



