Document of                             T
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3555-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$63.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
May 5, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /1
US$1.00        =    Rupiah (Rp) 700
Rp 100         =    US$0.140
Rp 1 million  =    US$1,400.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)              =  2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAKOPTRANS   -  Coordinating Body for Executing Transmigration
BRI           -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
f DGE           -  Directorate General of Estates
DGF           -  Directorate General of Forestry
DGFCA         -  Directorate General of Food Crop Agriculture
DGT           -  Directorate General of Transmigration
DITADA        -  Directorate of City and Regional Planning
DPW           -  Department of Public Works
FCC           -  Farmers' Cooperative Centers
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
JMT           -  The Junior Minister for Transmigration
NES           -  Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Projects - Bank-assisted
projects for tree crop development
PLTP          -  Land clearing directorate within the Department of Public
Works
PMU           -  Project Management Unit
PPB           -  Plant Protection Brigade
PTP           -  Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan - State owned enterprise
with limited liability
REC           -  Rural Extension Center
Repelita I   -  First Five-Year Development Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
Repelita II  -  Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974/75-1978/79)
Repelita III -  Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979/80-1983/84)
SOE           -  Statement of expenditure
TAD           -  Transmigration and Area Development Team
Team Khusus  -  Special team within the DGE for Bank-assisted projects
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
/1 The Board documents for this project are based on an exchange rate of
700 Rupiah to the U.S. dollar. However, after project negotiations, the
Government announced on March 30, 1983, the devaluation of the Rupiah
from 700 to 970 per dollar. This devaluation will not materially affect
this project or loan. The loan amount is based on the foreign exchange
cost of the project, which remains unchanged.  Actual domestic cost will
increase somewhat from the amounts shown here due to the impacts of
devaluation on domestic inflation. The financial returns to farmers and
the economic rate of return for the project will increase because the
rupiah prices of major outputs such as copra and rice will rise relative
to the prices of major inputs such as labor.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Amount:            US$63.5 million (including capitalized front-end fee)
Terms:             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable rate.
Relending:         Approximately US$5.0 million in Bank funds would be onlent
to PTP VI, a Government-owned tree crop estate company,
through Bank Indonesia, for a term of 12 years, including
6 years of grace, with interest at 13.5% per annum. The
Government of Indonesia (GOI) would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project
Description:    The project would settle 3,500 families at Muara Wahau and
2,500 families at Sangkulirang in East Kalimantan. Each
family would receive a 3.5 ha farm and a standard transmi-
gration package including 1.25 ha of cleared land for
houselots and food crops, transportation to the site,
a house, agricultural inputs and subsistence supplies.
Each family with assistance from public estates would also
establish 2.0 ha of coconut. About 500 ha of coconut
would be established by a public estate at Muara Wahau.
As both sites are forested, commercially valuable timber
would be recovered during land clearing. The major risks
associated with the project are poor coordination of
implementation and reduced crop yields due to poor soil
quality. To reduce the first risk, support will be
provided to the special unit designed to coordinate
Bank-assisted transmigration projects. The risk associated
with poor soil quality has been considerably reduced by
the decision to plant coconuts which are tolerant of
acidic soils.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs: /1                                  Local   Foreign   Total
----- (S million) -----
Muara Wahau Development
Site Preparation                                   5.4       8.9      14.3
Settler relocation, agriculture
and community development                       16.4      15.3      31.7
Estate development                                 1.5       3.3       4.8
Subtotal                                      23.3      27.5       50.8
Sangkulirang development
Site preparation                                   2.4       4.2       6.6
Settler relocation, Agriculture, and
community development                          13.5      12.9      26.4
Subtotal                                      15.9      17.1      33.0
Program Coordination and Technical Assistance   2.4            5.0       7.4
Base Costs                                    41.6      49.6      91.2
Physical contingencies                               3.9       4.6       8.5
Price contingencies                                 11.5       8.8      20.3
Total Project Cost                            57.0      63.0    120.0
Front-end fee on Bank
loan                                               -         1.0       1.0
Total Financing Required                      57.0      64.0    121.0
Financing Plan:                                      Local   Foreign   Total
-     ($ million) -----
IBRD                              -        63.5      63.5
Government                       57.0       0.5      57.5
Total                   57.0      64.0    121.0
/1 Project costs are exempt from direct taxes and duties; includes reserved
procurement items.



- iii -
Estimated              Bank FY         1983     1984     1985     1986   1987
Disbursements:
Annual           1.0      8.0    12.0    26.0   16.5
Cumulative       1.0      9.0    21.0    47.0   63.5
Rate of Return: The rates of return for the Muara Wahau and Sangkulirang
components are 11.5% and 11.0% respectively.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 3943a-IND, dated May 5, 1983.



4  0                                                                                  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$63.5 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance the Transmigration
IV Project.  The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years of
grace, at the standard variable interest rate. Approximately US$5.0 million
in Bank funds would be onlent to PTP VI, a Government-owned tree crop estate
company, through Bank Indonesia, for a term of 12 years, including 6 years
of grace, with interest at 13.5% per annum. The Government of Indonesia
would bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a
country economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The
latest of these, titled "Indonesia: Financial Resources and Human
Development in the Eighties" (No. 3795-IND dated May 3, 1982) was distribu-
ted to the Executive Directors on May 6, 1982. Annex I gives selected
social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread
across an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about
two million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at
about 2.3% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country
has a highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy
resources, significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a
m          developed system of agricultural commodity production and export.  A high
proportion of these primary resources are located on the sparsely populated
islands of Sumatra and Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live
on Java which has areas with some of the highest rural population densities
in the world. About 20% of the population live in urban areas in both Java
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the East Java
Water Supply Health Project (No. P-3519-IND), circulated under cover of
R83-100, dated April 13, 1983, and submitted for consideration by the
Executive Directors on May 3, 1983.



- 2 -
and the Outer Islands, and the current rate of urban population growth is
over 4% p.a.  The 1981 estimate of GNP per capita is $520, which places
Indonesia for the first time amongst middle income couritries./i
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for
over a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred
in the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The Govern-
ment took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability, liberalize
the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives for domes-
tic and foreign private investment. However for the last decade the domi-
nant external influEnce has been the huge expansion, and significant varia-
bility, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil and
gas sector rose from $0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in 1980/81,
when the current account enjoyed a surplus of $2.5 billion. Oil receipts
also provide about 70% of Central Government receipts and have helped
finance the sustained increase in demand via the budget. The pattern of
expenditures has also helped foster diversified growth: of particular note
has been the support for agriculture, through investment ir infrastructure,
support services and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incenr-
tives. This bore fruit in two success4ive record rice harvests in 1980 and
1981. During 1971 to 1980 manufacturing has also enjoyed a high growth rate
(of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but here sectoral growth has been
in spite of a more restrictive policy environment and distorted incentives.
5.        Since 1981 the macroeconomic resource position has changed dra-
matically. Depressed international markets and a weak oil price have led to
a turnaround in the current account of about $9 billion in two years, with a
deficit of the order of $7 billion likely for 1982/83. Following the reduc-
tion in the OPEC market price from $34 to $29 in early 1983, resource
prospects worsened further. Faced with mounting pressure on the currency,
on March 30, 1983, the GOI devalued the rupiah by 28% from Rp 703 to Rp 970
to the US dollar. This was an important step in the short run adjustment
process, but barring a major recovery in oil prices, other adjustments will
be necessary, in particular in the rephasing of import-intensive public
expenditures. These measures will lead to a reduction in the growth rate.
At a more fundamental level the change in external prospects have emphasized
the need for substantial structural change in the eighties.  The development
of a strong and diversified nonoil production and export base is essential
to the restoration of reasonable growth.
/l On the basis of the World Bank-s system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



- 3 -
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
6.        Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth and a reduction in poverty
incidence over the past ten years. This is also borne out in the basic
health indicators, with a 25% reduction in the infant mortality rate and an
increase in life expectancy from 47 to 53./l These improvements should not,
however, mask the continued existence of widespread poverty.  Almost 50% of
the population are estimated to have been in this condition in 1978. The
core of the poverty problem continues to be in rural Java, where landless
laborers form a large, and possibly rising, fraction of the population, and
where, for most of the 1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real
agricultural wages. However, in the last two years of good rice harvests it
is likely that significant improvements occurred on Java, while agricultural
incomes on parts of the Other Islands dependent on export crops have
declined in the face of the international recession. Following the devalua-
tion this situation will likely reverse. Export incomes should rise, backed
by the international recovery, but real incomes in Java could be adversely
affected.
7.        In the future the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 3% p.a., equivalent to around 2 million people p.a., in the next
decade. In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and
industry only 13%; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total
in 1971 to 32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental
employment in the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained
by rising oil incomes in the 1970s; if services are to continue to be a
major source of labor income there is again a strong case for diversifying
the pattern of productive growth. The key issue is one of widespread
underemployment in the traditional sectors. To tackle this a sustained rise
in labor demand is crucial - through the maintenance of overall growth and
the encouragement of labor-intensive processes in both the traditional and
the industrial sectors.
8.        In the 1970s there was substantial progress in extending the pro-
vision of social services throughout the population.  Universal enrollment
in primary education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in
junior secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of
the population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic develop-
ment and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education
will be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the
whole system. The situation is similar in the health sector. There has
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.



-4-
been a large expansion in facilities, notably at the sub-district level, but
continued expansion and an improvement in quality will be necessary to
increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemented by a major expan-
sion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in indices of mor-
tality and morbidity in the 1970s is to be maintained. Currently only 18%
of the rural and 40% of the urban population have access to safe water /1
compared with Government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
Policy for Structural Change
9.        Indonesia-s past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. The re-emergence of a significant foreign exchange constraint has
reduced the capacity of the economy to carry a high level of investment.
Policies that promote appropriate investment choices in the public and
private sector will be critical if the structural adjustment process is to
be sustained.
10.       In industry, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) is planning a pro-
gram of large-scale natural resource-based investments, in refineries, LNG,
petrochemicals, fertilizer, cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and mining.
This would broaden the industrial base, but will have very limited employ-
ment implications and is very foreign-exchange intensive in the construction
phase. Of greater importance for both employment and exports is the encour-
agement of agriculture and the small- and mediumrscale private manufacturing
through an improvement in the economic environment. The 28% devaluation of
March 30, 1983, substantially improved incentives for production of
tradeable goods. Furthermore, the GOI has initiated a general review of the
trade regime, with a view to removing the distortions caused by the wide
variations in rates of effective protection. It has also embarked on a
program designed to promote the expansion of nonoil exports, including
export financing arrangements, export insurance, improved ports procedures,
export processing zones and a system of export certificates (duty rebates).
However, the private sector suffers from significant domestic constraints to
its expansion, including a heavy regulatory burden, especially in the area
of investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly developed financial
system. Further policy reforms to alleviate these constraints are needed to
create an environment conducive to private investment.
11.       The energy sector is at the core of the structural adjustment
problem. Oil and gas now account for 98% of domestic consumption of commer-
cial energy and demand has been growing rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a
serious reduction in foreign exchange earnings from the oil sector in the
l990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage and improve the efficiency
of energy consumption. This will require both price and investment
measures. In January 1983 domestic oil prices were increased by about 60%,
and this followed a similar increase in January 1982. This was a decisive
/1 Government estimates for 1981.



-5-
step that substantially reduced the differential between domestic prices and
the average opportunity cost; however, relative prices between products
diverge widely from those prevailing on the international market. In
addition a major program of investment is planned, with public and private
participation, in coal exploration and development, exploi ation of hydro
and geothermal resources, and a sixfold increase in electric power
generation in the coming decade.
12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonoil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total in 1982 of 23.2 million tons, compared with 13 million a decade
earlier. This achievement is largely a result of the provision of new, and
the rehabilitation of existing, irrigation systems, and the dissemination of
new agricultural technology particularly with resper' to the timely delivery
of seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable market
environment and good support services will be the main determinants of
further expansion in food production. In the past tree crops have suffered
from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very old,
but GOT has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority
program for promoting development in underpopulated regions, providing
opportunities for landless families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving
economic and environmental pressures on those densely populated islands.
Financing Development - Domestic Resources and External Capital Flows
13.       With a relative decline in oil incomes, alternative sources of
domestic savings will have to be found. This will require a major increase in
resource mobilization through the public sector over the medium term, through
a combination of reduced subsidies on petroleum products and increased nonoil
taxes. In 1981 it is estimated that taxes on the domestic economy were only
6% of GDP, if the domestic oil subsidy is netted out, compared with well over
10% for comparable countries. The 1982/83 and 1983/84 budgets represented a
significant effort to improve the situation, with major reductions in the oil
subsidy and increases in nonoil taxes, but this will have to be sustained in
following years. In addition to public resource mobilization it is becoming
increasingly important to encourage the growth and improve the efficiency of
distribution of financialized savings, through an improved financial regime
and the development of a domestic capital market.
14.       Even with effective measures to mobilize domestic resources there
will be a substantial need for foreign savings in the 1980s, especially in
the short-run adjustment to loss in oil income. The most important compo-
nent of this will be in the form of medium- and long-term debt flows. Total
disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost $20 billion at the
end of 1982 and undisbursed debt amounted to an additional $12 billion. The
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains a principal source of external



- 6 -
capital, including Official Developnient Assistance, to the country.  During
the 1970s, however, Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transformation
in its public debt structure from a si'tuiation of heavy reliance on official
concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and
variable interest loans in the second half of the decade.  In 1982 private
source debt accounted for 52% of new commitments of public debt. The fact
that Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s,
and the efficiency with which GOQ  nas managed debt, are clear indicators of
how far the country has progressed. However, the debt servicing capacity
depends on commodity production rather than a broad industrial base, and
this makes Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to developments in interna-
tional markets.  The implication is that debt utilization should remain very
prudent, and that there will be a continued justification for official debt
of long maturities in the 1980s.  With the sharp decline in oil export
receipts the debt service ratio will rise in the short term, but present
projections indicate that the overall debt position will remain manageable.
PART *I - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS L INDONESIA /1
15.       As of March 31, 1983, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 76 Bank loans amounting to $5,295.6 million.
IFC investments totalled $13608 million.  The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia-s total (disbursed) externa'I debt outstanding at the end of 1980
was 10.7%, and the share of debt service, 7.1%. By the end of 1981, these
ratios increased to 11.2% and 7.4% respectively. Annex II contains a
summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31 1983,
as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Given the critical
importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food
security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported projects have
been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to
virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transportation,
education, urban development, water supply, rural development, nutrition,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
l6.       During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of
these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
line with the conclusions of the bas5c economic report, required greater
/1  Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the East Java
Water Supply Health Project (No. P-3517-IND), circulated under cover of
R83-100, dated April 13, 1983, and approved by the Executlve Directors
on May 3, 1983.



-7 -
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given
to these priorities.
17.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus to
deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all
likelihood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact will
require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private invest-
ment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments in
industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources develop-
ment can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work is being
geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of Bank
involvement will be on policy and institutional development and technical
assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration between
sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the subsector
and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this level. The
only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a rapid expan-
sion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the severe shortage
of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth sector work is
focused on a policy to promote industrialization which will build on
Indonesia's comparative advantage in labor and resource intensive industries.
This analysis may lead to a series of industrial projects which would facili-
tate subsectoral reform. In energy, sector work and continued lending is con-
centrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pric-
ing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and tree crops will continue to
absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of the importance of these
sectors, and continued support for transport is anticipated. Continued
lending in the areas of provision of social services, in population, health
and nutrition, urban development and water supply will increasingly emphasize
institutional support and the development of innovative low-cost solutions.
18.       The last two years have seen major improvements in the disburse-
ment ratio /1 from a low of 13% in FY80, compared to a Bank-wide average of
21.31%, in Thailand of 21.2% and in Nigeria of 17.31% in that year, to 18%
in FY82. The poor FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid
increase in commitments during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA
commitments to Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank wide increase
of 83%. However, it also reflected implementation difficulties arising out
of GOIs budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, including issuance
of tender documents and opening of letters of credit. The severe shortage
of managerial and technical manpower compounds the problem. A number of
steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank to address these issues. Several
special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and
make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work out
/1 The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 8 -
corrective measures.  In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta
in September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these joint
initiatives, GOI has taken measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial proceduires affecting project implementation. In
addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia.  Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board considera-
tion at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts,
improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in
disbursements from S204.0 million in FY79 to $501.3 million in FY82, and
$301.2 million for the first six months of FY83. It is nevertheless
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
19.        From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commod-
ity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group-s subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved credit-
worthiness, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.        The proposed project constitutes the tenth lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under
advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the Third Agricultural
Training, the Nucleus Estate and Smallholders Sugar, the Second Polytechnic,
and the Thirteenth Power Projects.
PART TTI - THE TRANSMIGRATION PROGRAM
Need for a Transmigration Program
21.        Of Indonesia-s population of over 150 million people, almost
92 million reside in Java, an island with about 7% of the nation-s land.
Seventy percent of Java-s total area is cultivated and population densities
in irrigated areas rise to 2,000 people/sq km. Meanwhile, vast areas of low
fertility soil lie uncultivated in the Other Islands and low population
densities in some areas impede regional development and economic growth.
These facts have been so striking for so long that programs to wed the
underutilized labor of Java with the underutilized land of the Other Islands
have figured in the programs of the GOI for three quarters of a century.
22.        The major purposes of the transmigration program have been to:
(a) create employment opportunities for and improve the incomes of the
impoverished and landless laborers on Java, Bali, and Lombok; (b) alleviate
population pressures on these islands, especially pressures in ecologically
vulnerable areas; (c) promote balanced regional development; and (d)
increase food and tree crop production.



-9-
Past Transmigration Efforts
23.       Prior to the mid-1970s both the size and quality of the transmigra-
tion program were limited by shortages of funds; presettlement preparation was
poor; sites were often located in remote and inaccessible a.eas; and
agricultural services were unavailable. As a result, transmigrant communities
dependent on rainfed agriculture often remained at subsistence levels.
24.       In preparing Repelita III in 1978, the GOI, prompted by its improved
resource position and increased concern about shortfalls in rice production,
decided to increase its target for settlement to 500,000 families over five
years. To achieve this target, GOI reorganized the transmigration program,
transferring many implementation responsibilities from the Directorate General
of Transmigration (DGT) to the agencies normally responsible for each sector
and establishing a policy making board, the Coordinc ing Body for Executing
Transmigration (BAKOPTRANS) and the Office of the Junior Minister for Trans-
migration (JMT) to effect coordination between agencies. The Repelita III
program began in April 1979 and, despite a slow start, about 250,000 families
(1,000,000 people) have been moved in the first four years. These numbers
make the Indonesian transmigration program the largest voluntary resettlement
effort in the World.
Bank Group Involvement
25.       Since 1974, the Bank Group has been involved in the evolution of
this program through the Transmigration and Rural Development I,
Transmigration II, III, and the Swamp Reclamation Projects, the Transmigration
Sector Review, and this project. The nature of the Bank Group's involvement
has evolved as the issues and problems of the program have changed. The first
Bank-assisted transmigration project (Ln. 1318-IND) was appraised in 1976. It
consisted of two test schemes in southern Sumatra: (a) the rehabilitation of
an existing project for 12,000 families in Way Abung; and (b) the settlement
of 4,500 families near Baturaja. Baturaja farmers were provided with 5.0 ha
farms (including one ha of rubber trees), cattle for draft power, free
agricultural inputs for three years, a house and one year of subsistence
supplies. The project was implemented by a Project Management Unit (PMU)
established within the DGT.
26.       After a slow start, the first transmigration project is nearing
completion, and in 1981 the new settlement at Baturaja was judged by the GOI
as the best transmigration settlement in Indonesia. After five to six years
on site, farmers have an average of 1.3 ha/family under cultivation and
average annual incomes of about US$600 from annual crops and off-farm work.
When rubber comes into production beginning 1983, family incomes are expected
to rise to about US$2,000 per year.



- 10 -
27.       In 1979 the GOI and the Bank Group agreed to a second Bank-assisted
project (Ln. 1707/Cr. 919-IND) which was to be a model for transmigration
during the Third Five-Year Plan. This project was intended to settle 30,000
families along the new trans-Sumatra highway in Jambi province and to
rehabilitate an existing settlement of 4,000 transmigrant families. Given
high program targets, the GOI and Bank Group were interested in rapid
preparation and settlement and relatively low per family costs. The project
had a number of features to support these objectives: (a) to speed
preparation, the project was appraised on the basis of preliminary mapping,
while detailed surveys and village design were incorporated within the
project; (b) to speed development, mechanical land clearing was planned and
its cost and quality were to be monitored under the project; (c) to keep costs
low and to promote food self-sufficiency, an agricultural support package was
developed for rainfed food crops. The introduction of tree crops was planned
for a later stage of development.
28.       The settlement component of the Transmigration II project has had
start-up problems due to land shortages in the original sites and coordination
problems arising from new organizational arrangements. Detailed mapping
revealed that flat land suitable for food crops in the original project area
in Jambi province could accommodate only about 10,000 of the proposed 30,000
families. Therefore, the project has been reformulated to include 20,000
families in Jambi and South Sumatra and to provide increased funds for site
screening and evaluation. Settlement in the Transmigration II areas commenced
in October 1981 and about 3,000 families are expected to be settled by
mid-1983.
29.       Problems of coordination also slowed project implementation.  The
organization and staffing of the JMT made it difficult for this agency to
respond to the scale of the work required. To address problems of coordina-
tion, the GOI has created a new Ministry of Transmigration incorporating most
implementing agencies and a Special Unit has been established to improve the
coordination of Bank-assisted projects. Support for this unit is provided
under this project.
30.       In 1980 the Bank financed a first project in swamp reclamation for
transmigration (Ln. 1958-IND). This was a 9,000 ha pilot project for 3,200
families, which tested the assumption that soil toxification and overdrainage
could be prevented in swampland developments without costly structures for
water control. The project also initiated studies on which future project
preparation would be based. Construction of civil works for this project has
just begun.
Sector Review
31.       In April 1981, shortly after the beginning of Repelita III, the
Bank completed a review of the GOI upland and swamp transmigration programs



- .1 -
(Transmigration Program Review, 3170-IND).  The major conclusion of the
review was that income prospects from rainfed food crops were limited and a
greater role should be given to mixed farming systems and tree crops in
upland schemes. The report also recommended that increased attention be
given to -ite selection and evaluation, institution building, and staff
training, and that a major effort be made to promote better resource
utilization through the development of grasslands and the utilization of
timber from forested areas which are clean cleared. It also suggested that
Bank lending for transmigration should focus on settlement projects designed
to implement these recommendations as well as on a more general effort to
address key constraints to program effectiveness. Bank projects consistent
with the recommendations of the Transmigration Program Review have been
developed.
32.       The Transmigration III project would support GOI's large program
of site screening and evaluation, which is designed to increase the quality
of future transmigration settlements by locating migrants in suitable areas
and by ensuring sufficient lead time to permit adequate planning and
coordination among implementing agencies. To assist overall transmigration
program development, the project also would (a) improve staff training in
the DGT, (b) expand agricultural research in support of transmigration, and
(c) provide technical assistance to the Minister for Development Supervision
and Environment to monitor and improve the ecological soundness of
transmigration projects. Finally, the project would provide for the
settlement of 2,000 families adjacent to the first Bank-assisted project
site in Baturaja, South Sumatra, and needed services and facilities in the
existing settlement.
33.       The proposed transmigration project in East Kalimantan would
address several major issues identified in the Program Review. First, it
will help resolve the problems of developing production forests by (a)
instituting procedures for designating areas not suited to agricultural
development as forest reserves in exchange for the right to develop some
production forests for transmigration; and (b) introducing arrangements for
utilization of commercially valuable timber in transmigration sites.
Second, it will improve migrant incomes by introducing tree crops in the
early settlement period. Third, the project will improve coordination of
Bank-assisted projects and help to develop procedures to facilitate
implementation of the GOI program.
34.       A major objective in the design of this project has been to
develop replicable arrangements to ensure utilization of commercially
valuable timber in sites to be used for transmigration. As many areas in
the Other Islands suitable for agricultural development now have stands of
commercially valuable timber and the nonforested areas available for
transmigration are increasingly limited, the GOI cannot meet its targets
for transmigration of people from Java and Bali without increasingly



- 12 -
utilizing forested land. However, timber utilization is governed by a set
of regulations designed to ensure rational exploitation of this depletable
resource. Under these regulations, the right to extract timber in a
particular area is given to a concessionaire; the amount each concessionaire
can extract may not exceed a specified annual allowable cut; and at least
80% of the logs must be processed domestically rather than exported as round
logs. It has been difficult to utilize timber from forested transmigration
sites in a manner consistent with these regulations. This has been
especially true in the last year or so because domestic timber prices are
low. In many cases, commercially valuable timber from transmigration sites
has been burned.
35.       To overcome the legal obstacle to timber extraction, either the
land clearing contractor must be given the right to extract residual timber,
or procedures must be developed to permit the concessionaire to do land
clearing. The proposed project provides for both of these options (see
paras.49-51). The proposed arrangements would also improve the financial
incentive to logging despite the current low domestic price of timber since it
would reduce costs of timber extraction by utilizing the same infrastructure
for both logging and land clearing.
36.       The selection of a suitable farming system has also been a major
focus of project design. To promote rapid settlement the Repelita III
transmigration program has been based primarily on food crop production under
rainfed conditions. The Central Research Institute for Agriculture has
developed models for sustained food crop farming on the low-fertility,
erodible, red/yellow podzolic soils of the Other Islands, but to date these
have been adopted by only a few farmers. Major problems are a lack of
improved seed, insufficient legumes in the rotation, pest and disease
incidence, inadequate attention to soil conservation, labor constraints and
high cost in relation to risk. For the proposed project area, reasonable
incomes based on food crop production alone could not be assumed in the
absence of good research, extension and access to markets. Therefore, the
proposed project would introduce tree crops in the early settlement period by
using estate management. Arrangements would be made for substantial recovery
of the extra cost of tree crop establishment. At the same time, funds for
research in East Kalimantan on food crop farming systems, including those
proposed by the consultants, were included in the Transmigration III project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
37.       In 1979, the GOI requested World Bank assistance to prepare a
transmigration project. One of the areas proposed for settlement was East
Kalimantan where the Transmigration and Area Development Team (TAD), a
cooperative program between the Republic of Indonesia and Federal Republic
of Germany, had undertaken regional development studies intended to open the
underutilized forested interior to settlement and agricultural production. To
promote development, TAD recommended settlement in Muara Wahau and



- 13 -
Sangkulirang, sites with reasonable agricultural potential. PCI, a Japanese
consulting firm working for the Directorate of City and Regional Planning, has
completed detailed topographic mapping and prepared design and tender
documents for land clearing and community development. GOI has developed
arrangements for timber utilization and has also agreed to a c^mbination of
mechanical and manual methods of land clearing. Under these arrangements,
sufficient land can be logged and cleared in a four year period to settle
3,500 of a proposed 10,000 families intended for settlement in the Muara Wahau
area and for 2,500 of 4,000 families to be settled near Sangkulirang. Bank
financial assistance for a second tranche of the project would be considered
and would potentially include support for settling additional families on the
East and the West Banks of the Wahau river, for developing new sites in
Sangkulirang, and for a tree crop nucleus estate in Rapak under PTP XXVI.
38.       This project was appraised in September 1981 ind reformulated after
a post appraisal mission in January 1982. Negotiations iere held only after
arrangements were made for timber recovery and utilization and were held in
Washington from January 24 to January 28, 1983. The GOI delegation was led by
Dr. Saleh Afiff, Deputy Chairman for Economic Affairs, National Planning Board
(BAPPENAS). The staff appraisal report has been distributed separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Description
39.       The project would provide financial assistance for a four-year
tranche of a ten-year program intended to settle about 14,000 families in East
Kalimantan. Under this project 3,500 families would be settled in Muara
Wahau and 2,500 families in Sangkulirang. Each family would receive a 3.5 ha
farm and a standard transmigration package including 1.25 ha of cleared land
for houselots and food crops, transportation to the site, a house, agriculture
inputs and subsistence supplies. Farmers, with estate assistance, would
establish up to 2.0 ha of coconut on their land and during this four-year
tranche, 4,500 ha of coconuts would be planted for migrants and local farmers
in Muara Wahau and 3,500 ha in Sangkulirang. About 500 ha of a 1,000 ha
estate would also be established in Muara Wahau.  Consulting services would be
provided to facilitate implementation and strengthen project coordination.
Project Works
40.       The project would include:
(a) Transmigration Development
(i) land clearing of 17,550 ha for houselots, food crop lots,
village facilities, roads and coconut plantations;
(ii)  construction of around 60 km of access roads, around 250 km
of village and primary collection roads, and around 125 km
of secondary village roads, and construction of a 45 km road
linking Batu Ampar with Muara Wahau;



- 14 -
(iii)  construction of a wharf and storage facility at Batu Ampar
and two landing strips for light aircraft, one in each
project site;
(iv)  construction of 6,000 settler houses and provision of
sanitation and water supply;
(v)  construction, equipping, and staffing of community facili-
ties in 17 villages;
(vi)  planting of 8,000 ha of hybrid coconut trees for trans-
migrants;
(vii)  provision of agricultural machinery and equipment for
construction of about 160 km of collection roads and for
general ioad maintenance;
(viii) transportation to the site and provision of subsistence
supplies for one year;
(ix)  application of lime, provision of food crop seeds, vegetable
seeds, minor tree crop seedlings, and soil conservation
supplies for one year, and provision of fertilizers and
pesticides for up to three years;
(x) provision of agrarian services;
(xi)  distribution of about 12,000 chickens and 1,200 roosters to
6,000 families and development of a poultry rearing station
in Samarinda;
(xii)  construction, equipping and staffing of two Rural Extension
Centers (RECs), two Plant Protection Brigades (PPBs), two
Farmers  Cooperative Centers (FCCs), one each in Muara Wahau
and Sangkulirang; 17 Village Cooperative Units (KUDs), and
establishment of a 15 ha seed farm in Muara Wahau;
(xiii) staffing and equipping of a Special Unit for Bank Group-
assisted projects and provision of technical assistance for
this unit; and
(xiv)  provision of technical assistance for designing the Batu
Ampar-Muara Wahau road (DPW); supervising land clearing and
road construction (PLPT, Land Clearing Directorate of DPW);
determining safe water supply (DGT); introducing the soil
conservation program (DGFCA, the Directorate General Food
Crop Agriculture); and establishing tree crops (PTP XXVI)
and preparing contract documents for processing facilities
(PTP VI).
(b) Estate Development
Establishment of the first 500 ha of a groposed 1,000 ha
coconut estate under PTP VI in Muara Wa au.



-15 -
Project Implementation
41.       General.  Between 1978 and 1983 the organizational arrangements for
the implementation of transmigration were based on Presidential Decree 26/78.
Agencies witi n the Department of Public Works (DPW) undertook site selection
and evaluation, and land development; the Directorate General of
Transmigration was responsible for settler selection, relocation and community
development; and agencies within the Department of Agriculture provided
agricultural support services. The Directorate General of Agraria surveyed
land to be alienated for transmigration and provided cadastral services. The
JMT coordinated implementation schedules, agency budgets and externally
assisted projects; identified policy issues for discussion within the
BAKOPTRANS; and disseminated information and resolves problems at the working
level. Most of these agencies will be incorporated into the new Ministry
of Transmigration (para. 29).
42.       Bank Group-Assisted Projects.  By mid-1983, four projects including
US$350 million in Bank assistance will require coordination: Transmigration
II, III, Swamp Reclamation and this proposed project. To facilitate
coordination and implementation of these projects, an assurance has been
received under the Transmigration III Project that a special unit would be
maintained to deal exclusively with Bank Group-assisted projects and that
adequately staffed sub-units would be established and maintained under this
special unit responsible for each Bank Group-assisted project. This same
assurance was received under this project (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Policies and procedures used in Bank Group projects would be
developed with a view to their replicability throughout the GOI Transmigration
program. Policy decisions and guidance on implementation would remain with
BAKOPTRANS and its coordination board for implementation (SATDAL). Financial
support provided by UNDP and the Bank to strengthen coordination will end in
September 1983. The UNDP is prepared to continue technical assistance on a
grant basis to strengthen the overall GOI program. The amount to be provided
is not yet decided.
43.       The sub-unit for the proposed Transmigration IV project would assist
implementing agencies to prepare contract documents, compile shortlists and
tender for required materials and services. They would also monitor budget
preparation to ensure availability of government funds.  The Transmigration IV
sub-unit would undertake routine monitoring and accounting, compile data for
Bank supervision missions and work closely with the GOI agencies and the Bank
to facilitate implementation.
44.       Site Preparation.  Each site would be developed by a separate
contractor and logging and land clearing would be done over three years. To
simplify project implementation and protect migrant safety and crops, an
entire village area, including food crop and tree crop areas, would be logged
before settlement began. Logging and land clearing would be supervised by
consultants engaged by PLPT.



- 16 -
45.       Community Development.  The DGT would be responsible for
construction of village facilities, relocation and community development. The
DGT would tender for the construction of houses, village facilities and water
supply systems. Selection of migrants, their relocation and the provision of
settler supplies would be undertaken by the DGT as soon as houses and water
supply systems were in place. Once transmigrants are on site, the DGT would
be primarily responsible for coordinating and promoting community developmert.
An assurance was obtained that GOI will make adequate arrangements for
maintenance of roads in the project area (Section 3.07 of draft Loan
Agreement).
46.       Each settler/family would obtain land use rights (hak pakai) for
houselots and food crop land (1.25 ha) in the first year after settlement and
would obtain land titles (hak milik) in five years if they maintained
permanent residence in the community. To ensure that each family has adequate
labor for development of the farm, an assurance was obtained that GOI shall
give priority in selection of settlers to family groups having at least three
persons over 14 years of age (Section 3.09 of draft Loan Agreement). Titles
to tree crop land would be drawn up in year three and retained by Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (BRI) as collateral against repayment for tree crop development.
These services would be provided by the Directorate General of Agraria.
47.       Agricultural Support Services.  The project, through the DGFCA,
would supply each transmigrant family free of cost an initial package of food
crop and vegetable seeds, fruit tree seedlings and other tree crop planting
material, and implements. During the second year they would receive rice
seed. In addition, for three years the DGFCA would supply each transmigrant
family with fertilizer. Seed production and supply would be organized by the
Provincial Agricultural Service, which would establish a 15 ha seed farm at
Muara Wahau in the second year. The DGFCA would establish, equip and staff
two R-ural Extension Centers (RECs), one in Muara Wahau and the other in
Sangkulirang. DGFCA would also construct facilities for one Plant Protection
Brigade (PPB) at each site and the Directorate General of Cooperatives would
construct one farmers  cooperative center (FCC) in both Sangkulirang and Muara
Wahau. To ensure adequate agricultural support services, an assurance was
obtained at negotiations that the RECs, PPBs and seed farms would be
constructed concurrently with village infrastructure and that FCCs would be
constructed within two years of village establishment (Section 3.08 of draft
Loan Agreement).
48.       Tree Crop Establishment.  Coconut establishment in Muara Wahau and
Sangkulirang would be undertaken by the public estates PTP VI and PTP XXVI,
respectively. An assurance was obtained that each settler would receive
2.0 ha of coconut and assistance in maintaining the trees until bearing
(Section 3.10 of draft Loan Agreement). The PTPs would provide all fertilizer
and extension on credit until trees are mature (year 4) and they would train
farmers in appropriate maintenance and collection methods. In year five,
after the project period, PTP VI and PTP XXVI would erect copra processing
factories and assist BRI in credit recovery. The transmigrants would be
required to sell enough fresh nuts through the estate to cover their debt



- 17 -
repayments. The PTPs would provide ongoing extension and assist farmers to
secure inputs during the harvesting period. In addition PTPVI would maintain
a 40 ha pilot plantation established with financial assistance from the
Federal Republic of Germany.
Timber Utilization
49.       Recovery of commercially valuable round logs, which represent about
20% of the volume of the biomass but account for 60-80% of the total value,
would be required. Procedures which ensure timber utilization have been
developed as discussed below. With these procedures, the minimum value of the
timber recovered in the four-year project period would be about US$40 million
in Muara Wahau and US$20 million in Sangkulirang at current low timber prices.
50.       Sangkulirang.  In Sangkulirang most of the ares has been selectively
logged and the main concessionaire has relinquished his Lights to the remain-
ing timber. Two small concessionaires in Kaubun would complete logging prior
to project implementation. Commercially valuable standing timber is estimated
at 40 cu m/ha and the Directorate General of Forestry (DGF) has confirmed
that the right to dispose of this timber would be given to the land clearing
contractor. DGF has also agreed to help bidders find domestic processing
facilities with excess capacity.
51.       Muara Wahau.  Muara Wahau sites have not been logged and are
estimated to contain 60-100 m3 timber'ha. The concessionaire now holding
rights to the timber in the southern site in Muara Wahau does not wish to
shift his current logging operations and is prepared to relinquish those
rights. Therefore, the land clearing contract for the southern site has
been tendered using the same procedures as used for the Sangkulirang sites.
However, the concessionaire in the northern site wishes to retain its present
rights to the timber. To ensure effective timber utilization, to avoid
difficulties of coordination between logging and land clearing, and to
minimize costs, the DGF recommended that a land clearing contract be
negotiated with that concessionaire. Other options have been considered. The
first option was that the concessionaire log but that land clearing be
tendered separately. This is difficult as (a) the concessionaire is currently
logging in other areas where he has established roads and infrastructure and
he requires some financial incentive to shift his operations, and (b) a
similar plan in Transmigration II has resulted in the land clearing contractor
overtaking the concessionaire resulting in costly stacking operations and
timber being burned.  The second option was that all timber be alienated from
the concessionaire and that the right to extract the timber be given to the
land clearing contractor as in the other sites.  However, the DGF is not
prepared to revoke the right to the timber, both because the concessionaire is
in good standing, and because he wishes to avoid placing the 1.2 million m3
of incremental timber on the domestic market (in the proposed plan, the
concessionaire would substitute project areas for a part of his current
logging operation). Therefore, this option was also rejected. Furthermore,
because the concessionaire has already mobilized equipment and facilities in
nearby areas and because the same infrastructure would be used for both



- 18 -
logging and land clearing, negotiation of the contract with tim  concessionaire
is likely to result in lower costs. For these reasons, the land clearing
contract for the northern site in Muara Wahau has been negotiated with the
concessionaire; the contract price is considered to be reasonable.
Implementation Schedule
52.       The project would be implemented from mid-1983 to mid-1987 with
disbursements expected through the end of 1987. In the first year of the
project, land clearing and timber removal would commence in Muara Wahau and
Sangkulirang; consultants would be engaged to undertake detailed engineering
studies on the Batu Ampar-Muara Wahau road; and the DGT would begin house
construction and ground water studies. Land clearing and the construction of
roads, houses and village infrastructure would continue over the next three
years. At the end of three years, most of the administrative infrastructure
and equipment required for settlement of up to 5,000 families in Muara Wahau
and 4,000 families in Sangkulirang would be in place.
Cost Estimates
53.       Project works implemented within the four year project period would
cost an estimated US$120.0 million of which US$63.0 million (53%) would be the
foreign exchange. Base costs are in mid-1983 prices and because of the tax
exempt status of implementing agencies do not include local, provincial or
national taxes. The cost of consulting services amounts to about US$5.0
million involving a total of about 400 manmonths for expatriate professionals
and 300 manmonths for domestic professionals at an average manmonth cost of
US$10,500 and US$2,500 respectively. Price contingencies total 20% of base
cost and physical contingencies. Local price increases are forecast to be 12%
in 1983 and 10% in subsequent years; foreign price increases are forecasted to
be 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 6/%' in 1986.
54.       The base cost of settling families with two hectares of coconut
would be about US$13,300/family in Muara Wahau and US$13,900/family in
Sangkulirang. Of this, the repayable cost of tree crop establishment would
amount to 55% and 52% of the total costs. Net public sector outlays of
US$6,200/family in Muara Wahau and US$6,650 in Sangkulirang are slightly
higher than comparable Transmigration II costs of US$5,700 (mid-1982 prices).
The per hectare cost of establishing coconuts is about US$2,940 under the
proposed project compared to US$2,450 in the recent NES VI project. These
higher costs are attributed to greater infrastructure investments, higher
transport costs and high daily wage rates.
Financing Plan
55.       The proposed Bank loan of US$63.5 million would cover foreign
exchange expenditures less the foreign exchange cost of reserved procurement
of vehicles (US$0.5 million) plus the capitalized front-end fee (US$1.0
million). The GOI would provide annual budget appropriations to cover all
other expenses estimated at Rp 40 billion (US$57.5 million) in capital
investment and operating expenses.



- 19 -
56.       Funds for the establishment of a 500 ha hybrid coconut estate (about
US$5.0 million) would be on-lent to PTP VI through a subsidiary loan agreement
by the Ministry of Finance. The loan would be made for 12 years, at an
interest rate of 13.5%, including a six year grace period to permit the estate
to start hai ,esting coconut and would be repayable in 12 equal semi-annual
installments (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). In keeping with
current GOI policy, the foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOI. With the
domestic inflation rate projected at 12% in 1983 and falling to 10% annually
thereafter, the interest rate would be slightly positive in real terms.
Procurement
57.       General.  Contracts for civil works in excess of US$2.0 million
(totalling US$16.7m), including land clearing and road construction in
Sangkulirang and tlie southern site in Muara Wahau, would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding (ICB). The contract for land
clearing and road construction in the northern site in Muara Wahau ($6.2 m)
would be directly negotiated as explained below. Contracts for civil works
over US$2.0 million would be subject to prior review by the Bank and bidders
would be prequalified. Civil works contracts under US$2.0 million
(US$17.9 m), which would include those for settler housing and project
buildings, would be of little interest to international contractors as they
are labor intensive, technically simple and would be undertaken at irregular
intervals over long periods. These works would be awarded after local
competitive bidding under government procurement procedures. To the extent
possible, these works would be grouped in contracts of over Rp 200 million to
permit tendering among national and provincially based contractors in
accordance with GOI procedures. Tree crop establishment, maintenance of the
tree crop pilot plantation at Muara Mara, construction of estate
infrastructure, collection roads and road maintenance (US$32.9 m) would be
carried out on force account by the PTPs. Transport vehicles would be
procured locally under GOI regulations which preclude ICB and these would be
regarded as reserved procurement (US$0.9 m). Machines and equipment (US$9.0
m) would be aggregated into contracts of more than $150,000 where possible,
and would be procured on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation
of 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the import duty, whichever is lower. Tender
documents for purchases expected to cost more than US$150,000 would be subject
to prior review by the Bank. Equipment, spare parts and supplies in packages
under US$150,000, up to an aggregate limit of US$3 million, would be procured
under GOI regulations which require local competitive bidding on items above
about US$29,000 and prudent shopping on items under about US$29,000.
Government procurement procedures would be used to obtain agricultural inputs,
transport to site and settler subsistence supplies (US$14.5 m) and agrarian
services (US$0.9 m). Contracts for consulting services would be awarded in
accordance with Bank guidelines on the use of consultants (US$10.1).
Operating expenses (US$7.9 m) would be covered by the GOI.



- 20 -
58.        Land Clearing.  To ensure timber utilization and to minimize costs
(see paras. 49-51), the following procedures have been used in contracting for
land clearing. The two contracts for the Sangkulirang sites and the contract
for the southern site in Muara Wahau have been tendered using ICB, while the
contract for the northern site in Muara Wahau has been directly negotiated
with the concessionaire. Contractors bidding on land clearing and the
concessionaire were required to submit a work plan indicating arrangements for
removal and utilization of an average of 40 cu m/ha of timber from
Sangkulirang sites or 60 cu m/ha of timber from Muara Wahau. This included
evidence that one or more processing facilities are prepared to purchase the
logs. In the work plan, the bidders and concessionaires indicate taxes and
royalties to be paid and the approximate rate of payment (to reflect the fact
that some areas may be less forested than others). These work plans have been
reviewed by DPW and DGF to ensure that they are feasible. Contracts include
provisions to ensure that minimum agreed quantities of timber are recovered
and appropriate royalties and taxes are paid. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that these procedures would be followed (Schedule 4 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Disbursement
59.        Disbursement against Bank funds would be for the following items:
(a) 60% of the cost of civil works including, inter alia, land
clearing and road construction, construction of wharves,
landing strips and the Batu Ampar access road, housing and village
facilities, tree crops establishment and tree crop infrastructure,
REC, PPB, FCC, seed farm and poultry development civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment; 100% of the ex-factory
cost of equipment manufactured locally; and 60% of imported
equipment purchased locally; and
(c)  100% of consultants  services and studies.
All other expenditures would be covered fully by the GOI. Retroactive finan-
cing of funds up to $2.5 million expended after January 15, 1983, for civil
works and consultant services would be provided (Schedule 1, Dara. 4, of draft
Loan Agreement) in order to ensure prompt start-up of land clearing and
design of the Batu Ampar access road.
60.        Disbursements would be made against full documentation of expendi-
tures except for tree crops establishment, construction of collection roads
and estate infrastructure, and road maintenance which would be reimbursed upon
the receipt of statements of expenditure (SOE). SOE would be prepared by
PTP VI and XXVI and would include information on the number of hectares



- 21 -
planted and maintained, and copies of these SOE would be forwarded to the
Transmigration IV team in the Special Unit and to the Team Khusus, a special
unit within the DGE for Bank-assisted projects, which would ensure standards
and costs comparable with those in the Bank-assisted NES projects.  PTP VI and
the Team Khusus have the capacity to maintain adequate recor.-s and technical
assistance would be provided by Team Khusus to PTP XXVI, if necessary, to
establish adequate record keeping systems.
Accounts and Audits
61.        Assurances were obtained from the GOI that:  (a) all implementing
agencies involved in the project would maintain separate accounts for the
project and cause them to be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (b) these audited accounts and copies of the SOE would be transmitted
annually to the Transmigration IV sub-unit of the Special Unit where they
would be summarized and to the Bank; and (c) a summary of audited accounts
would be transmitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal
year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Agricultural Production and Marketing
62.        The project would establish 6,000 ha of foodcrops and 1,200 ha of
mixed home gardens for 6,000 transmigrant families. Also, 8,400 ha of coconut
would be established under the project. At full agricultural production, the
project would produce about 9,000 tons of paddy, 7,500 tons of corn, 7,200
tons of cassava, 2,700 tons of groundnut, 360 tons of cowpea, 54,600 tons from
smallholder coconut and 4,500 tons from estate coconut. Most of the food
crops produced by transmigrants would be consumed in the project area. The
project's incremental production of 50,000 tons of coconut oil would be
readily absorbed in the domestic market.
Farm Incomes and Cost Recovery
63.        Family income in year five after settlement is expected to be about
US$1,512 and would increase thereafter as the coconut trees mature. Income
levels will be adequate to recover the costs of coconut development through a
repayment mechanism similar to that adopted under ongoing Nucleus Estate and
Smallholder (NES) projects. Per capita income levels at full development net
of debt repayments is estimated to be about US$750 compared to the projected
per capita GNP at that time of US$620.
Benefits
64.        The project would establish 6,000 new farms and associated settle-
ments with 8,400 ha of tree crops and 7,300 ha of food crops and gardens. The
project would directly benefit 6,000 families or 30,000 people and would have



- 22 -
an indirect impact on at least another 2,700 families through employment
creation in other sectors. For example, land clearing operations for coconut
alone would require about 9,000 man-years, while farming operations from
nursery establishment to maturity of tree crops would require about 34,000
additional man-years. The local people, aside from receiving two hectares of
coconut per family, would also be able to avail themselves of these potential
employment opportunities.  Most of the jobs created by the project would be
new jobs since many transmigrants were underemployed or engaged in marginally
productive activities in their areas of origin.
65.       The project would also strengthen the coordination of Bank-assisted
projects and, by extension, the transmigration program as a whole. Finally,
the project would test arrangements for timber utilization which could be
applied in other areas, preventing the loss of a valuable resource.
Economic Rate of Return
66.       The opportunity cost of settler labor has been assumed to be equal
to the subsistence income at their point of origin, as the project would
remove the settlers from the Java/Bali labor force. Foreign exchange costs
were converted to Rupiah assuming a standard conversion factor of 1.0.
Investment costs include the cost of providing agricultural extension and
other agricultural supporting services but have been adjusted to remove the
cost of national programs which the GOI would normally provide to any
community and which would have been provided to the families involved in this
project in any case. TJsing these assumptions and discounting costs and
benefits over 30 years, the economic rate of return for Muara Wahau is 11.5%
and 11.0% for Sangkulirang. Taking into account the devaluation of the rupiah
to Rp 970 = US$1.00, the economic rate of return is expected to increase
because the prices of major outputs (such as copra and rice) will rise
relative to the prices of major inputs (especially labor). The benefits
attributed to promoting regional development, alleviating population pressures
on Java, and providing land to the landless could not be quantified.
Risks
67.       The major risks are that poor soil quality will reduce yields and
hence farm incomes and that coordination of project implementation will be
weak, especially because of the remoteness of the site. However, problems
associated with low soil fertility have been considerably reduced by the
decision to plant coconuts which are tolerant of acidic soils and by the use
of existing estates to establish the coconut. The problems of coordination
would be minimized by phased start up of project works, ample provision of
funds to cover transport costs, and steps to strengthen the Special Unit.
Furthermore, the DGT, DPW and PTP VI all have working experience in the area
and are familiar with conditions in East Kalimantan. Taking the above
safeguards into account the project's indicated risks are judged acceptable.



- 23 -
Environmental and Social Effects
68.       Muara Wahau was selected for settlement in order to initiate
development in the interior of East Kalimantan and to utilize an area which
is flat an,' suitable for agricultural development. Like much of interior
East Kalimantan, however, the area is in production forest. To preserve the
forest resources of the province about 20,000 ha of conversion forest on the
West Bank of the Wahau river (land which is not topographically suited to
agriculture and which is forested) would be substituted for the production
forest to be cleared under the project and would be maintained under forest
cover. Commercially valuable timber would be recovered from the area to be
cleared. Since tree crops would be planted on about 70% of all cleared
land, environmental change would be minimized. Special attention would be
given to soil improvement and conservation in all sites. Virtually all
people in the area are integrated into the logging economy, and most are
expected to seek employment in the project. The local Dayak people who have
migrated into the area have already expressed an interest in planting
coconuts, but if there are small villages which do not wish to be involved
in the project, project managers would not recruit laborers in the area and
would respect the rights of the people to pursue their traditional ways of
life.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement with PTP VI
would be a condition of disbursement on establishment of the coconut estate.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
70.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 5, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 25 -                                  ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) '
TOTAL            1919.3                                              MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      316.5                    1960  /b    1970 /b        ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA 6 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                          80.0        140.0            430.0              261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)            124.7        121.9             225.4              448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        94680.0    116143.0           146557.0
LRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)        14.6          17.1             20.2               17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                     216.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                       376.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                                 2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                              49.3         60.5              74.6             158.1                   255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           355,9        378.8             452.4             355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                40.7         44.0              40.1               36.8                    39.9
15-64 YRS.                                56.2         53.4              56.9               59.7                    56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                          3.1          2.5               3.1                3.5                     3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     2.1          2.0               2.3                2.0                     2.3
URBAN                                     3.7          3.6               4.0                3.3                     3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            46.8         40.7              35.3               29.3                    31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)            24.5         17.2              13.3               11.0                     9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                     2.8          2.7               2.2                2.0                     2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)              ..        181.1            2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..          0.2      ,       27.1              19.3                     36.3
FOOP AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)                 93.0        102.0             113.0             108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                          86.3         93.9             101.7/c            97.3                   106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                 38.2         42.4              44.8/c            56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE               5.6          6.2               6.67T            20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE            22.9         16.8              11.3               10.9                     6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BERTH (YEARS)           41.2         47.3              53.1              57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
7HOUSAND)                                 149.9        120.9              92.7              89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      ..          3.0              12.0/d            32.9                    32.0
URBAN                                      ..         10.0              35.072            70.7                     51.9
RURAL                                      ..          1.0               6.072            22.2                    20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
CF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                      . .        12.0              15.0/e            18.1                    37.7
URBAN                                      ''         50.0              60.0oT            72.7                    65.7
RURAL                                       ..         4.0               5.072             4.7                    24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                46778.7      26498.5           13674.6            3297.8                  8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            4517.0       7672.8            8871.6            4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                  1360.3       1644.6            1609.9/d          1100.4                  1047.5
URBAN                                   251.8           ..             699.076           301.3                   651.6
KLRAL                                      ..           ..           3166.8/d           5815.7                  2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                   ..           ..             22.4/e               ..                    27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                   -                 4.4          4.8
URBAN                                     4.9          5.3
RLURAL                                    4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                                  1.5
URBAN                                       .          1.6
RURAL                                      ..          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                      ..           ..
URBAN                                      ..            .
RURAL                                      ..           ..



- 26 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                      71.0         78.0             94.0              97.4                   96.2
MALE                      86.0         83.0            100.0             101.0                   99.8
FEMALE                    58.0         73.0             89.0              87.8                   92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                       6.0         16.0             22.0              53.0                   37.6
MALE                      10.0         21.0             27.0              63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                     3.0         11.0             18.0              41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)        20.4         22.1             19.8               1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                                 38.8         28.9             37.2              37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                               14.0         13.1             17.0              20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             39.0         56.6             62.0              52.1                    73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.1          2.1              3.5/c             1.5                    9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               7.2         22.0             41.9              35.4                  116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               0.1          0.8              8.6               3.2                   37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       11.0           ..             17.7/d            16.4                   53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        2.8           ..              0.87T             3.6                    2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          34791.4      41069.9          52582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        27.8         30.9             29.3              29.5                   3.-6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   75.0         66.0             58.0              70.0                   52.
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                       8.0         10.0             12.0              15.0                   17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     36.7         35.4             35.9              40.0                   38.5
MALE                                      54.2         49.5             51.0              51.8                   50.5
FEMALE                                    20.0         21.6             20.9              23.8                   26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2          1.3              1.2               1.0                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..           ..             23.5/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..           ..             49.47..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..           ..              6.6/d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..           ..             14.47.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..            136.0             133.8                  194.7
RURAL                                     ..           ..            112.0             111.5                  155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..            119.0                ..                  178.2
RURAL                                     ..           ..             98.0                ..                  164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                     ..           ..             28.0              43.8                   24.4
RURAL                                     ..           ..             51.0              51.7                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unleas otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975.
Mav. 1982



ANNEX :I
- 27-                                                 Page 3of 5pages
IEPINfITIONS OF SOCRAL INDICATORS
Notes    Although toe data ar  dr-n  trI' ateoo  ges I  judged the  -ee  authoese-tn  and reliable. it should also be noted that  b-c  -ay not be Iito-
nationally     . craalt bo - act  o  sh.  lack ofoaoodo       o inftetoo  adI toceyt  used by differoo  coun-its in  -olle-lrg the dat.  The dat- r,  ue
shles,cofu  t  doctb   oders of saoido, icdloots, tt-ds,  -nd   trtoiert iti  -aJor dilffer-r                       --ce,t
Th  reoar  gop'rel)rt  oeou                   ,r ru  Of rho cubj- oc        -1ontY and (2) "acutY gro-p cih  .o-ehaI hig-r   nrgeauo  cha., tn   coh                     rru
of th4ujtt  nor   eottfr 'iihlu.,1 oobeo   ra  abor   Itiddle lococe tors, Alur  co _d"iddle East'  I,  ho-o  be--eo  srne
AgEd Ishasard- sohe ....laio  re   eaItlod                                                                                            dPotl  ar    h, and rta 1   rpIatorIot-
Toal - Ttalsrau       0                          -onululr  cad toluod ootc  1  at-uban  cod raralld'inldtd by their  -tpo-tI_to_beeo  h_oploal beds
Aruluo-Etutu979uluc   atcadrpde-ynpracol                                                   anleliphlo d   -r                       -b-frora  a-dptie -oebosttlatre
fnr  rop, yanceu ,naukeccooolth.. gard-o  ott  lao fallos; 1979 datahbiicirnor  .g_spteser_ethionrnu   e                                                  1,tnl  ceffd
tsP PER CAPITA (dof  - OC   eroyP        aestm  tsoturo- tatr  rro   ci                                ia   ar   rentIn  udd-   uolhsit  e   oaor- o fd  yat
oceodb   ce   noesonrdtda -                rc  aoutai11-l a"c,160-i-mdou   otrono   eraotl   taiabyaphsnan(utb.
1900.and  Ou  cb.                                                      sdira  asceta-     ,  nuse  ol -uf , -et C.l  hc  oht.i-pten               ",tr
datac _an  prodea. ni..        ang  o  medicly fa yllijee.   Forstet
_tEC    ObfPlN   h   O'A-ucol_oeenu   foueorabnryfoayoa    uyss  ra    opsl   ncmoAe   nnuu deoc   orsi
cooogit,nenoeu.oaar    dountyro,ootorudaothrecloro                        edra-a1n- po-l- lota   ortaloptd-fetlaloseoct
tNRGYco   lralnaoo   otecolo    e   aia,lt,ll,cdIT                                                   otr. Oeafto    opol   r    tle    tynetrl
auto-                                                                               doeletarca par dospital led, C,- RTta  oche   f  d id      lss0crdirele
-d                                                    PI~~~~~re  oyel  dcddbysanmero  es
pOyttATIOCI Acul OTOgI lyd,tcbllOO ~ ~ ~         ~           ~           ~         ~          J.
Totl  oolulcn  Pd-ea  flnraals-Aof JC1t I; lt.1970. and 19A0                      ilolOiN
date.                                                      AOoroAO blot ot baunthoid (prruoto  per hoamebol d)    na    ra    n   ua
Popolatloo Projoctuono                                                              Arerage~~~~Id,  ..   coh-t ofi  A"nc  ptmoroaI   ta,adrua    cerg    0
PuL9boI ya   00-Crrr   oualo   01eron  srbudn 11960                                    cre0d-  h of--orood foe -- as ur al..ra....r.           cpldnotntua
totlypoltucry~rodot   rdtru    "nclooadooc.yacodeloP,r,ptatl. Oolutrula    orpro-tdutae    e
Pnuuctorynoorer   lnncraiutoatr   um-nuocthr.l..lno..-  ..c..ld  prt
log  lteonpntaon  0  toco  OOO.IOOd nll  c,rnf'  perrapta  nene           Acetochltltouujptaotodatongl-cra980ou.at r- el 
ieoianiaallorecena       h-,taulotto _h,                   Ooaa                       oonraadotnsot   lnrctynot0qaaraepreug
oerttyarOono:naolc.aucltae.c_                                                             ottioru.oruadtiugrarutro
-erillpatcnco7tuocoeeoouuod.alasiy lh-rrtpr-rsaeo
ialotntahru,ncd          eltunn    cchuelcalsoalc                                 E          ildCa CIOt
ondturrilotycreodslurroaoonlonpanaotro.                                    Aocctedtch,llrtntdunla
Scohoar_ppattun     I  a.-atenoc   eylaaurthreuno   ocoh   bo            Plery  rlol-   nil,  ob uo  fnae -Grtaccli  sae  ndloal
tlhrtetlsolcerttoae,ofatobousccarr-oocltnuoicoothoutriooayrcnaaufeyeto
-  mo   ccoceloce  uno ater  ...r..t rate  .....0  ccputr    enl-i   auuuce0.rc.    nldutode    adb
tteooacornlttlocotnunrroooacner,oenrtherraounfraa   uodicrnlndlfornrI.rt...erlu.rd.atar fo
of encerncplueo  unsaifeoaetld   Tho u,.r f-sao   ry .at        ...to  oa                onre  at   noro  a  tt                  noisn    a   too    0   otn
nirell Io rache.                                                                      unollot I  toIf loroo  .tr..ornoyureccotsr    aoa
ropoatiy la.tt                                                                               booe.   d,3,df    l  ..d    -                         y_Cd10;
Per s. Ic- - lcd-oor pyclalco   onslcet lfceo      0   otto   fhoto..erfsr "y7or  ufhrrnd"o   -  -ran`
only:  96,1910 ac 1979 .da.                                                                 Pc9I -tetort,lco  ponar.h-             trcndrn-ot
TRtil;1960, 1972 , an  1990 den-                                                           Idultict_oroo   rae   re-    or  -  tvot      -tln      lt  .ro  a    000
64aaunlot    o   orut  rtluouluutrtulrtlo-ac   euooa    foa    Oll cPoiatuona;- itfeau                                                                           h-du
yean   960 popoorlo  fo   I98-hO  intO-L--t rd 1910-dl-d
Cupulatun itoot  foto lorcrctf- .rtnacrrcal100-00, rutr-a o-colon yp-- COtbuflrd-o
PrI,u"fr"1,0Al  biD-l. an lqbTo7 10 -donttCauyn   coa9eyuoxae-0suoarcatnnpor  u
poyc         1950r I 6b ,  1970. end    -db 197atO.efIuo                                                      eun
popolahior  l96O,  0910,..od 1980 data                                                           ttad-ntnina   pobla,, pe   h...a..  of  -uoLu-C.; -ocludr- r
CrnaoOeroduotat~~u-bron-.etus..tot'du-gorr-           uocif  ohn-,utoerouora   en-otadu  -dcr-...r.oh-ootur.rfradi,
he  sralrprdutcoprcdoral   opoeoooposo  aosorll   tt                 tts00  ooft-toat   o  rdroc  pu-- nu  nttu                       Ilrblosn_
F.anal-yarnii~-lnrr- (p-etnue__            tldose)-treoa-ilrid                                       ouoCtruosa- dur d-     r -IrgoratnuTtt                       osieto.
eutc  rhIld-herao   ego  1-ufau   h   t  bi Ort-                I orld-ni-ot              Neos~pjyr lor-clut uo   loset       ..tan(yyoWatu-n   - Shno  It   uraeor
POET eea OUTTITIOt                                                                                   tobe    iad      f ICtf__aoa  IatItrtie      ek
lndoofrFcjdfrt-,-tuotyrosyccO 9-1=-I001   - lcae-e                       -p "octao -ocu          TurCesaaaenustAtton.datroCaaaor a -tato ha ti -ab-ruf
idccaecareorbutoICnaoitos.-te   r                          -crg -dsfe.d nugaran                end-m      1ddl,ulay-.-edtlrn.-O.                           d    -
naIona ...  u I  p--ette  year  -atltn  196i-o. 1970, -nd 1980 data.                         Toa FLbr     -oc  irhoutandn n - Eo--l, of It atr   rtno   cld
P- apt uol  o ylro  (pecr-                f fjynmedn P.- CoPI,ctro"ame"tr,   and  res lod                                                     ...t..an  hcee   toer.  t.
-nrdiyelA-ouonniort- cdaey- oeuo-o.t    -d-oic,otro   percy-c coerluyulucunc   alagn    lintuttuuroucutd
Ter  cc.   nauaulatop luo  caprco  dooeta  prduocun,umpott  ota         en-hopaabi,    Oh.g   C 1970 sn   lOhO d ft.,P;16,17    dL8    .
Ioot..ndCbntlo.--   byFOoe. t.-  nop lctirld eaarlie,eot                                        oslloottIyeaoalro-eteueug0-nulnoir
a                       lo~~~~~~~~.Cohel  d-lm!   1961-hf, 1070 coO 19171 den                                               ni. 1970 and 1980 det-
nrrtupylyolfucdyorduc.   let toeln.elfncd  esuofunedaouhrco.   to           acrooiedrcteu--r-cncpoyrd -ttusl.-alo- onclu- olelat1rb croea
acrd ycd  c mp -101-0.  ITI  no  91 -d,to                                               notFioetnaIIIlabor-fore
child  (ureahc-ut-a1ntebo   t   ud   uco   do-t- yu  .roca-d Ic                                  Iacotio  Olot   Iocon  In .tc It - a  aco I Cod  - foc....ed by  -ah-st
ce   0c   -   rsn   coOdoco  Ot-t  toy   u   tn  de-olpinocc                                    1recnt.   2hotI  c.men                                    - pnot-7-tnor. o0
bHE TIl                                                                                         PtlcEOyc TARGET 1101db
nthubt-;nO60   cl-  .rdl1di0sr-. entaeuldlontrr                                                                          -rnc    -.nid-nollrlc-r-Ice
lnfstt Muntallty drt lyto ulecuaund--onc     d,ctbn of  otn-  c-d-  -c  year         Eteum--dlAhcclee, Pe.enClnccmoI oe(lu-sb  ye .ccu      oens,  ua
Iucenoull Ap-      r  yeu-    cly-   tou,       -Enrl,   rho,I       neu-f.-ctreoalydqueoepc    ethvntuo-n 1-iu.d requa,rmehtoeur
ho Sfrope(ot,         ra    -c ns)otor         eocIsNlescurst---fe                          uffurofb.d
oc0     .... 10  in                    tuotco-r nae   t.   ncoaucbd                         nlear,rlroicac  I-rIlr- lbyyeaa(-<aoadruo 
eaturoel  stoa   iorrclrtedbteeclet.yrons.untancursulls)rc    Oosl  olutor purno,truOO  1001   rc-rbauro-daro.t
of tbearrospootucepoulartono.   I.e an orrar area a 0011cc  peruuual income ci rho cocrno -  loaclecul  cc durcuoc fruo the rural_ __Sa_   _
foutan uscnoyotcntd  O  crenenllootrofrootosrayo                         Rc-l ecf - 0d.omnfohter-ontC.  ... uudeofor..naneuo-
.eoidoedslonuutncoauooeacecoftscooo. Irnna  arao                      tousao-cRi__CfIenlaaufP,on c                              ot1prct-  ra
reaorbl  acotololet  oa  te  uerofeor  enen  u  te  nceb-                                 00noef-  crrr  o  yrclaconlcnoo  tu  nca).t.ar.a.a..
donth      h-too -ne    -,ner -oct--,u  ttedn Inorhre
Ao-uoat -t....tadl-.1y-calf200ntn-  ftooutcuttau                      h-,eccanafoh,h--cn.f.eru                                                            ~ b
-uhe       yolurotnnIe 'ho h"Mof  _fecutyol-o. at"                                                                                        P-_L-             4e .1) 
Ion, oa -cedI                        fa   ctnpt   lce.l.-en.aboc   cdPof. C.-nOrant
f-dIy(TOrtes P  uI     ru--   at--   du_edeacy -ontetA-1 p"cton.rg                                                                        Out Itt
ou'lutacdlosoley          -0dure-odr tolttccun              - nr-a   cat nun-



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population      :  147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual growth rate (%)
Amount                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
(million US$ at
current prices)                        Actual                         Estimate           Projected
Indicator                             1980            1975   1976   1                                           2   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7          7.5    2.1    4.8    5.0    5.0
Agriculture                     18,003            0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.1    1.7    1.6    2.2
Industry                        29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    8.7   -5.5           7.0   10.0    6.0
Services                        22,794           10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    9.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Consumption                       48,976             6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    6.6   10.3    2.3    2.4    3.6
Gross investment                  15,176           14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   23.0    6.3    1.0   -1.0             4.3
Exports of GNFS                   21,365           -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2  -10.5  -11.5           1.9   15.0    6.7
Imports of GNES                   15,494            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6    6.0    8.0   -2.0            2.0    2.0
Gross national savings            17,576          -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1         8.0    3.0    2.0    4.0    5.0
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                           166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    625    637    675    970    970    970
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                           Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                    (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70     1970-75    1975-80       1980-85     19985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100              3.9          8.4         7.5          5.0         5.0
Agriculture                  54      47      32     26      22      17         2.7           4.1         4.1         2.5          3.5
Industry                     14      18     34      42      44      46         5.2         12.0          9.7         5.5         6.5
Services                     32      35     35      33      36      36         4.8          9.7          9.0         6.5          5.0
Consumption                  91     89      79      70      74      74         4.1          8.4          8.9         5.0          5.0
Gross investment              8      14     20      22      26      27         4.8         18.3         11.7         6.0          4.5
Exports of GNFS              13      13     23      31      23      18         3.6          9.2          8.7        -2.4          1.8
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19              3.2         22.1         14.0         2.5         3.5
Gross national savings        8       9      17     25      25      22         6.1         23.1         14.4         4.8          5.3
As % of GDP
1960           1970            1975            1980
PUBLIC FINANCE /b
Current revenues                                                            11.7           10.1            10.5            23.4
Current expenditures                                                        14.0            8.4             9.3            13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-5                                                  -2.3           +1.6            +7.1          +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                          n.a.            5.0           10.7            13.5
Foreign financing                                                            0.2             3.5            3.7             3.4
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                4.5              7.6                 6.9              4.9              4.8
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                     2.4              5.1                 4.5              2.5             2.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (%)                 2.9             16.0                15.0              7.0             6.0
ICOR                                                      2.2              2.2                 3.1              4.5             4.3
Marginal savings rate                                     0.30             0.48                0.30             0.2              0.3
Import elasticity                                         1.2              2.8                 1.9              1.2             0.7
/a At market prices.
/b Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
March 31, 1983



Population      :  147.4 million (mid-1980)                     - 29 -                                                     ANNEX I
GNP per Capita:  US$520 (1981 estimate)                                                                                    Page 5 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                       Estimate                  Projected
Indicator                    1977      1978      1979       1980      1981      1982       1983      1984       1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                               10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   22,994          19,385   18,193   22,270   25,344   48,180
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)                7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   18,824    15,631   13,893   16,979   19,004   31,759
(b)  Nonoil                           3,507     3,979     6,171      5,584    4,170       3,754    4,300    5,291       6,340   16,421
2.  Imports (including net NFS)         -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -22,096   -22,900  -21,472  -22,558  -23,740  -39,850
(a)  Oil sector                      -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -5,407    -5,468   -4,617   -4,451   -4,467   -7,001
(b)  Nonoil imports                  -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -14,022   -14,803  -14,388  -15,584  -17,029  -30,155
(c)  NFS (net)                         -536      -586      -659      -975   -2,667    -2,629   -2,467   -2,523   -2,244   -2,694
3.  Resource balance                         175      -140    3,459      3,596       898    -3,516   -3,279         -288     1,604    8,330
4.  Factor services                         -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -3,267    -3,772   -4,151   -5,004   -5,910  -10,245
(a)  Interest public debt              -441      -514      -772      -819       -840    -1,118   -1,319   -1,617   -1,953   -3,036
(b)  Other (net)                       -424      -501      -489      -386   -2,427    -2,654   -2,832   -3,387   -3,957   -7,209
5.  Capital grants                            66        46        52        76         67        100       100       100       100       100
6.  Balance on current account             -624   -1,109       2,250    2,467   -2,302    -7,188   -7,530   -5,395   -4,605   -1,915
7.  Direct foreign investment                285       271       217       140       134         276       350       450       600    1,000
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                     1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536         3,203      5,180    5,920    6,684       6,673      7,091
(b)  Amortization                      -825   -1,548   -1,329        -953   -1,001    -1,376   -1,770   -2,042   -2,440   -5,120
(c)  Net disbursements                1,131       657        536    1,583    2,202        3,803    4,200    4,642    4,233        1,971
9.  Other capital (net)                    -140        891   -1,261   -1,454   -1,172            874    2,050        156      -202       -10
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651           -708   -1,690   -2,736         988      2,234        729       -55      -426   -2,231
11.  Net official reserves                  2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    6,354           4,120    3,390    3,445    3,871    8,775
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                         3.4       4.3       5.6       6.9        5.4        3.0       2.6       2.4       2.5       3.4
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /b                                  -          -    6,906   10,787   11,154         7,420    5,390    5,445    5,871   10,775
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                            3.4        4.3       8.6      10.1       9.5        5.4       4.1        3.8       3.8       4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /c
Gross Disbursements                      1,956    2,205       1,865     2,536    2,356
Concessional Loans                          442    - _r        Z*; T 43    79       802
Bilateral                                 381       448       399       631       729
IDA                                       49         29        30        42        68
Other                                      12         6         5         6         5
Nonconcessional Loans                     1,514    1,721      1,432     1,858    1,552
Official export credits                  218        271        61        25       154
IBRD                                     191        168       199       331       106
Other multilateral                         16        12        46        52        86
Private - source                       1,089     1,270    1,126    1,450    1,206
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,882   15,529
Official - source                    7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400    9,746
Private  - source                    4,583    4,717    4,799       5,482      5,783
Undisbursed debt                       4,475    5,839       7,932     9,454   11,288
Debt Service
4               Total service payments                  1,262     2,062     2,101     1,772      1,974
Interest                               441       514        771       819       973
Payments as % exports /e                11.6      18.2       12.0       8.0       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
_()                                      6.3       7.6        6.6       8.4       9.1
Official - source                         5.4       4.6       5.0       5.0       7.8
Private  - source                        8.6      10.2        8.6      12.8      10.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                 20.5      18.7      19.1       19.0      15.6
Official - source                       23.9      30.1       25.8      24.8      20.8
Private  - source                       10.4        8.6      11.1      10.0      10.7
As X of debt outstanding at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                    30.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                                  60.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                   4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7b  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7   Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.                                                                   East Asia and Pacific Programs
7d  At end of period.                                                                                                March 31, 1983
7e  Oil exports treated on gross basis.



ANNEX II
- 30-                      Page 1 of 29 pages
TIIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
IJS$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve Loans and thirty-five Credits fully disbursed  559.3   521.5            -
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea         -        7.8         0.5
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate              -       16.5         4.7
479     1974   Bali Tourism                               -       16.0         0.4
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                          65.0      -           6.7
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension         21.5      -           0.1
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping        13.0      -          3.0
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                           130.0      -           6.9
1237     1976   Fourth Education                          37.0      -           4.4
1250     1976   Second Shipping                           54.0      -           1.8
1267     1976   National Food Crops Extension             22.0      -           0.2
1268     1976   Seventh Irrigation                        33.0      -           6.3
1318     1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0         -           0.3
1336     19 77   Second Urban Development                 52.5      -           5.1
1337     1977   Tanjung Priok Port                        32.0      -          9.0
1365     1977   Sixth Power                              116.0     -          28.4
1373     1977   Nutrition Development                     13.0      -           2.8
1433     1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education          19.0     -           7.2
1434     1977   Eighth Irrigation                         63.0      -         28.8
1435     1977   Ninth Irrigation                          35.0      -           4.4
1472     1977   Second Population                         24.5      -           7.1
1486     1978   Norr-Formal Education                     15.0      -           4.0
1499     1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I        65.0      -         23.9
1513     1978   Seventh Power                             94.0      -         29.7
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development               -       40.0        9.1
1578     1978   Tenth Irrigation                         140.0      -        106.8
1579     1978   Eleventh Irrigation                       31.0      -         14.0
827     1978   Rural Credit                               -       30.0         3.7
1604     1978   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders II         65.0      -         48.6
869     1979   Polytechnic                                -       49.0        24.1
1645     1979   Twelfth Irrigation                        77.0      -         47.2
1653     19 79   Third Urban Development                  54.0      -         23.1
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                 -       10.0         8.7
1691     19 79   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control        50.0      -         29.6
1692     1979   Second Agricultural Training              42.0      -         13.2
1696     1979   Fifth Highway                            123.2      -          74.8
1703     1979   Fourth BAPINDO                            50.0      -          9.1



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 29 pages
- 31 -
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
919    1979   Transmigration II                           -       67.0        23.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.0      -          88.1
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.0      -          77.5
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.0      -          24.2
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                -       12.0         9.6
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III         99.0      -          63.9
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development              -       45.0        34.4
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                        -       45.0        28.9
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II           -       42.0        36.4
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.0      -          84.0
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV          42.0      -          35.3
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research             35.0      -          35.0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research              -       30.0        24.4
1869    1980   Third Population                           35.0      -          33.6
1872    1980   Ninth Power                               253.0      -         203.6
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development            46.0      -          40.6
1904    1981   University Development                     45.0      -          43.9
1950    1981   Tenth Power                               250;0      -         177.7
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                          22.0      -          18.1
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                   43.0      -          38.8
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V          161.0      -         150.4
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.0          -          24.1
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                   85.0      -          85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                            170.0      -         167.8
2066    1982   Second Seeds                               15.0      -          14.9
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                185.0      -         158.4
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                   100.0      -          98.9
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                    80.0      -          79.8
2102    1982   Second Textbook                            25.0      -          25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                       37.0      -          36.1
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                     70.0      -          66.3
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution            66.0     -          64.1
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI             68.1      -          67.0
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering               25.0      -          24.6
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                    5.5     -           5.5
Engineering Project /1
2214    1983   Twelfth Power /1                          300.0      -         300.0
2232    1983   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders VII /1 154.6          -         154.6
2235    1983   Provincial Health /1                       27.0      -          27.0
2236    1983   Jakarka Sewerage & Sanitation /1           22.4      -          22.4
/1  Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                     Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
2248    1983   Transportation III /a                     101.0      -         101.0
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development          30.0      -          30.0
Project /a
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              5,246.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                     -200.11   -7.69
Total now outstanding                         5,046.49  924.11
Amount sold to third party             28.24
Amount repaid by third party          -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b             5,045.46  924.11
Total undisbursed                             3,082.70  207.90   3,290.60
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.



33 -                    ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4      0.6         3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.4         -       0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.3      0.2         1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejabtera          Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9      12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia             Construction
Material           48.0        5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market          4.0       0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                            118.8      18.0      136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 79.6       5.7       85.3
Total held by IFC                                   39.2      12.3       51.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   16.7             -       16.7



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of March 31, 1983
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                                    6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects  (1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751, 1835,            10-13
2007, 2126, 2232, 984, and 1898)
Agriculture Support Services (996, 1840/1014 and 2066)                         14
Rural Development (946)                                                        15
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                  15-16
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                  16-19
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079, 2153, and 2214)            19-21
Industrial Development and Finance
Industry (2199)                                                                22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                           22
Population and Health
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                     23
Health (2235)                                                                  23
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                              24
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                                 24
Highways (1696, 2049 and 2083)                                             25-26
Marine Transport (1250)                                                        26
Ports (1337)                                                                   26
Tourism  (479)                                                                   27
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                      27-28
Water Supply and Sanitation (1709 and 2236)                                   28-29
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
- 35           ~          Page 6 of 29 pages
D. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about two years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
delays in the completion of bidding documents and land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year's delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 89% of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delays the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was expec-
ted to be completed by early 1982. The construction of North Sadang has
suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late award
of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984. Dis-
bursements at the end of February 1983 were about 80% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. All of the stage I area
(75,000 ha) has been completed. Only the drainage works and road improvement
in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be delayed due to
budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI has mobilized
additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction supervision



- 36 -                     ANNEX II
Page 7 of 29 pages
at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the Madiun
works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were 51% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has
progressed well. Pumps were commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 95% completed. Land
clearing and levelling is progressing satisfactorily and is about 60% accom-
plished. Feasibility studies of ten small to medium irrigation systems have
been completed. One of these schemes is now under execution with cofinancing
from the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) assistance while detailed design of
another (about 29,000 ha) is being financed under Irrigation XVII (Loan
2119-IND). Detailed design of Sungai Dareh Sitiung Stage II (about 8,800
ha) has been completed and its construction is being financed under
Irrigation XVI (Loan 2118-IND). Disbursements at the end of February 1983
were about 87% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvement of
about 34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvement of about
19,900 ha of Way Seputih; (c) improvement and expansion of about 63,100 ha
of Way Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of
two dams associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and
Gumbasa irrigation projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and
also studies of two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of
irrigation to Bekri, West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung
Province. Due to initial delays in survey and mapping of the Way Seputih/
Way Sekampung irrigation service areas, delay in deciding canal capacities
till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage during the years 1979
and 1980, implementation is behind schedule by about two years. However,
the field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the
staffing situation has improved. Consultants have made substantial progress
on the preparation of designs and tender documents for the project. Due to
the GOI decision to defer construction of the Batutegi dam for 3 to 4 years,
the scope of the project has been revised. Disbursements are currently



- 37 -                   ANNEX II
Page 8 of 29 pages
about 35% of appraisal estimate. Studies of Dumoga irrigation project were
completed and implementation of its works included in Irrigati n XV (Cr.
995-IND).
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The main part of this project, the Cipamingkis irrigation sub-
project is progressing well. This will serve an area of about 7,600 ha.
Its headworks with intake structure are completed while contracts for main
and secondary canals will be completed only a little behind schedule.
Tertiary design and construction are behind schedule but the project is
currently estimated to be completed by June 1984, a delay of 18 months as
compared to appraisal estimate.  Feasibi_ :y studies including detailed
designs of a new Glapan barrage and mid-Lusi river diversion irrigation
system are underway. These replace the preconstruction work previously
planned for the Jragung dam, which is now being deferred. The Hlydrological
measurement program is expected to be completed with a delay of about 18
months and will be completed in early 1983. Disbursements were about 58% of
the appraisal estimate at the end of February 1983.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 186,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System, W. Java; drainage improvement in the
Cisedane irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and
studies of drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation
areas; tidal and swamp lands development for about 350,000 ha in the Lalang
and Mesuji areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and
detailed designs for reclamation of about 110,000 ha of swamp land in Karang
Agung of S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased
to 205,800 ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads
improvement are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985,
a delay of a year over appraisal estimate. All studies are completed.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 42% of the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 pages
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 43% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1811   Fourteenth Irrigation:  $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabili-
tation of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area; and tertiary
development serving .- 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen
Sampean subprojects. Contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one and a half year's delay because of weak
management and slow land acquisition. Works in the Madiun area and the
tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 52% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: completion of the Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation
system for 6,600 ha; catchment protection and establishing a nature reserve
on an area of about 100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy
services and training; and studies and investigations of four irrigation
systems. Construction of the Toraut headworks and the first 2 km of the
main canal which commenced in January 1981 is progressing satisfactorily.
Offices, staff houses, and a rest house at Menado have been completed. The
award of two ICB contracts is behind schedule and project completion may be
delayed to June 1985 (compared to mid-1984 in the appraisal estimate). With
Bank agreement, GOI has expanded the nature reserve into a "Dumoga-Bone
National Park" master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha. Construc-
tion of the park headquarters building has commenced and is expected to be
completed by June 1983. Four studies included in the project have been
substantially concluded and some additional work was recently added.
Institutional support programs will continue up to June 1984. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 55% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project includes reclamation of 9,000 ha of Karang Agung swamp
area in South Sumatra province, construction of canals, land clearance,
construction of 3,200 settlers houses with community facilities for trans-
migrants from Java and Bali and studies for future swamp development,
upgrading of existing swamp development area and ecological studies of swamp
development. A civil works contract (ICB) for construction of canals, for



- 39 -                   ANNEX II
Page 10 of 29 pages
about $4.5 million, was awarded on January 22, 1982. Consultants for
construction supervision were assigned in April 1982. Efforts are being
made to imp-ove both the progress for the work as well as coordination
between the implementing agencies.
Loan No. 2118  Sixteenth Irrigation:  $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date:  August 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and local
farmer lands; improvement of management information systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for water
users and their associations; expansion of DGWRD-s basic hydrological data
network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin and
detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province): $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: December 14, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project supported by the Bank to be
concentrated in a single province and implemented through a provincial irriga-
tion service. It will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems
serving about 50,000 ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about
13,000 ha; upgrade operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irriga-
tion systems already rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Provincial
Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Given shortages in available land, in June 1982, the settlement
component was reduced from 30,000 families to 20,000 families and funds were
reallocated for site selection and evaluation for the GOI transmigration
program as a whole. Land has now been identified for about 16,000 families
under this project. About 1,100 families have been settled and 2,400 addi-
tional families should be settled by mid-1983. Improved extension and
support are required to ensure adequate food crop yields and a plan for the
introduction of tree crops has been requested from the GOI. Disbursements
as of February 1983 were 57% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This is the first of a series now consisting of seven projects
developing treecrops for smallholders, supported by Government Nucleus Estate



- 40 -                   ANNEX II
Page 11 of 29 pages
Companies. Planting programs for 7,600 ha of rubber at Tebenan and for
rehabilitation of 18,000 ha of estate rubber have been completed but develop-
ment for smallholders at Alue Ie Merah (only 4,700 ha out of a 7,000 ha pro-
gram completed) is well behind schedule. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. Difficulties have occured in quality of
rubber plantings, and currently with some trees now at maturity, attention
needs to be given to improving tapping practice and rubber processing.
Disbursements at December 31, 1982 were 62% of appraisal estimates and 92% of
the latest revised estimate.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start, this project has substantially speeded up its
pace of implementation. New rubber planting for smallholders is now expected
to be completed in March 1983 in Jambi (3,800 ha), one year ahead of schedule,
and in 1983/84 in Riau (11,400 ha) on schedule. Following earlier problems,
quality of plantings has improved. Rubber replanting at Riau (3,000 ha)
should also be completed during 1983/84 but the replanting component at Jambi
(4,500 ha) has not been successful. The 3,500 ha Nucleus Rubber Estate at
Riau although currently behind schedule is expected to be completed in time.
More attention needs to be given to development of smallholders food crops.
An extension of closing date to December 31, 1985, will probably be needed to
accommodate an alternative program to the replanting at Jambi. Disbursements
at end of December 1982 were 33% of the appraisal estimate but are expected to
improve in coming months.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Million Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over
responsibility for completing the Alue lemerah smallholder component under NES
I (1499-IND). Disbursements at the end of December 1982 were about 53% of
appraisal estimate, and 90% of the latest revised estimates.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date. Disbursements at the end of December 1982 were about
53% of appraisal estimate, and 64% of latest revised estimates.



- 41 -                  ANNEX II
Page 12 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date:  October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
The project would develop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber,
oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, West
Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as implementing
agents. The project has made a good start except that smallholder coconut
development at Cimerak, West Java (3,000 ha) is behind schedule due to land
use agreements needing to be finalized. The component to expand the Estates
Training Institute at Yogyakarta and to add another campus at Medan is
proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 2126   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder VI:  $68.1 Million Loan of
April 23, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1q88
The project will assist the GOI's nucleus estates and smallholders
development program by establishing 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and
coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku
provinces with public sector estates as implementing agents. The project
implementing agencies PNP XXVIII and PTP XII face problems regarding local
cost financing of smallholder development, management problems and severe
labor shortage problems in Seram. PTP XII has however completed a difficult
26 km main access road over a short period. PNP XXVIII's project implemen-
tation is seriously delayed by lack of experienced senior and middle manage-
ment, technical and administrative staff, labor cooperation and coordination
with local government. GOI has been requested to urgently review this situa-
tion with a view to strengthening management, relieve the labor constraint and
improve local government's commitment to the project. PTP XXIII has made an
excellent effort to overcome the land acquisition problems. Cooperation with
local government and the local population is good. Rubber planting commenced
in 1982 and standards attained are satisfactory. Planning and training
programs for technical and administrative staff are well in hand and no
serious problems are foreseen.
Loan No. 2232   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII:  $154.6 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983, Effective Date:  February 18, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would assist the GOIs nucleus estates and smallhold-
ers (NES) development program by establishing about 59,000 ha of tree crops
(rubber and oil palm), food crops and house gardens in East and West
Kalimantan and South Sulawesi provinces. It would also support the institu-
tional strengthening of the Directorate General of Estates and other agencies
associated with tree crop development, marketing programs for smallholders,
and provide funds for start-up activities of future NES projects.



- 42 -                  ANNEX II
Page 13 of 29 pages
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Project implementation continues in a generally satisfactory manner
with 17,300 ha of rubber planting (9% of appraisal target to that date)
undertaken by the end of December 1982.  At that time, disbursements had
reached $9.8 million (85%) against an estimated $11.5 million. Although the
project currently faces no major problems, continuing tardy GOI budget
releases could soon become a critical factor. In order to ensure effective
continuing operations, project management is to strengthen Project Management
Units in some areas, undertake timely recruitment and training of staff at all
levels and produce apprcpriate training and extension manuals. Bank Rakyat
Indonesia and Agraria have been requested to play a more active role in the
land titling and loan conversion process. Revised versions of four studies
under the project are now available and preparation of the proposed Second
Smallholder Rubber Development Project is nearing completion.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under the
project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are generally
not satisfactory. Problems relate to shortcoming in project management at
Head Office, Provincial Offices (POs) and Coconut Working Centers (CWCs)
regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating small-
holders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance stan-
dards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow release of
project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application and disburse-
ments. At end-December 1982, 8,102 ha of hybrid coconuts (89% of appraisal
target to that date) and 7,770 ha of tall coconuts (155% of appraisal target)
had been planted while rehabilitation of 5,050 ha of tall coconuts (74% of
appraisal target) had been undertaken. An in-depth review is being undertaken
by the Resident Mission to ascertain progress already made by GOI in over-
coming management and technical shortcomings at Head Office, Proviricial
Offices and Coconut Working Centers, and to pinpoint any necessary additional
measures. To improve control of field operations, some restructuring of
management is required as well as reduction and rationalization of the project
area.  GOI agrees in principle with these recommendations.  Disbursements had
reached $4.2 million (47%) against an estimated $9.0 million.



- 43 -                 ANNEX II
Page 14 of 29 pages
Agriculture Support Services
Credit No. 9P6  Second National Agricultural Extension:  $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date:  July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
*                   Good progress continues to be made with the construction program
and the bulk of the Rural Extension Centers programmed under the project are
expected to be completed in 1983. Staff recruitment has improved overall
but there are still shortages in some Provinces and the problem of shortage
of motor cycles for field staff continues. Active steps are being taken to
improve extension in non-rice crops. Interest in working towards a unified
extension service continues to be promoted. The project is making satis-
factory progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the
overall institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD) for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables,
livestock, fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and
industrial crops.  The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is functioning
efficiently. Steady progress being made in civil works program although
there are indications that this may slow down due to budgetary constraints.
The fellowship program has fallen behind schedule but is likely to gain
momentum following the production of a Manpower Development Plan which is
nearing finalization. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds :  $15 Million Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date: March 11, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
*         Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Project implementation has
started slowly because the project implementing agencies are still reviewing
administrative and working procedures. Preparation of tender documents for
the procurement of equipment for seed is in hand. Participating agencies
show willingness to cooperate and project implementation is expected to
pick-up shortly.



44                    ANNEX II
Page 15 of 29 pages
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance has continued.
Activity targets are now being substantially met with the exception of the
Small Scale Industries (SSI) and Village Health Components. The SSI is
being vigorously monitored by the new Provincial Inspector for Industries
especially with respect to technical assistance which is designed to
complement the SSI credit program. The School Health Program is progressing
well and is now being complemented by the Village Kader Health program.
Severe drought has delayed the Water Supplies construction due to shortage
of water. The rigidity of GOI procurement regulations which do not permit
forward purchase of cement also contribute to the delay in construction of
tanks. The Roads Program is close to target achievement although high costs
are still a cause for concern.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical assistance to strengthen GOI's
small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, and credit assistance to small-scale
enterprises (SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which account
for about a third of countrywide KIK/KMKP loan approvals. Satisfactory
experience with this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a
nationwide SSE development project which is supported by the Second Small
Enterprise Development Project (Loan 2011-IND). The credit component is
fully disbursed, and the remaining balance of the technical assistance
component amounting to $9.0 million is financing ongoing technical
assistance under Loan 2011-IND (SEDP II).
Credit No, 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 small-
holders, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and
technical assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development,
training in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management
information systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy
services, the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following
extension of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it
is rapidly catching up. The project has been very successful in achieving
objectives.



ANNEX II
- 45 -                 Page 16 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2011   Second Small Enterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has
expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment
(KIK)/Small Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program is being
implemented. The Bank-financed portion of the credit component of SEDP II
was fully committed as of December 31, 1982, rapid expansion of lending
under the project, however, seems to have been accompanied by a slight
increase in arrears from 21% to 22% of outstanding loans. Bank Indonesia
(BI) and handling banks are aware of this problem and have recently
introduced a new reporting system to facilitate better collection and more
up-to-date information. BI's progress in implementing the technical
assistance components is also generally good, with the exception of the
Regional Development Bank upgrading. This latter component is still beset
with problems (lack of Regional Development Bank (RDB) counterpart staff,
delays in obtaining operational data, weak consultant teams from BAPINDO).
BI is evaluating consultant performance in the upgrading of RDBs. The
Ministry of Industry has finally started implementing the Technical Services
component with the recruitment of two consultants. As the entry of
consultants was delayed, disbursement of loan proceeds is also delayed.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management.
The project would establish a Technician Education Development Center
(TEDC), six polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and
include technical assistance and associated studies. The project is making
good progress and implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The
TEDC building and four of the six polytechnics have been completed and
construction of the remaining two is near completion. Equipment contracts
for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded and over 70% of
equipment ordered has been delivered. The expert services and fellowship
programs are progressing satisfactorily. The accountancy component is also
making good progress. Two of the five study contracts are still to be
awarded. Operation has commenced in all six polytechnics since September
1982 but at 60% of full capacity. Disbursements at the end of February 1983
were over 100% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing



ANNEX II
- 46 -                  Page 17 of 29 pages
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and 25
mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country's
principal civil service training institution.  The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily.  The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI. After retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed by mid-1984. A second extension
of the Closing Date to June 30, 1984 has been approved. Disbursements at
the end of February 1983 were about 88% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Approximately 88% of
the civil works program has been completed. Phase I is complete and 90% of
the construction in Phase II is finished. All furniture has been procured
and installed; all equipment has either been procured and delivered, or
contracts awarded and deliveries would be completed before closing date.
Training courses for teachers and staff of SPGs and IKIPs have been comple-
ted. A total of 6,100 persons have been trained. Project costs at comple-
tion are expected to result in $2 million savings. Book procurement has
been delayed due to ministerial procurement review procedures. This delay
is expected to result in a need to extend the closing date by one year.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education-s
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial cen-
ters, instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school educa-
tion) centers, has been completed. All furniture and equipment are already
on site.  About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal
targets and production and distribution of pretested learning materials is



ANNEX II
- 47 -                   Page 18 of 29 pages
accelerating. The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff
have replaced foreign consultants. As of October 1982 estimated cumulative
disbursements had reached a total of $10.1 million or 67% of appraisal
estimates. Of the remaining loan funds it is estimated that US$5.45 million
will be disbursed by June 30, 1983, the project closing date. Approximately
$254,000 from unallocated category remains uncommitted.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term
strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle-level agricultural
manpower. Good progress continues to be made. Disbursements at the end of
February 1983 were 68% of the loan amount. The overall progress of the
fellowships program has been good. The regular program and the short course
program would be completed in December 1983 and the Ph.D. program at the
University of Sam Houston, Texas, is expected to be completed in June 1985.
Progress in achieving educational objectives is generally satisfactory. In
December 1982 the Bank agreed to the GOI's request to reallocate $4.2 mil-
lion for preparatory studies and design work for the proposed Third
Agricultural Training Project, and $2.8 million for improvement of Ketindam
In-service Teacher Training Center (ISTC), additional boarding facilities at
17 existing ISTCs and upgrading the Ciawi ISTC.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
C-losing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university develop-
ment program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level
manpower and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have been
acquired. The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia (UI) has
been completed and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected
to complete theirs by early 1983. The implementation of technical assist-
ance provisions is about 22 months behind appraisal schedule. Pending the
appointment of MUCIA to handle the fellowship program, the Directorate
General of Higher Education has administered overseas fellowships, which as
of December 31, 1982, totalled about 90 staff in the UK, USA, Australia,
Belgium, Thailand and the Philippines. Training of master trainers in
University Management and textbook editors is in progress in the UK; domes-
tic training in University Management is scheduled to start in April 1983
after the return of master trainers. Work is in progress for establishing a
Management Information System in the DGHE and in each project university.
Plans are being finalized for the policy study on student admissions.
Disbursements as of December 1982 were 40% of the appraisal estimates.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 31 pages
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing rite:
June 30, 1988
The project would (a) construct and equip 60 preservice primary
primary teacher training schools (SPG) and 10 primary sports teacher train-
ing schools (SGO); (b) construct and equip 11 secondary teacher training
colleges (IKIP); (c) improve and expand teacher training colleges for
special education (SGPLB); (d) improve and expand inservice teacher training
facilities (PPPG and BPG); and (e) establish a Center for Educational Adminis-
tration (CEA).
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project (ITP), a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook
development activities; a Center for Curriculum Development (CCD), which
would develop improved curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an
improved national distribution system for all textbooks for primary and
secondary schools. The implementation of the project is progressing satis-
factorily. The site of ITP/CCD office building has been acquired. Selec-
tion and acquisition of sites for regional warehouses and depots is in
progress. Consulting architects and engineers have been appointed. Staff
appointments at ITP are slightly behind schedule. Efforts are underway to
implement a program of overseas training of staff contract managerial
services for providing consultants and arranging foreign and local training
programs.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 went into commercial operation
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreIgn costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
original loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to
the inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the



- 49 -                    ANNEX II
Page 20 of 29 pages
project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of
location of future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information
system design. Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21
months. Commercial operation of the 200 MW generating unit is expected
early in 1984. Construction of the associated transmission lines is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.  The feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired
thermal power station site has been completed and a site has been selected.
Contracts for the studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed,
and work is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven months behind schedule by September 1981. However, progress since
then has been satisfactory and the commissioning date for Unit No. 1
continues to be October 1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in
July 1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date: October 24, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e.
six months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year
due to delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts about 12-18
months behind SAR schedule, have been awarded and construction work has
commenced. The commissioning of the lines is currently scheduled in
December 1984.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generat-
ing equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been
placed with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million.
Construction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and encoun-
tered problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels.
However, the river diversion was accomplished in January 1983. The contruc-
tion program has been modified to ensure that original dam construction
targets are met. Other project subcomponents are progressing with about
6 months delays.



- 50                     ANNEX II
Page 21 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Con-
tracts worth about $119 million have already been evaluated and approved by
the Bank.  PLN has already issued another invitation to bid for the balance
of the distribution equipment estimated at $44 million.
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced.  There are some delays in
signing of main nine contracts. Out of a total of eight such contracts,
five have already been signed and the remaining three are in final stages.
The consultants' performance is satisfactory. Soil investigation and
geological work is ongoing at the mine site. Although the turnkey contract
for the Tarahan terminal was signed it is still not effective. The Tarahan
Terminal remains on the project critical path and the best estimate is that
the first coal can be shipped to Suralaya by April 1985 which implies an
8-month delay.  During the initial start-up there were moderate problems in
respect to project management and concerns arose with respect to the
procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the Bank. These
matters received close attention from the Bank missions and the issue has
now been resolved. Indonesia's constrained budget situation is likely to
result in a substantial shortfall of funds for this project in FY83/84 and
discussions with GOI are underway to determine how project construction can
be rephased without a substantial loss of anticipated benefits.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering:  $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: March 1, 1983; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South and West Sumatra and other promising
areas in Indonesia.  The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its
agencies with a coal reserve inventory of its major coal bearing areas and
feasibility/prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enabling
it to establish investment priorities and define policies for its short,
medium- and long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
Loan No. 2214   Twelfth Power Project:  $300 Million Loan of December 27,
1982; Effective Date: March 29, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Con-
tracts valued at $36 million have already been approved by the Bank. PLN
has already issued bid invitation for Kamojang 2 x 55 MW units and bids



- 51 -                   ANNEX II
Page 22 of 29 pages
are due to open on May 2, 1983. PLN is planning to issue another bid invi-
tation in May 1983 for the mini-hydro equipments. PLN has also issued bid
invitations for Suralaya Unit 3 boiler and turbine generator and bids are
due to open in June 1983.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industry
Loan No. 2199   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering:  $5.5 Million
Loan of November 18, 1982; Effective Date: Not yet
effective; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project would help finance the cost of: (i) basic engineer-
ing, procurement assistance including the preparation of tender documents,
prequalification, and bid evaluation for the Central Java pulp and paper
project; (ii) technical assistance in finalizing the wood supply arrange-
ments for the Central Java project; (iii) training of the project staff; and
(iv) a pulp and paper subsector study which would provide the basis for the
restructuring of the industry.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
BAPINDO has made good progress in committing proceeds of the Bank
loan and in implementing its General Improvement Program launched in 1981.
Judged on the basis of annual growth in lending operations (147% in 1981
compared with 89% in 1980) it appears the effect of major changes in
organizational structure has been positive, but there is still some scope
for improvements in term lending procedures and staff capbility to appraise
and supervise larger, more complex projects. Term lending in local and
foreign currency reached Rp 559 billion ($800 million) in 1982 or 43% over
1981.  Strong investment demand from the industrial sector in 1982 underlies
this sharp expansion. Full disbursement by the closing date of September
1983 is expected.



- 52 -                  ANNEX II
Page 23 of 29 pages
POPULATION AND HEALTH
Population
Loan No. 1472 Second Population: $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
($3.8 Million cancelled February 25, 1983); Effective
Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30, 1984
Progress on this project is generally satisfactory. About 90% of
original project activities have been completed. The mobile service units
provided under the project are making a significant contribution to the
recruitment of contraceptive acceptors. Training and population education
are substantially completed. The research components -the contraceptive raw
materials study is about 90% complete, and the community incentive scheme is
about 50% complete and both components should be satisfactorily completed
before the revised closing date of April 30, 1984. As of February 1983,
disbursements totalled $13.3 million, or 54%.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Progress on this project improved significantly during the second
half of 1982, largely due to increased attention to project implementation,
particularly civil works components, by project management and the addi-
tional staff assigned especially to help expedite this work. Population
education has made some encouraging progress, as funds have been released to
the provinces for expenditure on teacher training activities and detailed
guidelines for implementation of population education activities have been
issued by NFPCB. Contracts for procurement of audio-visual equipment have
been awarded. The training of nurses, midwives, traditional birth atten-
dants and health center staff has proceeded on the agreed-upon schedule.
Disbursements, however, do not yet reflect the noted upswing in project
activities.
Health
Loan No. 2235 Provincial Health; $27 Million Loan of February 18, 1983;
Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
Substantial progress has been made in the initial implementation
of the project. The FY83/84 project budget of US$10.5 million and work plan
have been completed and approved by BAPPENAS. The sites for the first-year
construction program are available and the architectural consultants have
completed the preliminary drawings for two hospitals. Consultants (financed



- 53 -                   ANNEX II
Page 24 of 29 pages
by USAID) are now assisting in curriculum development and the training of
trainers in support of the project. Arrangements for the procurement of DDT
have been initiated and malaria consultants have already been identified and
their availability ascertained.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
There still remains an uncommitted balance of about $5.0 million
under this credit. Potential studies to utilize the remaining balance have
been identified and it is likely that the closing date for the credit will
be postponed.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date:  April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the
cartographic photographic processing, including color photo processing
equipment and printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed.
Computer equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank
and flatbed plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation
activities have been undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and
training of new staff, particularly at junior and middle level has recently
been accelerated. The new photography operation financed under the parallel
Canadian Project was delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend
the Closing Date until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started
in July 1981 is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia
by substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport pro-
jects, including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
The project experienced delays in its start up phase. In particular, one of



- 54 -                ANNEX II
Page 25 of 29 pages
the conditions for loan effectiveness was fulfilled with considerable delay,
thus delaying project implementation by six months. However, PUSRI has
taken steps to expedite project implementation although an extension of
project completion by six months is likely. Total project costs are
estimated to increase by about 10%-15%.
Highways
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
still behind schedule. The project is about 40% completed compared to 75%
scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project objectives,
which translate into program-type components and numerous consultancies; (b)
organization and management problems in the provincial highway agencies; and
(c) new development guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the
spread of investments over a larger number of projects with reduced stand-
ards. However, work is now underway on nearly all project components, and
there is still a reasonable chance of completing the project with a total
delay of about one year. The Provincial Departments of Public Works
programs of support works were started in January 1982 with mobilization of
consultants, and after road maintenance equipment had been ordered.
$6.8 million of the loan has been cancelled due to misprocurement of road
maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date: February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road works took place in late May 1982,
somewhat behind schedule. The project is about 3 months behind schedule.
Consequently, disbursements are likely to fall behind estimated disbursement
schedule, at least during the first one or two years.



- 55 -                    ANNEX II
Page 26 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2083  Rural Roads Development:  $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date: August 11, 1982. Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure in selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works
agencies, implementing an expanded program of rural roads works, and
supporting a rural road development program for a three-year period in five
Indonesian provinces. The project also contains components for training and
technical assistance. Construction of some workshops has begun. Contracts
for all works equipment have been awarded. Progress under the project is
hampered by inadequate organizational arrangements and shortages of qualified
staff. Consequently disbursements have fallen behind appraisal estimates.
The next supervision mission will review with GOI actions required to
improve the rate of progress.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. All funds for ship
procurement ($48.0 million) have been disbursed and the balance of funds for
technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allocated. It is
expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date. The project
is essentially completed.
Ports
Loan No. 1337    Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date:  March 3, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
All civil works under the project have been successfully comple-
ted. All of the equipment has been procured and installed and is fully
operational. As a result of the investments under the project, Tanjung
Priok Port-s performance has improved dramatically. Technical assistance,
amounting to $4.7 million is being used to finance consultant services for
preparation of the proposed Maritime Sector Development Program. The loan
is expected to close by June 30, 1983.



ANNEX II
- 56 -                    Page 27 of 29 pages
TOURISM
Credit No. 479   Bali Tourism:  $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
($1.4 million cancelled October 31, 1982); Effective
Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Infrastructure work at Nusa Dua has been substantially completed.
The access road to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpassar bypass road
were completed and opened for traffic in December 1980.  The hotel training
school was completed in July 1979 and has been in operation since then. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progress-
ing well with first phase completed in December 1982. Negotiations have
been concluded with Club Med for a hotel investment with the Bali Tourism
Development Corporation (BTDC) equity participation ot $0.4 million. Out of
the total credit of $16.0 million, $1.4 million has been cancelled but
disbursements will continue up to December 31, 1983 against BTDC commitment
of $0.4 million for Club Med.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
iovember 4, 1976;  Effective Date:  March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. The physical program has been completed with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya. Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future project preparation are
currently in progress.
Loan No. 1653. Third Urban Development: $54 Million loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha) -- with the KIP coverage in
each city ranging between 15 to 37% of total kampung areas to be upgraded.
Also included in the project is a comprehensive solid waste management
program (SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-drainage improvements in
Surabaya. The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its
actual coverage exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP



- 57 -                   ANNEX II
Page 28 of 29 pages
implementation is progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in
Jakarta due to earlier start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya
drainage component which was beset with land acquisition problems (for canal
dredging schemes) is now progressing satisfactorily. The overall project is
expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected date of December
31, 1984. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 65% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972    Fourth Urban Development:  $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bank's assistaice to GOI's slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide
provincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with
a coverage in each city representing about 15% to 33% of total KIP area to be
upgraded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core
housing units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of
about 11,000 plots in some six to seven cities.  Sectoral programs compris-
ing solid waste improvement and improved water supply, are also included in
one of the project cities. A national urban mapping program covering
125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning,
land registration and valuation programs. The development of the housing
and mortgage financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project.
Technical assistance for project management, training and feasibility
studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The
sites and services program is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays
in the implementation of the KIP programs have been overcome and the pro-
gress of these programs has significantly improved with the consultants
appointments. All technical assistance programs are proceeding satisfac-
torily. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 33% of appraisal
estimate.
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of
transmission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house



- 58 -
ANNEX II
Page 29 of 29 pages
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE-s staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administration,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and deliveries are in progress. The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is also underway. The organiza-
tional and management training for the WEs has been underway since September
1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of March
1983 were about 28% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2236    Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation; $22.4 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983; Effective Date: Not yet effective:
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The project is the first step in developing a sewerage system in
Jakarta and complements the public health measures carried out under
previous Bank-assisted urban development projects. Its principal objectives
are to (a) improve environmental conditions and public health, (b) establish
an institution and sound financial policies for the operation and management
of the Jakarta sewerage system and (c) demonstrate the feasibility of
appropriate low-cost technologies. The project covers sewerage and sanita-
tion improvements including (a) a basic water-borne sewerage system;
(b) drainage improvements; (c) sanitation improvements; (d) staff training
and fellowships; and (e) consulting services for project implementation and
for technical institutional and financial studies and the preparation of
future projects. Steps have been taken to establish the appropriate
institutional arrangements for project implementation, terms of reference
for the engagement of consultants have been agreed, and steps have been
taken for procurement by ICB of pipes.



- 59 -                               ANNEX III
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:         Two years
(b) The agency which has prepared
the project:                             Directorate of City and
Regional Planning; with
assistance of consultants
(c)  Date of first presentation to the          1979 and September 1981
Bank and dates of the first Bank
mission to consider the project:
(d)  Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:  January 1982
(e)  Date of completion of Negotiations:        January 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             July 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
DGT would give priority in selection of settlers to family groups
having at least three persons over 14 years of age (para. 46).



I



IBRD 16770
1170                                             1190           JAUARY 1983
BRUNEI .iD     __
- r-(~~-    I                                                                                                                         40   <>9
MALAYS14       ~        ~        
0Pont,anak  '7 /GW                                                             >       Ut < ,<  *  / arakan
KALIMANTAN    B\vikpap  0
.     -      C             ,/-'.J          v~~7-1                 ,       S     ,
.    ,    aniarmasin               ''  '       Jr '                               f /   >
' '  1\0< -A    f  '    9/ >>  <   Tanjungsefor
M A L A Y S I A          .                                             ,       %               \ ,- 
00Jtre0>9                                                             20
70,  ~          - ).-                                      -                       -=                            NOEI
-D 17'67>j
13877 6772\
-u~~~~~~~~~~~~ES -               4*              --      g   -snagJPOE                                               OATOSI
KALIMANTAN
_- ~~~~~~~ ~INDONESIA
/                            A                      ~~~~~~TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
''I    ~**-'  ')~/  - ----~PROJECT  LOCATIONS
~~>  i-,  ~~~~~EAST   KALIMANTAN
Tang0arong0U--/7\   -2e        @        PROJECT AREAS
*                              -~~J   +   {t    t-1 0   '.ViSamarinrtdN    '  ROADS (Existing)
-  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~       Ut-- ~~~~~~~~wnROAOSUae
{ . s -- p; , t. ; 9 > er                                                                 ROADSSUnder ConstructioRE
N  ---                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES
CENTRAL    KALIMA        NTfi1 rAN- -,,       .            :         : /   / o                       -   -   PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
.. $) /g;% )9 < X t?Siwikpapan                                      -   - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/ { g o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20                                              40        60        Do
-~~  -I-  ~~< '-U-'7----   ~ ~~~~9IAkPap4n ~KILOMETERS                                 2                  1 
-   /    \                                                          MILES    0       10     20      30     40      50
0    ~, )Taahgrog9f     /
20                                                  L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-2 trap ha  teas prepared Op lYre World Bark 'a staff sncfsas'  far -        baFsa  ta . .         If ,      a
'1           AIMA1170                                                 - era rr and saxs kfy tsr artf 1a1=sset a ftfT,he Worst Ba9nvnd t, o fsa
-~~~~~~~~~~~S                                                                               get   at a    lean7t  as  sttdra7rr rrfalrottr 5_ sdattg   at aeg  gta,,t_
.   '       t    ~~11i5   /2 KAL/MANTAA1-!--.               ,/        11f70                                               1190



I



IBRD 16771
117 00'                       JANUARY  1983
BRUN~E
MALAYSIA 5 S 
nI                                 fL  i                                          _                  9L\A
KALIMANTAN
-1010'                                                                           r                                 i01o0
Java Soa
This map has been prepared by     116050
The World Bank's staff exclusively
for the convenmence of the
readers and is exclusively for the
nt-eal -se of The World Bank
and the Internabonal Finance
Corporation The denomninatons
used and the boundaries shown
on this map do not imply, on the              Long Bau
part of The World Bank and the
International Finance Corporation,
any judgment on the legal status
of any terrtory or any
endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries
|           >'                   9                           j} ~~~~~~~~         ~       ~      ~~~~~~Gu ngu ng\
j -.   ..     2         rs/    -.>== 'fo  Kongbeng
-- To Sangkulirang
1 00r                                                                                                                                                                       1o00'-
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Muarawahau Project Area
PROJECT:
SKP CENTERS
VILLAGE CENTERS
SKP BOUNDARIES
ACCESS ROADS
VILLAGE ROADS
t-   RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS  ,               2        4         6          8
MILES          I               I              '
g   1 16 650                                                                  0       1       2       3      4        5



c



IBRD 16772
117050                         -' ?                                          JANUARY  1983
BRU NEl
MALAYSIA S
KAL IMANTAN                               '.
X   ,.-                .@                                                                          _                                  tes   '-~~~~~~~~~~~-U
This map has been prepared by                                                                 Y
The World Bank's staff exclusvely
for the convenience of the
readers and is exclusively for the
iternal use of The World BanK                                                     '                     Kolek Camp
_1000    and the eInternatonal Finance                                                                                      Q                      n  gkUIl       1 00
Corporaton The denominetins                                                f                                                          Q I   n
used and the boundaries shown                                        jB. . -                                                                    Ba
on this map do not imply, on the
part of The World Bank and the
International Finance Corpora hon.
any judgment on the legal status
o1 any territory or any
endorsement or acceptance of                  J
such boundaries
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Sangkulirang  Project Areas
PROJECT:
SKP CENTERS
0050                        VILLAGE  CENTERS                                                         OKaliorang        -                                          0050-
SKP BOUNDARIES
ACCESS ROADS
4                                          VILLAGE ROADS
RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES.
0   2 4   a
K I LOM ETE RS    __        2___4         _6_          8
MILES         0      1      2       3      4      5
0                                                                   1 i8000~~'  1  2 3 
11750                                                                            t1800
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



