Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3943a-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
April 19, 1983
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This docniment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /1
US$1.00        =    Rupiah (Rp) 700
Rp 100         =    US$O.143
Rp 1 million  =    US$1,428.57
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)               =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)              =  2.2 pounds (lb)
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD          -  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BAKOPTRANS   -  Badan Koordinasi Penyelenggaraan Transmigrasi - Coordinating
Body for Transmigration Implementation
BAPPENAS      -  Indonesian National Planning Organization
BIMAS         -  Credit System for Agricultural Inputs
Bina Marga   -  The Directorate General of Highways
BRI           -  Bank Rakyat indonesia
BULOG/DOLOG  -  National Logistics Body/Logistical Depot - The rice
procurement agencies
CRIFC         -  Central Research Institute for Food Crops
DGA           -  The Directorate General of Agraria (Land Registration)
DGC           -  The Directorate General of Cooperatives
DGE           -  The Directorate General of Estates
DGF           -  The Directorate General of Forestry
/1 The Board documents for this project are based on an exchange rate of
700 Rupiah to the US dollar.  However, after project negotiations, the
Government announced on March 30, 1983, the devaluation of the Rupiah
from 700 to 970 per dollar. This devaluation will not materially affect
this project or loan. The loan amount is based on the foreign exchange
cost of the project, which remains unchanged. Actual domestic cost
will increase somewhat from the amounts shown here due to the impacts
of devaluation on domestic inflation. The financial returns to farmers
and the economic rate of return for the project will increase because
the rupiah prices of major outputs such as copra and rice will rise
relative to the prices of major inputs such as labor.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DGFCA          -  The Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
DGLS           -  The Directorate General of Livestock
DGT            -  The Directorate General of Transmigration
DITADA        -  Directorate of City and Regional Planning
DPW            -  Department of Public Works
FCC           -  Farmers- Cooperative Centers
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
IPEDA         -  Land tax
JMT           -  The Junior Minister for Transmigration
KUD            -  Village cooperative
MDSE           -  Minister for Development Supervision and Environment
NES           -  Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Projects - Bank-assisted
projects for tree crop development
PLPT          -  The Land Clearing Directorate within the Department of Public
Works
PPB           -  Plant Protection Brigade
PPL            -  Village level extension workers
PPM           -  Agricultural extension worker, mid-level
PPS           -  Agricultural extension worker, subject matter specialist
PTP           -  Perseroan Terbatas Perkebunan - State owned enterprise
with limited liability
PUSKESMAS    -  Area health center
Repelita I   -  First Five-Year Development Plan (1969/70-1973/74)
Repelita II  -  Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974/75-1978/79)
Repelita III -  Third Five-Year Development Plan (1979/80-1983/84)
RMI           -  Resource Management International, Consultants to the JMT
SKP           -  Satuan Kawasaan Pengembangan - A land development unit for
about 2,000 transmigrant families
SOE           -  Statements of Expenditure
SU            -  Special Unit for Bank Group-Assisted Projects
TAD           -  Transmigration and Area Development Team
Team Khusus  -  Special team within the DGE for Bank-assisted projects
TORs          -  Terms of Reference
UNDP          -  United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIA TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND  .........................                         .     1
General.                                                          1
Agriculture and Rural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       1
Transmigration.                                                   1
Project Formulation.                                              4
II. PROJECT AREA.                                                       7
Location.                                                         7
Climate.                                                          7
Topography and Soils.                                             8
Population and Land Use . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Existing Infrastructure and Services  . . . . . . . . . . .    9
III. THE PROJECT .10
Project Description .10
Project Works .10
Timber Utilization .11
Site Preparation .13
Community Development and Settler Relocation  . . . . . . .    14
Agricultural Development .15
Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Status of Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
Cost Estimates .19
Financing Plan .21
Procurement .22
Disbursement .23
Accounts and Audits .24
Environmental and Social Effects  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    24
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .26
Coordination of Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
Site Preparation .29
Community Development .29
Agricultural Support Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
Operation and Maintenance .33
Monitoring and Evaluation .33
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOME . .    34
Agricultural Production          ..34
Market Prospects             ..37
Price structure of Agricultural Production  . . . . . . . .    37
Farm Incomes             ..38
Project Charges and Cost Recovery . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40



- ii -
VI. BENEFITS JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  ...  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    42
Benefits   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  42
Economic Analysis ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    42
Risks   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  44
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...  .           .  .  .  .  .  .    .    45
TABLES IN THE TEXT
2.1  Mean Rainfall and Raindays in Project Sites.                               7
3.1  Proposed Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
3.2  Project Cost Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
3.3  Annual Price Contingencies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
4.1  Implementing Responsibilities for the Transmigration IV
Project .30
5.1  Estimated Schedule of Coconut Planting  . . . . . . . . . . .    34
5.2  Cropping Patterns and Farm Budgets for a 3.25 ha
farm in East Kalimantan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
5.3  Assumed Hybrid Coconut Yields . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    36
5.4  Cropping Pattern and Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    39
6.1  Sensitivity Analysis. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
FIGURES IN THE TEXT
1.   Special Unit for Bank Group-Assisted Projects ...  .            .  .  .    .    28
ANNEX I: TABLES TO THE MAIN REPORT
1. Project Cost Estimate .47
2. Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds .51
3. Estimated Schedule of Disbursement .52
4. Breakdown of Consultant Costs .53
5.  Price Structures for Agricultural Outputs .54
6.  Price Structures for Agricultural Inputs .55
7. Development Costs per Family .56
8.  Rent and Cost Recovery Calculations Summary .57
9.  Economic Rate of Return Calculation for Muara Wahau                       58
10.  Economic Rate of Return Calculation for Sangkulirang.59
11.  Seeds, Fertilizer and Pesticide Packages. . . . . . . . . . .    60
12.  Food Crop Production Costs:  Physical Inputs in Future
with Project. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    62
13.  Food Crop Production Costs:  Future with Project at
Full Development .63
14.  Food Crop Budget:  Future with Project at Full Development.               64
15.  Monthly Farm Labor Requirement:  Future with Project.                     65
16.  Summary of Transmigrant Hybrid Coconut Establishment
Cost/ha   .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .  66
ANNEX 2:  RELATED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILES                     67
MAPS
1.   Project Locations, East Kalimantan
2.   Muara Wahau Project Areas
3.   Sangkulirang Project Areas



I. BACKGROUND
General
1.01      In September 1981 the World Bank appraised a third transmigration
project with components for: (a) resettlement in East Kalimantan and South
Sumatra, (b) site selection and evaluation; and (c) program development
including training of key staff in the Directorate General of Transmigration
(DGT), agricultural research in the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD), and technical assistance to the Minister for Development
Supervision and Environment (MDSE). Because of uncertainties about land
availability, timber utilization and interagency coordination, the East
Kalimantan component was deferred and the remaining components were pro-
cessed as the Transmigration III Project. The Government of Indonesia (GOI)
has since proposed steps to ensure timber utilization in the East Kalimantan
sites and recommendations have been made to improve the coordination of
Bank-assisted projects. The GOI has, therefore, requested World Bank finan-
cial assistance to settle 6,000 families in East Kalimantar and to
strengthen project coordination.
1.02      The East Kalimantan settlement component was identified and pre-
pared by the Government of Indonesia and the Transmigration and Area Devel-
opment Team (TAD), a cooperative program between the Republic of Indonesia
and the Federal Republic of Germany. A component to strengthen the special
unit for Bank-assisted projects was prepared by officials within the Office
of the Junior Minister for Transmigration (JMT) with the assistance of their
consultants (RMI). This report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission which was in Indonesia in September 1981, a post appraisal mission
in January 1982, and technical discussions between GOI and the Bank during
Transmigration III negotiations. Mission members included G. Davis,
K. Sengupta and C. Subido (Bank), P. Kidane (FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program), T. Phillips and H. Cooke (consultants). Mr. Caparas (Bank)
assisted in reviewing the final report.
The Agricultural and Rural Sector
1.03      The Government's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder tree
crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water
and other natural resources. The development strategy and the role of the
Bank in this sector have been reviewed in recent appraisal reports including
Irrigation XVI (Ln. 2118-IND) and are not repeated here.
Transmigration
1.04            Programs to wed the underutilized labor of Java with the
underutilized land of the other islands have figured in the programs of



Indonesian Governments for three quarters of a century. By 1979, the
beginning of the current Five-Year Plan, it was estimated that at least 2
million people were in the other islands as a direct result of
transmigration programs and associated population growth./l
1.05      Bank Group Lending.  The first Bank-assisted transmigration
project (Ln. 1318-IND) was appraised in 1976. It consisted of two test
schemes in southern Sumatra: (a) the rehabilitation of an existing project
for 12,000 families in Way Abung; and (b) the settlement of 4,500 families
near Baturaja. Baturaja farmers were provided with 5.0 ha farms (including
1 ha of rubber trees), cattle for draft power, free agricultural inputs for
three years, a house and one year of subsistence supplies. The project was
implemented by a Project Management Unit (PMU) established within the DGT.
1.06      In 1979 the GOI and the World Bank agreed to a second Bank-
assisted project (Ln. 1707/Cr. 919-IND) which was to be a model for trans-
migration during the Third Five-Year Plan. This project was intended to
settle 30,000 families along the new trans-Sumatra highway in Jambi province
and to rehabilitate an existing settlement of 4,000 transmigrant families.
Given high program targets, Government and Bank were interested in rapid
preparation and settlement, and relatively low per family costs. The
project had a number of features to support these objectives: (a) to speed
preparation, the project was appraised on the basis of preliminary mapping,
while detailed surveys and village design were incorporated within the
project; (b) to speed development, mechanical land clearing was planned and
its cost and quality were to be monitored under the project; (c) to keep
costs low and to promote food self-sufficiency, an agricultural support
package was developed for rainfed food crops. The introduction of tree
crops was planned for a later stage of development.
1.07      In 1980 the Bank financed a first project in swamp reclamation for
transmigration (Ln. 1958-IND). This was a 9,000 ha pilot project for 3,200
families, which tested the assumption that soil toxification and
overdrainage could be prevented in swampland developments without costly
structures for water control. The project also initiated studies on which
future project preparation would be based. These included an inventory of
reclaimable swamplands, a reconnaissance of areas which might be upgraded,
studies on potable water supply and on the ecological impact of swampland
development. Construction of civil works for this project has just begun.
1.08      Experience in Bank-assisted Projects.  After a slow start, the
first transmigration project is nearing completion. Infrastructure improve-
ment in the existing community has resulted in the construction of two private
cassava factories and increased employment opportunities in an adjacent
/1 Details are available in the World Bank Report, Indonesia: Transmigra-
tion Program Review, Vols. I & II (Report 3170a-IND).



-3-
sugar estate, and in 1981 the new settlement at haturaja was judged by the
GOI as the best transmigration settlement in Indonesia. After five to six
years on site, farmers have an average of 1.3 ha/family under cultivation
and average annual incomes of about US$600 from annual crops and off-farm
work. These relatively low incomes, which reflect recent settlement and the
limited potential of food production on marginal lands to date, are consist-
ent with those anticipated in the appraisal report. When rubber comes into
production beginning in 1983, family incomes are expected to rise to about
US$2,000 per year.
1.09       The settlement component of the Transmigration II project has had
start-up problems due to land shortages in the original sites and coordina-
tion problems arising from new organizational arrangements. Detailed
mapping revealed that flat land suitable for food crops in the original
project area in Jambi province could accommodate only about 20,000 of the
proposed 30,000 families and, of this, land for 10,000 families was rejected
because it was within production forest.  Sites for 10,000 additional
families were identified in South Sumatra and in June 1982, the project was
reduced in size to 20,000 families.  This experience, together with the fact
that the location of sites is the largest single factor in determining
migrant success, accentuated the need for improved site screening and
evaluation, and for this reason, about one third of the loan funds from
Transmigration II were reallocated to these activities to ensure available
land for future transmigration projects. The Bank has since approved a
third transmigration project in which about 75% of project costs are for
site selection and evaluation.
1.10       Problems of coordination also slowed project implementation.
Presidential Decree 26/78 allocated responsibility for transmigration
implementation to the line agencies, and it established a policy making
board (BAKOPTRANS) and a new office responsible for the coordination of
implementation (JMT). A review of consulting services provided to the JMT
indicated that the limited organization and staffing of the JMT made it
difficult for this agency to respond to the scale of the work required.  To
address this problem, the agency was incorporated into a new Ministry of
Transmigration in February 1983.
1.11       Settlement in the Transmigration II areas commenced in October
1981 and about 800 families were settled by March 31, 1982. A total of
about 3,000 families should be settled by the end of the current fiscal year
(June 1983).
1.12       Sector Review.  In April 1981, shortly after the beginning of
Repelita III, the Bank completed a review of the GOI upland and swamp



- 4 -
transmigration programs (Transmigration Program Review, 3170-IND). The
major conclusion of the review was that income prospects from rainfed food
crops were limited and a greater role should be given to mixed farming
systems and tree crops in upland schemes. The report also recommended that
increased attention be given to site selection and evaluation, institution
building and staff training, and that a major effort be made to promote
better resource utilization through the development of grasslands and the
utilization of timber from forested areas which are clean cleared.
1.13      Bank projects, consistent with the recommendations of the
Transmigration Program Review, have been developed. To improve migrant
incomes the third Transmigration project would strengthen the GOI's capacity
to select suitable sites. It would also provide financial assistance for
agricultural research in support of transmigration. The proposed project
would use estate management to introduce tree crops to new migrants, and
both the Transmigration II Project and projects in preparation would
introduce tree crop development to existing settlements. To assist in
institution building, the Transmigration II Project contains components to
strengthen the Office of the Junior Minister for Transmigration and train
land clearing contractors and PLPT staff. The Transmigration III Project
would help Government develop the capacity of DITADA and local consultants
to undertake the standard program of site identification, and it also
contains a component to train key DGT staff. To improve resource utiliza-
tion, the Transmigration III project would help locate sites in areas of less
than 8% slope, thus minimizing erosion, and it contains a component to
strengthen the role of the Ministry of Development Supervision and Environ-
ment in transmigration.
Project Formulation
1.14      In 1979, the Government of Indonesia requested World Bank assis-
tance to prepare a transmigration project in East Kalimantan. To promote
development in the underutilized interior, TAD (a German technical assis-
tance team) had recommended settlement in Muara Wahau, an interior site with
reasonable agricultural potential. Because of the remoteness of the area
and its limited marketing prospects, TAD suggested settlement based on tree
crops; and to improve access, TAD recommended a 170 km road linking Maura
Wahau to the coastal town of Sangkulirang. A World Bank identification team
reviewing these plans agreed to proceed with project preparation in order to
open new land and promote regional development. Major concerns in project
formulation were the choice of suitable farming systems, the development
of procedures to ensure timber utilization, and the strengthening of
project coordination.
1.15      The selection of a suitable farming system has been a major focus
of project design. TAD proposed a food crop farming system for East
Kalimantan on 1.6 ha of which 0.8 ha would be under legumes. The model also
included soil conservation, green manuring, liming and the introduction of



- 5 -
minor tree crops such as coffee and cloves. The appraisal mission reviewed
this proposal with TAD and concluded that reasonable incomes could not be
assumed from food crop production alone given the ahsence of good extension
and the limited access to markets. Mission and Government officials then
agreed that tree crops should be introduced under estate management in the
early settlement period. At the same time, funds for research in East
Kalimantan on food crop farming systems, including those proposed by TAD,
were included in the Transmigration III project and field trials intended
to monitor the benefits of liming are included within the proposed project.
1.16      Timber utilization has also been a major consideration in project
design. Many tnderpopulated areas in Indonesia which are suitable for
transmigration are forested. Although selectively logged when used for
transmigration, these areas may still have large stands of commercially
valuable timber which are not efficiently utilized. There are several
interrelated reasons. First, only concessionaires, not land clearing
contractors, have the legal right to extract timber. Second, a worldwide
depression in the construction industry has reduced the world demand for both
round logs and sawn timber, while government regulations intended to promote
domestic processing /1 have had the dual effect of limiting logging to the
capacity of domestic processing facilities and reducing the domestic price of
logs. These factors have reduced the incentives for the concessionaires
themselves to remove any other than the most valuable timber.
1.17      To overcome the legal obstacles to timber extraction, either the
land clearing contractor must be given the right to extract residual timber,
or procedures must be developed to permit the concessionaire to do land
clearing. The proposed project provides for both of these options. In areas,
where logging has heen completed, or where the concessionaire is not prepared
to log at the present time, the Directorate General of Forestry (DGF) has
agreed that the land clearing contractor should remove timber and contracting
procedures have been developed to ensure timber recovery. The DGF has also
agreed to help land clearing contractors identify processing facilities with
excess capacity and to ensure that salvage timber is purchased and processed.
Where the concessionaire is prepared to log and clear the land, Government and
Bank have agreed that land clearing contracts would be negotiated with the
timber concessionaire to ensure effective timber utilization and minimize
costs. This would increase the financial incentive to log, despite low
prices, as the same infrastructure could be used for both logging and land
clearing operations. However, since the effect of low prices on timber
marketing from both sites was not certain at the time of appraisal, Government
and Bank agreed that the project would be presented to the Executive Directors
when evidence was available that contracts could be signed which ensured land
clearing and timber utilization at reasonable costs.
/1 In 1981, at appraisal, Government required that 80% of round logs be
processed domestically and by 1985 it will require 100% domestic
processing.



1.18      In order to strengthen coordination between agencies the
Transmigration III project requires the formation of a Special Unit for
Bank-assisted projects and ensures sufficient staff and funding for its
operation. Under the Transmigration IV Project, Bank financial assistance
is provided to facilitate the operation of the Special Unit and to provide
needed technical assistance.



- 7 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location
2.01      The project is located in East Kalimantan which is the most eastern
Indonesian province on the island of Borneo. East Kalimantan, which is
roughly the size of West Germany, has a population of 1.2 million (1980) and a
population density of five persons per square kilometer. Logging is the major
income producing activity of the province and the area imports the major
portion of its food. To promote regional growth, employment diversification
and food security, transmigration has high priority. The proposed project
sites at Muara Wahau are located in the interior about 150 km from the coast
and about 160 km north of the provincial capital of Samarinda. The sites at
Sangkulirang are located along the coast about 190 km north of Samarinda
(see maps, pp. 68-70).
Climate
2.02      The climate in East Kalimantan is wet tropical with temperatures
averaging around 25-260C throughout the year. Rainfall in Muara Wahau
averages 2,400 mm, while in Sangkulirang it averages 1,700 mm per year
(Table 2.1). In Muara Wahau, the wettest months are April/May and
November/December, with about 250 mm rain/month, while July and September are
comparatively dry with an average of 150 mm/month. There is a very wide
variation in monthly rainfall and the probability that any of the drier months
will have less than 100 mm of rain is one in five.  This indicates two
distinct growing seasons for annual crops in Muara Wahau, mid-March to
mid-June and late October through early January. The project site at
Sangkulirang is characterized by a single wet season from November to May with
a comparatively dry season from July to October when rainfall averages about
110 mm/month.
Table 2.1: MEAN RAINFALL AND RAINDAYS IN PROJECT SITES
Site          Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr.  May  Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct  Nov. Dec. Total
Muara Wahau
Rainfall   176  147  189   247  263  214  155  155  158  174  252  252  2,353
Raindays   (8)  (8)  (9)  (10)  (9)  (6)  (7)  (7)  (8)  (8) (10) (11)  (101)
Sangkulirang
Rainfall   151  137  145   182  156  126  107  107  101  107  161  157  1,643
Raindays  (10)  (8)  (9)  (10)  (9)  (8)  (6)  (7)  (6)  (7)  (9) (11)  (103)



-8-
Topography and Soils
2.03      Muara Wahau consists of two adjacent sites: Pantun and Wahau Timur.
The topography in both sites is generally flat or slightly undulating. Of
the 15,000 ha mapped for the project, roughly 86% is under 8% slope, and 98%
is under 15%. The land becomes broken to the east culminating in a
precipitous limestone outcrop, Gunung Kongbeng, which marks the project-s
eastern border.
2.04       Sangkulirang consists of two separate sites:  Kaliorang, which is
located on the coast and Kaubun, located on the Rapak river estuary. Both
have similar topographic features: coastal or riverine plains which are
sparsely settled and hilly areas with flat pockets of land. There are some
mountainous areas on the western border of Kaliorang and to the south of
Kaubun, and these mark the limits of the proposed settlement areas. Of the
8,700 ha mapped for the project, around 65% is under 8% slope and 84% is
under 15% slope.
2.05      The upland soils of the project area have relatively good physical
properties, but are very poor chemically. These soils are generally more
than a meter deep, except on steep slopes, and of medium texture. They are
chemically impoverished and strongly acidic (pH 4.0-5.2). Because of the
low pH of the soil, high levels of exchangeable aluminum are common and are
sufficient to restrict the growth of some plants and to make the choice of
tolerant cultivars essential. Total phosphorous levels are medium to low in
Muara Wahau and medium to high in Sangkulirang, and the difference between
top soils and subsoils is slight.  The amount of exchangeable potassium and
other plant nutrients is low.
Population and Land Use
2.06      Muara Wahau.  The project sites are part of the subdistrict
(Kecamatan) of Muara Wahau in the district (Kabupaten) of Kutai. The
population of the entire Kecamatan was 8,600 people in 1980. Of these,
about 1,500 lived adjacent to the project areas on the east side of the
Wahau river, and another 2,700 lived across the river in the subdistrict
capital of Muara Wahau. Although 90% of household heads regarded themselves
as farmers in 1981, 97% of cash income in Muara Wahau came from logging; in
the Dayak village at Nehes Liah Bing (1,314 people), 86% of the family
income was from logging and rattan collection, and in Jak Luay (321 people),
40% came from such work. Agriculture is mainly for subsistence and includes
the cultivation of rice, cassava, maize, sweet potato, beans and chilis.
Home gardens include coconut, coffee and vegetables.
2.07      Ninety percent of the study area is covered by evergreen diptero-
carp rain forest, which is the natural climax vegetation of the area. Two



concessionaires have the right to extract timber. The northern concession
is held by P.T. Basuimex, subcontracted to P.T. Rimbo Nusantara, and the
southern concession is held by P.T. Georgia Pacific International. Parts of
both concessions have been selectively logged and the concessionaires are
currently working in the area. P.T. Georgia Pacific has cleared land to the
southeast of the project area for a rubber and cocoa nursery in the expecta-
tion of establishing a tree crop plantation. Timber concessionaires have
legal permission to extract logs in accordance with forestry regulations, but
the Government reserves the right to reallocate the land for development
purposes.
2.08      Sangkulirang.  The project area is part of the subdistrict of
Sangkulirang in the district of Kutai. The population of the subdistrict
was 16,600 in 1976. The population of Kaliorang and Kaubun villages was
about 800 and 630, respectively. Agriculture accounts for about half the
employment; logging employed 20% and fishing 5%. The average size of farms
is about 2.5 ha and commonly grown cultivars include wet rice, upland rice,
maize, cassava, sweet potato, groundnuts, soybean, coconut, cloves, coffee,
and pepper.
2.09      Sangkulirang sites are covered mainly by low to medium density
tropical evergreen rain forest with some high density forest. Most have been
exploited by selective logging. The P.T. Georgia Pacific concession which
expired in 1981, covers most of Kaliorang and Kaubun. P.T. Sangkulirang and
P.T. Gani Mulia hold logging concessions in the northern reaches of the Rapak
River in Kaubun.
Existing Infrastructure and Services
2.10      Muara Wahau.  The project area is accessible by river from
Samarinda. The trip takes about 10 hours by speed boat and 36-48 hours by
long boat. During low water, usually July-September and often in February,
only small boats can negotiate the rapids near Batu Ampar about 40 km to the
south of Muara Wahau and indirect access is possible from Batu Ampar along
existing logging roads. With the exception of an elementary school in Muara
Wahau, services in the area are limited and it is expected that the health and
education facilities introduced by the project would benefit both local and
transmigration populations. There are no agricultural support services in the
area.
2.11      Sangkulirang. The Kaliorang site is accessible from the coast by
river or road from the village of Kaliorang. The town itself is about
1 hour by speed boat to Sangkulirang or 7 hours to Samarinda. A logging
road leads into the Kaubun site from Kolek, a river village about 20 minutes
by speed boat from Sangkulirang. Health and education services are avail-
able in Sangkulirang, but are limited in the project areas. There are no
agricultural support services in the area.



- 10 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Description
3.01      The project would provide financial assistance for a four year
tranche of a ten year program intended to settle about 14,000 families in
East Kalimantan. Under this project 3,500 families would be settled in
Muara Wahau, and 2,500 families in Sangkulirang. Each family would receive
a 3.5 ha farm and a standard transmigration package including 1.25 ha of
cleared land for houselots and food crops, transportation to the site, a
house, agriculture inputs and subsistence supplies. Farmers, with estate
assistance, would establish up to 2.0 ha of coconut on their land and during
this four-year tranche, 4,500 ha of coconuts would be planted for small-
holders in Muara Wahau and 3,500 ha in Sangkulirang. About 500 ha of a
1,000 ha estate would also be established in Muara Wahau. Consulting
services would be provided to facilitate implementation and strengthen
project coordination.
Project Works
3.02      The project would include:
(a) Transmigration Development
(i)  land clearing of 17,550 ha for houselots, food crop lots,
village facilities, roads and coconut plantations;
(ii) construction of around 60 km of access roads, around 250 km
of village and primary collection roads, and around 125 km
of secondary village roads, and construction of a 45 km road
linking Batu Ampar with Muara Wahau;
(iii) construction of a wharf and storage facility at Batu Ampar,
and of two landing strips for light aircraft, one in each
project site;
(iv) construction of 6,000 settler houses and provision of
sanitation and water supply;
(v)  construction, equipping, and staffing of community facili-
ties in 17 villages;
(vi) planting of 8,000 ha of hybrid coconut trees for trans-
migrants;
(vii) provision of agricultural machinery and equipment for
construction of about 160 km of collection roads and for
general road maintenance;



- 11 -
(viii) transportation to the site and provision of subsistence
supplies for one year;
(ix) provision of agrarian services;
(x) application of lime, provision of food crop seeds, vegetable
seeds, minor tree crop seedlings, and soil conservation
supplies for one year, and provision of fertilizers and
pesticides for up to three years;
(xi)  distribution of about 12,000 chickens and 1,200 roosters
to 6,000 families and development of a poultry rearing
station in Samarinda;
(xii) construction, equipping and staffing of two Rural Extension
Centers (RECs), two Plant Protection Brigades (PPBs), two
Farmers- Cooperative Centers (FCCs), one each in Muara
Wahau and Sangkulirang; 17 Village Cooperative Units (KUDs);
and a 15 ha seed farm in Muara Wahau; and
(xiii) staffing and equipping of a Special Unit for Bank-Group
Assisted Projects and provision of technical assistance
for this unit; and
(xiv) provision of technical assistance for designing the Batu
Ampar-Muara Wahau road (Bina Marga); supervising land
clearing and road construction (PLPT); determining safe water
supply (DGT); introducing a soil conservation program
(DGFCA); establishing tree crops (PTP XXVI) and preparing
contract documents for processing facilities (PTP VI).
(b) Estate Development
(i) establishment of the first 500 ha of a 1,000 ha coconut
estate under PTP VI in Muara Wahau.
Timber Utilization
3.03      General.  The TAD feasibility study recommended full biomass
utilization including removal of commercially valuable timber, chipping of
small logs and branches, and charcoal production. At appraisal a proposed
clhipping component was rejected as economically infeasible and charcoal
production was deferred until organizational and marketing constraints,
evident in trials, were overcome. All parties agreed, however, that recovery
of commercially valuable round logs, which represent about 20% of the volume
of the biomass, but account for 60-80% of the total value, should be
required. Even with the current low price of timber the procedures outlined



- 12 -
below would result in the recovery of logs from Muara Wahau worth about
US$40 million and logs from Sangkulirang worth about US$20 million over
the four year project period.
3.04            Sangkulirang.  In Sangkulirang most of the area has been
selectively logged and the main concessionaire has relinquished his rights
to the remaining timber. Two small concessionaires in Kaubun would complete
logging prior to land clearing. Commercially valuable standing timber is
estimated at 40 cu m/ha and the Directorate General of Forestry has
confirmed that the right to dispose of this timber would be given to the land
clearing contractor. The DGF has also agreed to help contractors find
domestic processing facilities with excess capacity. To ensure adequate
timber utilization by the land clearing contractor, each site (for 1100-1900
families) would be tendered separately and logging and land clearing would
be done over a period of three years. All bidders would be required to
submit detailed work plans including arrangements for timber recovery and
utilization and these work plans would be reviewed by the DGF and PLPT.
Only those bids providing for the recovery of 40 cu m/ha would be considered
responsive. Tendering procedures for land clearing are covered in para.
3.29.
3.05            Muara Wahau.  Muara Wahau sites have not been logged and are
estimated to contain 60-100 cu m timber/ha. P.T. Basuimex, the concession-
aire in the north, has assured GOI that it will log 18,000 ha over a period
of five years and process at least 60 cu m timber/ha using its own process-
ing facilities. P.T. Georgia Pacific International, the concessionaire in
the south, does not want to shift its operations and is prepared to
relinquish its right to timber on 4,500 ha in the southern portion of the
site. The DGF, under these circumstances, has agreed that land clearing in
the southern site should be tendered using the procedures outlined for
Sangkulirang above. However, to ensure effective timber utilization, to
avoid difficulties of coordination between logging and land clearing, and to
minimize costs, the DGF has recommended that the land clearing contract for
the northern site be negotiated with P.T. Basuimex. Other options were
considered. The first was that the concessionaire log, but land clearing be
tendered separately. This is difficult as (a) the concessionaire is
currently logging in other areas where he has established roads and infra-
structure and he requires some financial incentive to shift his operations,
and (b) under a similar plan in Transmigration II the land clearing
contractor has overtaken the concessionaire resulting in costly stacking
operations and/or timber being burned. The second option was that all
timber be alienated from the concessionaire and that the right to extract
the timber be given to a land clearing contractor, as in Sangkulirang. The
DGF is not prepared to revoke the right to the timber, both because the
concessionaire is in good standing, and because it wishes to avoid placing
1.2 million cu m of incremental timber on the domestic market (in the
proposed plan, concessionaire would substitute one project area for a part
of his current logging operations). Furthermore, since the concessionaire
has already mobilized equipment and other facilities in nearby areas and



- 13 -
since the same infrastructure would be used for both the logging and land
clearing operations, negotiating the contract with the concessionaire should
result in lower costs. For these reasons, the proposed project provides
that one land clearing contract in Muara Wahau could be negotiated, subject
to a check on the reasonableness of the contract price.
Site Preparation
3.06      Land Clearing.  Under the project, about 9,000 ha of logged over
forest would be cleared by PLPT for village infrastructure, roads, house-
lots, food crop production, and an additional 8,500 ha of logged over forest
would be cleared by the estates for tree crops. Land to be used for roads,
village infrastructure and houselots would be clean cleared and destumped.
Much of this work would be done mechanically. On food crop land, trees
would be felled mainly with chainsaws and burned. Branches and small logs
would be stacked and reburned. Large logs and stumps could be left on up to
20% of the land, but 80% or more of the area would be cleared of debris to
permit the mechanical application of lime and to provide rapid start-up for
the farmers. Lime, produced on site by the land clearing contractor, would
be applied at a rate of about 2 tons/ha. Land clearing for tree crops would
be done to NES standards by PTP VI and PTP XXVI using chainsaw gangs and
migrant labor. Since Muara Wahau is flat, little contouring is anticipated
even in tree crop areas, but contouring may be necessary in Sangkulirang on
tree crop land with steeper slopes.
3.07      Road Construction.  The project would undertake studies and designs
for a link road of about 45 km from Batu Ampar (the highest navigable point on
the river in the dry season) to Muara Wahau and it would finance construction
of this road. The project would also construct 25 km of access roads, 125 km
of village and collection roads and 65 km of secondary village roads in Muara
Wahau; and 35 km of access roads, 135 km of village and collection roads and
60 km of secondary village roads in Sangkulirang. Road construction would be
done in accordance with Bina Marga standards adapted to East Kalimantan
conditions by TAD consultants.
3.08      Other Civil Works.  Under this project, funds are provided for a
wharf and jetty in Batu Ampar and for associated storage facilities. In
Sangkulirang, an existing Pertamina wharf would be used for loading supplies.
The project would also construct two earth airstrips capable of taking light
aircraft. These landing strips would be located near Kaliorang and in Wahau
Timur to facilitate management and communication.
Community Development and Settler Relocation
3.09      Housing.  Under this project about 3,500 settler houses of 36 sq m
each would be constructed in Muara Wahau and 2,500 houses would be con-
structed in Sangkulirang. To the extent possible the DGT would use TAD
design standards (developed for East Kalimantan) and local materials.



- 14 -
Changes recommended by TAD include elevating houses, particularly in damp
areas, strengthening posts and cross beams and utilizing higher qualities of
timber for these purposes, increasing the size and quality of corner columns
and providing posts with rodent/termite shields. House design would be
adapted to standard timber lengths and located to improve ventilation.
Preference would be given to hardwood (ulin) shingles for roofing. Pit
latrines would be modified to include an improved pit cover and better
ventilation.
3.10      Village and Project Facilities.  Village facilities would be pro-
vided for ten new villages in Muara Wahau and seven new villages in
Sangkulirang. Each village, of approximately 350 families, would include a
village office and hall, a primary school, a dispensary, and two places of
worship. The DGT would be provided with one storehouse for fertilizer and a
second for food, and these storehouses would be used by village cooperatives
in the second year of development. Each site (1,100-1,900 families) would
constitute an administrative district and one village at each site would be
designated as administrative center.  This village would obtain, in addition
to the above, an office and storehouse, a junior high school and an area
health center (PUSKESMAS). Project development facilities including offices
for the implementing agencies, a guest house, workshops and storage
facilities would be erected near the geographical center of each of the two
project areas. Staff housing would be provided for service personnel. TAD
office designs which promote communication between agencies would be used
for the project development centers. Single side band radios would be
provided to link site managers with project development centers.
3.11      Village Water Supply.   Investigations in Muara Wahau and
Sangkulirang show ground water at shallow depths only in alluvial areas near
rivers. Therefore, the project would provide shallow wells where feasible,
at a rate of one well for four families, but where groundwater is insuffi-
cient to meet minimum family needs of 35 liters/capita/day, village ponds
would be created and shallow wells would be constructed around their
perimeters. Deepwells may be required in areas near the Sangkulirang River
estuary. For the first migrants on site and those in areas with unsafe
water, rainwater collectors and 1.5 cu m storage tanks would be provided. A
hydrologist would be employed by the DGT in the first year of the project to
determine appropriate water supplies and to prepare contract documents for
the DGT.
3.12      Selection, Relocation and Subsistence Support.  About 90% of
settlers would be recruited from the landless agricultural laborers of Java,
Madura, Bali and Lombok; about 10% would be from East Kalimantan. Settlers
would be volunteers, in reasonable health, between 25 and 40, legally
married and with previous agricultural experience. Because of labor
shortages in settlement areas, the DGT would give priority in selection to
mature or extended families in which at least one child or relative over
14 could contribute to the family labor supply. The DGT would select and
relocate migrants as soon as houses and water supply systems are in place.



- 15 -
3.13       All migrants would be recruited in their areas of origin, and
generally 10-15 families would be recruited from a single village and moved
together. Upon departure, villagers would be picked up and taken to transit
depots. Migrants would be flown to Balikpapan, a major city in East
Kalimantan, and they would be taken to Muara Wahau by river and to
Sangkulirang by sea.  Since the DGT moved nearly 60,000 families in 1981/82,
no special problems are anticipated in moving families to Muara Wahau and
Sangkulirang.  Once on site, each family would be provided with subsistence
supplies for one year. The standard settler package would include clothing,
mosquito netting, sleeping mats, cooking utensils and water containers. To
circumvent supply problems caused by the remoteness of the project area, a
transport supplement for supplies and materials is provided under the
project.
Agricultural Development
3.14       Food Crop Development.  Each settler family would be provided
3.5 ha of land. Of this, 2 ha would be for coconut, 1 ha for food crops,
and 0.25 ha for houselots on which vegetables, fruit trees and other tree
crops would be grown. The remaining 0.25 ha would be left to the farmers to
develop as they choose. Planting would initially cover the houselots, which
would be clean cleared, and about 80% of the food crop area because of the
space taken up by unburned stumps, logs, windrows, and other debris. The
proportion of the field plot devoted to food crops would approach 100% over
the next four years as woody materials gradually decompose or are burned and
chopped away. Lime would be produced on site by the land clearing contrac-
tor and applied at a rate determined by AARD on the basis of existing soil
surveys. For comparative purposes at least 100 ha of the first village
would be left unlimed. DGFCA officials together with special unit staff
would monitor crop yields and if significant improvement resulted, lime
would be applied to all new areas in year 2. Monitoring would proceed on
both conditions in the first village. This field experiment would not
significantly reduce the living standards of migrants in the controlled
condition as migrant incomes are supplemented by wage labor in years 1-3 and
by coconut production thereafter. Compensation in the form of rice could be
provided to the farmers in the trial areas if required.
3.15       The settlers would be provided with seeds for one year and
fertilizers and pesticides for three years.  This package would be adequate
for foodcrops and homegardens and would be provided free of cost. A 15 ha
seed farm would be established by the DGFCA in Muara Wahau to produce
quality stock and foundation seed and the seed farm would organize the
multiplication of extension seed through contract growers for distribution
to transmigrants. In both Maura Wahau and Sangkulirang, agricultural
extension would be improved by the provision of staff and facilities for
Rural Extension Centers. The DGFCA would also establish and staff one Plant
Protection Brigade (PPB) in Muara Wahau and a second in Sangkulirang to
forecast and monitor crop pests and disease problems, to advise farmers on



- 16 -
crop production methods, and to organize and combat large pests and
diseases. To promote cooperative development the project would provide
transit fertilizer warehouses (kiosks), small grain warehouses, KUD offices,
concrete drying floors, and rice mill shelters with equipment to be operated
by village cooperatives (KUDs). Farmers Cooperative Centers would be
established in each of the two areas.
3.16       Soil Conservation.  To support the soil conservation program, the
project would provide a seed package to transmigrants for planting on
contours and erodible areas and it would provide planting materials for
roadside planting and gully control. A soil conservation demonstration plot
would be established in each SKP where farmers would be introduced to proper
soil conservation measures.  In the future, funds would be provided for
building dikes and terraces as required. Because of severe labor shortages
in the early years of settlement these activities would not be initiated in
the proposed project. Technical assistance would be provided to the DGFCA
to assist in identifying soil erosion problems and in implementing soil
conservation measures.
3.17       Tree Crop Development.  Under this project, two Government
Estates, PTP VI and PTP XXVI, would assist migrants in establishing coconut
on 2 ha of their own land. Since the project is phased, an assurance was
received from Government that each transmigrant family would receive 2.0 ha
of coconuts whether established under this project or subsequent to it. A
public sector estate (PTP) would establish nurseries for planting materials
and would contract skilled chainsaw operators to fell and clear land.
Transmigrant labor would be used for underbrushing, windrowing, coconut
planting and maintenance for four years. Upon maturity of the coconut
trees, the PTP would assist with extension, input supply and processing.
Because of labor constraints, about one ha of coconut per family would be
planted in the second year after settlement and a second ha per family would
be planted in year three. Exact arrangments would depend on labor supply.
To provide the migrants with cash incomes during this period, those who work
on their fields would be paid about two thirds the local wage rate for their
services. This amount would become part of their debt to be repaid.
Arrangements for cost recovery are covered in paras. 5.14-5.18. Local
families would receive 2 ha of coconut per family under similar arrange-
ments. Machinery and equipment would be provided to the PTPs for land
clearing and construction of collection roads. This equipment would also be
used by the PTPs to maintain all project roads on subcontract from Public
Works and the DGT until provincial road maintenance facilities were estab-
lished in about year 10. Planting materials for Muara Wahau would be
obtained from Muara Mara which is about 25 km from the project site. In
addition, financial assistance is provided to permit PTP VI to maintain
40 ha of tree crops in the Muara Mara pilot plantation, a research and
demonstration area established with financial assistance from the Federal
Republic of Germany. Ongoing research including the monitoring of growth
and yields from this pilot plantation would be directed by AARD, and funds
for this purpose are provided to AARD under the Transmigration III project.



- 17 -
3.18       Estate Development.  In Muara Wahau PTP VI would establish a small
nucleus estate of about 1,000 ha over a ten-year period.  PTP VI proposes to
use five hundred ha of land along the Wahau River and five hundred ha taken
from areas mapped for transmigration.  This would reduce the total land area
which might otherwise have been settled by about 100 families. The estate is
necessary, however, to attract reasonably good staff to the area and to ensure
adequate extension, fertilizer supply and processing of smallholders- produc-
tion in the future. During the four years of this project, PTP VI would
establish coconut nurseries and plant about 500 ha of coconuts for this
estate. Associated infrastructure provided under the project would include
estate roads, staff housing, offices, water and power suppl.y. PTP XXVI also
proposes to establish an estate of 2,200 ha in Rapak, a hilly area between
Kaubun and Kaliorang, but funds for this component have not been included in
the project as mapping and land alienation have not yet begun.
3.19       Poultry Development.  To improve protein consumption, the project
would initiate a pilot poultry development project in transmigrant settlements
in East Kalimantan. The project would provide each family with two hens and
with roosters at a ratio of 1:10, and the Directorate General of Livestock
would appoint one official in both Muara Wahau and Sangkulirang to distribute
the birds, monitor poultry development (especially diseases) and provide
preventive and curative services. Staff would be provided with houses and
motorcycles. A rooster rearing unit would be set up in Samarinda for rearing
hybrid chicks. These would be distributed throughout the province to improve
the size, egg production and disease resistance of village chickens.
Technical Assistance
3.20       Under the proposed project, about 250 man-months of expatriate
technical assistance and 250 man-months of domestic technical assistance would
be provided to the Special Unit to strengthen the coordination of Bank-
assisted projects. This would support the work of sub-units coordinating the
implementation of Transmigration II, III and IV (para. 4.05). To facilitate
communication between Samarinda and project sites, funds have been provided to
the Special Unit for rental of a light plane. Consulting services have also
been provided to Bina Marga to design the Batu Ampar-Muara Wahau road; to PLPT
to supervise land clearing and road construction (72 mm), to the DGT for
hydrological studies for domestic water supply (12 mm); to the DGFCA to assist
in the introduction of the soil conservation program (36 mm); to PTP XXVI to
assist in tree crop establishment (36 mm); and to PTP VI to design facilities
for coconut processing for both Muara Wahau and Sangkulirang (6 mm).
Implementation Schedule
3.21       The project would be implemented from mid-1983 to mid-1987 with
disbursements expected until late 1987. An implementation schedule is
given in Table 3.1. In the first year of the project, land clearing and
timber removal would commence in Muara Wahau and Sangkulirang; consultants



Table 3.1: PROPOSED IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - FOUR-YEAR PROJECT PERIOD
(INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR APRIL 30-MARCH 31)
Housing and
Land clearing       village facilities         Settlement           Tree crop establishment
Wahau                 Wahau                 Wahau         Trans-
Pantun    Timur       Pantun    Timur      Pantun      Timur        migrant  Estate  Total
---------------- (ha) -----------------   ---- families ----    -------  (ha)  ----
Muara Wahau
1983/84           550      250          300        -          200         -            -       -         -
1984/85         1,000    1,000          600       600         600       600          500      50       550             l
1985/86         1,000    1,000          600       600         600       600        2,000     150    2,150
1986/87             -      600          200       600         300       600        2,000     300    2,200             m
Total       2,550    2,850         1,700    1,800        1,700    1,800        4,500      500    4,900
Kaliorang  Kaubun    Kaliorang  Kaubun    Kaliorang  Kaubun                   Estate  Total
Sangkulirang
1983/84           600      400          300       200         200       100            -       -
1984/85           800      800          500       400         400       400          500       -       500
1985/86           700      450          600       500         600       400        1,500       -    1,500
1986/87             -        -            -         -         200       200        1,500       -    1,500
Total       2,100    1,650         1,400    1,100        1,400    1,100         3,500       -    3,500



- 19 -
would be engaged to undertake detailed engineering studies on the Batu
Ampar-Muara Wahau road; and the DGT would begin house construction and ground
water studies. Land clearing and the construction of roads, houses and
village infrastructure would continue over the next three years. At the end
of three years, most of the administrative infrastructure and equipment
required for settlement of up to 5,000 families in Muara Wahau and 4,000
families in Sangkulirang would be in place. Bank financial assistance for a
future project would be considered, and would potentially include support for
settling additional families on the East and the West Banks of the Wahau
river, for developing new sites in Sangkulirang and for a tree crop nucleus
estate in Rapak under PTP XXVI.
Status of Preparation.
3.22       The area was identified by the Government of Indonesia and TAD, a
technical assistance team from the Federal Republic of Germany. TAD produced
feasibility studies on Infrastructure (including road construction, land
clearing, housing and water supply), Agriculture (particularly food crop and
poultry development), Community Development (including cooperative
development, rural training, local populations and health considerations) and
Project Economics and Organization (including an analysis of the economic
feasibility of the project and proposals for project management). PCI, a
Japanese consulting firm working for the Directorate of Urban and Regional
Planning (DITADA), did detailed surveys and designs in the project area and
prepared tender documents for land clearing and road construction. Land
clearing contracts have been tendered in Sangkulirang and negotiations with
P.T. Basuimex, in Muara Wahau, have been completed. Standard tender
documents for house construction and village facilities are available in the
DGT. Mapping and design for the Batu Ampar-Muara Wahau road began in early
1983 and would be financed retroactively under the proposed project. To
ensure timely implementation, consultants would be engaged for design of the
Batu Ampar-Muara Wahau road, for supervision of land clearing and road
construction and for hydrological studies, by June 30, 1983; for soil
conservation by June 30, 1984; and for tree crop establishment and coconut
processing by June 30, 1985.
Cost Estimates
3.23       Project works implemented within the four year project period
would cost an estimated US$120.0 million of which US$63.0 million (53%)
would be foreign exchange. Project costs are summarized in Table 3.2. Base
costs are expressed in mid-1983 prices and because of the tax exempt status of
implementing agencies do not include local, provincial or national taxes. The
The total cost of technical assistance provided under the project would be
about US$5.0 million for a total of 400 manmonths of expatriate and 300
manmonths of domestic professional assistance. Estimated man-month costs for
consultants are given in Annex 1, Table 4. The cost of land clearing is based
on actual bid prices and one negotiated contract. The costs of housing,



- 20 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total   %
-- (Rp million) ----   -- (US$ million) --  FE
Muara Wahau Development
Site preparation                          3,762   6,230   9,992       5.4    8.9   14.3  62
Community development                     6,732   4,060  10,792       9.6    5.8   15.4  37
Agric. development - food crops
and livestock                             528     910   1,438       0.8    1.3    2.1  62
Tree crop development - smallholders   4,224   5,740   9,964          6.0    8.2   14.2  58
Tree crop development - estate            1,023   2,240   3,263       1.5    3.3    4.8  69
Subtotal                           16,269  19,180  35,449    23.3   27.5   50.8  54
Sangkulirang Development
Site preparation                          1,663   2,954   4,617       2.4    4.2    6.6  64
Community development                     5,016   2,940   7,956       7.1    4.2   11.3  37
Agric. development - food crops
and livestock                             322     728               0.5    1.0    1.5  66
Tree crop development                     4,158   5,390   9,548       5.9    7.7   13.6  57
Subtotal                           11,159  12,012  23,171    15.9   17.1   33.0  52
Program Coordination and
Technical Assistance
Special unit for Bank-assisted
projects                                1,584   2,240   3,824       2.3    3.2    5.5  58
Other technical assistance                   66   1,260   1,326       0.1    1.8    1.9  95
Subtotal                            1,650   3,500   5,150       2.4    5.0    7.4  68
Total Baseline Cost                        29,078  34,692  63,770    41.6   49.6   91.2  54
Physical contingencies                    2,772   3,220   5,992       3.9    4.6    8.5  54
Price contingencies                       8,118   6,160  14,278    11.5    8.8   20.3  43
Total Project Cost                 39,968  44,072  84,040    57.0   63.0  120.0  53
Front-end fee on Bank loan                      -      700     700        -    1.0    1.0
Total Financing Required           39,968  44,772  84,740    57.0   64.0  121.0



- 21 -
village facilities and other civil works are based on current prices adjusted
for the high labor costs and the remoteness of the East Kalimantan sites. The
cost of tree crop establishment is based on a feasibility study by P.T.
Agriconsult and on Bank experience in ongoing coconut development projects.
All other costs are derived from current charges to the involved agencies in
comparable sites.  These costs have been reviewed by the mission and found to
be reasonable.
3.24       The base cost of settling families with two hectares of coconut
would be about US$13,300/family in Muara Wahau and US$13,900/family in
Sangkulirang. Of this, the repayable cost of tree crop establishment would
amount to 55% and 52% of the total costs. Net public sector outlays of
US$6,200/family in Muara Wahau and US$6,650 in Sangkulirang are slightly
higher than comparable Transmigration II costs of US$5,700 (all in mid-1982
prices). The per hectare cost of establishing coconuts is about US$2,940
under the proposed project compared to US$2,450 in the recent NES VI
project. These higher costs are attributed to greater infrastructure
investments, liming, higher transport costs and high daily wage rates.
3.25       Cost estimates include physical contingencies based on the status
of preparation and degree of uncertainty involved. These average about 15%
for civil works, 5% for vehicles and equipment, and 5% for services and
supplies. Total project costs also include allowances for price escalation
expected during implementation. Expected price contingencies are summarized
in Table 3.3. Price contingencies total 20% of the base cost and physical
contingencies.
Table 3.3: ANNUAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES
1983    1984   1985  1986
Domestic costs                       12    10.0   10.0  10.0
Foreign exchange costs                8      7.5     7.0   6.0
Financing Plan
3.26       The proposed Bank loan of US$63.5 million would cover foreign
exchange expenditures ($63.0 million) less the foreign exchange cost of
reserved procurement for vehicles (US$0.5 million) plus the capitalized front
end fee (US$1.0 million). The Government of Indonesia would provide annual
budget appropriations to cover all other expenses estimated at Rp 40 billion
(US$57.5 million) in capital investment and operating expenses. The Bank
would approve retroactive financing up to $2.5 million for funds expended
after January 15, 1983. This would be mainly for mobilization of the land
clearing contractors and design of the Batu Ampar-Muara Wahau road.



- 22 -
3.27      Funds for the establishment of 500 ha hybrid coconut estate would
be on-lent to PTP VI through a subsidiary loan agreement by the Ministry of
Finance. The loan would be made for 12 years at an interest rate of 13.5%,
which is the same rate currently required under Bank-assisted NES projects,
it would include a six year grace period to permit the estate to start
harvesting coconut and would be repayable in 12 equal semi-annual install-
ments. With the domestic inflation rate projected at 12% in 1983 and
falling to 10% annually thereafter, the interest rate would be slightly
positive in real terms. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between
PTP VI and the Ministry of Finance would be a condition of disbursement for
this component.
Procurement
3.28      General.  Contracts for civil works in excess of US$2.0 million,
including land clearing and road construction in Sangkulirang and in the
southern site in Muara Wahau and construction of the Batu Ampar-Muara Wahau
road and wharf (US$16.7 m), would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB). Contracts for civil works over US$2.0 million
would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Land clearing and road con-
tractors have been prequalified and no other contracts exceeding US$2.0 mil-
lion are anticipated under this project. The contract for land clearing and
road construction in the northern site in Muara Wahau (US$6.2 m) would be
awarded by direct negotiations as explained in para. 3.29. Civil works
contracts under US$2.0 million, (US$17.9 m), which would include those for
settler housing and project buildings, would be of little interest to inter-
national contractors as they are labor intensive, technically simple and
would be undertaken at irregular intervals over long periods. These works
would be awarded after local competitive bidding under government procure-
ment procedures. To the extent possible, these works would be grouped in
contracts of over about Rp 200,000,000 to permit tendering among national
and provincially based contractors in accordance with GOI procedures. Tree
crop establishment for smallholders and estate, maintenance of the tree crop
pilot project at Muara Mara and construction of associated tree crop
infrastructure and collection roads (US$32.9 m) would be carried out on
force account by the PTPs. Transport vehicles would be procured locally
under GOI regulations which preclude ICB and these would be regarded as
reserved procurement (US$0.9 m). Machines and equipment (US$9.Om) would be
aggregated into contracts of more than $150,000 where possible, and would be
procured on the basis of ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Qualifying
domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15%
of the c.i.f. cost or the import duty, whichever is lower. Tender documents
for purchases expected to cost more than US$150,000 would be subject to
prior review by the Bank. Equipment, spare parts and supplies in packages
under $150,000, up to an aggregate limit of US$3 million, would be procured
under GOI regulations which require local competitive bidding on items above
about US$29,000 and prudent shopping on items under about US$29,000.
Government procurement procedures would be used to obtain agricultural
inputs, transport to site and settler subsistence supplies (US$14.5) and



- 23 -
agrarian services (US$0.9 m). Contracts for consulting services would be
awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines on the use of consultants
(US$10.1). Operating expenses (US$7.9 m) would be covered by the GOI.
3.29      Land Clearing.  To ensure timber disposal, minimize costs, and
avoid difficulties of coordination between logging and land clearing, land
clearing contracts in Sangkulirang and in the southern site in Muara Wahau
would be tendered using ICB while the land clearing contract in the northern
site in Muara Wahau would be negotiated with the concessionaire (c.f. paras.
3.04 and 3.05). The contractors and concessionaire would be required to
submit a work plan indicating arrangements for removal and utilization of an
average of 40 cu m/ha of timber from Sangkulirang sites or 60 cu m/ha of
timber from Muara Wahau. This would include evidence that one or more
processing facilities would be prepared to purchase the logs. In the work
plan, the bidder/concessionaire would indicate taxes and royalties to be
paid and the approximate rate of payment (to reflect the fact that some
areas may be less forested than others). These work plans would be reviewed
by PLPT and DGF to ensure that they were feasible and land clearing
contracts would be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder or negotiated with
the concessionaire. Contracts would include provisions to ensure that the
minimum agreed quantity of timber is recovered and appropriate taxes and
royalties paid. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these
procedures would be followed.
3.30      The following steps to implement these arrangements have already
been taken:
(a) the DGF has obtained appropriate legal documents from the
concessionaires not engaged in the project, relinquishing their
rights to timber within the project areas once land clearing
commences;
(b) PLPT has received responsive bids for land clearing in
Sangkulirang sites; and
(c) PLPT has negotiated one contract for land clearing with P.T.
Basuimex at a price that is considered reasonable.
Disbursement
3.31      Disbursement against Bank funds would be for the following items:
(a) 60% of the cost of civil works including, inter alia, land
clearing and road construction, construction of wharves, jetties,
landing strips and the Batu Ampar access road, housing and village
facilities, tree crops establishment and tree crop infrastructure,



- 24 -
maintenance on the pilot plantation, REC, PPB, KUD, seed farm and
poultry development civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment; 100% of the ex-factory
cost of equipment manufactured locally; and 60% of imported
equipment purchased locally; and
(c) 100% of technical assistance whether local or expatriate and 100%
of the cost of PPL training by TAD.
All other expenditures would be covered fully by the GOI.
3.32      Annex 1, Table 2 summarizes the proposed allocation of loan pro-
ceeds. Disbursements would be made after full documentation of expenditures
except for tree crops establishment, construction of collection roads and
estate infrastructure, and road maintenance which would be reimbursed upon the
receipt of statements of expenditure (SOE). SOE would be prepared by PTP VI
and XXVI and would include information on the number of hectares planted and
maintained and copies of these SOE would be forwarded to the Transmigration IV
team in the JMT and to the Team Khusus, a special unit within the DGE for
Bank-assisted projects, which would ensure standards and costs comparable with
those in the Bank-assisted NES projects.  PTP VI and the Team Khusus have the
capacity to maintain adequate records and technical assistance would be
provided by the team Khusus to PTP XXVI, if necessary, to establish adequate
record keeping systems.
Accounts and Audits
3.33      Assurances were obtained from the GOI that:  (a) all implementing
agencies involved in the project would maintain separate accounts for the
project and cause such accounts to be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank; (b) these audited accounts and copies of the SOE would
be transmitted annually to the Bank, and to the Transmigration IV team where
they would be summarized; and (c) this summary of audited accounts would be
transmitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Environmental and Social Effects
3.34      Muara Wahau was selected for settlement in order to initiate
development in the interior of East Kalimantan and to utilize an area which
is flat and suitable for agricultural development. Like much of interior
East Kalimantan, however, the area is in production forest. Both the GOI
and the Bank favor the development of grasslands and the siting of this
project in an area of production forest has been done on an exceptional
basis because of the province's specific development needs.  To preserve the
forest resources of the province about 20,000 ha of conversion forest on the
west bank of the Wahau River (land which is not topographically suited to



- 25 -
agriculture and which is forested) would be substituted for the production
forest to be cleared under the project and would be maintained under forest
cover. Demarkation and transfer of this area would be the responsibility of
the DGF with assistance, as required, from the Ministry for Development
Supervision and Environment (MDSE). Under the Transmigration III project
funds have also been provided to the MDSE to monitor the environmental impact
of this and other transmigration projects. Commercially valuable timber
would be recovered from the area to be cleared. Finally, erosion and soil
depletion would be reduced by planting tree crops on about 70% of all cleared
land.
3.35      Cultivated land has been excluded from the project area and local
populations would benefit from increased employment and improved education
and health facilities. Virtually all people in the area are integrated into
the logging economy, and most are expected to seek employment in the
project. The local Dayak people who have migrated into the area have
already expressed an interest in planting coconuts and this interest has
been confirmed by site visits of estate consultants. However, if there are
small villages which do not wish to be involved in the project, project
managers would not recruit laborers in the area and would respect the rights
of the people to pursue their traditional ways of life. The Special Unit
team responsible for Transmigration IV would monitor project impact on local
people as well as transmigrants and they would, as required, propose
specific steps to extend project benefits and adapt them to the needs of the
local people.



- 26 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Coordination of Implementation
4.01      General.  Between 1978 and 1983 the organizational arrangements
for the implementation of transmigration were based on Presidential Decree
26/78 (para. 1.10). Under this directive agencies within the Ministry of
Public Works undertook site selection, land evaluation and land clearing;
the Directorate General of Transmigration was responsible for settler
selection, relocation and community development; agencies within the
Ministry of Agriculture provided agricultural support services; and the
Directorate General of Agraria surveyed land to be alienated for trans-
migration and provided cadastral services. The Office of the Junior
Minister for Transmigration coordinated implementation schedules, agency
budgets and externally assisted projects, identified policy issues for
discussion within the BAKOPTRANS, disseminated information and resolved
problems at the working level.
4.02      Under Transmigration II the World Bank provided financial assist-
ance to a project executed by UNDP/OPE to strengthen the JMT. A review of
this project indicated that the structure and staffing of the JMT, as set up
in government directives, was too limited to permit the JMT to effectively
address the content and scale of the work required. In February 1983 a new
Ministry of Transmigration was established and the former Junior Minister
became the Minister of Transmigration. The internal organization of the
ministry has not yet been announced, but under the new structure it will be
possible to recruit permanent staff and provide adequate budgets for
coordination, and implementation is expected to improve.
4.03      Financial support for the JMT provided by UNDP and by the Bank
under the Transmigration II project will end in September 1983. UNDP
intends to continue to provide technical assistance on a grant basis to
strengthen the overall GOI program; however, the amount to be provided is
not yet decided. To supplement this assistance, the proposed project would
provide financial assistance to support the operation of a Special Unit for
Bank Group assisted projects which will be located within the new Ministry
of Transmigration.
4.04      Bank Group-Assisted Projects.  By mid-1983, four Bank-assisted
projects will require coordination: Transmigration II, III, Swamp
Reclamation and the proposed project in East Kalimantan. These projects
will involve about US$350 million in Bank Group financial assistance. To
facilitate coordination and implementation of these projects the
Transmigration III Project requires that a Special Unit would be maintained
to deal with Bank Group-assisted projects; that project sub-units (teams)
would be established and maintained within the Special Unit; and that both
the Special Unit and the project teams would be adequately staffed.



- 27 -
4.05      Following Transmigration III negotiations, a proposal was prepared
indicating the structure and staffing of the Special Unit for Bank-assisted
Projects (SU) and this has been approved by BAPPENAS. The proposed struc-
ture is given in Figure 1. Project subunits or teams would be developed
gradually but would initially consist of a full-time team leader and about
three staff. To facilitate the development of this unit a component has
been included in the proposed project which covers, int-er alia, equipment,
technical assistance and operating expenses for four years. The base cost
of this component is estimated at US$5.6 m, or about 2% of the cost of
projects to be supervised by the SU. Of this, US$3.3 million is for about
500 mmof technical assistance to aid in the coordination of the Trans-
migration II, III and IV projects and to assist in the development of
general procedures for monitoring procurement, disbursement, implementation
and project impact. To ensure sufficient resources for the SU and effective
utilization of the consultants, an assurance has also been obtained under
this project that the GOI would maintain the Special Unit and that subunits
would be staffed on a full time basis. In addition, Government has indi-
cated that adequate space would be made available for the required personnel
and that all GOI officials and consultants working on a specific team would
be accommodated within a single building complex and work to common terms-
of-reference. Reporting procedures established under the Transmigration II
project would be extended to all Bank Group projects coordinated by the SU
and policies and procedures used in Bank Group projects would be developed
with a view to their replicability throughout the GOI transmigration pro-
gram. Policy decisions and guidance on implementation would remain with the
BAKOPTRANS and its Coordinating Board for Implementation (SATDAL).
4.06       GOI Program Coordination.  The Bank has a strong interest in the
coordination of the overall GOI transmigration program both because of its
sector-wide support for site selection and evaluation, agricultural research
and other activities directed at program development, and because the Special
Unit cannot function without a strong institutional foundation. During
negotiations the Bank delegation was informed that measures were being taken
to strengthen coordination of the overall transmigration program and that the
Bank would have the opportunity to comment on changes which would have an
impact on the functions and operations of the SU.  Since that time, a new
Ministry of Transmigration has been formed and options are being considered
on the location of the SU. In making this decision, the Government has
agreed that care would be taken to ensure that the SU would not become an
isolated entity which neither learned from, nor contributed to, the overall
program.
4.07      East Kalimantan.  To facilitate the implementation of the settle-
ment component in East Kalimantan, a team responsible for Transmigration IV
would be formed within the proposed Special Unit. The team would provide
assistance to implementing agencies to prepare contract documents, compile



- 28 -
INDONESIA
FIGURE 1: PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE SPECIAL UNIT FOR
BANK GROUP ASSISTED PROJECTS
BAKOPTRANS                                                                      IMPLEAENTNG
Interministerial  - -r-                                                        IM --- -DEPARTMENTS
Policy Board                                                                   DEPARTM_NTS
I
SA7DAL TRANS                               PROJECT                               IMPLEMENTING
Coordinating Board                          P __   COORDINATOR                    DIRECTORATE
for Implementation                                                                 GENETRATLS
ADVISORS
SPECIAL UNIT
SATBIN TRANS                       PSUBCOORDINATOR FOR                              PlMROS
Provincial Level                    S BANK ASSISTED PROJECTS                     D.G. PROJECT
Coordinating Board       I   _NK_ ASSISTED_PROJECTSHEADS
GENERAL SERVICES UNIT
KORWI L/KORLAP
Area Coordinators                              )
II        I, II& L IV  t    SWAMPS
, ~L._  _ 
- - - - -  Special Unit
----  Liason with Special Unit
Note: Acronyms Correspond to Abbreviated Agency Titles in Indonesian                   World Bank-24682



- 29 -
shortlists and tender for required materials and services. They would also
monitor budget preparation to ensure that Government funds are available for
needed services. The Transmigration IV team would undertake routine
monitoring, compile data for Bank supervision missions and work closely with
the GOI agencies and the Bank to facilitate implementation. Actions to be
taken by the line agencies are shown in Table 4.1. Matters requiring special
attention are described below.
Site Preparation
4.08      Under the proposed project, each PLPT site would be developed by a
separate contractor and logging and land clearing would be done over three
years. To simplify project implementation and protect migrant safety and
crops, an entire village area, including food crop and tree crop areas, would
be logged before settlement began. Once migrants were on site no logging
vehicles would be permitted to pass through inhabited or cultivated areas
within the villages. Logging and land clearing would be supervised by
consultants engaged by PLPT. Lime would applied by the land clearing
contractor who would be responsible for its production on site.
Community Development
4.09      The Directorate General of Transmigration (DGT) would be responsible
for construction of village facilities, relocation and community development.
Under the project the DGT would tender for the construction of houses, village
facilities and water supply systems in each of the four sites. Selection of
migrants, their relocation and the provision of settler supplies would be
undertaken by the DGT as soon as houses and water supply systems were in
place. Once transmigrants were on site, the DGT would be primarily
responsible for coordinating and promoting community development. For
example, DGT officials would:
(a)  register new arrivals and settle them on their land;
(b)  provide subsistence supplies and agricultural tools;
(c)  ensure that needed educational and health facilities and staff
are provided in timely manner, and that land registration for
houselot and food crop areas is undertaken in year 1;
(d)  organize village level administration and develop civic responsi-
bilities among the migrants;
(e)  coordinate record keeping and monitor the provision of critical
services; and
(f)  prepare communities for transfer to provincial authorities within
five years.



- 30 -
Table 4.1: IMPLEMENTING RESPONSIBILITY TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Implementing
Activity                             agency           Comment
Detailed Village Design               DITADA         Completed
Land Clearing and Road
Construction                        PLPT           Routine Function
Provision of Lime and Liming          PLPT           Under Land Clearing Contractor
Landing Strips
(a) Construction                      PLPT           Routine Functions
(b) Maintenance                       DGT
Design of Batu Ampar-                 Bina Marga    Has Technical Assistance
Muara Wahau Road                                   Available
Construction of Batu Ampar-
Muara Wahau Road and Wharf          PLPT           Routine Function
Construction and Maintenance of
Storage Facilities, Batu Ampar    DGT              Routine Function
Construction of Houses                DGT            Routine Function
Provision of Water and
Sanitation                          DGT            Routine Function
Constructing of Village and
PDC Facilities                      DGT            Routine Function
(a) Land Clearing for Tree
Crops and
(b) Tree Crop Establishment           PTPs           Routine Function
Road Maintenance
(a) Access Roads                      PTPs           On Contract from DPUK
(b) Village Roads                     PTPs           On Contract from DGT
(c) Field Roads                       PTPs           Routine Function
Transportation to Site                DGT            Routine Function
Provision of Subsistence Supplies   DGT              Routine Function
Agrarian Services                     DGA            Routine Function
Provision of Seeds, Pesticides
and Fertilizers                     DGFCA          Routine Function
Soil Conservation Program             DGFCA          Routine Function
Development of Poultry Rearing
Station and Distribution of
Chicks                              DGLS           Routine Function
Construction of REC and PBB and
Provision of Extension Services       DGFCA          Routine Functions
Storehouses for KUDs                  DGT            Used by DGT (para. 3.10)
Other Civil Works and Equipment
for KUDs and FCC                    DGC            Routine Functions
15 Ha Seed Farm                       DGFCA          Routine Function



- 31 -
4.10      Each settler/family would obtain land use rights (hak pakai) for
houselots and food crop land (1.25 ha) in the first year after settlement
and would obtain land titles (hak milik) in five years if they maintained
permanent residence in the community.  Titles to tree crop land would be
drawn up in year three and retained by BRI as collateral against repayment
for tree crop development. These services would be provided by the
Directorate General of Agraria.
Agricultural Support Services
4.11      Distribution of Seeds, Fertilizers and Pesticides.  The project,
through the DGFCA, would supply each transmigrant family free of cost an
initial package of food crop and vegetable seeds, fruit tree seedlings and
other tree crop planting material for planting in their food crop and garden
areas. A hoe, heavy knife, sickle and fork would be distributionon arrival.
During the second year they would receive rice seed. In addition, for three
years the DGFCA would supply each transmigrant family with 300 kg of urea,
TSP and KCI, and about four kg of appropriate pesticides and rodenticide.
Another 0.5 kg/family of other poison (for use against wild animals) would
be provided to the plant protection brigade for distribution when field
extension workers (PPLs) considered this necessary. The PPB staff would
supervise the application of any poisons. Due to remoteness of the area and
the problem of obtaining seed in the first year, the DGFCA would supply a 10
kg package of seeds before the transmigrants leave their area of origin.
The seed, fertilizer and pesticide packages are shown in Annex 1, Table 11.
4.12      Seed Production.  GOI policy calls for the Dinas Pertanian Daerah
(Provincial Agricultural Service) to (a) supply the free initial seed
package, which DPDs may purchase locally if available, or have P.T. Pertani
bring from another province; (b) develop provincial seed farms to produce
stock seed in the transmigration provinces; and (c) organize contract
growers of commercial seed. P.T. Pertani has appointed P.T. Karta Niaga as
supplier of transmigration seed packages in East Kalimantan. As sufficient
seeds for Muara Wahau would not be available from East Kalimantan province,
P.T. Karta Niaga would procure seeds from either South Sulawesi or South
Kalimantan. To ensure delivery to village centers a transport supplement
has been provided to the DGFCA for agricultural supplies.
4.13      To produce quality stock and foundation seeds, DPD would establish
a 15 ha seed farm in Muara Wahau during the second year. After foundation
seeds are produced, DPD would organize production of extension seed through
contract growers for distribution to transmigrants. Until adequate seeds are
available through the contract growers, P.T. Karta Niaga would procure seeds
from other provinces. P.T. Karta Niaga would acquire seedling for minor
tree crops, including coffee and cloves from PTPs VI and XXVI which would
grow them adjacent to their coconut nurseries. Seeds and seedlings for
fruit trees and other tree crops would be distributed in the first planting
season after arrival on site.



- 32 -
4.14       Fertilizers and Pesticides.  Urea for the project would be pro-
duced in the province by P.T. Pupuk Kalimantan Timor which is expected to
begin production in March 1983. For Muara Wahau, P.T. Pertani would stock-
pile urea, TSP and pesticides in its warehouse in Samarinda. From there
they would be transshipped to Muara Wahau by P.T. Karta Niaga which would be
responsible for delivery to village storehouses. A second warehouse would
be established by P.T. Pertani near Sangkulirang to stockpile agricultural
supplies for coastal settlements. Due to the uncertainties of transport to
and within East Kalimantan, fertilizers should be scheduled to arrive
several months before they are required. In the first year fertilizers
would be distributed in the villages by extension workers (PPLs) and village
officials, and thereafter by village cooperatives with the help of the PPLs.
In the fourth year of settlement, farmers would obtain inputs on credit
through the BIMAS program and repay through the BRI.
4.15      RECs, PPBs and FCCs.  The DGFCA would establish, equip and staff
two Rural Extension Centers (RECs), one in Muara Wahau and the other in
Sangkulirang. The DGFCA would staff each REC with two middle level exten-
sion workers (PPMs), and one subject matter specialist (PPS) would be added
to the Provincial Agricultural Service to oversee extension services in the
project area. One PPL would be assigned to each village of 350 families and
three months of training in upland agriculture would be provided to all PPLs
prior to intitial posting. Training would be provided in the TAD supported
training center in Seblimbingan and financing for this training has been
provided under the project. PPMs would be provided with housing adjacent to
the RECs, PPLs would be housed in the villages and the PPSs would reside in
the Kabupaten headquarters. PPLs would be provided with audio visual aids
and extension literature, and the training-and-visit system of agricultural
extension would be used. DGFCA would also construct facilities for one
Plant Protection Brigade at each site and DGC would construct one farmers
cooperative center in both Sangkulirang and Muara Wahau. To ensure adequate
agricultural support services an assurance was obtained at negotiations that
the RECs, PPBs and seed farms would be constructed concurrently with village
infrastructure and that FCCs would be constructed within two years of
village establishment. All services would be available to both local and
transmigrant populations.
4.16      Tree Crop Establishment.  Coconut establishment in Muara Wahau and
Sangkulirang would be assisted by PTP VI and PTP XXVI, respectively. PTP VI
has had previous experience in developing tree crops for transmigrants under
the Bank-assisted NES III project and it also has a nursery 25 km from the
proposed settlement area which would be expanded to provide planting
materials.  PTP XXVI would be involved in Bank projects for the first time.
The PMUs would provide all fertilizer and extension on credit until trees
are mature (year 4) and they would train farmers in appropriate maintenance
and collection methods.



- 33 -
4.17       In year five, after the project period, PTP VI and PTP XXVI would
erect copra processing factories and assist BRI in credit recovery.
Initially, transmigrants would sell their husked coconut to the estates which
would produce copra and crush it for oil and cake. The transmigrants would be
required to sell enough fresh nuts through the estate to cover their debt
repayments. Later, it might be possible for transnigrants to retain ownership
of the oil and cake until the estates process and market it for them, in which
case the estate would charge smallholders for these services. The PMU would
provide ongoing extension and assist farmers to secure inputs during the
harvesting period.
Operation and Maintenance
4.18      An assurance was obtained that GOI would take steps to ensure
adequate maintenance of all project roads. In Mluara Wahau and Sangkulirang,
roads would be maintained by the land clearing contractor until his contract
was complete (year 3 or 4). By year 4, the PTPs would have equipment on site
for road construction in tree crop areas and they would use equipment provided
for this purpose to maintain all project roads. They would undertake
maintenance of access roads under contract to the Provincial Public Works
Office and they would maintain village roads under contract to the DGT, since
these agencies are the budget holders for these works. The PTPs are willing
to take this responsibility as well-maintained access roads are critical to
tree crop establishment. This arrangement is expected to continue through the
planting and maintenance period (about year 10). Most community services
would be provided by the DGT for five years at which time communities would be
transferred to the province and receive regular provincial services.
Agricultural inputs would be provided through normal channels beginning in
year 4 when BIMAS (farm credit) would first become available. A DGT presence
during years 4 and 5 assures backup if difficulties arise in providing
supplies.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.19      To strengthen monitoring and evaluation, particularly of Bank-
assisted projects, technical assistance would be provided to the advisory and
general services unit within the Special Unit for Bank-assisted projects to
develop the procedures used by project teams to monitor procurement and
disbursement, project implementation and project impact. Reports on these
subjects would be prepared by the project teams on a semi-annual basis and
summarized by the general services unit. An evaluation unit would be formed
within the general services unit to evaluate the relative performance of the
Bank-assisted projects and to investigate special problems. Financial
assistance for such studies is included within the proposed project.



- 34 -
V.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOME _/
Agricultural Production
5.01      General.  The project would establish 6,000 ha of foodcrops and
1,200 ha of mixed home gardens for 6,000 transmigrant families. Coconut
production for 6,000 transmigrants and 1,000 local families and a 1,000 ha
estate would eventually cover 14,000 ha of new land. Of this, 8,400 ha
would be established under the project during the first four-year tranche
(Table 5.1).
Table 5.1: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF COCONUT PLANTING (HA)
1984    1985    1986   Total
Estate                       50      150      300     500
Muara Wahau                 500   2,000   2,000   4,500
Sangkulirang                500   1,500   1,500   3,500
Total                1,050   3,650   3,800   8,500
5.02       Cropping Patterns.  In lMuara Wahau and Sangkulirang there is
little agriculture presently practiced and therefore little relevant
experience to draw from. Hence, the cropping patterns for transmigrants are
based on experience in other transmigration sites with conditions similar to
those of Muara Wahau and on the research work carried out on rainfed
cropping systems by the Central Research Institute for Food Crops (CRIFC,
formerly CRIA).
5.03      At both Muara Wahau and Sangkulirang farmers would interplant
upland rice (spacing 40 cm x 10 cm) and corn (200 cm x 50 cm) over 1.0 ha.
As markets for cassava are uncertain, they would interplant cassava for
home consumption about a month later on only about 0.1 ha. After farmers
harvest paddy and corn they would plant about 0.5 ha of groundnut and 0.1 ha
of cow pea. The cassava would be allowed to grow through the two planting
seasons and would be harvested throughout the dry season. Cowpeas are
relatively drought resistant and would provide good ground cover during the
dry season.
/1 The financial and economic analyses presented in this chapter are based
on an exchange rate of Rp 625 = US$1.00 which prevailed at the time of
appraisal.



- 35 -
Table 5.2: CROPPING PATTERNS AND FARM BUDGETS FOR A 3.25 HA FARM IN EAST KALIMANTAN
At full
Year                  agricultural
Unit    1    2        3       4      5    development /a
Yields                                  ton/ha
Paddy                                         0.5  0.75    1.0   1 25   1.25            1.5
Corn                                          0.5   0.6    0.7    0.8    1.0           1.25
Cassava                                       6.0   7.0    8.0    9.0   10.0           12.0
Groundaut                                     0.4   0.5    0.6    0.7    0.8            0.9
Cowpea                                        0.4   0.4    0.5    0.5    0.6            0.6
Harvested Area                          ha
Wet season I
Rice                                        0.5   1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0            1.0
Corn                                        0.5   1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0            1.0
Wet season II
Cassava                                     0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1            0.1
Groundnut                                   0.3   0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5            0.5
Cowpea                                      0.1   0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1            0.1
Total Harvested Area                       1.0   1.7    1.7    1.7    1.7            1.7
Cropping intensity                   %        100   170    170    170    170            170
Crop Production                         kg
Paddy                                         250   750  1,000  1,250  1,250          1-,500
Corn                                          250   600    700    800  1,000          1,250
Cassava                                       600   700    800    900  1,000          1,200
Groundnut                                     120   250    300    350    400            450
Cowpea                                          40    40      50      50     60          60
Farm Income                             Rp'OOO
Gross value of production /b                  129   291    360    428    474            596
Production costs, excluding
labor /b                                      -    59       71    106    106          115
Net value of production                       129   232    289    322    368            481
Net value of garden production lb               10    37      39      41     41         203
Net value of production (poultry
& eggs) /b                                    -      -      10     10      10          10
Taxes /c                                         0     0       0       0      0          32
Net crop income                               139   269    338    373    419            662
GOI assistance to settlers                    369      -       -       -      -           -
Off-farm income /d                            605   429    429    495    526             27
Net crop income from coconut /b                 -      -       -       -      -       1,666
Total family income                         1,113   698    767    868    945          2,355
Total labor requirements                      176   547    641    504    477            482
/a In year 10 of settlement.
/b Based on Tables found in staff working papers.
/c Land tax (IPEDA) at Rp 9,000/ha of cropland.
/d Based on man-days required in first 6 years of coconut development and a wage rate of
Rp 1,350 per man-day.



- 36 -
5.04      To get projected yields, farmers must use the annual recommended
fertilizer dose and adopt recommended plant protection measures. They must
also use farming practices that minimize weed growth and soil erosion, such
as planting crops on the contour, terracing, leaving crop stubbles on or in
the ground and planting some of their perennial seedlings along the contour.
5.05      Yields and Production.  At full agricultural development, ten
years after commencement of cropping, upland paddy yield is estimated at
1.5 tons/ha, corn 1.25 tons/ha, cassava 12 tons/ha, groundnut 0.9 tons/ha
and cowpea 0.6 tons/ha. Attainment of these yields is contingent upon
transmigrants receiving and using good extension, good seed, and adequate
fertilizer and pesticide. At full agricultural production, the project
would produce about 9,000 tons of paddy, 7,500 tons of corn, 7,200 tons of
cassava, 2,700 tons of groundnut and 360 tons of cowpea. Projected farm
production and family income are shown in Table 5.2. The supporting tables
on production costs and labor requirement are shown in Annex 1, Tables
12-17.
5.06      Home Garden.  Home gardens are an important source of nutrition
and cash income to migrants. Under the project, vegetable seeds and
seedlings of fruit trees and other trees would be supplied to each trans-
migrant family for their 0.2 ha houselots. Expected income from the
homegardens are shown in Table 5.2 and the supporting yield, production and
cost of production data are shown in Annex 1, Table 18.
5.07      Hybrid Coconut.  Assumed yields per ha are shown in Table 5.3.  At
full development copra production is estimated at 54,600 tons from 14,000 ha
of smallholder coconut and 4,500 tons from 1,000 ha of estate coconut.
Table 5.3: ASSUMED HYBRID COCONUT YIELDS
(kg copra/ha) /a
Planting year
5      6      7       8      9       10     11   12-25  26-30
Transmigrant      800  1,500  2,200  2,800  3,300  3,700  3,900  3,900  3,400
Estate          1,000  1,900  2,800  3,500  4,100  4,500  4,500  4,500  4,000
/a Copra at 6% moisture content.



- 37 -
Market Prospects
5.08      Food Crops.  Most of the food crops produced by transmigrants
would be consumed in the project area. However, as East Kalimantan is a
food deficit area, and about half its rice and most of its secondary food
crops and vegetables are procured from Sulawesi and abroad, there should be
no problem marketing surpluses in the province. Transmigrants would have
access to the Government price support system for paddy, corn, and
groundnuts. The village cooperatives (KUDs) would act as purchasing agents
for BULOG/DOLOG, the Government-s food procurement authority, which
maintains a nationwide floor price for rice.
5.09      Coconut.  Because of shortages, all Indonesian coconut oil produc-
tion has been sold locally since 1976. At that time, domestic demand was
about one million tons of oil, projected to grow at 5% annually between
1980-90, while production was projected to increase at 2 to 5% per annum.
Recent evidence indicates a growing gap between supply and demand and
suggests that the project-s incremental production of 50,000 tons would be
readily absorbed on the domestic market.
Price Structure of Agricultural Production
5.10      Farm inputs and outputs have been valued in terms of constant
mid-1982 prices for both the farm budgets and economic analyses. For rice,
corn, groundnuts, coconut, and fertilizers, projections of economic prices
were based on world market price forecasts produced by the Bank's Commodity
Division, adjusted for transportation, processing and handling costs to the
farmrgate level. Cassava and the remaining crops and inputs not traded on
the international market have been expressed in terms of actual farm-gate
prices averaged for the last three years and adjusted for inflation. East
Kalimantan prices are significantly higher than average Indonesian prices
because of higher transport and marketing costs, the need to import
foodstuffs, and greater purchasing power. The latter accounts for high cost
in towns such as Samarinda, while the former explains the high costs in the
interior.
5.11      Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6 give the price structure for the agricul-
tural outputs and inputs of the project. In the past, the GOI has pursued a
policy of maintaining consumer food prices at a low level by selling
imported rice below its cost and keeping domestic floor prices low. To
offset the adverse impact on farm income, GOI has subsidized fertilizer and
pesticide prices. In recent years, domestic paddy prices have been
increased to induce farmers to grow more paddy and apply the recommended
fertilizer input. The floor price for paddy is now Rp 135/kg, while the
economic cost imputed to imported paddy would be about Rp 134/kg. The
financial prices of corn and fertilizers are expected to move towards the



- 38 -
economic farm gate price while the groundnut price is assumed to be aligned
with the world market price by 1990.
5.12       Before 1976, Indonesian coconut oil prices were generally comparable
to world prices as Indonesia was an exporter. Since 1976, however, domestic
demand has exceeded local production and the GOI has limited imports.
Domestic prices have consequently risen above world market prices. After the
devaluation of the Indonesian rupiah in November 1978, the local price
temporarily declined by 31%, but strong domestic demand has again pushed local
prices above world market prices even though the GOI has diverted palm oil
from the export market as a substitute for coconut oil. World market prices
for coconut oil are forecast to rise from US$522/ton c.i.f. at Indonesian
ports in mid-1982 to US$764/ton in 1990. Local financial prices are projected
to rise at a parallel rate and come into line with world market prices by
1990. Copra cake, the principal byproduct from coconut oil extraction, is
projected to sell at Rp 70/kg ex--factory in mid-1982 and Rp 85/kg in 1990.
Farm Incomes
5.13       Typical farm models have been prepared to represent farm income
for the transmigrants in the future with the project and are summarized in
Table 5.2. The proposed future land use and cropping patterns are based on
existing cropping practices, upland cropping research, and potential markets
(see Table 5.4).  Farm budgets are calculated according to cash flows and farm
family labor has not been costed. While it is assumed that a family would
have sufficient labor to farm the 1.25 ha food crop and home garden areas
without hiring labor, there would be a labor shortage in the first few years
of coconut development if an extra adult laborer is not available in the
transmigrant family. For this reason, an assurance has been obtained that the
DGT would give priority in settler selection to mature or extended families in
which at least one child or relative over 14 could contribute to the family
labor supply. The cost of transport and subsistence supplies for an extra
person is included under the project and the income earned by an additional
person from employment in land clearing and coconut establishment is included
in the family off-farm income. In the first year, the family would have
subsistence aid to supplement food crop incomes of Rp 139,00C (US$222). Off
farm income from employment in coconut development activities would be
available to the transmigrants starting in the second year. Family income
would decrease from Rp 1,113,000 (US$1,780) in year one to Rp 692,000
(US$1,117) in year 2 because of the loss of subsidies, then increase to
Rp 945,000 (US$1,512) in year five. When coconut begins producing the estates
would pay the transmigrants around Rp 50 per fresh nut in mid-1982 (Rp 225/kg
copra equivalent) and Rp 65/nut in 1990 (Rp 293/kg copra equivalent).  In year
10, the income net of debt repayment would reach Rp 2.3 million (US$3,768).
The per capita income level at full development would be around US$750.
Existing per capita GNP level is about US$420, and the estimated per capita
GNP in 10 years (1992) is US$620.



- 39 -
Table 5.4: CROPPING PATTERN AND PRODUCTION
At full agricultural development /a
Muara Wahau                          Sangkulirang
Production                       Production
Area      Yield      ('000         Area       Yield    ('000
('000 ha)  (tons/ha)    tons)    ( 000 ha)  (tons/ha)   tons)
Wet Season
Paddy /b           3.50        1.50        5.25       2.50        1.50       3.75
Corn               3.50        1.25        4.38       2.50        1.25       3.13
Dry Season
Cassava            0.35       12.00        4.20        0.25      12.00       3.00
Groundnut /c       1.75        0.90        1.58        1.25       0.90       1.13
Cowpea /d          0.35        0.90        0.21        0.25       0.60       1.50
/a  After 10 years.
/b  Paddy yields are expressed in mill-dry unhusked grains 14% moisture.  Corn
is in wet tubes and goundnut is dry grain. All crops are rainfed.
/c  Groundnut represents a composite group of leguminous crops including ground-
nut, soybean and mungbean.
/d  Cowpea represents a composite group of leguminous crops including cowpeas,
greenbean, ricebean.



- 40 -
Project Charges and Cost Recovery
5.14      Since the tree crop component of the transmigration package would
not only require greater investments but provide higher incomes to the
transmigrants, part of the costs can be repaid. Departing from the pattern of
other transmigration projects, the transmigrants would repay costs associated
with coconut development including land clearing, infrastructure, planting and
development overheads.
5.15      Repayment would be similar to NES arrangements.  At the end of the
third year after planting, when the DGA has prepared land titles (Hak Milik)
the transmigrants would enter into a credit agreement with the BRI. This
would cover all smallholder expenditures incurred by the nucleus estates
during the preceeding years and provisional estimates of the estates'
expenditures for four years after planting. The agreement would be amended in
year five to include the estate's additional expenditures to bring the
coconuts to maturity. The total of all credit items would be divided into
standardized credit amounts for each transmigrant. The agreement starting in
year 3, would be for 17 years with repayments over 15 years and a two years
grace period. The transmigrants would commence repayments in the sixth year
after planting. Interest would be 10.5% per annum, and would be capitalized
during the grace period.
5.16      The estates would retain the farmers- annual credit repayment from
the sales proceeds of the nuts processed and marketed on the farmers- behalf.
The price for the farmers' produce (net of taxes, depreciation, processing,
marketing costs, and management fees) would be determined by a committee
established by the estates and including representatives from the farmers.
The estates would determine the individual farmer's total sales revenue and
would subtract from it an amount sufficient to repay the annual loan
installment. The estates would keep all records of raw material delivered to
the factory by the farmers, and of factory or mill output and sales revenue.
It would transfer funds equivalent to costs recovered to the BRI on a monthly
basis and the BRI would keep a record of all individual farmers accounts.
5.17      Aside from repaying coconut development costs, settlers would also
pay a land tax (IPEDA) based on the land capability and productivity after the
settlement is transferred to the province. This would be collected by village
heads and turned over to local and provincial administrations for public
services. IPEDA is a direct project tax which contributes toward the
operational costs of the Government agencies involved in the settlements and
toward a repayment of part of the capital costs of establishing the settle-
ments. At full agricultural development in the project areas, IPEDA would
reach an estimated Rp 9,000/ha/year.



- 41 -
5.18      Indices showing the extent of cost recovery and the relation of
project charges to benefits, rent and cost recovery are shown in Annex 1,
Table 8. Rent recovery indices would reach 67% for Maura Wahau and 73% for
Sangkulirang compared to about 5% recovered in the Transmigration I and II
projects. The cost recovery indices are 55% for Muara Wahau and 61% for
Sangkulirang and in calculating these indices, the sales taxes which GOI
charges on coconut (2.5% of f.o.b. price, Indonesia ports) have been
included.



- 42 -
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS /1
Benefits
6.01      The project would establish 6,000 new farms and associated settle-
ments with 8,400 ha of tree crops and 7,300 ha of food crops and gardens.
The project would directly benefit 6,000 families or 30,000 people and would
have an indirect impact on at least another 2,700 families through employ-
ment creation in other sectors. For example, land clearing operations for
coconut alone would require about 9,000 man-years, while farming operations
from nursery establishment to maturity of tree crops would require about
34,000 additional man-years. The local people, aside from receiving two
hectares of coconut per family, would also be able to avail themselves of
these potential employment opportunities. Most of the jobs created by the
project would be new jobs since many transmigrants were underemployed or
engaged in marginally productive activities in their areas of origin.
6.02      The project would also strengthen the coordination of Bank-
assisted projects, and, by extension, improve coordination of the transmi-
gration program as a whole. Improved coordination, in turn, would reduce
costly delays, by ensuring timely provision of goods and services. Finally,
the project would develop measures for timber utilization which would
prevent the loss of a valuable resource to Government.
Economic Analysis
6.03      Prices.  The farmgate prices for inputs and outputs, based on the
Bank Group-s commodity forecasts, are summarized in Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6.
Table 4.1, gives the expected cost of crop production and cost of labor,
presents the expected gross and net crops returns/ha, and summarizes the net
agricultural benefits for the project area.
6.04      Labor Pricing.  The monthly labor requirements per crop are given
in Annex 1, Table 17. The opportunity cost of settler labor has been
assumed to be equal to the subsistence income at their point of origin, as
the project would remove the settlers from the Java/Bali labor force. The
shadow price of the agricultural wage rate has been assessed at Rp 570 per
working day considering the overabundant labor supplies and low productivity
employment in Java and Bali. Since labor is in short supply in the project
areas, the existing market wage rate for casual labor employed in rubber
development of Rp 1,350/man-day was used for valuing off-farm employment.
/1 The economic analysis presented in this chapter is based on an exchange
rate of Rp 625 = US$1.00 which prevailed at the time of appraisal. The
impact of rupiah devaluation on the economic rate of return is discussed
in para. 6.07.



- 43 -
6.05       Investment Costs.  The total investment costs calculated for the
economic analysis amount to US$72 million (Rp 45 billion in mid-1982 prices)
for Muara Wahau and (US$50 million (Rp 31 billion) for Sangkulirang. These
include the costs of establishing copra drying and coconut oil processing
facilities in both sites. Foreign exchange costs were converted to Rupiah
at Rp 625 = US$1.00, assuming a standard conversion factor of 1.0. Invest-
ment costs include the cost of providing agricultural extension and other
agricultural supporting services, but have been adjusted to remove the cost
of national programs which the Government would normally provide to any
community, and which would have been provided to the families involved in
this project in the without project situation. These include educational,
health and cooperative development services and total US$3.3 million. The
costs of maintaining the infrastructure, providing basic agricultural and
settlement services and processing the coconut amount to around US$1.3 mil-
lion a year for Muara Wahau and US$0.8 million in the case of Sangkulirang.
6.06       Development Period.  Based on the project implementation schedules
(Table 3.1), transmigrants would begin arriving on site in 1984 and families
would be settled by 1986. These families would develop their food crop and
home garden plots in their first year and work on their coconut holdings in
the second year. The farmers would achieve the projected food crop yields
in ten years and coconut would reach full production in the eleventh year.
6.07       Economic Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and
discounting costs and benefits over 30 years, the economic rate of return
for Muara Wahau is 11.5% and 11.0% for Sangkulirang.  When the project was
first appraised, an ERR of 14% and 13.7% were obtained based on commodity
price forecasts in effect prior to June 1982. Taking into account the
devaluation of the rupiah of Rp 970 = US$1.00 the relative price of trade-
ables to nontradeables will increase somewhat, especially in the short run,
and thus the ERR will increase because almost all outputs (such as copra and
rice) are tradeables while a significant part of inputs (especially labor)
is nontradeable. The benefits associated with promoting regional develop-
ment, alleviating population pressures on land in Java, and providing land
to the landless could not be quantified.
6.08       Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity analysis was used to determine
which variable would be most crucial to the success of the project. To that
end, crossover values for 10% discount rate were calculated for a number of
factors. Crossover values, given in Table 6.1, reveal that the viability of
the project is relatively sensitive to departures from appraisal assumptions
(a) a 10% rate of return would be realized if investment costs increase by 13%
over the estimated base costs and physical contingencies in Muara Wahau and 7%
for Sangkulirang; (b) the total benefit stream declines by 11% for Muara Wahau
and 7% for Sangkulirang; and (c) the benefit stream of both Muara Wahau and
Sangkulirang were delayed by one year or six months respectively.



- 44 -
Table 6.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Muara Wahau                   Sangkulirang
Appraisal  Crossover   %    Appraisal Crossover   %
value      value   change   value       value   change
Total investment costs
(constant US$ million)      59.1        65.5      13       42.9      46.0       78
Total benefits (constant
US$ million)                66.5         59.1    -11       46.0       42.9     -56
Benefit delay (years)          0            1        -        0          6 mos.    -
Risks
6.09      Inability to Dispose Timber.  It had been a concern that no land
clearing contractor would submit a feasible work plan for utilizing the
required amount of timber. This was considered possible especially at a time
when the world market price of timber is depressed and when there is a surplus
of timber on the local market. Alternatively, the cost of disposing of timber
might have been so high that bidders will increase the price of land clearing
to permit timber utilization. In either case it would not have been feasible
to develop the sites under the procedures proposed in this project. Because
of this risk, steps were initiated prior to negotiations to tender for the
land clearing contracts at Sangkulirang and to negotiate a contract with the
concessionnaire in the northern site of Muara Wahau. Feasible work plans for
these sites have been received (see paras. 3.29 and 3.30), and therefore the
risk that timber utilization would be inadequate has been greatly reduced.
6.10      Poor Soil Quality.  Problems associated with low soil fertility have
been considerably reduced by the decision to plant coconuts which are tolerant
of acidic soils, and by the use of existing estates to establish coconut.
Since land in Muara Wahau is relatively flat and tree crop areas are under 15%
slope in Sangkulirang, and since land clearing for food and tree crop areas
would be done manually, erosion would be minimized. Special attention would
be given to soil improvement and conservation in both sites. If migrants were
to limit food crop production because of low yields and difficult marketing,
returns from coconut would still be sufficient to provide reasonable incomes.



- 45 -
6.11      Organizational Problems.  The likelihood of organizational problems
is compounded by the remoteness of the area. These problems would be
minimized by slow start up, ample provision of funds to cover transport costs,
and steps to strengthen the role of the Special Unit.  The DGT, Public Works
and PTP VI all have working experience in the area and are familiar with
conditions in East Kalimantan.
6.12      Taking the above safeguards into account the project's indicated
risks are judged acceptable.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conditions of Disbursement
7.01      The signing of a loan agreement between PTP VI and the Ministry of
Finance would be a condition of disbursement for estate tree crop
development (para. 3.27).
Assurances Obtained
7.02      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) each family in the project would receive 2.0 ha of coconuts
whether established under the project or subsequent to it (para.
3.17);
(b) goods and services would be procured under terms and conditions
set forth in para. 3.28;
(c) procedures outlined in the SAR would be used in awarding contracts
for land clearing (para. 3.29);
(d) project implementing agencies would: (i) maintain separate accounts
for this project and cause such accounts to be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) transmit these
audited accounts annually to the Bank and to Transmigration IV team
which would summarize them; and (iii) that this summary of audited
accounts would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the
close of each fiscal year (para. 3.33);
(e) GOI shall maintain the Special Unit for Bank-assisted projects
with adequate staff and space and establish and maintain within
the Special Unit, subunits responsible for Bank Group-assisted
projects, each subunit to be adequately staffed on a full-time
basis (para. 4.05);



- 46 -
(f)  Rural Extension Centers, Plant Protection Brigades, and seed
farms, would be constructed concurrently with village infrastruc-
ture and that FCCs would be constructed within two years of village
establishment (para. 4.15);
(g)  the GOI shall ensure that sufficient funds and adequate organiza-
tional arrangements are provided to maintain all principal access
and village roads (para. 4.18); and
(h)  the DGT would give priority in selection of settlers to mature or
extended families in which at least one child or relative over 14
could contribute to the family labor supply (paras. 3.12 and
5.13).
7.03      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$63.5 million with a 20-year maturity including a grace period of
five years. The borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 47 -                            ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Project Cost Estimate
Local   Foreign  Total        Local Foreign  Total
---- (Rp million) ----        -- (US$ million) ---
I. Muara Wahau Development
Site Preparation
Land clearing, liming and road
construction                       2,244    4,620    6,864         3.2    6.6       9.8
Wharf, landing field and
Batu Ampar road                       462    1,260    1,722        0.7    1.8       2.5
Agrarian services                       132        70      202       0.2    0.1        0.3
Recurrent costs                         924       280    1,204       1.3    0.4        1.7
Subtotal                        3,762    6,230    9,992         5.4    8.9      14.3
Community Development
Housing and village facilities        2,904    1,680    4,584        4.1    2.4        6.5
Health and education facilities    1,320          280    1,600       1.9    0.4        2.3
Vehicles, furnishings and equip.         66       350      416       0.1    0.5        0.6
Settler transportation and
services                             990       980    1,970        1.4    1.4       2.8
Settler supplies and materials          990      560    1,550        1.4    0.8       2.2
Agrarian services                       132        70      202       0.2    0.1        0.3
Recurrent costs                         330      140       470       0.5    0.2       0.7
Subtotal                        6,732    4,060   10,792         9.6    5.8      15.4
Agricultural Development - Food
Crops and Livestock
Agricultural facilities (REC, PBB,
FCC, seed farm and KUDs)              198       70       268       0.3    0.1       0.4
Poultry development facilities            -         -        -         -       -        -
Vehicles and equipment                   66       140      206       0.1    0.2       0.3
Agricultural supplies                   198       700      898       0.3    1.0        1.3
Livestock                                 -         _        _         _       _         _
PPL training
Soil conservation                         -         -        -         -       -        -
Recurrent costs                          66         -       66       0.1       -      0.1
Subtotal                          528       910    1,438        0.8    1.3       2.1



- 48 -                         ANNEX I
Table 1
Page 2
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total
--- (Rp million)        ----  -   (US$ million) --
Tree Crop Development -
Smallholders
Tree crop establishment               3,300    2,870    6,170        4.7    4.1        8.8
Infrastructure                          264       560      824       0.4    0.8        1.2
Staff housing                            66         -        66      0.1       -       0.1
Vehicles and equipment                    -    1,960    1,960          -    2.8        2.8
Operating costs                         594       350       944      0.8    0.5        1.3
Subtotal                        4,224    5,740    9,964         6.0    8.2      14.2
Tree Crop Development -
Estates
Tree crop establishment                 330       280      610       0.5    0.4        0.9
Infrastructure                           20         -       20       .03       -       .03
Estate facilities                       528       840    1,368       0.8    1.2        2.0
Estate staff resettlement                13         -       13       .02       -       .02
Vehicles and equipment                   66    1,120    1,186        0.1    1.6        1.7
Operating costs                          66         -        66      0.1       -       0.1
Subtotal                        1,023    2,240    3,263         1.5    3.3       4.8
Subtotal baseline cost                 16,269   19,180   35,449       23.3   27.5       50.8
Physical contingencies                1,518    1,750    3,268        2.2    2.5        4.7
Price contingencies                   4,884    3,640    8,524        7.0    5.2      12.2
Total Cost of Component                22,671   24,570   47,241       32.5   35.2       67.7
II. Sangkulirang Development
Site Preparation
Land clearing, liming and road
construction                       1,320    2,800    4,120         1.9    4.0       5.9
Landing field                            13        42        55      .02    .06        .08
Agrarian services                       132        42      174       0.2    .06        0.2
Recurrent costs                         198        70      268       0.3    0.1       0.4
Subtotal                        1,663    2,954    4,617         2.4    4.2       6.6



ANNEX 1
- 49 -                             Table 1
Page 3
Local   Foreign   Total       Local  Foreign  Total
---- (Rp million) -----       --- (US$ million) ---
Community Development
Housing and village facilities        2,376    1,120    3,496         3.4    1.6        5.0
Health and education facilities         660       280      940        0.9    0.4        1.3
Vehicles, furnishings and equip.         66      350       416        0.1    0.5        0.6
Settler transportation and services  660         700    1,360         0.9    1.0       1.9
Settler supplies and materials          858      350    1,208         1.2    0.5       1.7
Agrarian services                       132        70      202        0.2    0.1        0.3
Recurrent costs                         264        70      334        0.4    0.1        0.5
Subtotal                        5,016    2,940    7,956          7.1    4.2      11.3
Agricultural Development - Food
Crops and Livestock
Agricultural facilities (REC, PBB,
FCC and KUDs)                         132       70       202        0.2    0.1       0.3
Vehicles and equipment                   20       140      160        .03    0.2        0.2
Agricultural supplies                   132      490       622        0.2    0.7        0.9
Livestock                                 6        21       27        .01    .03        .04
PPL training                              6         -        6        .01       -       .01
Soil conservation                         -                  -          -       -        -
Recurrent costs                          26         7       33        .04    .01       .05
Subtotal                          322       728    1,050         0.5    1.0       1.5
Tree Crop Development
Tree crop establishment              2,574    2,240    4,814          3.7    3.2       6.9
Infrastructure and housing              924      770    1,694         1.3    1.1       2.4
Vehicles and equipment                  132    2,100    2,232         0.2    3.0        3.2
Staff resettlement                        -        -         -          -       -        -
Recurrent costs                         528      280       808        0.7    0.4       1.1
Subtotal                        4,158    5,390    9,548          5.9    7.7      13.6
Subtotal baseline costs               11,159   12,012   23,171         15.9   17.1      33.0
Physical contingencies                1,122    1,190    2,312         1.6    1.7        3.3
Price contingencies                   2,838    1,960    4,798         4.0    2.8       6.8
Total Cost of Component                15,119   15,162   30,281        21.5   21.6      43.1



ANNEX 1
- 50 -                          Table I
Page 4
Local   Foreign   Total    Local Foreign Total
---- (Rp million) -----    -- (US$ million) --
III. Program Coordination and
Technical Assistance
Special Unit for Bank-Assisted
Projects
Equipment                               198       280       478     0.3    0.4       0.7
Operating expenditures                1,056       210    1,266      1.5    0.3       1.8
Technical assistance                    330    1,750    2,080       0.5    2.5      3.0
Subtotal                        1,584    2,240    3,824        2.3    3.2      5.5
Other Technical Assistance                 66    1,260    1,326       0.1    1.8       1.9
Subtotal baseline cost                  1,650    3,500    5,150       2.4    5.0       7.4
Physical contingencies                  132       280      412      0.2    0.4      0.6
Price contingencies                     396       560      956      0.5    0.8      1.3
Total Cost of Component                 2,178    4,340    6,518       3.0    6.2       9.2
Total Baseline Cost                            29,078   34,692   63,770    41.5   49.6    91.2
Total physical contingencies                  2,772    3,220    5,992        3.9    4.6      8.5
Total price contingencies                     8,118    6,160   14,278    11.5    8.8    20.4
Total Project Cost                      2        44,072   84,040    57.0   63.0   120.0



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million)
Foreign       To be
Total   exchange   disbursed
Civil Works (60% disbursement)
Land clearing, liming & road construction, wharf,
landing strips and Batu Ampar road                   21.1      13.7         12.7
Housing & village facilities (inclding health
and education facilities)                            18.2       5.9         10.9
Other civil works (REC, PPB, poultry, seed
farm and cooperatives)                                1.0       0.3          0.6
Smallholder tree crop establishment                    20.8       9.4         12.5
Smallholder tree crop civil works (infra-
structure and facilities)                             3.6       1.7          2.3
Estate tree crop establishment (including
civil works)                                          4.8       1.4          3.0
Subtotal                                                               42.0
Vehicles and Equipment (100% disbursement)
Vehicles and farm machines for smallholder
tree crop development                                 6.7       6.7          6.7
JMT computer system                                     0.1       0.1          0.1
Other machines and equipment                            0.2       0.2          0.2
Vehicles and farm machines for Estate
development                                           2.0       2.0          2.0
Subtotal                                                                 9.0
Services & Technical Assistance (100% disbursement)
T.A. for program coordination                           3.4       2.8          3.4
PPL training                                            0.2       -            0.2
Other technical assistance                              1.9       1.9          1.9
Subtotal                                                                 5.5
Unallocated                                                                      6.0
Total Disbursed                                                         62.5
Capitalized front end fee                                                        1.0
Total Loan Amount                                                       63.5



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements /a
Cumulative        Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal year      disbursements    disbursements
and Semester        (US$ million)           (%)
FY83
First
Second                      1 /b              2
FY84
First                       4                10
Second                      9                17
FY85
First                      15                34
Second                     21                52
FY86
First                      33                69
Second                     47                88
FY87
First                      55                95
Second                     63.5             100
/a As there is no comparable transmigration project
doing only a first tranche of an ongoing program
no generalized disbursement profiles have been
identified for comparative purposes.
/b Including 1.0 million capitalized front end fee.



- 53 -                           ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Breakdown of Consultant Costs /a
(Mid-1981, US$ per man-month)
In Firms                         Individual
Expatriate      Domestic                  expatriate
professional professional Technical professional
Billing rate                     7,000           1,300           600         3,000
Mobilization and
Demobilization
International travel /b    1,000                -              -         1,000
Domestic travel                100            100            100           100
Duty Station Expenses
Local duty travel                150             150            50           150
Allowances /c                    360             195           250           360
Office rental                    100             100             -           100
Housing                          900             450             -           900
Total mid-1981 prices         9,610          2,295          1,000         5,600
Total mid-1982 prices
(rounded)                   10,500          2,500         1,100         6,200
/a  Based on current contracts in DITADA excluding GOI input, equipment, local
transport and support staff.
/b  Including airfares for family members, excess baggage and other associated
costs.
/c  Average 12 days/mo for expatriate @ US$30/day; 12 days/mo for local
professional @ US$16/day; and 25 days/mo @ US$10/day for technical staff.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
INDONESIA                                                 Table 5
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Price Structures for Agricultural Outputs
(Rp & US$O000/ton in constant mid-1982 prices)
(Rp 625 = US$ 1.00)
Opera-            1982                    1990
tion   Rp'000/ton  US$/ton  Rp'000ton  US$/ton
Rice (ton)
Export price, Thai 5% brokens, f.o.b., Bangkok /a                      196          314        266          426
Quality adjustment /b                                        90%       176          283        239          383
Freight and insurance                                        +          16           25         16           25
c.i.f. price, project area                                    -        192          308        255          408
Port handling, storage & losses /c                            +         16           26         16           26
Transport to wholesaler /d                                    +         16           26         16           26
Mill to wholesaler                                            -          5            8          5            8
Exmill price, project area                                    =        219          352        282          452
Conversion to paddy                                          63%       138          222        178          285
Milling and cleaning costs less value of products             -          2            3          2            3
Handling transport farm to mill                               -          2            3          2            3
Economic farmgate price                                       =        134          216        174          279
(Financial Farmgate Price)                              =        135                     174
Maize
Export price, f.o.b. US Gulf port                                       70          112         87          139
Freight and insurance                                         +         28           45         28           45
Port handling                                                 +          6           10          6           10
Transport, wharf to wholesaler                                +         16           26         17           26
Transport, village to wholesaler                              -          4            6          4            6
Transport, farm to village                                    -          2            3          2            3
Economic farmgate price                                       =        114          184        132          283
(Financial Farmgate Price)                              =        105                     132
Peanut
Peanut shelled, f.o.b. Nigeria                                         259          415        359          575
Freight and insurance                                         +         23           37         23           37
Port handling                                                 +          6           10          6           10
Transport, wharf to wholesaler                                +         16           26         16           26
Transport, subdistrict to wholesaler                          -          4            6          4            6
Transport, farm to subdistrict market                         -          2            3          2            3
Farmgate price peanut shelled                                 =        298          479        398          639
Farmgate price peanut unshelled                              80%       238          383        318          511
(Financial Farmgate Price)                              =        440                     318
Coconut Oil
Coconut oil, f.o.b. Manila (c.i.f. Rotterdam - $60)                    301          482        452          724
Freight and insurance                                         +         25           40         25           40
Coconut oil, c.i.f. main Indonesian ports                     =        326          522         477          764
Port handling, transport to wholesaler                        +         15           25          15           25
Transport factory to wholesaler                               -          6           10            6          10
Coconut Oil (exfactory)                                       =        335          537         486          779
Sales tax (2.5% c.i.f.)                                      -           8           13          12           19
(Financial Price Ex-factory)                            =        327            -         474
Copra
Copra, bulk CIF NW Europe                                              211          338         333          533
Freight and insurance                                         -         29           46          29           46
Copra, f.o.b. Indonesia ports                                 =        182          292         304          487
Port handling, transport from factory                         -         15           25           15          25
Copra, ex-factory                                             -        167          267         289          462
(Financial Farmgate Price)                              -        210                      290
/a  Thai White 5% f.o.b. Bangkok.  IBRD Projection, June 1982.
/b 90% of world price based on spot checks and regressions. See paper IBRD/AEPIA 1979.
/c  Source:  BULOG.  The breakdown of these costs is as follows (Rp/ton):
Port costs                =  2,800
Transport to warehouse =  2,900
Spraying & fumigation  =    400
Unloading                 =  3,700
Warehouse rent            =  1,000
Total                 10,800 (US$17)
Losses at unloading 0.75% and 1.0% at warehouse = 5,000 (US$8).
/d  Transportation costs as given below.  Up to completion of the Sangkulirang-Muara Wahau road, trans-
portation to and from Muara Wahau is through Samarinda, later on througgh Sangkulirang. Costs are
assumed similar because speed and reliability have not been taken into account (they would favor
road transport). For Baturaja, costs are Rp 50/ton kilometer.
Route                                       Transport Cost (incl. loading/unloading)
(US$/ton)                (Rp/kg)
Muara Wahau:  Samarinda         (river)               26                       16
Sangkulirang   (road)                 26                       16
Batu Ampar    (road)                  10                        6
Local           (road)         USc24/ton x km           Rp 150/ton x km
/e 7% of f.o.b. Indonesia price.



- 55 -                                 ANNEX 1
Table 6
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Price Structures for Agricultural Inputs
(Rp & US$OOO/ton in constant mid-1982 prices)
1982                     1990
RpOOO/ton  US$/ton    RpOOO/ton  US$/ton
Urea /a
World export price,
f.o.b. Europe                         114         183           156         250
Ex-factory price                         124         198          166         265
Handling and distributing to
retail level /b                        20          32            14          22
Transport to farm /c                       4           6            4           6
Economic farmgate price                  148         236          184         293
(Financial Farmgate Price)/d         (70)                      (93)
TSP /e
World export price, f.o.b.,
US Gulf Port                          105         168           120         192
Freight and insurance                     34          54           34          54
Handling and distributing to
retail level                           17           27           17          27
Transport to farm                         20          32           18          29
Economic farmgate price                  176         281          189         302
(Financial Farmgate Price)           (70)                      (93)
/a  Ex-factory prices are based on projections for bagged urea f.o.b. Europe and
a transport premium to ASEAN markets of
US$15/ton.
/b  Bontang-Samarinda by sea (Rp 2,000/ton), handling (Rp 3,000/ton), Samarinda-
Muara Wahau by river (Rp 15,000/ton), for Baturaja, Palembang to Baturaja
(Rp 20,000/ton). In 1990, Bontang-Muara Wahau by road: some 180 km at
Rp 100/ton x kIn).
/c Muara Wahau to villages (Rp 4,000/ton).
/d Financial price based on Government subsidized price; 1990 projection based
on increases in world price.
/e Indonesia is and will remain an importer of TSP.



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Development Costs per Family
(Rp 000)
Muara Wahau            Sangkulirang
Credit   Noncredit   Credit   Noncredit
Land clearing for:
house, home garden and food crop
village center, infrastructure, etc.           -        780           -        765
Roads and bridges /a                             -        580           -        830
Settler housing                                  -        640           -        640
Village facilities /b                             -        586          -        670
Settlement, relocation and subsistence           -        890           -        890
Agrarian service                                  -         88          -         88
Food crop development                             -       308           -        278
Coconut establishment /c                     4,445          -       4,544
National programs /d                              -       280           -        327
Subtotal                                4,445      3,872       4,544     4,161
Total Development Costs per
Family - in RpOOO                         8,317                  8,705
- in US$                           13,310                13,930
Credit component (%)                                  53                     52
/a Excludes access road to Batu Ampar, wharves/jetties and landing fields.
/b Includes village facilities, staff housing, equipment and vehicles for com-
munity development, settler relocation and support; excludes health, educa-
tion, cooperative development facilities.
/c  Includes costs for land clearing, coconut establishment, farm tracks and
collection roads, development overhead, road construction, and agricultural
machinery and equipment.
/d Includes the costs of health and education services and cooperative develop-
ment.



57 -                                 ANNEX I
Table 8
INDONESIA
TRANSMICRATION IV PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery Calculation Summary /a
(Rp'000)
Values per farm
Murara Wahau   Sangkulirang
1.  Incremental gross value of farm production /b           13,816           13,816
2.  Less cash production costs /b                             1,826           1,826
3.  Equals net cash income                                   11,990          11,990
4.  Less depreciation                                           721              727
5.  Less imputed family labor cost /c                         4,956           4,956
6.  Less imputed farmers' management /d                         691             691
7.  Less allowances for risk/uncertainty /e                   1,798           1,798
8.  Less general taxes /f                                       691             691
9.  Equals project rent                                       3,133           3,127
10.  Rent as a percentage of net cash income                      26               26
11.  Debt recovery                                             1,647           1,852
12.  Benefit taxes                                               444             444
13.  Total direct/recovery taxes                               2,091           2,296
14.  Rent recovery index (13 -t 9)-%                              67               73
15.  Public sector outlays                                     3,788           3,758
16.  Cost recovery index (13 -t 15)-%                             55               61
/a  All values in lines 1-16 discounted at opportunity cost of capital for Indo-
nesia of 10% over 30 years; values represent incremental benefits and costs.
/b  From Staff Working Papers.
/c At Rp 1,350/day.
/d At 5% of incremental gross value of production.
/e At 15% of net cash income.
/f At 5% of incremental gross value of production.



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation for Muara Wahau
(Mid-1982 US$ million)
Net econ-   Net economic
Gross value of       ?ro-      Net               omic bene-    benefits    Net value              Operating
production         duc-    value   Imputed  fits from   (costs) from  (cost) of  Invest-  & mainte-
Coconut  Copra           tion   of pro-   labor    coconut    food crop &    settler    ment            nance
Year     oil    cake   Total  costs  duction   costs/a production  home garden            labor      costs    costs/b
'983/84             -       -       -       -                    -            (0.05)         0.4        4.3       0.05
1984/85     -       -       -       -        -                    -           (0.17)         i.0       13.2       0.5
1985/86     -       -       -      -        -         -           -           (0.24)         1.9       13.8        1.6
1986/87     -       -       -      -        -         -           -            0.2           2.3        6.8       1.8
1987/88     -       -       -      -        -         -           -             -            1.1        5.9        1.4
1988/89     -       -       -      -        -         -           -            0.3           2.4       14.5        0.7
1989/90      0.2    0.02   0.2    0.1       0.1       0.03        0.07         0.6           2.6        3.1       0.5
1990/91      1.2    0.1    1.3    0.5       0 8       0.2         0.6          0.9           2.3        3.4       0.4
1991/92     3.1    0.3    3.4    0.9        2.5       0.3         2.2          1.3           1.5        1.1       0.5
1992/93      5.5    0.6    6.2    1.4       4.8       0 4         4.4          1.8           0.2        3.4        0.7
1993/94      8.4    0.9    9.3    1.6       7.7       0.4         7.3          2.2          (0.6)       -          0.9
1994/95    10.9    1.2   12.1    1.6    10.5          0.5        10.0          2.4          (0.6)       1.3        1.1
1995/96    13.1    1.4   14.5    1.6    12.9          0.5        12.4          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.4
1996/97    14.7    1.6   16.3    1.6    14.7          0.5        14.2          2.4          (0.6)       1.3       1.5
1997/98    15.8    1.7   17.5    1.7    15.8          0.6        15.2          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
1998/99    16.1    1.7   17.8    1.7    16.1          0.6        15.5          2.4          (0.6)       -         1.6
1999/2000   16.3    1.7   18.0    1.7    16.3          0.6        15.7          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2000/01    16.3    1.7   18.0    1.7    16.3          0.6        15.7          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2001/02    16.3    1.7   18.0    1.7    16.3          0.6        15.7          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2002/03    16.3    1.7   18.0    1.7    16.3          0.6        15.7          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2003/04    16.3    1.7   18.0    1.7    16.3          0.6        15.7          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2004/05    16.3    1.7   18.0    1.7    16.3          0.6        15.7          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2005/06    16.3    1 7   18.0    1.7    16.3          0.6        15.7          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2006/07    16.3    1.7   18.0    1.7    16.3          0.6        15.7          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2007/08    16.3    1.7   18.0    1.7    16.3          0.6        15.7          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2008/09    16.3    1.7   18.0    1.7    16.3          0.6        15.7          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2009/10    16.3    1.7   18.0    1.7    16.3          0.6        15.7          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2010/11    16.2    1.7   17.9    1.7    16.2          0.6        15.6          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2011/12    15.6    1.6   17.2    1.7    15.5          0.6        14.9          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.6
2012/13    15.2    1.6   16.8    1.7    15.1          0.6        14.5          2.4          (0.6)       -          1.5
/a  At Rp 570 per man-day which is the estimated opportunity cost of labor.
,'b Include factory processing costs.



- 59 -
C85458/J99406/D3203/45-46
ANNEX 1
Table 10
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation for Sangkulirang
(Mid-1982 US$ million)
Net econ-   Net economic
Gross value of       Pro-      Net              omic bene-    benefits    Net value               Operating
production         duc-    value   Imputed  fits from   (costs) from  (cost) of  Invest-  & mainte-
Coconut  Copra           tion   of pro-   labor    coconut    food crop &    settler    ment            nance
Year     oil    cake   Total  costs  duction  costs/a  production  home garden            labor     costs    costs/b
1983/84     -      -        -      -        -         -          -            (0.05)         0.4       5.9        OP3
1984/85     -      -        -      -        -         -          -            (0.1)          0.6      11.6        0.5
1985/86     -      -        -      -        -         -          -            (0.2)          1.6       10.5       0.8
1986/87     -      -        -      -        -        -           -             0.02          1.7       5.5        0.6
1987/88     -      -       -       -        -        -           -             0.2           1.7       5.0        0.7
1988/89     -      -        -      -        -         -          -             0.4           1.8       2.2        0.3
1989/90     0.2   0.02    0.22   0.1        0.1      -            0.1          0.6           1.9       1.7        0.2
1990/91      0.9   0.10    1.0    0.4       0.6       0.1         0.5          1.0           1.7       5.5        0.3.
1991/92     2.2   0.24    2.4    0.6        1.8       0.2         1.6          1.3           1.1       0.5        0.3
1992/93     4.1   0.44    '.5    1.0        3.5       0.3         3.2          1.6          (0.1)      -          0.4
1993/94      5.9   0.63    6.5    1.0       5.5       0.3         5.2          1.7          (0.5)      1.0        0.6
1994/95     7.5   0.80    8.3    1.0        7.3       0.3         7.0          1.7          (0.5)      -          0.8
199l/9o     8.7   0.93    9.6    1.0        8.6       0.3         8.3          1.7          (0.5)       0.7       0.9
1996/97     9.6   1.03   10.6    1.0        9.6       0.4         9.2          1.7         (0.5)       -          1.0
1997/98    10.2   1.09   11.3    1.0    10.3          0.4         9.9          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.0
1998/99    10.41  1.11   11.5    1.0    10.5          0.4        10.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.1
1999/2000   10.4   1.11   11.5    1.0    10.5          0.4        10.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.1
2000/01    LO.4   1.11   11.5    1.0    10.5          0.4        10.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.1
2001/02    10.4   1.11   11.5    1.0    10.5          0.4        10.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.1
2002/03    10.4   1.11   11 5    1.0    10.5          0.4        10.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.1
2003/04    10.4   1.11   11.5    1.0    10.5          0.4        10.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.1
2004/05    10.4   1.11   11.5    1.0    10.5          0.4        10.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.1
2005/06    10.4   1.11   11.5    1.0    10.5          0.4        10.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.1
2006/07    10.4   1.11   11.5    1.0    10.5          0.4        10.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.1
2007/08    10.4   1.11   11.5    1.0    10.5          0.4        10.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.1
2008/09    10.4   1.11   11.5    1.0    10.5          0.4        10.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.1
2009/10    10.4   1.11   11.5    1.0    10.5          0.4        10.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.1
2010/11    10.2   1.10   11.3    1.0    10.3          0.4         9.9          1.7          (0.5)       -         1.0
2011/12     9.9   1.06   11.0    1.0    10.0          0.4         9.6          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.0
2012/13     9.5   1.C2   10.5    1.0        9.5       0.4         9.1          1.7          (0.5)      -          1.0
/a  At Rp 570 per man-day which is the estimated opportunity cost of labor.
/b Includes factory processing costs.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Table 11
Page 1
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Seeds, Fertilizer and Pesticide Packages
Total cost
Total/   Unit      Total   including trans-
family   cost      cost       port cost of
(kg)   (Rp/kg)  (RpO000)    (Rp 25/kg)
First Year
Home Garden Package I
paddy seed                               2       250     0.5             0.55
Maizes seed                              2       190     0.38            0.43
Peanut, soybean, greenbean seed          5       550      2.75           2.88
Vegetables seed (spinach, chilli,
eggplant, kankung, Chinese
cabbage, tomato)                     0.5               5.11            5.12
Spices                                 0.5               4.51            4.52
Subtotal                            10 kg             13.25          13.5
Home Garden Package II                   No.
Banana (suckers)                        15       300     4.5             4.59
Pineapple (ships)                       50        70     3.5             3.57
Papaya (plants)                          8       100     2.4             2.45
Jackfruit (plants)                       4       250     1.0             1.02
Rambutan (plants)                        4       600     2.4             2.45
Coconut (seedlings)                     10    1,000    10.0             10.20
Clove (plants)                           8       450     3.6             3.67
Coffee (seedling)                       30       300     9.0             9.18
Cashew (seedling)                        5       500     2.5             2.55
Subtotal                                              38.9           39.68
Food Crop Seeds                          Kg
Paddy                                   35       250     8.75            9.63
Maize                                   10       190     1.90            2.15
Peanut                                  20       550    11.00           11.50
Soybean                                 10       550     5.50            5.75
Green bean                               5       250     2.75            2.88
Cassava                              2,000         5    10.0            10.20
(cuttings)
Subtotal                                              39.90          42.11



- 61 -                                ANNEX 1
Table 11
Page 2
Total cost
Total/   Unit       Total   including trans-
family   cost      cost        port cost of
(kg)    (Rp/kg)  (Rp'000)    (Rp 25/kg)
Green Manure and Soil Erosion
prevention
Crotaria Juneca
Crotateria Usramueis
Sesbasia groundiflora etc              4       225      9.0            9.10
Fertilizer
urea + TSP = Kcl                       300        70    21.0             28.5
Pesticides                              kg/l
Insecticides                              2    1,300      2.6            2.65
Rodenticide                               2    2,000      4.0             4.05
Seed treatment                        0.25    1,300       0.33            0.33
Poison (pig)                          0.5      1,300      0.65            0.66
Subtotal                                                7.58           7.69
Second Year
Paddy Seed                                 40      250    10.0             10.2
Fertilizer
Urea + TSP = Kcl                       300        70    21.0            28.5
Pesticides                              kg/l
Insecticides                              2    1,300      2.6             2.65
Rodenticide                               2    2,000      4.0             4.05
Seed treatment                        0.25    1,300       0.33            0.33
Poison (pig)                          0.50    1,300       0.65            0.65
Subtotal                                                7.58           7.69
Third Year
Fertilizer
Urea + TSP = Kcl                       300        70    21.0            28.5
Pesticides                              kg/l
Insecticides                             2    1,300       2.6            2.65
Rodenticide                               2    2,000      4.0            4.05
Seed treatment                        0.25    1,300       0.33           0.33
Poison (pig)                          0.50-   1,300       0.65           0.65
Subtotal                                                7.58           7.69



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Table 12
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Food Crop Production Costs: Physical Inputs In Future with Project
Wet Season          Dry season
P+C+Cas /a           Groundnut        Cowpea
Seed (kg)
Monocrop
Intercrop:  Paddy                           40                 120           20
Corn                           12
Cassava                       500 (cutting)
Fertilizer (kg)
Urea                                       150                   50
TSP                                        125                   50
Agrochemicals
Seed treatment (kg)                          0.15                0.5           0.10
Pesticides (kg/1)                            2.0                  2.0          1.0
Rodenticide (kg)                             0.5                  0.5          -
/a Intercropped upland paddy, corn and cassava.



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Table 13
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Food Crop Production Costs   Future With Project at Full Development /a
Wet season                  Dry season
P+C+Cas         Groundnut /b        Cowpea /c
Econ-   Finan-   Econ-    Finan-   Econ-   Finan-
Inputs/ha                        omic      cial    omic       cial    omic       cial
Cash Inputs (RpO000/ha)
Seed                            16.9    16.9    108.0    108.0        5.0      5.0
Fertilizer                      54.0    25.5       21.1      9.3      -        -
Agrochemicals                   16.3      3.4      18.5       3.9     6.8      1.4
Total Cash Input             87.2    48.7    148.4    121.2    11.8        6.4
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha)
Land preparation                       55                40                  40
Planting                               50                25                  20
Crop management                        70                35                  30
Harvesting                             60                40                  30
Total Labor Input                 235                140                120
/a  Economic costs for use in the economic analysis and financial costs for use
in the farm budgets.
/b  Groundnut production represents a composite group of high value leguminous
cash crops (groundnut, soybeans, mungbeans).
/c  Cowpea production represents a composite group of lower value leguminous
cash crops (cowpea, greenbean, ricebean).



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
Table 14
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Food urop Budgets:/a Future with Project at Full Development
Wet Season
Interplanted crops             Dry Season
P+C+Cas /b           Groundnut        Cowpea
Yield (ton/ha)
Paddy                                        1.5                  0.9           0.6
Corn                                         1.25
Cassava                                     12.0
Farmgate Price (Rp'000/ton)
Paddy                                        174               318.0         250.0
Corn                                         132
Cassava                                       10
Gross value ot production
(Rp'000/ha)                                546.0               286.0         150.0
Production costs, excluding
labor (Rp'000/ha)                           45.8                121.2           6.4
Net value ot production,
excluding labor (Rp'000/ha)                500.2               165.0         143.6
Labor requirements
(man-days/ha)                              225.0                 140           120
/a Based on financial prices and costs as shown in Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6.
/b Intercropped rice, corn and cassava.



- 65 -                                      ANNEX I
Table 15
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Monthly Farm Labor Requirement: Future with Project
(Man-day/ha)
Jan  Feb  Mar  Apr  May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Dec  Total
Rice, corn, cassava
- intercropped           27   24   20   19    -    5   5    26   30   30   25   21   225
Groundnut                    -    8   20   32   45   35   -         -    -    -    -    -   140
Cowpeas                      -    -    2    2    4    3   2         -    -    -    -    -   120



INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Summary ot Transmigrant Hybrid Coconut Establishment Cost per Ha
(Constant 1982 Rp)
II. Agricultural Chemicals
Agricul-
I.  Labor                                                   tural      Total       Total
Foreman            Estate          Casual        Total   Ferti-    Chemi-  machine          II        I & II
Year   Manday   Cost   Manday   Cost  Manday   Cost            I       lizer      cals   services
0         12    30,000    24    48,000  217   292,950  370,950   36,070  100,370  249,080  385,520               756,470
1          5    12,500    10    20,000   94   126,900  159,400   26,490    8,750   27,580   62,820               222,220
2          4    10,000      4      8,000   80   108,000  126,000   44,880    8,750   14,380   68,010             194,010
3          4    10,000      4      8,000   67    90,450  108,450   55,200    8,750   13,285   77,235             185,685
4/a        2     5,000      -          -   30    40,500   45,500   64,200    8,750   10,790   83,740             129,240
Total  27    67,500    42    84,000  488   658,800  810,300  226,840  135,370  290,515  677,325   1,487,625
/a  Year 4 - labor used for only six months before coconuts turned over to
transmigrants.
lb~~~~0



- 67 -
INDONE S IA                           ANNEX 2
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Related Documents Available in the Project Files
1. Annexes to the SAR
Detailed cost tables
Detailed economic tables
Detailed agricultural tables
2. TAD Feasibility Studies on Muara Wahau and Sangkulirang
Two volumes including the following papers:
General
Agricultural aspects
Community development
Infrastructure
Economics and organization
3. Feasibility Studies for Tree Crop Development in
East Kalimantan - P.T. Agriconsult
Muara Wahau - 2 volumes
Sangkulirang - 2 volumes






IBRD  16770
1170                                          1190       JANUARY 1983,
South Chh,ub'  Son                      *#         . ._ > .*--. v.
B'RUNEI .  nei
MALAYSIA I z         N            >  0                \     j             -N O                              I
Amas            Saarna 
>  KALIMANTAN   Baikp.panE                                                                             AL ANA
--__I 1'50T ur .                          \an PngROJbE   A
ju ngred ~ ~      RAD (xitig
y   t   0  For DetaW                                Cntuio
z    -8           EAST                ~~~~~~~~~~~M:a, fBR       sa167D 67
ALM J                                                                K          BONAANTEAN(
-  -  INTERINDON         UAES
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
00                                                      an                                                       OL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   0 2  3  0 5
o A   t  r)  <t ~~~+ S A                              >8   ~ PROJECT LOCATION5S                                   
1150      KA/MANTJ                             7EAST  KALIMANTAN
C   _)    /  f   w       lenggaron90tC \    4?   1;   -    ~~~~~~~~~ROADS (Existing)
X X \ 9) /4 / <X) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
\ r N >, w ,, - : - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES
tt&Rs!  zxZ8/MA~~~rAa   <2 r  <   r   &  / g                     s- -  ~~~PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
a % i(S) )< n < _*_~~~~~~~~~paib                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
X  9/  ClS-  /  \              t    (                . - _       ~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS | 2   0       e        0
( 8 4 4 X i / ( - ' - MILES 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10    20    30    40                                     5
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   -d                      w   s    f   o th. W.-ma -s W Th r W o/ nta hO Eonb
X  a  h     ?  ),lA~11      KAL1 /4A                              1 71 t70                                       11,90






IBRD 16771
117000'                      JANUARY 1983
=-U9  /     ,25        Nduarawahau       a                                 
1010o                                                                                                            1010',
This map has been prepared by    116050
The World Bank's staff exclusively
for the convenience of the
readers and is exclusively for the
internal use of The World Bank                \N
and the International Finance
Corporation The denominations
used and the boundaries shown
on this map do not imply, on the             Long Bau
part of The World Bank and the
International Finance Corporation,
any judgment on the legal status                                   /     A        _
of any territory or any
endorsement or acceptance of                                           TIMUR
such boundaries
Muarawahau
--To Sangkulirang
1000,                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1000,
INDONESIA
TRANSMIGRATION IV PROJECT
Muarawahau Project Area
PROJECT:
*           SKP CENTERS
*     VILLAGE CENTERS
SKP BOUNDARIES
-                 --             ACCESS ROADS
VILLAGE ROADS
-RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS  2,              2          ,        .         "
MILES         I D              I
16500                                                                  1






IBRD 16772
JANUARY 1983
SouehCbin~~~~~~Sea ~~117050
B RU NE                                                                             .J/
M    AYSIA  S
f,/          J      X''fSangku1irang 
KAL tMANTAN
JavaSa
Th,s map has been prepared by
The World Bank's staff exclusively
for the convenience of the
readers and is exclusively for the
internal use of The World Bank                                                                         Kolek Camp
_1000      and the international Fnance                                                                                                            angkulirang   1000
Corporation The denominations                                        r                                                                 (,e_*    ..u
used and the boundaries shown                                                                                                             nua Baru)
on this map do not imply, on the
part of The World Bank and the                                                                       KI
International Finance Corporation,
any judgment on the legal status
of any terrtory or any
endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries
INDONESIA                                                    _           ''-             _   
TRANSMIGRATION  IV PROJECT                                                                     KALORANG
Sangkulirang  Project Areas
PROJECT:
U          SKP CENTERS
0050            0           VILLAGE CENTERS                                                           aorang                                                    050
SKP BOUNDARIES
- -   ACCESS ROADS
- - - -   VILLAGE ROADS
~ RIVERS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/   .  ,       -  v [  ILOMETeRS  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2'   4                                6    8
0      1      2      3      4      5
1.7 50                                                                          11800



