Report No. 462a-CM                                                                FILE  COPY
Appraisal of
Cocoa Project
Cameroon
August 1, 1974
Western Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for officiai use only by the Bank Group. It nmay not be published,
quoted or cited without Bfank Group authorization. The Bank Croup does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the repoit.



CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1               CFAF  250
CFAF 1              US$ 0.0040
CFAF 1,000,000      US$ 4,000
WEIGHTS AND )OEASURES
(Metric System
1 hectare (ha) =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer    =  0.624 miles
1 kilogram     = 2.204 pounds
1 metric ton   =  2.204.6 pounds
1 liter        - 1.057 U.S. quarts
ABBREVIATIONS
OCCE     : Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique (France)
CENADEC  : Centre National de Développement des Entreprises
Coopératives
CINAM    : Compagnie d'Etudes Industrielles et d'Aménagement du
Territoire
DPR      t Department of Public Roadu
FAC      : Fonds d'Aide et de Coopération
FONADER  : Fonds National de Développement Rural
IFCC     : Institut Français du Café et du Cacao
IRAT     : Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et de
Cultures Vivrières
LPAC     : Lutte Phytosanitaire et Anti-Capside
SODECAO  : Societé de Développement du Cacao
SEDES    : -Societé d'Etudes pour le Développement Economique et Social
SEMRY    : Secteur Expérimental de Modernisation de la Riziculture
de Yagoua
UDEAC    : Union Douanière des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
(Customs Union of Central African States)
ZAPI     : Zones d'Actions Prioritaires Intégrees



CANEROON
COCOA PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SU1Q¶ARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ...................               ............           i - v
I.    INTRODUCTION  ....... .............                .................            1
II.    BACKGROUND  .......................................                             2
A.    General  ......................................                          2
B.    Agricultural Sector  .........................                           2
C.    The  Cocoa Industry  ............ ....... ........                       3
Institutions  ................................                          3
Production  ..................................                          5
Marketing and Prices  ........................                          5
Credit for Cocoa Farmers  ....................                          6
D.    Development Prospects  and Strategy   ..........                         6
General .......................                                         6
Strategy  for the Cocoa Industry  ............               .          7
III.    THE PROJECT  ......................................                              8
A.    Project Area  ................................                           8
B.    Project Description  .....            ........... .                      9
Summary of Main Features  .................. .                          9
Rehabilitation and New Plantings  .                  ...........        9
Extension Services  ..........................                         10
Training  ....................................                        il
Road Rehabilitation  .........................                         il
Research  ....................................                         12
C.    Organization  and Management  ....... ..                ........        12
SODECAO  .....................................                         12
Consultants  .................................                        13
1larketing  ...................................                        13
D.    Accounts  and Audit  ............           ..     ............         14
This report was prepared by Messrs. M. Burer, M. Ballesteros, C. R. Delapierre,
W. M. Schaefer and M. Wessel.






TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
IV.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINAiNCIAL ARRANGEMENTS    ........    14
A.   Cost Estimates ..............................        14
B.   Financial Arrangements .....       .................  16
C.   Credit to Farmers and Farmer Groups .........        19
D.   Procurement .................................        19
E.   Disbursement ................................        20
V. PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETING ANID FIiNANCIAL
RESULTS ........      ................................  20
A.   Production ..................................        20
B.   Markets and Prices ..........................        20
C.   Farmers' Benefits ...........................        21
D.   Government Revenues .........................        22
VI.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....      ..........  23
VII.  RECOIMNDATIONS ..................................          24
ANNEXES
1.   Pest and Disease Control
2.   Field Developments
Table 1   Number of Farmers and Corresponding Areas
Table 2   Establishment of New Plantings
3.   Farm Labor
Table 1   Available Labor for Cocoa Cultivation in Project Areas
Table 2   Labor per ha of Newly Planted Cocoa
Table 3   Labor Requirements for 1.2 ha Rehabilitation and
0.75 ha New Plantings
4.   Improvement and Maintenance of Rural Roads
Table 1  List of Roads
5.   Research
Table 1   Research Program for Cocoa
6.   Marketing
Table 1  Marketing Systems in Francophone Cameroon



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
7.   Project Costs
Table 1   Project Costs
Table 2   Project Costs:  Personnel
Table 3   Project Costs:  Buildings
Table 4   Project Costs:  Vehicles and Equipment
Table 5   Project Costs: Operations and Maintenance
8.   Agricultural Credit
Table 1   Credit Component Cash Flows
9.   Estimated Semestrial Schedule of Disbursements
10.   Production
Table 1   Estimated Production of Project Area
Table 2   Estimated Production of Rehabilitated Cocoa
Table 3   Estimated Production of New Plantings
i1.   Farm Budgets
Table 1   On-farm Inputs (with Project)
Table 2   On-farm Inputs (without Project)
Table 3   Farm Budget:  1.2 ha Rehabilitation
Table 4   Farm Budget:  0.75 ha New Planting with Project,
Existing Farmer
Table 5   Farm Budget:  0.6 ha New Planting without Project
Table 6   Farm Budget:  1.5 ha New Planting with the Project
New Farmer
12.   Governnent Cash Flow
13.   Economic Rate of Return
Table 1   Economic Value of Cocoa
Table 2   Economic Rate of Return Calculation
ttIAP



CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
SUMIMARY AND CONCLUSIOlIS
Background
i.        The Goverrwent of the United Republic of Cameroon has requested
Bank assistance in financing a US$23.8 million cocoa planting and rehabili-
tation project covering 50,000 ha in the central southern provinces, adjacent
to the capital city, Yaounde. The proposed project would be the Bank Group's
fifth lending operation for agriculture and the first for cocoa production.
It would be financed jointly with the French agencies Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), and
Government. The feasibility study for the proposed project was prepared
by Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement Economique et Social (SEDES) in
1972-73 and the project was appraised by a Bank mission in October/November
1973.
Project Description
ii.       The project would aim at raising farmers' incomes, the country's
foreign exchange earnings and Government revenues by increasing the produc-
tion of cocoa. It would be carried out over a six-year development period
and would involve:
(a) rehabilitating some 35,000 ha of existing cocoa and planting
up to 15,000 ha of new land with high-yielding hybrid cocoa;
(b) strengthening the extension services, to help farmers control
disease and improve their cultivation practices and to supply
them with the necessary inputs and credit facilities;
(c) providing training for some 230 extension workers and 2,000
new cocoa farmers;
(d) improving 950 km of rural roads;
(e) adaptive research on cocoa and food crop growing;
(f)  equipning and staffing the new agency, SODECAO, to carry
out the project and take over responsibility for the
development of cocoa production in the area;
(g) employing consultants to:
(i) advise on tr crganization of the new agency;
(ii)  evaluate the jrc,ress and impact of the project;
(iii)  prepare a fo!LOiJ-_p project; and



- fi -
(h) encouraging the formation of farmers' groups that would
increase the role of farmers in marketing and credit.
Project Execution
iii.      The ZAPI, a development agency, which is presently responsible for
agricultural development over most of the project area, has been criticized
for its lack of attention to production; and its marketing policies have
proved unpopular with farmers. To stimulate participation in the project,
therefore, a new authority, Societe de Developpement du Cacao (SODECAO), has
been established that would abosorb, gradually and selectively, ZAPI's func-
tions and staff.
iv.       SODECAO would be generally responsible for the execution of the
project.  It would make arrangements with other agencies for the execution of
certain project components such as road improvement and research. SODECAO's
senior management would consist of a General Director, a Deputy General
Director in charge of technical affairs, a Deputy Technical Director, a
Marketing and Credit Director, a Senior Inspector and a Chief Accountant.
Government has already appointed a Cameroonian General Director and recruited,
with Bank approval, an expatriate Deputy General Director. The posts of
Senior Inspector and Chief Accountant would be filled through international
recruitment and after Bank approval of such candidates. From the beginning,
local staff would be trained to take over the functions of some expatriates
after periods ranging from three to six years.
v.        SODECAO would angage consultants to:  (a) advise on its organiza-
tion aid the takeover of activities from ZAPI, (b) assess the progress and
impact of project, and (c) carry out a feasibility study for a follow-up
project.
vi.       SODECAO would encourage the fornation of farmers' groups which
would gradually take over marketing functions, including storage, and enter
into direct contracts with exporters. The earnings of such groups from
marketing margins and quality and quantity bonuses would be distributed to
farmer members after meeting their costs.
Project Costs and Financing Arrangements
vii.      Project costs are estimated at US$23.8 million, including contin-
gencies of US$7.0 million. About 5% represents indirect taxes and the
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$9.5 million or 40%.
viii.     The Bank would make a loan of US$6.5 million to Government for a
2f) year term including a grace period of six years. The balance of US$17.3
million would be covered by French bilateral sources (IJS$6.5 million), by
farmers contribution (IJS$0.7 million), and by budgetary allocations (US$10.1
million).  The proposed Bank loan and the French contribution would cover
the foreign exchange of the project (US$9.5 million), and US$3.5 million
equivalent of local currencv expenditures. The Bank loan in particular
would cover the forei,gn exchange costs of the items financed and about 48%



- iii 
of the local cost. It is proposed that some US$150,000 of the proceeds of
the loan be used for retroactive financing of the cost of expatriate salaries
and expenditures incurred prior to the signing of the Loan.
ix.       The project would provide fungicides and sprayers to individual
farmers and building materials and equipment for collection centers to farmer
groups. All items would be made available for cash or on credit; the credit
price would be up ta 20% above the cash price, to cover bad debts and interest
and service charges.
Procurement and Disbursement
Xe        Items financed by the Bank Loan would be procured as follows:
(i) one grader, thirteen passenger cars, and all two-wheeled vehicles have
already been ordered with Bank approval through negotiated purchases on the
basis of quotations from local suppliers, in order to facilitate the start-
up of the project. These amount to US$150,000 and would be financed retro-
actively; (ii) office furniture and equipment, and small spare parts would
be similarly procured; (iii) all other items, amounting to some US$3.5 mil-
lion, would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Manufactured goods originating in UDEAC
countries would be allowed a preference equal to the lower of (a) 15% or
(b) applicable duties; (iv) the services of expatriate personnel and consult-
ants would be secured according to procedures acceptable to the Bank.
xi.       The French agencies would finance 100% of the cost of training,
research and studies; 46% of the personnel and operation and maintenance
costs of the road program; and 32% of the cost of pest control. The pro-
curement of items for these activities would be subject to the procedures
of these agencies.
xii.      Proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed to cover:
(a)  58% of the cost of SODECAO's administrative staff
(US$2.8 million);
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures on
vehicles and equipment for SODECAO administrative staff and
for road construction equipment for DPR (US$0.94 million); and
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures on sprayers and fungicides
(US$0.78 million).
The balance of US$2.0 million represents contingencies, which would be un-
allocated.



- iv -
Markets and Prices
xiii.     Growing conditions in West Africa have been generally poor in the
last three years, and this has intensified the supply-depressing impact of
limited investment and abandonment of low-yielding plantings following the
low cocoa prices during the early 1960's. The average world cocoa price
during 1973 was USt65/lb. The current Bank forecast is for a 1980 price of
about USt 47/lb, in average 1973/1974 prices, and this has been used in the
economic and financial analyses. The International Cocoa Agreement is un-
likely to exert any significant constraint on cocoa production and exports
in the medium term..  Cameroon's market prospects are firm at least through
1980, and no difficulties are anticipated in selling the project's output.
Economic Justifications
xiv.      The economic rate of return is estimated at 26% using market prices.
Cost increases of 10 and 25%, or benefits decreases of similar proportions,
would lower the rate of return to about 23% and 19% respectively. Simultaneous
cost increases and benefit reductions of 25% would bring the rate down to
about 12%. Since total control of black pod is difficult to achieve, the
effect of a serious shortfall fromn project targets for this component of the
project has been calculated. This shows that if only about one third of the
expected benefits from rehabilitation were obtained, the rate of return for
the project would still be 10%. The risk of such a shortfall is considered
to be small, particularly since the average increases on yields have been
conservatively estimated. Furthermore, the project has been charged with the
entire cost of:
(a)  the rehabilitation of rural roads, while ne account has
been taken of the benefits accruing to nonproject activ-
ities, such as the marketing of food crops, general goods
and nonproject cocoa; and
(b)  the research and studies, although benefits from these
activities have not been taken into account.
Excluding the cost of these components, the economic rate of return would be
35%. Rates of return have been calculated for the rehabilitation and new
plantings components separately, although allocation of project agency costs
is necessarily arbitrary. The rates are 32% for rehabilitation and 20% for
new plantings.
xv.       The improvement of agricultural institutions, training of local
technicians in advanced cocoa technology and extension, and encouragement of
farmers associations would permit an expansion of the project concept through-
out the cocoa growing area. Furthermore, the experience of cocoa replanting
acquired through the present project's research component would allow this



- v -
expansion to take place in more densely populated and poorer cocoa areas.
Tle experience gained by the project in establishing SODECAO, training extension
workers and farners, and encouraging cooperative action by farmers should
provide a sound basis for future projects of a similar kind.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the United Republic of Cameroon has requested
Bank assistance in financing a US$23.8 million cocoa planting and rehabilita-
tion project covering 50,000 ha in the central southern provinces, adjacent
to the capital city, Yaounde.
1.02      In 1971, the Government commissioned Societe d'Etudes Pour le
Developpement Economique et Social (SEDES), to study means to improve the
quantity and quality of cocoa production in Cameroon. This initial study,
completed in mid 1972, recommended the rehabilitation of 200,000 ha of exist-
ing plantings, and new plantings with improved varieties on 15,000 ha. Follow-
ing comments by Bank Group staff and Caisse Centrale, the Government decided
to start implementation in a representative pilot area of 50,000 ha in the
center of the cocoa producing region. Implementation will be extended to
other areas in the light of the results obtained.
1.03      Feasibility studies for the present project were carried out by
SEDES. At the Government's request PMWA staff visited Cameroon in March and
July 1973 to review the draft studies, which were finalized in September 1973.
1.04      The proposed project would be the Bank Group's fifth lending opera-
tion for agriculture and the first for cocoa production. The other projects
are:
(a)  the C.ADEV plantation project, Loan 490-CM for US$7.0 million
and Credit 100-CM for US$11.0 million, both in 1967; funds for
CAIDEV have been depleted by cost increases, lower than expected
income from nonproject plantings, and excessive overhead.  Govern-
ment recently took measures to reduce overhead costs and the
project is now proceeding satisfactorily;
(b)  the SOCAPALM oil plantation project, Loan 593-CM for US$7.9
million in 1969 and Loan 886-CM for US$1.7 million in 1973;
the SOCAPALM project started well, but had to be reappraised
in 1972 because of cost overruns and because one of the two
sites selected for development was unsatisfactory. After
reappraisal the project was reduced from 9,000 to 8,500 ha,
but production will remain unchanged as higher yields are now
anticipated as well as substantially increased prices for
project produced palm oil and kernels.  Tle project is now
on schedule;
(c)  the SEMRI rice project, Credit 302-CM for ItS$3.7 million in
1972; this project has progressed well since implementation
began in mid-1972. Estimated total project costs have been
increased by 20% due to TUS dollar devaluation, additional
works and increased technical assistance. Government and
French aid are providing additional funds;



-2-
(d) the Cameroon Livestock Project, wnich was approved by the
Board in March 1974, signed in May 1974 and pending effect-
iveness.
1.05      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in
October/November 1973 comprising Messrs. M. Burer, M. Ballesteros, C.R.
Delapierre, W.M. Schaefer (Bank) and M. Wessel (Consultant), assisted during
part of the visit by ',r. I. Erim (Loan Officer).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Ile United Republic of Cameroon comprises a French speaking Eastern
part (with 80% of the population), and an English speaking Western part.
Located at the hinge of the Gulf of Guinea (map), it covers about 475,000 km2
and ranges from tropical forest in the south to mountain chains in the west
and Sahelian plains in the north. The population in 1972 was estimated at
6.1 million, growing at an annual rate of about 2.1%. Overall population
density is low, at 12.8 persons/km2; higher density areas include the districts
around Yaounde where the project will be located. Due to migration, urban
areas are growing annually at about 7%, against only 0.7% in the rural areas.
2.02      Per canita GDP is estimated around US$190 (1970/1971).  Economic
growth, which was fairly rapid during the second half of the 1960's, has
tapered off in recent years. Unemployment is high, particularly in the cities.
B. Agricultural Sector
2.03      Close to 80% of the population still depends on agriculture.  Annual
per capita farm income varies from $90-$100 in the central savannah, forest
areas and coffee and cocoa lowlands, to $40-$50 in the northern plains. Agri-
culture accounts for about 40% of GDP and for 70% of the value of exports,
comprised principally of cocoa, coffee and cotton. The traditional sector
accounts for over 90% of agricultural production, with large state owned
plantations, mainly of oil-palm and rubber, accounting for the balance. Some
950,000 smallholders cultivate plots averaging about 2.0 ha. Labor is
generallv supplied by the family.
2.04      Cameroon is largely self-sufficient in food products; the exceptions
are rice and wheat, which are being imported in increasing amounts, and lesser
imports of sugar and meat also take place. Although food crop production
is keeping slightly ahead of vopulation growth, major urban centers are ex-
periencing increasing supply problems. Food crop marketing is not regulated,
and is largely in the hands of private traders, most of whom operate over
small areas and with a small turnover.



-3-
2.05      For the main export crops, production increased by about 5% annually
during the late 1960s, but growth has slowed down in recent years. Marketing
is highly organized, and Government intervenes by fixing guaranteed producer
prices and licensing private exporters. This intervention is implemented
through Stabilization Funds (cocoa, robusta coffee, arabica coffee, cotton,
and groundnuts) in the Eastern part, and a Marketing Board in the Western
part; these agencies are now being merged.
2.06      Agricultural credit consists mainly of marketing loans for the main
export crops, and is provided by the Banque Camerounaise de Developpement and
commercial banks.  Production credit to individual farmers is small in amount,
and limited to participants in specific programs and projects. Agricultural
credit for production purposes is provided by the recently created Fonds
National de Developpement Rural (FONADER, see para. 2.14).
2.07      Agricultural development has so far been hampered by the fragmenta-
tion and weakness of the Government services responsible for project prepara-
tion and implementation. The creation in 1972 of central Ministries of
Agriculture and Livestock, replacing the previously separate state administra-
tions, has improved the situation, but these Ministries are not yet adequately
staffed. Furthermore, there is a need to coordinate research and training,
now the responsibility of several Ilinistries. The Government is, however,
making efforts to centralize and coordinate rural development activities.
2.08      About 15% of public investments during the second plan period,
1966-67/1970-71, went into crop development, and of this almost three quarters
went into expansion of estate agriculture. The Third Plan (1971-72/1975-76)
emphasizes development of the smallholder sector and foresees investments
in this sector doubling. Explicit goals of the Third Plan are to improve
traditional agriculture, reduce regional income disparities, and alleviate
rural migration and unemployment pressures on urban areas. These goals are
expected to be retained in the next plan soon to be prepared.
C.  The Cocoa Industry
Institutions
2.09      Tle Ministry of Agriculture, the Zones d'Action Prioritaires
Integrees (ZAPI) and the Cocoa Stabilization Fund are the main institutions
presently concerned with cocoa production; the recently created FONADER is
expected to play an important role in the future.
2.10      The Ministry of Agriculture has directed its activities to increas-
ing output.  It provides new hybrid planting materials, which are delivered
in the village free of charge, and fungicides and sprayers for black pod
control, which are provided on credit. A service of the Ministry, the Lutte



-4-
Phytosanitaire et Anti-Capside (LPAC), carries out spraying to control capsid
damage. These activities have begun to improve yields, but they need to be
better organized if a substantial increase in production is to be obtained.
2.11      The Center-Scuth ZAPI was established in 1972 to carry on an inte-
grated development program initiated by Governnent in 1967.  The objectives
were to:
(a)  double cocoa production and farmers' incomes within
five years;
(b)  increase farmers' participation in development; and
(c) create farmers' groups which, by means of revenues
obtained from cocoa marketing, could finance their
own development activities.
2.12      The program hinged on effective extension work and monopolistic
marketing. The extension work, however, has not reached large numbers of
farmers because of basic deficiencies such as inadequate training and the
lack of transport for extension personnel. In addition, the marketing mono-
poly has met strong resistance from the farmers. As a result cocoa production
at best has increased only slightly and there has been no self-financed develop-
ment. Nonetheless, many farmers have become aware of the benefits of cooperat-
ing with each other and of modern techniques of cocoa production.
2.13      The Cocoa Stabilization Fund, an autonomous agency under the Ministry
of Industrial and Cor!nercial Development, was established in 1955. As a result
of high world prices during the late 1960's, the Fund had accumulated a sur-
plus of about CFAF 12 billion (US$52.2 million at the current exchange rate)
by the beginning of 1971. The Fund helped to dampen the impact on producer
prices of the wide variations in world prices that occurred from the mid-
1950's to the mid-1960's: the world price of cocoa varied between CFAF 241/kg
and CFAF 94/kg, whereas producer prices oscillated only slightly around CFAF
75/kg. In addition to its pricing and marketing functions (paras 2.18-2.19),
the Fund provides important financial assistance for the control of capsid
pest and black pod disease, and for the production and distribution of seed
of improved varieties. More importantly, the Fund has lately become an
extrabudgetary taxing agency, and its revenues are being used by the Governnent
to finance activities and investments outside the cocoa sector.
2.14      FONADER is a new (August 1973) agency under the Ministry of Agri-
culture which has broad responsibilities for financing rural development
projects and for agricultural credit. Its principal sources of funds will be
participation in taxes and levies (especially on exports and imports of
agricultural products) and Governnent grants; it is also authorized to borrow.
FONADER is in a formative stage and its senior staff are still defining its
functions and organization. Since there is a real need for the centralized
coordination, supervision and control of agricultural finance and credit,
the establishment of FONADER is a positive step.



Production
2.15      Cameroon is the world's fifth largest producer of cocoa.  The area
planted is estimated at 380,000 ha; annual production over the last three
years has averaged 110,000 tons of dried beans, or about 7% of world produc-
tion, and has accounted for 30% of the value of Cameroon's exports. More
than 80% of the national output comes from the forested plateau of the Center
South.
2.16      Cocoa is mostly cultivated by family labor on small farms of about
2-3 ha. It is generally the responsibility of the men, with women and
children working during the harvest. Weeding is irregular, as are sprayings
in the rainy season that are needed to prevent disease. Fermenting in wooden
boxes generally gives good results, but the subsequent sundrying is often
poor due to the heavy rainfall at that time of year and lowers the quality
of the product at farm level. Exporters often have to dry again before ship-
ment.
2.17      Average yields are low (300 kg/ha).  One reason is a general low
level of maintenance.  The principal cause of low yields, however, is black
pod, a fungus disease which destroys the cocoa pods.  The disease spreads
rapidly in conditions of high humidity and relatively low temperatures, and
is particularly severe in Cameroon compared to other West African countries.
It is estimated that about 50% of the annual crop is lost to black pod.  On
the other hand, the absence of a prolonged dry season makes establishing new
plantings easier than in other countries.
larketing and Prices
2.18      Marketing involves licensed and unlicensed buyers, the exporters
and the Stabilization Fund. Licensed buyers, who operate on fixed margins
under cohnt Açt with exporters, collect the dry beans at official cocoa markets
where controllers employed by the Fund grade the cocoa traded; unlicensed
buyers often go directly to the farmer's home to buy generally lower quality
cocoa there, The cocoa is transported by the buyer to central storage houses
for further drying and grading and sold either for the export market or to
local processing plants which absorb all off-grade and about 10% of Grade I
cocoa (about 20,000 t. annually) for the production of cocoa butter. Exporters
work on fixed margins and on export quotas fixed annually by the Ministry of
Industrial and Commercial Development. The Stabilization Fund itself has
been an exporter since 1971.
2.19      Producer prices are set by Government in advance of each harvest
on the recommendation of the Cocoa Stabilization Fund. Prices for the 1973-74
crop have been raised from CFAF 90 to CFAF 100/ke for Grade I, from CFAF 75
to CFAF 80 for Grade II and left at CFAF 65/kg for off-grade. Production of
Grade Il is negligible because the price differential between the two grades
makes it attractive for farmers to improve their beans to Grade I rating.
At the time of appraisal the world price for cocoa was about CFAF 300/kg,



- 6 -
which may be analyzed as follows (in CFAF): producer price 100, Stabilization
Fund 116, export tax 34, transport and other costs, fees and exporter's pro-
fits 50. Producer prices while lower than those that could be paid, are
judged to provide adequate incentives to producers, provided that credit
facilities and better extension are made available to help raise production.
In the event, however, that prices at any time were judged by the Bank to
be so low as to jeopardize the project, the Bank and Government would hold
consultations on the subject.
Credit for Cocoa Farmers
2.20      Cocoa farmers presently have access to credit from:
(a)  the Ministry of Agriculture for fungicides and sprayers
for blach.pod control. This is on a small scale, how-
ever, and is not properly coordinated with extension work;
(b)  exporters to cover school fees at the beginning of the
school year in September; such advances are limited to
a few small areas;
(c)  ZAPI in the Center South Region, for fungicides, sprayers,
school fees and for housing.
Repayments are collected at the markets when the farmers sell their cocoa.
Although credit facilities have so far been limited, they have shown that
there is widespread demand and they have familiarized farmers with repayment
by deduction from the proceeds of sale.
D.  Development Prospects and Strategy
General
2.21      The potential for growth in agriculture is good.  There are favorable
market prospects for Cameroon's main cash crops, and with urban migration,
there is a growing domestic demand for food. A favorable climate and soils,
coupled with traditional low yielding production methods, give ample scope
for increasing output.
2.22      Government's strategy is to exploit the potential for increased
output and at the same time to raise rural standards of living, particularly
in the poorer regions. To achieve these aims it will be necessary to
strengthen the Government's own capacity for project planning and implementa-
tion; it will be necessary to make technical advice, inputs and credit avail-
able to small farmers and to give them the incentive to use them.  The
strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture and the creation of FONADER are
steps in this direction.



-7-
2.23      The conclusions of a Bank mission, which carried out an agricultural
sector survey in Cameroon in May 1973, support this strategy. The recently
appraised livestock project will benefit pastoralists and farmers so far
untouched by modern development. The present project would raise the produc-
tion and incomes of large numbers of small cocoa farmers. An integrated
rural development project in the backward North, which was identified by the
sector mission and is expected to be appraised in FY75, would be a first step
toward benefitting some 60,000 families whose incomes and living conditions
are among the poorest in the country. Integrated projects based on rice and
other food crops are also under preparation to develop the potential and raise
rural incomes in the densely populated Western highlands.
Strategy for the Cocoa Industry
2.24      Government has justifiably given cocoa an important role in its
strategy for agricultural development. The Third Plan sets a production
target of 150,000 tons in 1975/76, calling for an annual increase of 7%during
the plan period. Given the propitious world market outlook, the foreign
exchange earnings and fiscal revenues from cocoa should be substantial and
should assist Governnent to finance projects in the poorer regions that are
unsuitable for cocoa. In addition, the wide margin between current world
and producer prices gives Government the ability to balance the needs of the
poorer regions of the country against the effects of greater incentives to
cocoa farmers.
2.25      Cocoa production can quickly be increased--the means of controlling
black pod are well known and readily available. Over the longer term,
sustained increases in production require new plantings to replace and expand
existing cocoa farms of low yield potential. Improved planting material is
becoming available from seed gardens planted since 1969 by IFCC at Nkoemvone.
2.26      Although the techniques and inputs are available, previous attempts
to increase production have not been entirely successful. To ensure that
farmers increase both their output and their incomes, it is necessary to:
(a) introduce better cultivation practices through improved
extension services, ciosely linked with an efficient
supply system for inputs and credit;
(b) develop marketing arrangements which, while giving the
farmers freedom of choice, will encourage them to play
a greater role in marketing (e.g. transporting their
produce to market and pregrading and weighing it) and
to cooperate with each other to improve their bargaining
position;
(c) strengtlhen institutions through wihich these aims can be
achieved.



2.27      It would not be practicable to introduce a program incorporating
the above throughout the country's cocoa growing areas at the same time.
There is insufficient trained staff and it is necessary to test organizational
procedures. Consequently, development should begin in one region and be
expanded gradually as experience is gained. The proposed project would be
the first stage of such a program of development.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Area
3.01      The main cocoa growing area is situated on the vast plateau of
South Cameroon, at an altitude of 600-700 m above sea level. Conditions are
particularly well suited for cocoa, except that humid conditions and relatively
low temperatures at certain times of the year favor the development of black-
pod disease (Annex 1). The soils are deep, highly leached and well drained
but have a low chemical fertility, except for a shallow surface rich in
vegetative matters, and thus need fertilizers to support sustained high
yields. The project would be located south and west of Yaounde (map). It
would cover six administrative districts which contain about 80,000 ha of
cocoa, of which 67,000 ha yield an average of 300 kg/ha, and 13,000 ha are
not producing because they are either too young or too neglected.
3.02      The climate is tropical, with a bimodal rainfall over most of the
area separated by a dry season of three months. Average annual rainfall
ranges from 1,500 mm to 1,800 mm; rainfall is 2,500 mm in the northwestern
part of the project area, where there is no dry spell. Average monthly
temperatures vary little over the year, and range between 22°C and 24°C.
3.03      The area's rural population is estimated at 260,000, of whom
approximately 200,000 comprise some 38,000 cocoa farm families.  The average
family consists of 5.3 persons, and has about 2.8 members of working age.
Cocoa provides the family's basic income, and offers the only means of sub-
stantially increasing it. The other important source of income is the pro-
duction of food crops for sale in the nearby urban market at Yaounde.
3.04      The average size of farms in Center South Province is 2.6 ha; but
in the project area itself holdings are somewhat larger. The average area
devoted to cocoa is about 2.0 ha per farm with a range of 1.2 ha to 3.3 ha.
3.05      Land belongs to the community, with the right of usufruct extended
to the individual who cultivates it.  More than enough land is available for
project purposes, however, and land tenure is not likely to be a problem.
3.06      There are three categories of roads in the project area:  primary
roads (630 km), maintained by the Department of Public Roads (DPR); secondary
roads (450 km), for which the local administrator, with the assistance of



-9-
DPR, is responsible; and rural roads (1,200 km), under the responsibility of
the village authorities. Primary roads are adequate except during the rainy
season. Secondary roads are deteriorating due to lack of funds allocated
for proper maintenance and are often impassable even by light trucks, parti-
cularly in the rainy season.
B.  Project Description
Summary of Main Features
3.07      The project would be carried out over a seven-year development
period and would involve:
(a) rehabilitating about 35,000 ha of existing cocoa and the
new planting of up to 15,000 ha with high yielding hybrid
cocoa;
(b) strengthening extension services to help farmers control
disease and improve their cultivation practices and provid-
ing farmers with necessary inputs and credit facilities;
(c) providing training for some 230 extension workers and 2,000
new cocoa farmers;
(d) improving 950 km of rural roads;
(e) adaptive research on cocoa and food crops;
(f) equipping and staffing a new agency-Societe de Developpement
du Cacao (SODECAO)--to carry out the project and take over
responsibility for the development of cocoa production in
the project area;
(g) employing consultants to:
(i) advise on the organization of SODECAO;
(îi) evaluate the progress and impact of the project;
(iii) prepare a follow-up project; and
(h) encouraging the formation of farmers' groups to participate
in cocoa marketing and the supply of inputs and credit.
Rehabilitation and INew Plantings
3.08      The rehabilitation and new planting program would proceed as
follows:



10 -
Project Year           1       2        3       4        5       6        Total
----------Hectares--------------------------
Rehabilitation       6,000   7,000   7,000   7,000   8,000       -       35,000
New Planting           -     1,500   3,500   5,000   3,500   1,500    15,000
Details of the program are set out in Annex 2.  All planted areas would be
in full production in 1988. The program would be carried out by 32,000
farmers Principally using family labor. In Annex 3, it is shown that for all
the districts in the project area the availability of labor is not a constraint
to achieving project targets.
3.09      The main goal of the rehabilitation program would be the control
of black pod. For this purpose the project would mount an intensive campaign
to convince farmers to spray in both the dry and rainy seasons. It would
also set up an efficient distribution system for sprayers, spare parts and
fungicides which would be supplied on credit (para 4.09) to members of pre-
cooperatives and for cash to others.  Since capsid damage is not heavy in the
project area, control spraying would be selective; and would be carried out
by LPAC with the assistance of farmers' groups.
3.10      The seed of high yield potential hybrid varieties (Amazon Series
I and II) for the project, and for the general program of the Ministry of
Agriculture, would be supplied by the IFCC seed gardens at Nkoemvone. The
estimated total output of pods as compared with the requirements of the
project (assuming 60 pods are needed to plant 1 ha) is shown below:
Project Year               2       3         4          5         6
------------------Thousand Pods-------------
Output                    480     720      1,000      1,220     1,350
Project Requirements       90      210       300        210        90
No shortages of seeds are expected, either for the project or for the planting
program of the Ministry of Agriculture.  To minimize the risks to the project,
however, in the event of output being temporarily reduced - for example, by
bad weather -assurances have been obtained from Government that the project
will have priority for the seeds it needed.
Extension Services
3.11      To help farmers rehabilitate their cocoa farms and plant new trees,
the project would increase the number of extension workers so that there
would be one for every 200-250 farmers, instead of one for every 600 farmers
as at present. These extension workers would be given better training than
at present (para 3.12) and would be provided with adequate transport and
additional office facilities. They would persuade farmers to spray their



- il -
crops correctly and regularly and would organize the supply of the necessary
equipment; they would guide new planters in their cultivation practices. In
addition, they would oversee village nurseries and provide a link between
research and field practices.
Training
3.12      The initial training program would consist of a basic course and
short follow-up sessions il. the field to train eight future instructors.
The basic course would aim at improving technical knowledge and developing
traits of initiative and responsibility in the instructors. It would be
followed by short monthly sessions on specific activities of modern cocoa
growing. Once trained, these instructors would be assigned throughout the
project area, and be responsible for the training of extension workers and
new farmers. Farmers training would take place at the village level and,
as much as possible, in the field.
3.13      These instructors would then train a total of 230 extension staff,
including 19 supervisors. About 2,000 new planters would also be taught
modern cocoa growing practices. SODECAO has agreed to have ready a compreheri-
sive training program including details of the curricula, phasing of courses,
staffing requirements and budget no later than three months after credit
effectiveness.
Road Rehabilitation
3.14      In order to facilitate extension work, the distribution of inputs
and the movement of produce to market, the project would improve about 950 km
of rural roads (Annex 4). The improvements would include grading, reshaping
and better drainage. The highest priority would be given to the 370 km of
rural roads in the south and east of the project area that require major
works; improving bad stretches (low-lying and steepgrade sections) by earth-
moving and regravelling, building culverts and other ancillary works. A
separate program, outside the proposed project, is to be prepared for the
betterment of primary and secondary roads which are maintained by the Depart-
ment of Public Roads (DPR).
3.15      The proposed rural road program would be carried out by DPR on force
account during the relatively dry period, and thus would ensure good running
conditions from November to July. For the rest of the year, while tracks will
be passable most of the time some breaks in the roadway will be unavoidable.
3.16      Assurances have been obtained that:
(a)  an annual program of rural road improvements will be
agreed with the Bank;
(b) all equipment purchased for the project's road
component will be used and retained in the project
area; and



- 12 -
(c) the roads will be adequately maintained by DPR after
the project has been completed.
Research
3.17      The French Government has supported, for many years, cocoa and food
crop research in several West African countries, including Cameroon. To
provide specific support for this project, two French research institutes,
IRAT and IFCC, have developed a program of adaptive research (Annex 5). This
component of the project will be financed entirely by FAC/CCCE.
C. Organization and Management
SODECAO
3.18      The performance of ZAPI, which is presently responsible for agricul-
tural development in most of the project area, has been spotty. In parti-
cular, it has achieved little in increasing production and its marketing
policies have proved unpopular with farmers. To implement the project,
therefore, a new authority, Societe de Developpement du Cacao (SODECAO),
has been established by Presidential Decree and would absorb, gradually and
selectively, ZAPI's functions and staff.
3.19      SODECAO would be generally responsible for the execution of the
project and, in particular, for (a) extension services and the supply of
inputs and credit; (b) training courses for extension workers and farmers;
(c) planning and controlling the improvement of rural roads; and (d) encourag-
ing the formation of farmers' groups; SODECAO extension workers would live
in the villages and would use mostly the collection centers and sector offices
as bases to reach the farmers.
3.20      Other agencies would be involved, as follows:  (a) LPAC would pro-
vide the capsid spraying service; (b) FONADER would procure and provide
SODECAO with the inputs to be supplied to farmers for cash or on credit; (c)
DPR would execute the road improvement program; (d) the research institutes
(IFCC and IRAT) would carry out the research. The Stabilization Fund would
provide controllers for the grading of cocoa at project markets.
3.21      SODECAO has a board of directors and senior management consisting
of:  (a) a General Director; (b) a Deputy General Director in charge of
technical affairs; (c) a Marketing and Credit Director; (d) a Senior Inspector
responsible for the progress and quality of project execution; and (e) a
Chief Accountant. Field activities would be guided by extension workers,
marketing and credit agents.



- 13 -
3.22      The Senior Inspector and Chief Accountant would be internationally
recruited, and would possess qualifications and experience, and be employed
under terms of reference acceptable to Qvernment and the Bank. Assurances
to this effect have been obtained from Government. Government has already ap-
pointed a General Director and a Deputy General Director in charge of tech-
nical affairs both of whom are acceptable to the Bank. It would be a
condition of loan effectiveness that Government had appointed a Chief
Accountant.
3.23      Assurances have been obtained from SODECAO that counterparts to
internationally recruited staff would be: (a) appointed no later than three
months after commencement of the latter's employment with SODECAO; and (b)
trained to take over in accordance with arrangements and a timetable satis-
factory to the Bank.
Consultants
3.24      Consultants would be engaged by SODECAO for several purposes.  First,
about four man-months of consulting services would be engaged, on terms accept-
able to the Bank, to develop a program for the integration of areas under
ZAPI jurisdiction into the project. Assurances have been obtained that this
program would be presented to the Bank not later than six months after loan
effectiveness.
3.25      Secondly, to learn about the impact of the rehabilitation component
of the project, consultants would be engaged to collect and analyse data over
periods of about three months a year during three years. After two years,
sufficient data should have been collected for use in overall studies for
a follow-up project which would start in FY 1977/78. The Bank has been
assured that consultants would be employed under terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank to carry out these studies as well as a feasibility study
for the follow-up project.
Marketing
3.26      The project would sponsor the development of marketing cooperatives,
thus building on the successful experience gained in a neighboring area under
a UNDP sponsored program, CENADEC (Annex 6). Farmers located around 180
collection centers would be encouraged to form groups of 100-150 members, and
to elect a management committee. About 30-50 groups would constitute a
precooperative, with a Board consisting of delegates of the management com-
mittees. There would be six precooperatives (one in each sector), each with
its own storage facilities. Sector stores would be financed by the project.
Collection center sheds would be built by the farmers with materials obtained
on credit from SODECAO. The main advantage of the new system, as detailed
in para 8 of Annex 6, is the elimination of the dealer and his margin, which
is transferred to farmers who do their own grading, weighing and storage of
cocoa.



- 14 -
3.27      SODECAO would initially enter into contracts with exporters for
the sale of project cocoa. Contracts would also provide for credit for school
fees as at present (para 2.20). Cocoa purchases would take place at collec-
tion centers by exporters on appointed market days. Intermediary's margins
(CFAF 5/kg) and agreed quantity and quality bonuses (CFAF 3-4/kg) would be
paid by exporters to SODECAO. SODECAO would deduct the direct costs of market-
ing and the repayments of credit for collection centers' storage shed mate-
rials, and distribute the remainder to farmers as a year-end bonus. As pre-
cooperatives were formed and obtained legal status, they would take over these
marketing functions fron SODECAO. Government has assured the Bank that members
of the precooperatives would receive a year-end bonus to provide an adequate
incentive to farmers to join the precooperatives.
D. Accounts and Audit
3.28      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that Government would
cause SODECAO and FONADER to:
(a)  keep records adequate to reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices,
their operations and financial condition;
(b)  appoint independent, qualified auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(c)  submit copies of their audited accounts, and the auditors'
reports thereon to the Bank within four months of the end
of each financial year; and
(d) cause the report of the auditors to be of such scope and
in suciI detail as the Bank may reasonably request.
IV.  COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMéENTS
A.  Cost Estimates
4.01      Project costs over the development period 1974-80 are detailed at
Annex 7, and summarized below:



- 15 -
CFAF Million             US$ Million         Foreign
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Excang
SODECAO
(a)  Administrative Staff                1,026         -   1,026    4.10             4 4.10     -
(b)  Expatriate Salaries                    43      129      172    0.17    0.52    0.69       75
(c)  Buildings (Sector Office)              80       23      103    0.32    0.09    0.41       23
(d)  Vehicles and Equipment                  9        83      92    0.04    0.33    0.37       90
(e)  Collection Centers                     61        15      76    0.24    0.06    0.30       20
(f)  Operation and Maintenance             187      130      317    0.75    0.52    1.27       41
(g)  Road Program                          315       229     544    1.26    0.92    2.18       42
Sub-Total                      1,721       609   2,330    6.88    2.44    9.32        26
TRAINING                                   274.      135     409    1.09    0.5h    1.64       33
PEST CONTROL                               283       213     496    1.13    0.85    1.98       43
RESEARCH AND STUDIES                        83       331     414    0.34    1.32    1.66        80
ON-FARMS INPUTS (Incremental)
(a) New Planting Material
Insecticides                         64      127      192    0.26    0.51    0.77       66
(b)  Sinall Farm Equiprnent                 32       43       80    0.13    0.19    0.32       60
(c)  Spraying and Fungicides                65      195      260    0.26    0.78    1.04       75
Total before contingencies    2,523    1,658  4h181   10.09    6.63   16.73           40
Physical Contirgencies                      49        60     109    0.21    0.24    0.45       55
Price Contingencies                        991       660   1,651    3.96    2.6h    6.60       hO
Total Project Costs             3563                         26    9.51   23.78       40



- 16 -
4.02      The estimates are based on prices ruling at January 1, 1974.  They
include indirect taxes, amounting to about 5% of the total, but exclude
customs duties which have been waived by Government. Cost estimates include:
(a)  a 5% physical contingency on investment costs for buildings,
equipment, vehicles, operation and maintenance costs and
on-farm costs during the six-year disbursement period;
(b) price contingencies: (i) for equipment, 14% in 1974; 11% in
1975; and 7.5% compounded annually from 1976 to 1980; (ii) for
civil works, 18% in 1974; 15% in 1975; and 12%. compounded
annually from 1976 to 1980; (iii) for all other foreign costs,
the expected international inflation rate, i.e., 14% in
1974; 11% in 1975 and 7.5%O compounded annually from 1976 to
1980; and (iv) for all local costs the expected national
inflation rate, i.e., 10%' in 1974; 9.5% in 1975; 8.5% in 1976
and 8% compounded annually from 1977 to 1980.
B.  Financial Arrangements
4.03      The project financing plan, which was discussed during appraisal
with Government and representatives of the French agencies and FAC and CCCE,
is summarized in the following table:



- 17 -
------------------ US$ Million -----------------
French
Project Costs                      IBRD   Assistance   Governient   Farmers   Total
I. SODECAO
Ca) Administrative Staff)  2.78            -          2.01               ( 4.79
(b)  Expatriate Selaries )                                               (
(c)  Buildings                                        O.41                 0.41
(d)  Vehicles & Equipment   0.33                      0.04                 0.37
(e)  Collection Centers                               0.26       0.04      0.30
(f) Operation and
Maintenance                                    1.27                 1.27
(g)  Road Program
Personnel                       0.25           0.29                 0.54
Vehicles and
3quipment          0.61                      0.08                 0.69
Operating and
Maintenance                   0.44           0.51                 0.95
3l.  TRAINING                                1.64                                1.64
Il!.  PEST CONTROL                            o.65           1.33                 1.98`
1V.  RESEARCH AND STUDIES                    1.66                                1.66
V. ON-FARi4 INPUTS
(a) Planting Material
.4 Insecticides                                0.77                 0.77
(b)  Small Farm Equipment                                        0.32      0.32
(c)  Sprayers & Fungicides  0.78                      0.14       0.12      1.04
Sub-Total            4.50      4.64           7.11       0.49     16.73
Unallocated          2.00      1.86           2.97       0.21      7.05
Total                6.50      6.50          10.08       0.70     23.78
Percent                27        27             42          4       100



- 18 -
4.04      The Bank would make a loan of US$6.5 million to Government for a
term of 20 years including a six-year grace period. This loan, together with
the financing expected from French bilateral sources would cover the foreign
exchange cost of the project (about US$9.5 million), and US$3.5 million
equivalent of local currency expenditures. The proposed Bank loan, in parti-
cular, would cover the foreign exchange costs of the items financed and the
balance of US$2.2 million, 48% of the local cost. With respect to the Bank
loan, it is proposed that some US$150,000 of the proceeds of the loan be used
to finance, retroactively, the cost of expatriate salaries and other items,
incurred before signing.
4.05      The terms and conditions of the finance to be provided by the French
agencies have not been finalized, but agreement has been reached in principle,
providing for US$1 million equivalent as a grant by FAC and the remaining
US$5.5 million equivalent as a loan by CCCE at 3-1/2% annual interest for
20 years, including a six-year grace period. A condition of loan effective-
ness would be that the mentioned agreements have been concluded and that
any pre-conditions for initial disbursements of such financing have been
fulfilled.
4.06      Government would pass on to SODECAO, FONADER and DPR the proceeds
of the Bank loan, together with the French funds and its own contribution to
the project, in the form of a grant. The grants would be:
(a)  CFAF 4,625 million (US$18.7 million) (to SODECAO) to carry out
the technical aspects of the project, including pest control.
Another CFAF 750 million (US$3.0 million) would be passed through
SODECAO to the Public Roads Department (PRD) for the road
component.
(b)  CFAF 350 million (US$1.4 million)(to FONADER throueh SODECAO)
as a revolving fund to finance the credit program.
The balance, CFAF 225 million (US$0.7 million) represents farmers' contributions.
These grants are justified. Governnent is expected to accumulate a surplus
about 50% greater than the sum of the three grants when the project has come
to its full development and therefore, on balance, the proposed grants would
not cause a drain on 'Government finances. The grants to SODECAO and PRD
are justified on the grounds that neither of these agencies is intended to
be a revenue earning enterprise and the type of services they provide (tech-
nical services and road construction and maintenance, respectively) are
normally financed by the state out of the general budget. The grant to
FONADER would be an equity contribution, consistent with the well justified
policy of Government to strengthen financially, as well as technically, the
new agricultural finance agency on which it wishes to rely hereafter to
provide the bulk of rural development credit (para. 2.14).
4.07      Adequate deposits have been made by Government into the accounts
of SODECAO and FONADER.



- 19 -
C. Credit to Farmers and Farmer Groups
4.08      Until the precooperatives function independently FONADER would dele-
gate to SODECAO the responsibility for retailing credit to farmers under the
project through SODECAO's sector offices. To that effect, FONADER would make
available the inputs required annually to SODECAO at an interest rate of 5%,
and at terms similar to those of SODECAO's credit to farmers. A subsidiary
loan agreement between FONADER and SODECAO would specify these terms and con-
ditions.  The Bank has received assurances from Governnent that it would
cause the subsidiary loan agreement between FONADER and SODECAO to be satis-
factory to the Bank; the conclusion of such agreement would be a condition
of loan effectiveness.
4.09      All credit would be given in kind (Annex 8).  Credits to individual
farmers would be for fungicides (100% of cost) and sprayers (80% of cost).
The amount of credit would average about CFAF 4,600 annually for each farmer.
Credit to farmer groups (para 3.26) would be for the materials and equipment
needed to set up collection centers, and would average CFAF 380,000 per group.
Credit for fungicides would be repayable from the proceeds of the following
harvest; all other credit would be repayable over three years at maximum.
Prices for items sold on credit would be about 20% higher than cash prices
in order to cover financial and administrative costs as well as to make
provision for bad debts. Farm budgets (Annex 9) have been made on the basis
of credit purchases, and show that expected earnings should enable farmers
to pay these prices without difficulty out of the incremental cash surplus
that would accrue from their participation in the project.
4.10      Repayments of individual credits would be collected by Sector Office
staff at the time of produce sales at the collection centers and periodic
markets. Repayment of group credits would be collected at the Sector
Offices by deduction from the marketing margins received in respect of the
collection centers concerned (para 3.27).
D. Procurement
4.11      Items financed by the Bank Loan would be procured as follows:
(i) one grader, thirteen passenger cars, and all two-wheeled vehicles have
already been ordered with Bank approval through negotiated purchases on the
basis of quotations from local suppliers, in order to facilitate the start-
up of the project. These amount to US$150,000 and would be financed retro-
actively; (ii) office furniture and equipment, and small spare parts would
be similarly procured; (iii) all other items, amounting to some US$3.5 mil-
lion, would be procured in accordance with Bank guidelines on the basis of
international competitive bidding. Manufactured goods originating in UDEAC
countries would be allowed a preference equal to the lower of (a) 15% or
(b) applicable duties; (iv) the services of expatriate personnel and consult-
ants would be secured according to procedures acceptable to the Bank.



- 20 -
4.12      The French agencies would finance 100% of the cost of training, re-
search and studies; 46% of the personnel and operations and maintenance costs
of the road program; and 32% of the costs of pest control. The procurement of
items for these activities would be subject to the procedures of these agencies.
E. Disbursement
4.13      Proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed to cover:
(a)  58% of the cost of SODECAO's administrative staff
(US$2.80 million);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures
on vehicles and equipment for SODECAO administrative staff
and for road construction equipment for DPR (US$0.94 million);
and
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures on sprayers and fungicides
(US$0.78 million).
Ile balance of US$2.00 million represents contingencies, which would be
unallocated. A schedule of estimated disbursements is shown at Annex 9.
V. PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
5.01      Under the project 35,000 ha of existing cocoa would be rehabilitated
by an intensified and more effective control of capsid pest and black pod
disease. Annual yields are expected to increase from the present 300 kg/ha
to 500 kg/ha after two years of spraying. The 15,000 ha to be newly planted
are estimated to yield an average of 150 kg/ha in the fourth year rising to
800 kg/ha in the tenth year after planting thereafter remaining at that level
for 20 years. Tlese yields are considered relatively conservative since the
yield potentials of the existing and new hybrid varieties, under normal good
husbandry would be of the order of 1,000 kg/ha and 1,500 kg/ha, respectively.
At full development in 1988/89, it is estimated that the project would produce
an increment of 15,400 tons of dry beans annually (Annex 10).
B. Markets and Prices
5.02      The world market price for cocoa is described in "The World Cocoa
Market: Review and Outlook for Bank Lending" - February 23, 1974. World
cocoa production is highly cyclical: there were short supplies and high
prices in the 1950s and abundant supplies and low prices during the 1960s;



- 21 -
current markets again feature short supplies and high prices. During 1973
prices climbed to over USé8O/lb, compared with a low of USt17/lb in 1965.
Growing conditions in West Africa have been generally poor in the last three
years, and this has intensified the supply-depressing impact of limited in-
vestment and abandonment of low yielding orchards following the low cocoa
prices during the 1960s.
5.03      The average world cocoa price during 1973 was USt65/lb.  Current
Bank forecasts are that supply and demand will both grow at about 3% per
annum. Supply forecasts take into account expected production from ongoing
and planned projects, including the present one; on the basis of these fore-
casts a 1980 price of about USt47/kg, in average 1973-74 prices, has been
used in the economic and financial analyses in this report.
5.04      An International Cocoa Agreement (ICA) came into effect in mid-1973,
covering three quota years to 1975/76. The purpose of ICA is to stabilize
prices in the 23-32 USe/lb range, through export quotas and buffer stocks.
Of the basic 1973/74 quota of 1.51 million tons, Cameroon has been allocated
129,000 tons, well above the average production of 110,000 tons during the
past three years. In view of current and expected price levels, it is unlike-
ly that ICA will exert any significant constraint on cocoa production and
exports in the medium term.  It seems reasonable to conclude that Cameroon's
market prospects are firm at least through 1980, and no difficulties are
anticipated in selling the project's output.
C. Farmers' Benefits
5.05      Model farm budgets are presented at Annex 11.  They are based on
the following assumptions:
(a) 100% credit for fungicides and 80% for sprayers at
prices 20% higher than cash prices (para 4.09); and
(b) production of 90% Grade I and 10% off-grade cocoa, at
producer prices of CFAF 100/kg and CFAF 65/kg, respectively
(actual 1973-74 campaign prices);
(c) yield as specified above (para 5.01);
(d) grants for seeds, bags, and other nursery materials for
farmers undertaking new planting.
5.06      Three types of farmers can be considered.  Model A is a farmer with
1.2 ha of mature cocoa which is maintained in the traditional manner with
either inefficient pest and disease control or none at all, and who rehabil-
itates his farm under the project and continues efficient pest and disease



- 22 -
control thereafter.  Model B is a farmer similar to Model A but who, were the
project not to be implemented, would plant an additional 0.6 ha in the tradi-
tional manner, but with improved planting material. With the Project, and
through the services it would provide, the Model B farmer is exDected to re-
habilitate his mature cocoa, and in addition plant more cocoa than he other-
wise would (0.75 ha instead of 0.6 ha), using not only improved planting
material but improved techniques as well. The Model C farmer is a young
member of the family of existing farmers who would plant cocoa for the first
time under the stimulus of the project. Tne 'Model B comparison has been
developed on the grounds that some new cocoa planting would take place without
the project, and that it would be incorrect to assume that the production of
sucli plantings would be a project benefit.  The three models are summarized
below:
Iloodel     Without Project                With Project
Existing farmer        A    1.2 ha unrehabilitated         1.2 ha rehabilitated only
Existing farmer        B    1.2 ha unrehabilitated plus  1.2 ha rehabilitated plus
0.6 ha new planting           0.75 ha new planting
New farmer             C                                   1.5 ha new planting only
For existing farmers, net revenues from cocoa are expected to increase by
about 70%, reaching CFAF 52,000 (US$208) for Model A and CFAF 106,000 (US$424)
for Mlodel B. Mandays of labor roughly increase in the same proportion as net
revenues, and thus the return per manday employed would be about CFAF 490 with
the project, only slightly more than the CFAF 450 without the project.  The new
rate is almost double the going agricultural wage rate of CFAF 250/day. For
new planters, net revenues of about CFAF 105,000 (US$420) are expected at full
development, equivalent to CFAF 515/manday employed. New planters would sus-
tain thenselves and meet the small cash expenditures required until their
plantings became productive by growing their own food crops and/or working on
their parents' farm.
D. Government Revenues
5.07      Government would derive revenues from taxes and Stabilization Fund
surpluses on incremental project production. Taxes consist mainly of export
levies, at a rate of 27.25% on an arbitrary value of CFAF 125/kg, or CFAF
34/kg. On nonexport cocoa, sold for domestic processing, the tax rate is
45% of the export levy, or CFAF 15/kg. The Stabilization Fund benefits from
cocoa export revenues whenever world market prices exceed guaranteed producer
prices plus export costs. At the assumed world price of USt47/lb (CFAF 260/kg),
and a producer price of CFAF 100/kg for export grade cocoa, the Stabilization
Fund's surplus would be about CFAF 75/kg. The Government cash flow (Annex 12)
shows that Government.would have a net inflow from PY 4 onwards, reaching
CFAF 1.2 billion (US$4.8 million) at full development (PY16).



- 23 -
VI.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS A1D JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The main economic benefit of the project would be an increase in
cocoa production.  The value of this incremental production is expected to
reacli CFAF 1.3 billion (US$5.2 million) in 1979/80, rising to CFAF 3.1 billion
(US$12.4 million) annually at full development by 1988/89. In this and sub-
sequent years, about CFAF 1.6 billion (US$6.4 million) would accrue annually
to some 32,000 farm families (para 5.06), and CFAF 1.5 billion (US$6.0 million)
to Government in the form of export taxes and Stabilization Fund surpluses.
At full development, net foreign exchange earnings of about US$10 million
are expected annually.
6.02      The economic rate of return (Annex 13) is estimated at 26 percent
using market prices. Increases of 10 percent and 25 percent in costs (or
similar reductions in benefits) would reduce the rate of return to, respec-
tively, 23 percent and 19 percent; a 25 percent increase in costs together
with a 25 percent reduction in benefits would lower the rate to 12 percent.
6.03      Since total control of black pod is very difficult to achieve, the
effect of a serious shortfall from project targets for this component of the
project has been calculated. This shows that if only about one third of the
expected benefits from rehabilitation were obtained, the rate of return for
the project would still be 10 percent. Tle risk of such a shortfall is con-
sidered to be small, particular1Wr since the average increases on yields have
been conservatively estimated.
6.04      The rate of return has been conservatively calculated in otiier re-
spects, since the project has been charged with the entire cost of:
(a) the rehabilitation of rural roads, while no account
has been taken of the benefits accruing to nonproject
activities, such as food crop and general goods marketing
and nonproject cocoa marketing; and
(b)  the research and studies, althoughl benefits from these
activities would accrue to subsequent development.
Excluding the cost of these components, the economic rate of return would be
35,'.
6.05      Rates of return have been calculated for the rehabilitation and
new plantings components separately, althouglh allocation of project agency
costs is necessarily arbitrary. The rates are 32% for rehabilitation and
20% for new plantings.
6.06      As indicated above (para 6.01), farmers and Governnent will share
about equally in expected benefits. Tne large Government share is considered
to be justified, as it would be an important source of funds for programs to



- 24 -
help rural people in less favorably endowed regions, particularly in the North.
Tle improvement of agricultural institutions, training of local technicians
in advanced cocoa technology and extension, and encouragement of farmers
associations would permit an expansion of the project concept throughout the
cocoa growing area.
VII. RECO MIENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained on the following
principal points:
(a)  in the event that producer prices were to jeopardize
the project, consultations on this subject would be
held between Government and the Bank (para 2.19);
(b)  with regard to road imorovements (para 3.16):
(i)  an annual program of project road improvement
would be agreed with the Bank;
(ii) all equipment purchased under the project's
road program would be used and retained in the
project area; and
(iii)  the project's roads would be adequately maintained
after the project has been completed.
(c)  members of precooperatives would receive a year-end bonus
to provide incentives to farmers to join the precooperatives
(para 3.27);
(d)  Government would exempt all project items financed through
the Bank loan from import duties (para 4.02).
(e)  Government would cause the subsidiary loan agreement between
FONADER and SODECAO to be satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.08).
7.02      Assurances were also obtained from SODECAO that:
(a)  no later tian six months after credit effectiveness, SODECAO
should have ready a comDrehensive training program including
details of the curricula, phasing of courses, staffing
requirements and budget (para 3.13);
(b)  appointment of internationally recruited personnel would be
on qualifications, experience and terms acceptable to the
Bank (para 3.22);



- 25 -
(c)  Cameroonian counterpart personnel would be appointed to the
internationally recruited experts not later than three months
after commencement of the latter's employment with SODECAO,
and be trained to take over in accordance with arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.23);
(d)  consulting services would be engaged, on terms acceptable
to the Bank, to outline and phase an integration program
for the areas under ZAPI jurisdiction; and that this
program would be presented to the Bank not later than six
months after loan effectiveness (para 3.24);
(e)  consultants would be employed to carry out studies of
the project's impact, and a feasibility study for a
follow-up project, which would start in 1977/78,
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 3.25).
7.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be that:
(a)  Governnent had appointed a chief accountant (para 3.22);
(b)  the supplemental FAC Agreement and supplemental Caisse
Centrale Agreement have been validly concluded and the
conditions precedent, if any, to initial disbursements
under said agreements have been fulfilled (para 4.05);
(c)  Government had made the initial deposits into the accounts
of SODECAO and FONADER of CFAF 100 million (US$0.40 million)
and CFAF 50 million (US$0.20 million), respectively (para
4.07); and
(d)  the subsidiary loan agreement between FONADER and SODECAO
had been concluded (para 4.08).
7.04      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$6.50 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
CAMEROON
OOGOA PROJECT
PEST AND DISASE CONTRDI
A. Fe&t Control
Introduction
1.        Capside damaging the côcoa is the only pest that needs to be controlled.
Since 1962 a special agency (LPAC)V/ of the Department of Agriculture is respon-
sible for the control of capsids.   The organization is based at Nkôloisson
(Yaounde) where offices, stores and garages are located. LPAC has besides a ner-
manent staff of clerkse, drivers and mechanics, alo temporary personnel during the
spraying season. It orns a fleet of 50 vehicles for the transport of spraying
equipment, materials and mechanics. The activities are paid for by the Caisse de
Stabilization. In capside control the following procedures is used.
Estimation of Caosid Population
2.        In different parts of the cocoa zone, insect populations are estimated
on representative cocoa famis which are selected at random. When the capsid
noiulation exceeds 0.7 adult per tree, the test result is considered Dositive and
spraying is required. Based on these test results, an operation plan is made and
naterials and equipment are sent to areas to be treated. At present, insect counts
are made at a density of one per 3,000 ha.
Insect Treatment
3.        The spraying is carried out by groups of farmers with the assistance of
LPAÛ mechanices. The best spraying neriod is between July and October when the
insect population starts to build up. Tvo soraying rounds at an interval of 25 to
35 days are needed. In the first treatment, adults and larvae are killed and in
the second one the young insects, which bj then have eierged from the eggs that
were not affected by the previous spraying. It is estimated that at present about
50% of the cocoa area is annually sprayed by VIAC. A centrally organized capsid
control is necessary because spraying by individual farmers will be ineffective
when neighboring fanms are not treated simultaneously. However, the drawback of
centra1ly spraying programs îs that, when the organization is too big, soraying
programs are carried out too late, areas zre sprayed where test result3 were negativ%e,
and supervision is difficult. This general. experience apolies also to rLPACe which
is too big to work effectively.
Capsid Control under the Projoct
4.        Under the project the LPAC orgarkization wîll be decentralized.  '?ach sector
will have its ovn spraying unit, while two sectors wili have one team to estimate
capsid populations. To achieve this the following orocedure le proposed. When a
sector is placed under SODECAO this authority beoemes resDonsibie for the capsid
1/  Lutte Phyto Sanitaire et anti-Capside



ANNEX 1
Page 2
CU4-lIriL in all cocoa farms in that sector.  The sector level spraying unit will
lrive ite own transport and mist blowers. The transport consists of one 3.5 ton
truck; dur.ng the three months' spraying campaign, the truck of the sector office can
aiso be used.  In addition, the large sectors like Mengueme and Zoetele can obtain
a 3 ton truck from the car pool of SODECAO. There will be one mist blower per 250
ha of cocoa to be sprayed ainually.  These mist blowers can spray 3 ha/hour; and when
they are used effectively 2.5 - 3.0 hours a day, an area of about 250 ha can be
sprayed in 30 days. When the first spraying round is completed the second one should
start immediately. The personnel consists of a driver and one mechanie per five mist
blowers; the technical officer of the sector office is responsible for tne operation
of this team.  Âs in the present situation, LPAC transport will bring the mechanics
with their equipment and insecticides to the farms while the spraying itaelf is
carried out by groups of farmers.
5.        A "testing" team consists of one team leader, one drivEr and six laborers.
The team has one four-wheel drive truck and two hand spraying pumps. Trees in
small areas (not exceeding 0.25 ha) are snrayed in selected farms; then the dead
inseets, collected on sheets underneath the trees, are counted. Based on the
results of these counts, a decision is made whether or not the area should be sprayed
against capsid. One team can do four test a week, meaning that in tha 10 weeks
preceding the capsid spraying season 40 tests can be made (per team). In areas
varying in size from 20,000 ha to 30,000 ha, insect counts can be madez at a density
of one count per 500 - 600 ha. When capsid damage is observed, in areas which are
not scheduled to be sprayed (based on capsid counts), farmers concerned will perform
spraying on an individual basis.
B. Disease Control
Introduction
6.        The first black pod control scheme was financed by USAID and carried out
in 10 zones of 500 ha each, with only selected farmers and extension staff parti-
cipating.  Results were satisfactory, and in treated farms   yieids of 800 to 1,200
kg/dry beans/ha were obtained.
7.        In the period 1967-70 a FAC-financed campaign was carried out in 8,50o
ha of cocoa. Under this scheme fungicides and spraying equipment were made avail-
able on credit at subsidized prices. Results of this camnaign indicated that
farmers were able to protect their crop effectively by the use of fungicides and
that credit could be readily recovered where enough extension staff and good marketing
facilities existed.  It was, however, observed that in the course of the program the
fungicide consumrption went down, the main reasons being that the price margin between
Grade 1 and "hors standard" cocoa was too narrow to encourage farmers to carry out
a full spraying program.
b.        At present a scheme of the Department of Agriculture is in operation which
gives fungicides and spraying machines on credit to groups of farmers. The credits
for fungicides have to be reimbursed annually and the credit for the spraying equip-
ment over a two-year period. It is thought that improved black-pod control, despite
the shortcomings of the varîous schemes, has largely contributed to the 20,000 tons
increase in cocoa production observed over the four year Deriod 1966/67 to 1970/71.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
9.       Thder the project, control of black-pod disease would be a major activity
of tbe extension service. Since black-pod control is an individual exercise, it
is the extension worker vho has to convince the farmer that he should spray correctly.
`ICorrecty"II means mainly that five to six sprayings are also necessary in the rainy
seasori, apart of the six sprayings in the dry season.  Significant re3ults can be
obtained only if a full spraying program is carried out. In addition to a conviction
that a full spraying program is necessary, the farmer should be able to have the
fungicides on time and his sprayer in working condition.  Hence, the supply of fung-
îcides and spare parts for the sprayers is critical; the organization should be such
that the farmer should be able to obtain the necessary means for black-pod control
at the collection center where he sells his produce.






CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
FIELD DEVELOPMIENTS
Number of Farmers and Corresponding Areas  -
Year                            Number of Farmers Entering the Project for:                                Corresponding Areas (ha) Entering the Project
Rehabilitation       Rehabilitation 2/    New Plantings 3/           Total          Rehabilitation        New Plantings          Total Area
only                    and                 only
New Plantings
1974-75                _                     5,000                600                  5,600               6,000                -                   6,000
1975-76                -                     6,500                600                  7,100               7,000              1,550                 8,550
1976-77               1,500                 4,500                 800                  6,800               7,000              3,475                10,475
1977-78               6,000                   -                    -                   6,000               7,000              5,000                12,000
1978-79               6,500                   _                                        6,500               8,000              3,450                11,450
1979-80                                     _-                                          -                   -                 1,525                 1,525
Totels               14,000                 16,000              2,000                 32,000              35,000             15,000                 50,000                       x
1/   All figures are rounded off.
2/   Total area per farm = 1.2 harehabilitation+ 0.75 ha Qf nfw plAntings.The new plantings to be carried out in three years: 0.25 ha/year.
3/,' Total area per farm = 1.5 ha. To be planted in three years: 0.5 ha/year.



CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
FIELD DEVELOPMENTS
Establishment of New Plantings
year of           .    _                                           _
entrance       number of persons enter-                          area (ha) to be planted in:
in project     ing the project
Existing        New
farmers         farmers       1975-76      1976-77     1977-78      1978-79      1979-80
1974-75         5,000             _           1,250       1,250        1,250           -            -
1975-76         6,500                           -         1,625        1,625         1,625          -
1976-77         4,500                           -            -         1,125         1,125        1,125
subtotal       1,250        2,875        4,000         2,750       1,125
1974-75           _               600           300          300         300           -            _
1975-76            _              6°°           -            300         300           300          -
1976-77                           800           -            -           400           400          400
subtotal         300          600        1,000           700         400
Total           16,000          2,000         1,550        3,475       5,000         3,450        1,525
Cr1



CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
FAR LADOR
Available Labor (per average famiXy) for Cocoa Cultivation in Pro.ject Area
(Mandays)
------------------------------------MonthS-------------------------------------------
District                        Total   S.O.N.D.      J         F        M         A         MY        J         Jy        Au
Menguém6é                          hlO         218       24        2h        24       24        2h        24        2h         24
MLou                                511        271        30       30        30        30       30        30        30         30
Ngoumou                             368        192       22        22        22        22       22        22        22         22
Nyong and Kellé                     544        2&8       32        32        32        32       32        32        32         32
Zoétélé                             478        251h      28        28        28       28        28        28        28         28
Ndom                                41 i       218        24       214       24        24       24        2h        24         24
t>Cr



CAMEROON
COOOA PJ4DJECT
FAHU LAEOR
Labor per ha of newly planted Cocoa
(mandays)
Year     Items                        Total       Sept.      oct.      Nov.      Dec.      Jan.      Feb.      Mar.      Apr.      May      June      JulY      Aug.
1       Nursery                       48          18         5         5         5         5         5         5
Clearing                     84                                        28        28
Lining & brushing            20                                                                      20
Holing & planting            40                                                                                20        20
Maintenance                   20                                                                                                    20
212          18         5         5       33        33        33        25        20         20        20
2       Maintenance                   48          12                  12                                      12                            12
Filling in                     6           6
Shade managesent             15                                                                       5         5          5
Insect control                8                      2                  2                                                  2                            2
77          18         2        12         2                            17         5         7        12                  2
3       Maintenance                   48          12                  12                                      12                             12
Shade management              15                                                                       5         5         5
Insect control               il                      2                   2                                                 2                  3         2
74          12         2        12         2                            17         5         7        12        3         2
10       Maintenance, insect
control                    21           7                                                 2         7                                       3         2
Black pod control             35          10        10                                                                     7         8
O               Harvesting, yield
processing 1/              80          10        30        30        10
136          27        40        30        10                   2         7                   7         8        3         2       H>
1/ Based on yield of 800 kg dry beans/ha



CAMROON
COOOA P1DJECT
FAR( LAER
Labor Requirements for Cocoa Cultivation (Mandays)
-.-_______________------------- Months -----------------------------------------------------
1.2 ha Rehabilitatifn and 0.75 ha New Plantings
1.2 ha rehabilitation campleted Y1115          86        _          2        7        -          7        8         3          2
0.25 ha year 1                       52         15        8         8        (        5          5        5         -          -
"   "   "  2                       19         8        -          -        4        1          2        3         -          1
"   "   "3                         19         7        -         -         4        1          2        3         1          1
Total             20E       11          8        10       21        7         16       20         4          4
1.2 ha rehabilitation completed 1115           86       -          2         7       -          7         8        3          2
0.75 ha in full production  /       103         R1       _          2        5        -          ;                  2          2
Total             218       167        -          4       12        _         12        1h        5          4
1/ Yield 500 kg dry beans/ha.
2/  "n   800 "   "    "    ,,
>f!



a



ANNEX 4
Table 1
CAMOON
COCOA PLDJECT
Improvement and Maintenance of Rural Roads
List of Roads
Km
Pirst Priority
1   Ossoessam Minlaba Mfida                             22
2  Ngodmedzap Nkolmeyang                                14
3  Akongo II Ossoessam Bikoko                           12
4   Endengue Nkout                                       14
5   Nkout Ngoumou                                        8
6   Mfou Nkllzok I                                        7
7   Nkilzok II Mbanga                                   16
8   Nkilzok I Ekombitie                                 23
9   Nkilzok I Nsimalen                                    9
10   Fegminbang Zoaseel Ngoumou I                         28
il   Mgoumou I Ebang                                       5
12   Ebang Bikok                                          10
13   Bikok Nkongnen                                       18
1h   Otele Nkoulmakong Koali Oveng                        29
15   Otele Bilik Nkolnlong III                            25
16   Nkongnen Xvindisst Andok                             24
17   Ebolowa Ntoum Ba                                     26
18   Nkolbang Zoetele                                     12
19   Zoetele Nkoudmadjap Nkolfong                         18
2Q   Nyaho Pentome Nyanon Likoundbian                     50
370



ANNEZ 4
Table 1
(cont.)
Second Priority                                           Km
i   Ekoudendi Assie Bilon Ossoessam *                         35
2  Nbabewa Akongo III                                         19
3 Meadan Endengue Sep Akoeman *
Akom Ngourema Kong                                        65
4   Mfou Ngang Ovam Ekom                                      21
5  Ngombas I Bakoukoue Leplibong Nkolnlong III                16
6  Nom  I Sep Ngoungou Mbeng Nkolnlong III                    18
7  Bot Makak Nkongngok So Makay
Etale Nkolekotoing Mabobol Elekoum                        77
8  Bot Nak Egba Nkolekotsing                                  37
9   Egba Elekoum Lobo Mefomo                                  39
10   Ngoulemikong lEsingang Btwong Bane *                      38
1il  Essingang Mekamba Minlaba *                               12
12  Biwong Bane Melangue I *                                   16
13 Biwong Bane Minkam Nkongnen Nkolmeyang * )
Melangue I Ngalan                         )               37
Minkam Atinezam Elon                      )
14  Meyiboto Ebotenkou Elon Ngoulemakong                       62
15   Nkolfong Oveng *                                           9
16   Zoetele Ebamina Nkilzok Ndele Zoetele                     49
17   Nyabo Bodi Knom                                           30
580
* Roadt which vere improved by the Stabilization Funds.
Source: Consultant's report.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
Research
Cocoa Program
1.        Considering that the second phase of the project will be extended to
densely populated areas, much of the new cocoa will be planted either on land cleared
from cocoa (replanting), on land under bush fallow, or in between existing cocoa
(interplanting).  When forest land is still available, cocoa will be established in
combination with food crops, this being a common practice. The problems con;iected
with these various types of establishment have to be studies. The use of !ertilizers
should also be studied because, after the black-pod problem has been solved, the
next facto1/lJJting cocoa production (especially in replanting) is the low soil
fertility.-  The factor shade has also to be taken4into consideration: firstly, becauEe
of the interaction between effects of shade and fertilizers; and secondly, because
the question of whether or not densely-spaced hybrid cocoa needs permanent shade has
not been solved.  The experimental program is schematically presented in Table 1.
2.        All trials are multilocal and vill be laid down on farmers' land.  One or
t.wo factorial fertilizer experimentals will be included in the program to obtain
detailed information on fertilizer requirements. In view of predominant importance
of black-pod disease, too little attention has so far been paid to soil fertility.
The program will be carried out by IFCC under a special agreement with SODECAO.
The Production Director of the project will be responsible for the liaison between
SODECA and IFCC.
Food Crop Program
3.        The Cameroonian cocoa farmer always grows food crops in addition to cocoa.
These food crops are almost exclusively used for home consumption; only near the
large cities, like Yaounde, are food crops also grown for the market. Food crop
production takes place in the extensive manner of shifting cultivation. Land is
cleared from forest and food crops are grown for two or three years. Then, as
fertility becomes depleted and pest and disease incidence increases, the site is
abandoned and a new clearing is made at a different location. This method is waste-
ful with respect to land, time and labor.
4.        mhe proposed research program is aimed at studying the possibilities of
modernizing food crop production so that more food crops can be grown on less land
and with less labor, so that more family labor can be devoted to cocoa cultivation.
So far no research has been undertaken on food crop production in the cocoa zone
of Cameroon.
1/ Moreover, the high yielding hybrid varieties will have a higher demand for
nutrients than the traditional cocoa.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        The program will concentrate on:
I.   Improvement of planting materials and cultivation methods.
(a)  Collection, selection and comparison of clones (plantains,
cocoa yams, yams and cassava);
(b) multiplication and cultivation technique of tuber crops;
(c)  testing of maize and grouadnut varieties, selected elsewhere
under conditions of the forest zone. Improvements of culti-
vation methods (sowing dates, densities, crop protection,
storage).
II.   Fertilizer use for food crops grown as monocultures or in association
with other food crops or cocoa on different soil types.
III.   Study of production systems (technical and socioeconomical aspects).
The program will be carried out by IRAT under a special agreement with SODECAO.  IRAT
will also contribute to the food crop aspect of the cocoa research program. As far
as possible, IRAT will nake use of the results obtained by IITA Ibadan (Nigeria) and
of those obtained elsewhere in West Africa, under comparable conditions.



CAME ROON
C CO, PROJECT
Research Prozram For Go-p
Experiment                                          Wfthout Permanent Shade             With Permanent Shade            Plot Size          No. of           Total
Without                     With       Without                With      (ha)             replicates       Area
fertilizer            ferti;lizer      fertilizer      fertilizer
Planting Cocoa on land previously           Coeoa,    replanting                         +                        +               +                 +           0.25               24
cropped with:                       ,__
Cocoa,      interplanting                   _                       _                 +                 +            0.25               24              72
Food crops followed
by bush fallow,    New planting                +                        +               +                 +           0.25               24
Planting COcOa on land cleared             Cocoa, plantain and grounoanuts                 +                       +                                             0.25                12              18
from forests combined wtth
food crops
Cocoa. plantain, groundnuts and                 +                       +                                             0.25                12
cacao vams                                   ._        _                                       .
Cocoa, 'lants;n, oro,iwinlltq .md Mai?e         +                                                                     0.25                12
Interplanting of widely spaced young cocoa with new hybrids (observation plots)                                                                                   0.5                 6               3
NPKCaMg Factorial fertilizer experiments                                                                                                                                                              7






AN%TEX 6
?'axe 1
CAMEROON
COCOA °ROJECT
Marketing
Introduction
1.        Cameroon has two marketing systems for cocoa which are basically different-
in the Fnglish-sDeaking part of Cameroon, a marketing board buys and exports cocoa
under monopoly; in the French-speaking part, an autonomous agency, the Caisse de
Stabilisation, controls (inefficiently) the transactions of private dealers and
exporters.  Since the project area is in the francophone part of Cameroon, the marketing
board is not discussed here. There exist in the francophone 'art two systems which
might be called the conventional marketing system, and modifications to this conven-
tional system in the part of the project area presently served by ZAPI.  A marketing
system is proposed under the project which is somewhat different from these existing
systems. These marketing systems are schematically compared in Table I.
The Conventional Marketing System
2.        Theoretically, the farmers bring their cocoa to a market which is periodi-
cally held as determined by the administration.  The cocoa is graded into Grade I,
Grade II or off-grade by Caisse de Stabilisation representatives, according to the
number of defective cocoa beans in samDles taken. Dealers, who work in turn for
licenced exzorters, weigh the cocoa and oay the Government guaranteed orice, which
was fixed at the beginning of the harvest season by the "Caisse".  In 1973/74, the
guaranteed price was CFAF 100/kg for Grade I, CFAF 75/kg for Grade II, and CFAF 65/kg
for off-grade.
3.        Each licenced exporter has an alloted export quota (tonnage).  The exporter
arranges transport to Douala and Kribi, presents his consignments for quality in-
spection and weighing, conditions beans where necessary, and arranges for shipment.
He is free to export his quota on the world market through his own channels; but
the Caisse has power to sell on its own account -part of the cocoa held by the exporter.
The exporter is allowed a predetermined handling charge and commission. He either
pays to or receives from the Caisse the difference between the market price obtained
and that paid to farmers.
4.        Only Grade I is exported.  A local plant buys Grade II and off-grade at Grade
I  Sarket price and processes it into products such as cocoa butter, cake or paste.
The plant receives a reimbursement fixed by decree from the Caisse and the exporters.
5.        This marketing system has many loopholes, and only the two major ones are
mentioned here. On the periodical market, the most serious loophole is that the
farmerts cocoa may be undergraded and underweighted dué to "good cooperation" between
graders, dealers and administrative representatives. The second loophole is that
many dealers go directly to the farmers' homes to buy cocoa, out of reach of any



A.NNEX 6
%age 2
official control, and these dealers often make farmers dependent on them by providing
credit during the lax period of the year or giving small "presents".  To eliminate
such dependence, the Government started some quasi=cooperative movements under the
ZAPI and later on under OENADEC which ooerates outside the project area.
Marketing in the ZAPI Area
6.        The ZAPI, which started operations in 1967 and gradually extended its
area of responsibility, brought forward the following major changes of cocoa marketing
in its area:
(i)  organized farmers into groups, a representative of which whould weigh
the cocoa during the sale;
(ii) imposed a cocoa sales monopoly on its area; and
(iii) attempted to buy all cocoa produced in the project area.
As a result of their participation in the sales process, the farmers in general have
been more accurately reimbursed than before. However, since the ZAPI retained the
dealerts mark-up to finance its marketing and production activities, the position
of the farmer has not been substantially improved.  Also the establishment of the
sales monopoly created discontent among farmers, particularly since the ZAPI initially
had difficulties in obtaining campaign credits and consequently could not pay farmers
on time.  Moreover, the ZAPI's marketing activities seem to have been at times some-
what inefficient.
7.        For the 1973/74 campaign, the ZAPI obtained exporter status and since other
exporters are expatriates, became the first entirely Cameroonian cocoa exporter.
Proposed Marketing
8.        The project wiould attempt to foster a cooperative movement in the project
area, by supporting existing movements in the ZAPI part of the project area and by
starting such movements in the other part of the project area.  The marketing system
proposed is a modification of the system pract1-ced in the ZAPI area and has been
tried out with reasonable success by CENADEC outside the project area. The major
features of the proposed marketing system are:
(i)  elimination of the dealer in the conventional chain of farmer-dealer-
exporter, by extending the farmerls and exporter's marketing functions,
and providing guidance and coordination of marketing activities by
SODECAO;
(ii)  farmer's participation in transport to grouping center, grading, weighing
and storage of his cocoa;
(iii)  improved remuneration of the farmer by paying him the dealer's farmer
margin, in recognition of his extended responsibilities, after dedaction
of SODECA's costs for guidance and coordination; and



ANNEX 6
nage 3
(iv)  the monopoly in the ZAPI project area would be maintained, but in the
non-ZAPI project area there would be no initial sales monopoly (which,
however, may be instituted at a later date).
9.        The institutional arrangement would be as follows.  First, 100-15O'farmers
would form groups, so that:
(a) the maximal distance of each farmer from the grouping center is 4-5
km; and
(b) the minimum quantity sold during each marketing is h-5 tons; each
farmers, group elects a management committee consisting of five
members, and the members of the management committee would be trained
for about one week in the administration of a farmer group.
Second, about 30-50 farmer groups would constitute a DrecooDerative (there would be
six precooperatives); each cooperative would have a board consisting of delegàtes
from management committees.  Third, each precooperative  would sign a contract witl
an exporter who would:
(i) make cash advances to farmers who have to pay school fees for their
children just before harvest;
(ii) provide bags to the farmer;
(iii) send a cashier with adequate money to each market held at the grouping
centers; and
(iv) assure transport of cocoa from the grouping center.
Fourth, the farmer groups would construct in each center cocoa storage facilities,
and buy balances and manual transport of cocoa to the grouping center4
10.       The actual sales operation would take place as follows.  One or two days
before the market, farmers bring their cocoa to the grouping center and, under the
supervision of the management committee, pregrade and weigh their cocoa. The cocoa
is then stored separately for each farmer by grade. On the market day, a sales
committee -- consisting of the exporterts cashier, an official grader from the Caisse
and a secretary from the precooperative -- vertifies the work of the management coDi-
mittee and pays the farmer the fixed guaranteed price with funds provided by the
exporter, after deduction of any debts of the farmer (the debt amount is paid directly
to the secretary of the precooperative). The sales documents are centralized at the
precooperative center. The exporter takes further care of the cocoa transport from
the grouping center, where some farmers may help him (against remuneration), load the
cocoa on the trucks).  The exporter pays the dealer's margin -- consistilg of the
intermediary remuneration, the bonus for quantity, and the bonus for quality -- to
the precooperative. The precooperative in turn distributes this amount to the farmers,
after deduction of its own costs.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
11.       The proposed marketing system has two clear advantages for the farmer:
it gives him good control over the sale of his cocoa, and higher remuneration per
kilo of cocoa.  On the other hand, the farmer has to work more, to the extent that
he has to,transport his cocoa to the grouping center, and he has to take part in the
grading and weighing of his cocoa. It is expected that the higher remuneration
will outweigh the additional work, and therefore the new system would constitute an
important incentive for the farmer to join the project.



CAMEIDON
COCOA PMJrECT
NARMETD«
MARKET:TING SYSTEMS IN RMNCOPHONE CAC.EROON
COINvrErrIONAL
Official          Unofficial                 ZAPI                 CENADEC                  Project
Transport to Marrket
1.  Transport ta period-
ical market             farmer             dealer               Zapi/farmer           farmer                  Same as in
2. Sale
CENADEC,
Pregrading                                                                              farmer/manage-
ment conmittee       except:
Representive of
Grading                   CaisstabL/         dealer               Caisstab           Sales    (C-aisstab
Committee(
Weighing                  dealer             dealer           farmers' repre-                  (Precooperative
sentative                      (
Payment                   dealer             dealer           Zapi                             (Exporter
Contro'                   representative        -             Sales Comnwittee       Sales Committee
of admini-
stra tion
3. Monopoly Requested                                -            Immedia.tely           After three years       3.  Maintenance of
and Obtained                                                                                                   monopoly sugges-
ted in areas
4.  Storage Facilities        dealer/exporter   dealer/           Zapi                    Farmer groups/             where monopoly
belonging to                                 exporter                                 exporter                 presently exists.
No monopoly in
5.  Transport to nearest      dealer/exporter   dealer/           Zapi                    Exporter                   other areas.
larger city & port                           exporter
6.  Export                    exporter           exporter         Zapi                    Exporter 
1/   Caisse de Stabilisation.






Ta-ble i
CAMEIDON
OOCOA PDOJECT
PROJECT COSTS
(CFAF'000)
PY 1        FI 2        PY 3        FT 4        PY 5         PF  6
197V75      1975/76     1976/77     1977/78     1978/79      1979/1980       Total
I. MTTCAD
a) Administrative Staff
Headquarters                            46,275        46,500     149,075      514,125     43,125       43,125         282,225
Sector Offices                          28,400        56,800      85,200      85,200      85,200       85,200         426,000
Extension Services                      16,077        39.011      63.120      71,220      71,220       57,360          318,008
Sub Total                          90,752       142,311     197,395     210,545     199,545      185,685       1,026,233
b) Expatriate Salaries                      51,248        43,735      43,735      19,312      14,050        -             172,080
c)  Buildings (Sector Offices)              34,200        34,200      34,200       -           -            -             102,600
d) Vehicles and Equipaent
Headquarters                            14,150         1,750       1,750       9,650       1,750        1,750          30,800
Sector Offices                           9,000         9,000       9,000       9,000       9,000        9,000          54,000
Extension Services                       1,125         1.295       1,245       1,575       1,295        1.095           7.630
Sub Total                          214,275       12,045      11,995      20,225      12,045       11,845          92,430
e) Collection Centers
Buildings                                5,100         5,100       5,100       5,100       5,100        5,100          30,600
Vehicles and Equipment                   7.500         7,500       7.500       7.500       7.500        7.500          45.000
Sub Total                          12,600        12,600      12,600      12,600      12,600       12,600          75,600
r)  Operation and Maintenance
Headquarters                            22,67h        22,636      24,186      22,155      22,155       17,340         131,147
Sector Offices                           7,530        16,590      25,650      27,180      27,180       27,180         131,310
Extension Services                       2,065         4,438       6,751       7,681       7,681        6,168          34,784
Collection Centers                         750         1.755       2,760       3.765       4,770        5.775          19.575
Sub Total                          33,019        45,419      59,348      60,781      61,786       56,463         316,816
g)  Road Program
Persornel                                2,700        26,400      26,400      26,400      26,400       26,100         134,700
Vehicles and Equipnent                 105,850        13,200      13,200      13,200      13,200       13,200         171,850
Operation and Maintenance                1.400       _47200       47.200      47.200      47,200       47200          237__400
Sub Total                         109,950        86,8oo      86,800      86,800      86,800       86,800         543,950
II. TRAINING CENTERS
Personnel                               49,907        45,485      48,585      13,850      13,850       13,850         185,527
Buildings                               50,55D        18,100      18,100       -           -            -              86,750
Vehicles ard Equipmant                  15,340         3,300       3,300       2,520         300          300          25,060
Operation and Maintenance               20,722        21,038      23.293      15,663      15,663       15,663         112.0042
Sub Total                         136,519        87,923      93,278      32,033      29,813       29,813         409,379
III. PEST CONTNOL
Personnel                               14,300         7,600      11,650      11,650      11,900       12,400          59,500
Vehicles and Equipment                  36,482        50,725      78,188      72,735      76,227       87,926         402,283
Operation and Maintenance                2,300         4.600       6,900       6,900      6.900         6,900          34,500
Sub Total                          43,082        62,925      96,738      91,285      95,027      107,226         496,283
IV. RESEARCH AND STUIIES                         79,578        65,377      60,889      89,672      79,231       39,532          414,279
V, ON FANM INPUTS
New Planting Material
and Insecticides                     31,322        49,410      55,o60      30,008      18,595        7,270         191,665
Smll Farm Equipment                      8,100        13,1450     16,0        16,000      16,500       10,000          80,050
Sprayen and Fingicides                  41.680        51.960      49.460  _49.460         59,130        8.052         259.742
Sub Total                               81,102       114,820     120,520      95,468      94,225       25,322         531,457
PROJECT COST BEORE CONTINGENCIES           696,325       708,155     817,498     718,721     685,122      555,286      14,181,107
PHISICAL CONTINGENCIES                      20,712        18,680      21,260      17,365      17,005       13,869         108,891
PRIC CONTINGENCIES                        100.998       177.23)4    282.444     324.193     380,999      385.577       1,651.445
TOTAL COST WITH CONTINGENCIES              818.035      904.069   1.121.202   1.060.279   1.083.126       954.732       5.922b.1413



EÇîcii3F PUF 
888008801,                                   Ttile 2
(Cr00  000)
FI          F0Y          PY3          F0 4        PY 5         PY 6          TOATi
A.  Ii,o,Iooirtr,
M  om0      11110         4,>tio      6,000       6,000        6,000        36,000
Oqt.,lLo Proie ire  t. toor             00.563       14,05(1       14,050     14,050       14,050         _          23,763 +
teoito,  t., otputv Oroieto L Mtînoocer   2,350       2,350         2, 350      3 ,250    31,250         3,250        36,800
Melktting/Crstit r 06r:ro,,   3,250        3, 2301       3,250       3,250       3,250        3,250        13,50O
Sc,,t,,e Itcprc,tor                      30,525       10,225       100525       3,262          -            -         36,030 +
Sonior  jn.opoteolr                -            -             -         3,250        3,250        3,250         9,750
Fn 12 loto,,, fn,D r                      4,700        4,200        4, 40 47,o               4,7D0        4 ,700      28,200
cqi,, r Occo,,ntect                      03,160       13,160       13,160         -            -            -         39,480 *
Clhino  Scc0tmtofit                        -            -           2,350       3,250        3,250        3,250       12,100
csiO r .>r  îo,e6reo,,g    s      v        t2 ,10     2,100        2,100       2,100        2,100       21,60 1        2 600
Cr et rrcille Ocrolces           2,100       2,109         2,110       2,100       2,100        2,1D0        12 600
2,100       2,100         2,1on      2,100         2,100       2,10D        12,600
"  ,cî ntico Ocrvlccs       2,100        2,100         2,100      2,100        2,100        2,100        12,600
l lcc otioe Dircrct:ory        1,40D        1,40  4       1,0        1,400        1,400        1,400        8,400
lplsecis                                  2,B00      22800          2,000       2,800       2,800        2,000        16,800
Office Forornnel                          3,600        3,600        3,800       3,6 0        360           600        21 600
Oliver                                    2 025        2,250        2,b75       2.475        2 475        2,475       144175
Orde- o                                     750          750'          750        750          750          750        4,500
Qensonn2 Oor6cers                         11,000     11,000       11,000      11,000          -            -         44 D00
Ottlsîo,tn   l'cnn                       10,000        6,0D0        6,D0          -            -            -         22,000 +
Shet:t:.( I(t lI... dq9,ortcr,-   07,523      90.235        92,610      73.437      57,175       43,125       4b4,305
+ Pop., riot,, Silorlen
2,  Sector  0141oC.t                        Cool          CosOt        Co-           C Coti t-                   Co-
00048Rcr                               4,200         8,400)        12,600      12,600        12,600        12,600       63,000
1'r,,,,lo,til
.lhlcf                                 2,800        S 600          8,400        S,400         6,400        9.400       42,000
C s;ier~                               1,S00         3.000         44050        4,500         4,500         4,500       22,500
Orreelore                    ~~~~~~       ~~~~~1,500  3,000  4,500    4,500         o>3ûo         4,500o       2,0
0714c Soifr                            3,000         6,e00          0.000       0,000         0,000         0,000       45,000
1,350        2,700          4,050       4,050         4,050         4,050       20,250
SOC         000r          050          01.00 1,       500         1,500        7,500
S,bh,,t.,tl feoel,ec.rtn           14,850        29,700         44,550  44 ,550           44,550        44,550      222,750
Mfrkrirtlîg(Pr 1F.ceper o.tniveîis
C .i.f                                  2 800        5 600          8,400        8,400         8,400        8,400       42,000
elarcctI,op0t 0cat            .         4,500        90,DO         13,500       13,5`0        13,500       13,500       67,50D
Sr,eekcopce                  1,050~       ~~~~~~~~~ 210  3,1500       3,100         3,130         3,50        1,5
S rretoro                               10750        0,500          2250         2,250        2,250         2,1250      11,750
OffIce  e.t:ff                          2,400        4,800          7,200        7,200         7,200         7,200      36,005
it6,,ece                               1,250         2,500         3,750        3,750         3,750         3,750       18,750
0n,,,oOnieoît X`onilitt                  8000        1.600          2,400        2,400         2,400         2,400      12,000
0,,40,ot:l fînkclîng              33,550       27,100         40,650       40,650       40,650        40,650      203,250
roti) Sctor,                      26.400       56QQ           05.200              85,200              85.200      426,000
AgriLetlture,e   Oooiofoscs             4.500         9,750         14,250      14,250        14,250        12,000       69,000
Elnotoooo 0tc=koeo:
On Fr010000                 ~~~~~~        ~~~4,444  4,1,06  4,050                     -            -          1,0
t<,1 lim7e                                          1 07,820      37 530       56,970        56,970        45,360      214,600
Hoî    - ime                           5,828         5,870         5,670         -              -            -          17,18
Foet tiOe                              1.305        1,665           1,620        .              -                       4590
TotoAI1  tocsin,  sevtco         06.027        39.D11         82,120      71.220        71,220        37,360      318 088
n. Onod Froncrax
Staff S1încici                          88,720        27,070        27,070       27,070        21,070        27,070     154,070
Il 1rTIMININC,
Slrectoe of feoictes                    13,163       10,530         10,530         -              -            -         34,223-
A. Pcant,,ne Center
C.S8f Insrruitor                        10 975         8,780          8,78O                                    -2 5        8,535
Deputy Ch01f lOStencîne                  2,100         2,100          2,350       3,250         3,250         3,250        6,300
Iîstrucccors                             Z,250         2,250          2,250        -                           -           6,750
Accounotnt                                 750           750            '50        -                           -           2,250
btnet;a,                                   750           350            750                                                2,250
offone Oceff                               600           600            600         -                                       ,800
Dr-v-r                                      675          675            657          225           225           225       2.700
Cook                                        3B0          380            380                -                   -           1,140
Wat Ih-an                                   260          260            260         -              .            -             780
Inrerar                                     750          75C            750         -              _           _           2,250
Mcîhento                                   6D0           60C            600         -                           -          1,SOO
Disrenser                                   530          53C            530         -              -            _          1.590
Sobtols                         533,781        28,955         29.205        3,475        3,475         3,475      102,368
5, Fle1d resînîoz
Dire-tor                                 10.975         8,780            80         -              -            -          28,535 i
8071,3y Dlicettor                         2,100         2,100          2,350       2,350         2,350         2,350       13,600
Instructor                                1,500         3,000         4,500        4,500         4,500         4,500       22,500
0ffice Staff                                600         3,200          5,845     01,800          1.800         1,800        9 00°
Drivîx                                      450           450            450          225          225           225        2,025
Loboren                                     500         1,008         , i.500      1,500   ,    1,500          1,500        7.500
Subtotol                          16,125        16,530         19,380      10,375        10.375        10,375       83,L60
Total Tr-inîng                    49.988        45,483        48,585       13,050        13,SS0        13,850      185 328
III P1.T CONTROL
TfItifl Tes-t                              1,150         2,705         0,050        4,050         4,050           ",e
Op.5 1.û*a,                                7.950         t90'          7iD           .6    7,650                S,350       39.e5o
Ttala PFet Contrel                4_300          7 605        11.650       il  650       11,900        12.         59,500
Total  2OrsoonoS                214.928



CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
PROjEN. CONS
B OILRiiROs
PY O               PY 1               'Y 2                'Y 3                    b              P5                PY 6
1 C 9  7  ')/7L                             17'j75             1,755'76            1,7 /77            o7'To               197o/7'           1 7 l'I              T 0 T A B
U N I T  COS                 N       OST         No   C O   T       to   C T            No    C O S        o T                 No   C 0  S T    No    C O S T
'RANING
NRo-is                                                                     22,500                                                                                                                              22,500
Neotoretior, and Notenolon af
criating f-cilitles                                                     15,000                                                                                                                              15, 0DO
aoildig.       3li25 2                          30                         39,750                                                                                                                              39,750
Garage-Store      350                           18                          6,300                                                                                                                               6,300
Furnmhings & Uten..ilv                                                      6,B0O                                                                                                                               6,800
Utilitie_ 6,550
Soot.tal Trainirg                                                       96,900                                                                                                                               96,900
SEITOR OFFICES
NoHae (Manager)                              3,000                                       2   6,0O0           2   6,000           2   6,000                                                                      16,000
Adniaietration 3uilding                      6,000                                       2  12,000           2  12,000           2  12,000                                                                     36,000
Garoge-Store (Production 150 m)                 18                                       2   5,1400          2   5,p00           2   5,400                                                                     16,-200
Store (marketing 200 =)                         16                                        2   7,200          2   7,200           2   7,20o                                                                     21,600
Suototal Seotor Offices                                                                   30,600              30,600              30,60o                                                                     91,G00
COLLECTION CENTERS
Store                                          170                                       30   5,100         30   5,100          30   5,100         30   5.100          30   5,100        30   5,100             30,600
Suototal Collection Centera                                                                 5,100              5,100               5,100              5,100               5,100             5,100            30,600
Total  CoilAinge Tort                                                   96,900            35,700              35,700              35,700             5,100                5,103             5,100           219,300



OCOA PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS
0'ENICLES AND E,QUIPONgNT COSTS
(CFAF '000)
1 7                       0?77'74               .7 17  71                                  1'76y7?              o'77 70               1?7ili7,             li79'?                  T O T A L
U0 1          3 T                                                 T       1S 0CN        T      No      ^       S -  1k            T       No      C 0 5 T       No       O S T
HEAD9UARTE S
:'roJect Faooger - Solo,,                    l,:l                      1       ,1û0'                                                                         1      1,79                                                           2,û0û
D-Loy -7 tio  7in sI ;)                                                1         7ûO                                                                         1        ?Jû                                                          1,390
Production ùirrector -70.O7agon                  )J                                                   J                                                      I        007                                                          1,500
Marketing Director- St.Wegon                                                                 1       9                                                                900                                                          1,800
Secior Inspectùr-4  hee  dr.                  1                                              1    1,6                                                        i      11,60                                                          3,200
Field Inspecoor-FlelO veh, 4 w.d.             1, DO                                          2    2,6,11                                                      2     2,600                                                          5,200
Trùck 3,5 t                                   1,75ù                                          1    1,75u            1      1,700          l      1,75         11 1, 750              0       ,7 5         1      1,750             10,500
Office furniture -nd e4ù0oment                                                                    0,677                                                              -500
OoOOcOol Ileo0oourters                                                    1,900              12,25ù                   1,750                1,75û                1,650                  1,75                 1,750             30,800
TRAINING3
Director - St.Wagon                             9û                                           6                                  1                                     3 00
General uee:  FielF d sel 4 -d.               1,300                                                7, 00                                                      5     6,001
Trorh 3.5 t                     1,750                                          1    1,750                                                                                                                            1,750
Moooreyole    MoOorCyoOo  37                                        1,    ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200--    ,-                     2       l17
.OuOtor07 Trainifo                                                                           01,55D                                                             7,500                                                         19,050
SECTOR OFFICES
Field vehicle, 4 vd                         1,30û                                          4    5,20             h       5,200 4              5,200  4            5, 230                    >                  5,2907           31,200
Tru-k, 3,5 o (M.r,eotng> g,7>.                                                             2    ',5w0            2      3,50)          2       5           2 3,5                  2                    2       3,500            21,00û
Motorcycle                                     >175-                                       6       300           6         300         6        300        6                                                   3,5uC 6  30û      1 800
SUoOt.1  Oector Offices                                                                      9,000                   9,000                 9,000               9,0ùO                  ?,000                o,Doo             54,000
E7T00S0ON S00VI0r7
Agr.Aseet. Notorllycîe                         50                                          6       300           7         35          6        30û        6                      7                    3         150             1,750
Ext.morker, Olcyn le                           S5                                         55  _ 25             6 9  ù       >         63   _ 4             15     1,275          63        745        63   9h 5                  5,S88
Soolosal Extension 9yrvice                                                                   1,125                   1,295                 1,245               1,575                   ,25                  l                 7,630
FEST CONTROL
Vehicles                                                                                           060                   1,266                1,2ùO               1,6du                   2,256                2,400              9,744
Equiptent                                                                                        1,264                   ,24            _    1 742                  766                   1,ù48                4,095            lO,û73
Suototal Peso Cnotrol                                                                        2,224                    2,496                2,J42               2,L46                   3,'0                 6,405            19,817
COLLECTION CENTERS
00715071014 70147580~~~~~~~~~~~~20                                                 0 
Siecellaneooe iqeipFeent
*wheeloarroe', "r ^e-c, ctc )                 25û0_ __                                   __37   7,5Cf          _ 30     7 500°       3'J  0,573           30      /.      S    : .3 _.0 10O 7,L50                         4      5,000
0005 F0005044~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 0
SutTotai Collection Center-                                            ~~~~~~         ~         ~~~~~       ~        ~~~~~      ~       ~~~~~7,5,(  7,500  7,5o0  7,50f  7,5oo         7,5C0D           45,o00
ROAD PROCRAUM'
Motor grader 12û Hp                          10, 15o                                                  31,350                                                                                                                         31,350
Service trucu                                 2,050                                           2        4,100                                                                                                                          4,100
Fuel tanh triloer                             l,OCO                                           1        1,Q0O                                                                                                                          1,000
3uidnzer 140 Hlp                             13,90G                                           1       73,9(70                                                        13,900                                                           >0
13,910
Front loader LUC IID                          6,000                                            1       6,o00
Copactor 15 t  3                              5,20                                             1       5,200                                                                                                                          6'00o
D.mp truOk 45                                 3,1l70                                           7      21,700                                                                                                                         21,7(0
Wt-er ta-k teruk 6000 1                       2,9W                                             1       2,9470                                                                                                                         2L 700
F.el t.nk t-kc 3500 0                         2,1U11                                           1       2,170210
Service seation ce treiler                    2,007                                            L       2,,007                                                                                                                         2,100
Pick-up                                       1,000                                           37,000                                                                                                                                  3,090
Crrcr-te mixer                                  60                                             1         600                                                                                                                            600
Self proelled crne                            6,500                                            1       6,50                                                                                                                           65
Small eqipmene  & trole                                                                                55u o,57e
Mlaterials                                                                                              _                   13,7ù-              13,200                13,2_                 13,200                13,2700_           6 'JO
SuboteaL Roadr                                                                                 105,o5o                 13,20X             13,200               1',2I .                 13,29C               13,200            171,850
Y vol 7'  '.          o ipmect 7>                                     0,1,1                    0      ) >-,2M C57?7                                                 -7?35    -   -                                            3;



CAiNtROON
COCOA PROJECT
PROJECT OOSTS
OPE,tATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
(CP76 '606)
PY 0                PY 1                Pl 2               P103                PY L                 P5                yP 6
1 9 7 3                1973/74             1974/75             1)75/76            1)76'77             1)77/78             1978/7)             1979/80               T O T A L
U N I T  TOI                                    No 00ST  No                 0C 0 S T    No    C O S T       o      00          No    C 0   S T_ No        C 0 S 
HEAOQUARTERS
Office Reot1                                                                                2,00M                2,000O            2,000               2,000I              2,070               2,0M0             12,000
Office Eopeneec                                                                            2,000                 2,000             2, 0O0             2,000                2.000               2,000            12,000
80i16 Eapena.1                         1,8Wo                    I        900          4    7,200          4     7,200        4     7,200         3    5,400          3    5,4W           1    1,800             35,100
(D>poty PireJot Manager
Production Director
Senior Inspector, Chief
Akccuntent)
Tr_1el (5% of saLaries)                                                  309               3,025                 3,036             3, Ù47              2,iï .5             2"ilS               l,69              i6,647
Vehicle opertice - exi ,tentonn
P.ooenger- r                          760/yr                          360          7    5,320          7      5,320       7    5,320          7    5,320          7    5,320          7    6,320              32,300
Thice         s                     1,540/yr                                       1    1,540          2      3,000       3    4,620          3    4.620          3    4,6 20         3    4,620              23,100
Sobtot.1 Neadqortern                                              1,569               21,055               22,636            24,187              22,155              22,155              17,340            131,147
Buildtg Maintenance                 .5% cf cost                                                                4,645             4,645               4,095                                                     13,785
Otilities                                                                                 1,400                1,400             1,400                 700                                                      4,900
Teaching snd Office S3pplies                                                              2,900                3,100             3,700                 600                                                     10,300
Iaple,ete and Toole                12.5/traine                                           6,212                8,662            11,162                 375                                                     28,41i
MaLs                                                                                      6,780                8,940            10,060               1,800                                                     27,580
Ph-a..y                                                                                    600                   900             1,000                 200                                                      2,700
Vohilns O eaml ki
Peecenge' cern                      76O/e    6,O0b                                                       6  o,o80        8    6,080         6    4,560                                                      22,800
Trock                             1,540/yr                                       1    1,540          1      1.,540       1    1,540                                                                          4,620
Motorcyclos                          35/yr                                       4       14o         2         -7        2       70         2        70                                                       -350
Sobtita1 Training                                                                        27,652               35,537             39,857             12,400                                                    115,446
SIototl Training
SECTOR OFFIOES
Boiidind  Maintenance                5% cf Coot                                                                1,530             3,060               4,59G               4,590               4,570             18,360
Miecellanecos srcpensee              600/sector                                           1,200                2,ll00            3,600               3,600                3,600              3,600             16,o00
Vehicle O and '{
Ponnence ocre C760/yr                                                            4     3,040         8      6,080       12    9,120        12    7,120          12    7,120        12     9,127             45,600
Trcik                             i,S54O/yr                                      2     3,080         4      6,160        6    3,240         ( 6   9,240          6    7,24i         6     3,240             46,200
Motorcycier                           35/yr                                      6       210        12        420       1  -    630        16       630         16       630        18      630              3,150
ScototI SOct-r Officec                                                               7,530               16,590            25,650              27,180               27,1d0             27,1bO            131,310
i:T;INSERVICE
Miscollaneous                          25/oget                                           1,525                3,275             5,000               5"75O                5,75v               4,6'1            25,900
Vehicls O nd M.
Metercycles                           35/yr                                      6       210         13       455       1)       665        1V      665         1'       6o5        `6       56u              3,220
)iejcLon                              6/yr                                     55       331        llo        708     181    1,006        211     1,266        211 26<            168    1,Ob    _           5,664
SOotobal  ylteceion serri-e                                                          2,065                4,438              6,751              7,681                7,6d1               6,168            34,784
PEST CONT40L
Vehilcl O ad M                                                                                760                 1,996              2,05J3             4,032               5,414               5,760           20,850
Equipn.ent 0 cd M                                                                           ',291                 7,12?             10, 'SA            15,856              22,322              24,842           8h394
Soltotl Pe-  Contrd1                                                                    4,059                 9,i25             13,834             l',086              27,736              30,602          105,244
01oliicr '.laicntoconce                  5% cf cost                                                                255                513                 765               1,022              1,275             3,825
'lscLlaneous EIcpecccî                   25/enteor                                            75C                 0,5)33             2,25J              7,3)3               3,75.,              4.500            15.750
Ou-actai flollcctilc Cecters                                                               750                 1,755              2,763              ',765               4,770               5,775            19,575
ROAO P4034AM
lquipent O anS m                                                                            i,400                47,200             47,200             47,200              47,200              47,200           237,4Oo
Total Operation and Maintenance Cost                               1,589               64,541               137,281            160,239             140,269            136,722             134,265           774,906






CAMEROON                                                                        ANNEZ 8
ïft6le 1
COCOA PROJECT
CREDIT CO}eiIONENT CASH FLOWS
(CFAF million)
1974/75     1975/76   1976/77    t977178    1978/79           1979/80      1980/81     1981/82     1982/83      1983/84     1984/85    1985/86       1986/87    1987/88    1988/89         1989/90
RnnRC&n
INFLOW
Loan from FONADER                    48.1        73.5       91.0        138.0        172.0         147.7       172.8       191.4         176.3       208.3       224.3        201.8        225.4       221.6        221.6       221.6
Credit repayment:
Fugeicide                       -           20.0        43.3         66.7         90.1         118.4      122.9        132.7        146.4        161.9      175.3         185.9       192.5        195.8       196.8        196.8
Sprayers  Year I                -            12.5       16.3         15.0        27.5           34.0       16.5         29.5         34.0         16.5       29.5          34.0        16.5        29.5         26.6         26.6
Year 2               -             -         12.5         16.3        15.0           27.5       34.0         16.5         29.5         34.0       16.5          29.5        34.0         16.5        29.5         26.6
Storage   Year 1                -             7.1        7.1          7.1         11.8          11.8        11.8         9.4          9.4          9.4        9.4           9.4          9.4         9.4         9.4          9.4
Year 2               -             -          7.1          7.1          7.1          11.8       11.8         11.8          9.4          9.4        9.4           9.4         9.4          9.4         9.4          9.4
Sub Total                       -           39.6        86.3        112.2       151.5          203.5      197.0        199.9        228.7        231.2      240.1         268.2       261.8        260.6       271.7        268.8
(Bad debts, 10%)                 -            (4.0)      (8.6)       (11.2)      (15.2)         (20.4)     (19.7)       (20.0)       (22.9)       (23.1)     (24.0)        (26.8)      (26.2)       (26.1)      (27.2)       (26.9)
Total Inflow                48.1       109.1      168.7         239.0       308.3          330.8      350.1       371.3         382.1       416.4       440.4        443.2        461.0       456.1        466.1       463.5
OUTFLOW
Credit made:
Fungicide                       16.7         36.1       55.6         75.1         98.7         102.4       110.6       122.0        134.9        146.1      154.9         160.4        163.2       164.0       164.0        164.0
8prayers                        20.0         26.0       24.0         44.0         54.4          26.4        47.2        54.4         26.4         47.2       54.4          26.4         47.2        42.6         42.6        42.6
Storage                         11.4         11.4       11.4         18.9         18.9          18.9        15.0        15.0         15.0         15.0       15.0          15.0         15.0        15.0         15.0        15.0
Sub Total                       48.1         73.5       91.0        138.0        172.0         147.7       172.8       191.4        176.3        208.3       224.3        201.8        225.4       221.6        221.6       221.6
Repaid to FONADER
Fungicide                       -            17.5       37.9         58.4         78.9         103.6       107.5       116.1        128.1        141.6       153.4        162.6        168.4       171.4        172.2       172.2
Sprayers  Year 1                -            11.0       14.3         13.2         24.2          29.9        14.5        26.0          29.9        14.5        26.0         29.9         14.5        26.0         23.4        23.4
Year 2               -             -         10.5         13.7         12.6          23.1        28.6        13.9          24.8        28.6        13.9         24.8         28.6        13.9         24.8         22.4
Storage   Year 1                -             6.3        6.3           6.3        10.4           10.4       10.4         8.3           8.3         8.3         8.3          8.3          8.3         8.3          8.3          8.3
Year 2               -             -          6.0          6.0          6.0            9.9        9.9         9.9           7.9         7.9         7.9          7.9          7.9         7.9          7.9          7.9
Sub Total                       -            34.8       75.0          97.6       132.1         176.9       170.9       174.2         199.0       200.9       209.5        233.5        227.7       227.5        236.6        234.2
Total Outflow               48.1       108.3       166.0        235.6        304.1         324.6      343.7        365.6        375.3        409.2      433.8         435.3       453.1        449.1        458.2       455.8
Annual Balance                           -            0.8        2.7           3.4         4.2            6.2        6.4          5.7          6.8          7.2        6.6           7.9         7.9          7.0         7.9          7.7
Cum&lative Balance                      -             -          3.5           6.9        11.1           17.3       23.7        29.4          36.2        43.4        50.0         57.9         65.8         72.8        80.7         88.4
FONADER
INFLOWS
Grants from Goverment                48.1        73.5        91.0        138.0
80DECAO Repayment                    -           34.8        75.0         97.6        132.1         176.9       170.9       174.2         199.0       200.9       209.5        233.5        227.7       227.5        236.6        234.2
Total Inflows               48.1       108.3       166.0        235.6        132.1         176.9       170.9       174.2         199.0       200.9       209.5        233.5        227.7       227.5        236.6        234.2
OUTFLOWS
Loan to SDC                          48.1        73.5        91.0        138.0        172.0         147.7       172.8       191.4         176.3       208.3       224.3        201.8        225.4       221.6        221.6        221.6
Net Inflow                           -           34.8        75           97.6        (39.9)         29.2        (1.9)      (17.2)         22.7         (7.4)     (14.8)        31.7          2.3          5.9        15           12.6
Cumulative Inflows                                             109.8         207.4       167.5          196.7      194.8        177.6        200.3        192.9      178.1         209.8       212.1        218.0        233         245.6






ANEX 9
CAMOON
COCQA PROJECT
Estimated Semestrial Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ '000)
Estimated lisbursement
Amount disbursed           Balance of
Project Year     End of Semester        during Semester            Credit
1                   1                   400                    6,100
2                    400                    5s,700
2                   1                    400                    5,3OO
2                    500                    4,800
3                  1                     500                    4,300
2                    500                    3,800
4                   1                    600                    3,200
2                    700                    2,500
5                   1                    700                    1,800
2                    700                    1,100
6                   1                    600                      500
2                    500






ANNEX 10
Table   i
CAMOEROON
COCQA PROJECT
PRODUCTD0N
Estimated Production of Project Area
(tons dry beans)
year                 Production      in tons dry beans                          remarks
without the            with the             increment
project              project
1974-75        10,500.00               10,500.00       _
effect of
1975-76         10,500.00              11,100,00                 600.00       rehabilitation
only
1976-77         10,500.00              12,400.00               1,900.00
1977-78         10,500.00              13,800.00               3,300.00
1978-79         10,500.00              15,200.00               4,700.00
1979-80         10,562.50              16,932.50               6,370.00
1980-81         10,778.70              18,408.75               7,640.05
1981-82         11,174.90              19,893.75               8,718.85
1982-83        11,718.60               21,935.00              10,216.40       combined
effect of
1983-84         12,318.60              24,261,25              11,942,65       rehabilitation
and new
1984-85         12,918.60              26,278.75              13,360.15       plantings
1985-86         13,456.10              27,852.50              14,396.40
1986-87         13,849.90              28,850.00              15,000.10
1987-88         14,043.70              29,347.50              15,303.80
1988-89         14,100.00              29,500.00              15,400.00



CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
PRODUCTION
Estimated Production of Rehabilitated Cocoa
Production -in tons dry beans
year of       area
entrance      (ha)        without                                     with the project
the project
(now rehabilitated)  1975-76     1976-77     1977-78      1978-79     1979-80      1980-81
1974-75         6,000          1,800             2,400       3,000       3,000        3,000       3,000        3,000
1975-76         7,000         2,100             2,100       2,800       3,500        3,500       3,500        3,500
1976-77         7,000          2,100             2,100       2,100       2,800        3,500       3,500        3,500
1977-78         7,000          2,100             2,100       2,100       2,100        2,800       3,500        3,500
1978-79         8,000          2,400             2,400       2,400       2,400        2,400       3,200        4,000
Total          35,000         10,500            11,100      12,400      13,800       15,200      16,700       17,500
Increase              .                            600       1,900       3,300        4,700       6,200        7,000



CAMEROON
COOO80 PROJ3CT
P0D'CTION
Oettngted 3roduction of Ne PlantOiOSg
a    hrea <h)                                                                                           productio h       i  ton-  dry beans
pearOn9 oi,th projert                                       1979-80           1980-81           1981-82             1982-83               1983-84              1984-85               1985-86                 1986-87                1987-88                  1988-89
rith-ot
th. projnct   "eisting"     new   |tot    ïtwitout  with   aunons   ,oth   'lthont    nith             tthus   with        without    eth       without    with        without    With        iuthout    _     _th    ithoUt      ith       without      wIth
1975-76         625          1,250        300      1,550   62.50   232.50   125.00   387.50   187.50     775.00     250.00     930.00     312.50  1,085.O0     375.00   1,240.00     375.00    1,240.00     375.00    1,240.00     375.00    1,240.00    375.00   1,240.00
1976-77       1,437          2,875        600      3,475     -        -     143.70   521.25  287.40      868.75     451.10 I  1,737.50    574.80  2,085.00     718.50   2,432.50     862.20    2,780.00     862,20    2,780.00     862.20    2,780.00      862.20   2,780.00
1977-78       2,000          4,000      1,000      5,000     _        _                 _    200.00      750.00     400.00   1,250.00     600.00  2,500.00     800.00   3,000.00   1,00o.00    3,500.00   1,200.00    4,000.00   1,200.00    4,000.00   1,200.00   4,000.00
1978-79       1,375          2,750        700      3,450     _-                                             -       137.50     517.50     275.00    862.50    412.50   1,725.00      550.00    2,070.00     687.50    2,415.00     825.00    2,760.00      825.00   2,760.00
1979-80         563          1,125        400      1,525     _-                                             -          -          -        56.50    228.75     112.60     381.25     168.90      762.50     225.20      915.00     281.50    1,067.50      337.80   1,220.00
Total         6 ,000        12,000      3,000     15,000   62.50   232.50   268.70   908.75   674.90   2,393.75   1,218.60   4,435.00   1,818.60  6,761.25   2,418.60   8,778.75   2,956.10   10,352.50   3.349.90   11,350.00   3,543.70   11,847.50   3,600.00   12,000.00
Increnent                                                          170.00            640.05           1,718.85               3,216.40             4,942.65              6,360,.5               7,396.40               8,000.10                8,303.80               8,400.00






CAIIRbOON
COOOA PROJECT
F6l4 B00L28T
ON-FARM INFUTS (WUITH PROJECT)
Yaar    1)74/75         1975/76        1976/77     1977178       1978/79      1979/:0                    1980/81        1981/82      1982/83       1983/84        1984/85      1985/86      1986/87       1987/88       1988/89
RERASILITATION                 Unit
A) Area ..d Earmers                          ________________________-----_---------------------------------------------  UNITS  ---------------------------------------           ---- ---------------------------------------~ ~-----~~~-----------------------------
included in projant
area                       ha              6,000        7,OOU         7,000         7,000        8,000            -                           -             -            -             -            -             -              -
area a....ulated           ha              6,000       13,000        20,000        27,00û       35,OUO        35,000                     35,000        35,000        35,000        35,000        35,000        35,000        35,000        35,000        35,000
farnera pnrticipntig      s               5,000        6,500         6,00          6,000        6,500            -                           -            -             -             -            -             -              -             -
faritrs paîtiipnting
eccnnalatad            Na.             5,000       11,500        17,500        23,500        30,000       30,000                      30,000       30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000
0) Phystial fnr  ipats
InsI farct aqipinat        set             5,000       11,500        13,500        23,500       30,000        30,000                      30,000       30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000
sprayere                   Se              5,000        6,500         6,000        11,000        13,000        6,000                      11,000        13,000        6,000        11,000        13,000         6,000        11,000        13,000         6,000
Funaglidea                 nons               60           130          200           770           350           350                        350           350          350           350           350            350          350           350           350
(yield 5S0 kg/ha)
C) COsts                       Unit Price
CFAF       --------------------------------------------------------------------------  CFAF ('000)  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------_                _       _       _        _
Seul faro rqaipme.t       1000-/set        5,000       11,500        17,500        23,500        30,000       30,000                      30,000        30,000       30.000        30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000        30,000
Sprayera ..               5000/piece      25,000       32,500        30,000        55,000        65,000       30,000                      55,000        65,000        30,000       55,000        65,000        30,000        55,000        65,000        30,000
Fnaginides **           278,000/tan       16,680       36,140        55,600        75,060        97,300       97,300                      97,300        97,300       97,300        97,300        97,300        97,300        97,300        97,300        97,300
NSW PLANTINOS                  Unit
A) Area and f aria--rs-                                        --------------___--8---------------------------------------  UNIIS  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
included la praject
crea                       ha                            1,250        2,87          4,000         2,750        1,125                                        -             -                          -             -             -             -             -
area                       ha                              300          600         1,000           700          400
erea aeoonanlated E        ha                            1,250        4,125         8,125        10,875       12,000                      12,000         12,000       12,000        12,000       12,000        12,000        12,000        12,000        12,000
orna aooacnleted N         ha                              300          900         1,900         2,600        3,000                       3,000         3,000         3,000        3,000         3,000         3,000         3,000         3,000         3,000
faccera partinipatig E   0*.               5,000        6,500         4,500                   -             -                   -                    -             -                    -            -             -              -             -            -
fermera pnati.ipatiag N   Ne                 600          600           W00
farcea- partitipatisg
aoac'orulatd gE        N8               5,000        11,500       16,000        16,000        16,000        16,000                     16,000        16,000        16,000        16,000        16,000       16,000        16,000        16,000        16,000
f-rmera participotirg
accnssaltad N            No.               6000        1,200        2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000                      2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000        2,000         2,000         2,000
0) Phycical fara icpota
NOrsery  qoipaent E       aet             5,000         6,500        4,500           -             -            -                            -            -             -             -             -              -           -             -             -
Narcary eqnipa nt N        set               600           600          800           -             -            -                                                                     -             -              -           -             _             _
Polythen baga E           1000 ùag         2,250         5,175        7,200         4,950         2,025
Palyth... bhag  N         1000 bag           540         1,080        1,800         1,260           720            -
Fad. E                    1000 9adc                         75          172.5         240           165           675
PFde N                    1000 pnds                         18           36            60            4P            24
Ir c.ticidea (E14)         1                            4,960        11,120        16,000        11,040         4,880                         -             -             -             _            _             -              _             _             _
Sea11 fara  quipAent E    set              5,000        11,500       16,000        16,000        16,000        16,000                     16,000        16,000        16,000        16,000        16,000        16,000        16,000       16,000         16,000
Snail foar  qoipnrat N    set                600         1,200        2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000                      2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000
sprayere N                 piace              -             -             -            -            600           600                        800           600           600           800           600           600           800           600           600
Fongicides (E88)           tos                -             -             -            -          5,000        18,175                      47,875       88,700       135,225       175,575       207,040       227,000       236,950       240,000       240,000
C) Cocta                       Unit Pica
CFAF       ------                                   -      -     ---------------            CFAF (000)  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nurarry aq.ip-ant E       4000/ret        20,000        26,000        18,000
Nncsary eqgipneat N    12,500/sot          7,500         7,500       10,000
Polythene bhgs E          1370/1000 bag   3,082          7,090        9,864         6,782         2,774
Polythene baga N           1'70/1000 bog    740          1,480        2,4n6         1,726           986            -
Pad. E                 25,000/1000 pade       -          2,000        4,000         6,000         4,125         2,000                                        -             -             -           -             -              -             -             -
Pada N                 25,000/1000 pads                  1,000        1,000         1,500         1,050         1,000                                        -
Insecticides (E&N)         875/1                        4,340         9,730        14,000         9,660         4,270                                       -             -             -           -              -              -             -             -
Ssall foa  eqaipteat E    500/sat          2,500         5,750        8,000         8,000         8,000         8,000                      8,000         8,000         8,000         8,000         8,000         8,000         8,000         8,000         8,000
S-aI  foa  aqaip .et N   1000/crt            600         1,200         2,000        2,000         2,000         2,000                      2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000         2,000
SprayaaaOO  N             5000/piae           -             -             -            -           3,000        3,000                      4,000         3,000         3,000         4,000         3,000         3,000         4,000         3,000         3,000
Fsisgicde (E86)00           278/kg            -             -                                      1,390        5,052                      13,309       24,659        37,593        48,810        57,557        63,106        65,872        66,720        66,720
V Sieting Pa-mrer
2/ NSn Fa..rs
* ennIi f ara eqoipart aill bU   paid by farnar cash
** sprayers and fanginida ill bh provided nn crdit
eorcecy equip= .t, polythana bags, pFda aad in ..ticidas will bh  prvlided by Prajert Anthority, face af charga for the fran.



I AJIERDON
R,fereneo                                                                     - i                                                                - OROJECTu
Ol-FiY UINPDS  r T1   Pit JECT>
ABIOITATION                     uinit  1.fr    4974775       1975-76        1976/77     19777i6       197fi79       1979/S9                     1980iil       1981182       1982/83       1963/84       i9864/8       19857/6       1986/87       1987799       1988989
à) k-e                                          ----- -atr     _    ____--------_--___-------- --------------------------------  UNIT5  ---- ----------------------- -----------------------------------------------
iooîudoo in 91010,1
ha              6,000         7,000         7,000         7.000        S1.000
ote0 rooouoolatofd         ho              6,003        13,090        20,000        27,000        35.000        35,000                     35,000         9,6003       35,300        35,û00        33,O0O         35,000       35.000         353000        }5,0D0
f.roro porttoipooS         No.             5,000         6,5N0         6,000         6-000         6,500
fantero portirîpating
.-.-uloted              No.             5,0NO        11,S0O        17,50         23,500        3 30,000      30.00                      30,0D0        13.0,0        30,000        30,000        30,000         3D,000       30.000         30,000        30,000
B) Phv.lo.1  11r    m 1n ett
S a1l  far oquipo0t       set              5,0N0       11,S00        17,500        23,500        30,000        30,000                      30.03         30,000       30,000         30,000        30,000        30,000        30.000        30,000        10,000
s".0yerr                    No.            5000          6.500         6,000        11,000        13,000         6,000                      11,600        13.00N        6,000        11,0N0         t3.000         6,00        11.0W0        13,000         6,000
I'oon1eid.os                1,                 a30           65          IO            1315          175           175                         175           175           175           17S
3y1e4d 300 kglh.)
C) Co0t.                       Unit Price
CFAF        -------------------------------------------------------------------------  CFA  (0 000)                              --------------------------------------------_ ___   --- ----------------
S-11 f.- oqîpieont         50dtet           2,500         5,750        8,750       1,750         15.000        *5,000                      15,000        15,000        15.090        15,000        IS,OO       0        15.0I  15.0N        I,D00         15.0I 0
Sp-yor-                    5000/pi...       25,N00       72,500        50,09        55,N00        65,030        30,000         S            55.0D0        65,000       30.D00         55.000        65,000        30,000        55.000        6S,O00        90.003
F..gi.ides             27Y,000/ton          8,340        1-,070       27,Y00        37,530        48.650        48,630                    46,650         48,650         48,,6S0       48,650        48.650      - 48,650        48,6S0        48,650       47,0650
SEW PLANTINOS                   Unit
A) Arml nd far-                                -------  --------------__   --_ ------_____--______--__--- ------------------  UNITS  ----------------------------------------------------~---------- ----------------------------------------------
included in proJect
or,,,,                     h-                               615        1.437         2,000         1,375           562
ore *. ...-l.t.d           ho                  _            625        2.0,2         4,062         5,437         6,000                       6,N00         6,000         6,000         6.000         6.000         6,0000               6       .00          600,D
f-rmtrs partitipotlîo      ND              2,500         3,250         2,259
fer,oer. purticipatiag
oooo,toloted            No.                           5,750         0,000
B) Phy.tr.l fr.n inr0t1
96r-eos. Equlptent          .et             2.500         3,2350       2.250
POlythOC 803gs             1OO              l,17S        2,587         2.000         2.475         1,012
Fod.                        1000             -               38            S6           130           a3             34
Sa11 foe  oqo1pmüt          tet            2,500          5,750        0OOO          8.00  -        .390         Y,000
Sp-eVr-                    No.                 .             -             -             - N                         -
Fon&irid.o                 kg                                                                      1,259         5,374                      13,490        24,372        36,372        48,372        59,122        66,992        70.874         72,000
<y71*d 600 kg/ha)
C) C0t.1                        0011 Un -ri
CFAF --------------------  ---------------- - - - -     CFAF ('000) ------- 
Mor.ery EquLp00t            10OD/set        2,500         3,250         2,250
Polythsoe BgS0              1370/1000       1,610         3,544        4,932         3,391         1,386
Pbd.                      25000/1000           *'           950         2,150         3,000        2,075            510
80i1 for,o eq.ipneît       5000/pie.,.      1,250         2,875        4,000         4,000         4,000         4.0N0                       4,000         4,N00 4.000                 4,000         4,000         4.050          4,000         4,000         4,000
Sproyers
0OOltcidoo                  278/ks.                                                                 348         1,494                       3,750         6,775        10,111        13,447        16,436         16,624        19,703        20,016        20,016



-CAMEOQN
-ZOCCA f1ROJEC?
FR  ZUDGET - 1.2 lia REBABI-LITATI(M
Yield: 500 kgtha
Wittiut
YEAR           1            2           3            4           S              6          7 - 25      Rebabilitation
.'roduction <kg)                       360          480         600           600         6Q0           600          600             360
Revenues
Production Value 1@ CFAF 96.5/kg   34,740      46,320      57,900        57,900      57,900        57,900       -57,900         34,740
Yearly bonus                        -            -           -             -           -             -             -
(1) Total revenues              34,740       46,320      57,900        57,900      57,900        57,910       57,900          34,740
Expenditures
Small farm equipment               1,000        1,000       1,000         1,010       1,00D         1,000         1.000            500
Fungicide                          3,340        3,340        3,340        3,340       3,340         3,340         3,340          2,000
Sprayer                            5,000         -            -           5,000        -             -            1,660 1,1 1.660 1-
9,340        4,340       4,340        9,340       4,340          4,340        6,000           4,165
Less: Financed by credit
100% of fungicide                  3,340        3,340       3,340         3,340       3,340         3,340         3,340
80% of sprayer:                   4,000          -           -           4,000        -              -           1,330
Plus: Credit repayments
for fungicide in next project
year                                -           4,000        4,000        4,000       4,000         4.000         4 000
for sprayer in 2 next years         -           2,500        2,500         -          2,500         2,500         1,660_
(2) Cash expenditures              2,000        7,500       7,500        6,000        7,500         7,500         7,000          4,165
(3)  Net revenues (1) - (2)       32,740       38,830      50,400       41,900       50,400        50,0          50,900         30,57.5
1/ Average over three-year period.



CAMEROON
COCCA PROJECT
FARX 8UDGET'.0,75 la NEW PLANTING <WITN PR0JECT). EXISTING FARlMER
(CFAF)
Yieldt 800 kglha
Year               1          2           3          4           5           6           7           8          9           10           il           12           13 - 25
Plantation (ha)                                       0.25       0.25        0.25         -           -           -           -           -         -            -             -            -
Production (kg)                                        -          -           -           -           38         100         225        338        450          525          575          600             600
Revenues
Production Value @ CFAF 96.5/kg                     -          -           -           -       3,620       9,650      21,713      32,617    43,425        50,663       55,488       57,900         57,900
Yearly bonus                                        --                                                       -           -           -          -            -            -            -_
(<)  Total revenues                                 -          _           _           _       3,620       9,650      21,713      32,617    43,425        50,663       55,488       57,900         57,900
Expenditures
(a)  Nursery equipment                            4,000                                          -                        -          -          -            - _  _  _
(b)  Plastic bags                                   610       610          610        -
<c)  Seeds                                          350       350          350         -
(d)  Insecticides                                   700    1,400         1,400        700
(e)  Small farm equipment                           300       3D0          300         3         300         300         300         300        300          300          300          300             300
(f)  Fungicides                                     -         -           _           _          200         580       1,200       1,830      2,500        2,930        3,200        3,300          3,300
(g)  Sprayer  U
Sub-total                                 5,960    2,660        2,660       1,000        500         880       1,500       2,130     2,800        3,230         3,500        3,600          3,600
Less: Subsidies for (b), (c) (d):                    1,660    2,360         2,360         700        -           -           -           -         -             -            -            -              -
Less:  Financial by Credit
1007% of Fungicide:                                 -         -            -           -          200        580       1,200       1,830      2,500        2,930        3,200        3,300           3,300
80% of Sprayer:                                                      -                           -           -          -           -          -            -            -             -
Plus:  Credit repayments
For Fungicide in next project year                  -         -            -           -          -           240        696       1,440      2,196        3,000        3,516         3,840          3,960
For Sprayer in next 2 years                         -         -            -           -          -           -          -           -          -            -             -            -              -
(2)  Cash Expenditures                            4,300       300          300         300        300         540        996       1,740      2,496        3,300        3,816        4,140           4,260
(3)  Net revenues (1) - (2)                      -4,300      -300         -300        -300     3,320       9,110      20,717      30,877    40,929        47,363       51,672       53,760          53,640
l/ No aprayer needed in addition to the one already used for rehabilitation.



CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - 0.6 Ha NEW PLANTING (WITHOUT PROJECT): EXISTING FARMER
(CFAF)
Yield: 600 kg/ha
Year        1        2         3         4         5       6        7        8        9         10         il           12 - 25
Plantation (ha)                             0.20      0.20      0.20      -         -        -       -        -         -         -           -
Production (kg)                              -         -         -        -          20       60      120     1-80      240       300         340            360
Revenues
Production value O CFAF 96.5/kg              -         -         -        -       1,930   5,790  11,580  17,370   23,160   28,950          32,810        34,740
Yearly bonus                                 -              -         -        -         -       -        -        -         -                -              -
(1)  Total revenues                      -         -        -         -       1,930   5,790  11,580  17,370   23,160   28,950          32,810        34,740
Expenditures
(a)  Nursery equipment                  1,000                                    -       -        -        -         -         -           -             -
<b)  Plastic bags                         490      490       490
(c)  Seeds                                280      280       280       -         -       -        -        -         -         -           -             -
(d)  Insecticides                         -         -        -
(e)  Small farm equipment                 500      500       500      500        500      500     500      500       500       500         500           500
(f)  Fungicides                           -         -        -         -         100     330      660   1,000    1,330    1,660          1,900         2,000
(g)  Sprayer  1/                               -             -         -         -        -       -        -         -         -           -             -
Sub-total                      2,270    1,270    1,270       500        600      830   1,160   1,500    1,830    2,160          2,400          2,500
Leas:  Subsidies for (b) and (c)             770       770       770       -         -       -        -        -         -         -           -             -
Less:  Financed by credit
Plus:  Credit repayment
(2)  Cash expenditures                 1,500       500      500      500        600      830   1,160   1,500    1,830    2,160          2,400         2,500
(3)  Net revenues (1) - (2)           -1,500     -500      -500    -500       1,300   4,960  10,420  15,870   21.330   26,790          30,410        32,240
1/  Sprayer not included, since without project only those farmers who have a cocoa farm and therefore a sprayer.



CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - 1.5 Ha NEW PLANTINC < WITH PROJECT): NEW FARMER
CÇFAF)
Yield: 800 kg/ha
Year       1           2           3         4           5         6          7         8         9           10           il           12           13-25
Plantation (ha)                               0.5         0.5         0.5        -           -         -         -          -         -           -             -            -
Production <kg)                                -           -           -         -            75       200       45o        675       900       1,050        1,150         1,200         1,200
Revenues
Production value @ CFAF 96.5/kg                -           -           -         -         7,240   19,300    43,425    65,140   86,850    101,330          110,980      115,800        115,800
Yearly bonus                                   -           -           -         -           -        -          -          -         -           -             -            -
(1)  Total revenues                         -           -           -        -         7,240   19,300    43,425    65,140   86,850    101,330           110,980      115,800       115,800
Expenditures
(a)  Nursery equipment                   12,500         -           -        -           -        -           -          -         -           -            -            -
(b)  Plastic bags                         1,220      1,220       1,220       -           -        -           -          -         -           -            -            -
(c)  Seeds                                  700         700         700      -           -        -           -          -         -           -            -            -
(d)  Insecticides                         1,400      2,800       2,800    1,400          -        -           -          -         -           -            -            -              -
(e)  Small farm equipment                 1,000       1,000       1,000    1,000       1,000    1,000       1,000      1,000    1,000        1,000        1,000        1,000         1,000
(f)  Fungicides                             -           -           -         -          400    1,060       2,400      3,660    5,000        5,860        6,400        6,600         6,600
(g)  Sprayer                                -           -           -      5'000         -        -         5,000        -         -         5,000          -            -            1,665
Subtotal                          16,820       5,720       5,720    7,400        1,400    2,060       8,400      4,660    6,000       11,860        7,400        7,600         9,265
Less:  Subsidies for (F.), (b), (c), (d): 15,820         4,720       4,720    1,400          -        -           -          -         -           -            -            -             -
Less:  Financial by Credit 100%
of fungicide:                          -            -           -         -          400    1,060       2,400      3,660    5,000        5,860        6,400        6,600          6,600
80% of Sprayer:                        -            -           -      4,000         -        -         4,000        -         -         4,000          -            -            1,330
Plus:  Credit repayments
for fungicide in next project year          -            -           -         -           -        480      1,280      2,880    4,400        6,000        7,040         7,680         7,920
for sprayer in next 2 years                 -            -           -         -         2,500    2,500        -        2,500    2,500          -          2,500         2,500         1,665 2/`
(2)  Cash expenditures                    1,000       1,000       1,000    2,000       3,500    3,980       3,280      6,380    7,900        8,000       10,540       11,180         10,920
(3)  Net revenues (1) - (2)              -1,000      -1_000      -1.000   -2.000       3.740   15.320    1,145    58.760   78.950           93,330      100,440      104,620        104,880
1/ Average over three-year period.



AUNEZ 12
CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW  1!
(CFAF Million)
1989/90
te0
1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1993/94
INFLOHI
Loan IBRD                                      200        200         200         200         190        138
Loan CCCE 2/                                   180        180         180         180         180        180
Grant FAC                                       40         40          40          40          40         40
Indirect Taxes in Projeat CeaIs                 29         32          40          40         40          28
Expert Tatas on Incr.. antal Production         -           24         76         116         160        205         250         281         329        385         430         463         483        496          496         496
Stabilization Fund Surplus                      -          51         160         243         334        428         513         585         685        802         897         966       1,007      1,027        1,034       1,034
Total Inflows                            449         527         696         819        944       1,019         763         866      1,014       1,187       1,327       1,429       1,490      1,523        1,530       1,530
OUTFLIOWS
Project Cost 3/                                703        706         815         712         776        550         297         260         260         231         290        236         236        236          236         236
Less:  Cent Without Pr.ject                    (24)        (55)        (88)      (124)       (161)       (164)      (164)       (164)       (164)       (164)       (164)       (164)       (164)      (164)        (164)      (164)
Incraemental Prejeet Cost                      679        651         727         588         615        386         133          96          96          67         126         72          72         72           72          72
Net Flîw Before Debt Service                  (230)       (124)        (31)       231         329         633        630         770         918       1,120       1,201       1,357       1,418     1,451        1,458       1,458
Debt Servies
IBRD                                           (23)        (37)       (52)        (66)        (81)        (90)      (137)       (137)       (137)       (137)       (137)       (137)       (137)      (137)        (137)      (137)
CCCE 2/                                         (6)        (13)        (19)       (25)        (31)        (38)        (99)       (99)        (99)        (99)        (99)        (99)        (99)       (99)         (99)        (99)
NET ANNUAL CASH FLOW                               (259)       (174)       (102)        140        217         505         394        534         682         884         965       1,121       1,182      1,215        1,222       1,222
CUMULATIVE NET CASH FLOW                             -         (433)       (535)       (395)      (178)        327         721      1,255       1,937       2,821       3,786       4,907       6,089      7,304        8,526      14,636
1/  In 1974 prices
2/ At 3.57. per annue for 20 years including 6-year period  f grace
3/  Lnss farers' centributions






ANNEX 13
CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
Benefits
1.         Benefits have been calculated on incremental cocoa production,
assuming no improvement in average quality (90% grade I and 10% off-grade).
The economic value consists of price received by producers, intermediary
margin accruing to precooperatives, and Government taxes and Stabilization
Fund surplus. Calculations are based on a CIF cocoa price of US¢ 47/lb,
as projected for 1980 at average 1973/1974 prices by the Comuodities #ud Export
Projections Division, converted at a kate  of CFAF 250/Us$ (Table 1).  Producer
prices are CFAF 100/kg and CFAF 65/kg for grade I and off-grade cocoa
reopectively, which are 1973/74 actu8a price..
Costs
2.         Cost figures include ail project investment and operating costs at begin-
ning 1974 prices. Administration costs without the project have been
estimated at CFAF 4,000/ha, which appears to be the approximate cost of
services currently provided.
3.         On-farm input costs are derived from Annex 13, Tables 1 and 2,
deducting internal indirect taxes amounting to 30% of the coat of small
farm equipment and sprayers.
4.         Family labor has been costed at the minimum agricultural wage
rate of CFAF 250/day, which roughly correspond to daily wages currently
paid plantation workers in the southwestern region oil palm estates.
5.  Project Life
A life of 25 years has been assumed for the project.
6. Results and Sensitivity Analysis
The economie rate of return under assumed costs and benefits
is 26%. Sensitivity analysis of the rate of return to variations in
costs and benefits shows the following results:
Rate of Return under:
---------- Benefits-
Costs                100%         90%          75%
100%                  26           23          18
110%                  23           20          15
125%                  19           17          12






ANNBX 13
CAMEROON
COCOA PROJECT
Economic Value of Cocoa
Export Cocoa (Grade I)
World Market Price:                       US d/lb       47
OFAF/kg     260
OFÂF!"' ton
CIF Price                                      260,000
Freight, insurance & miscellaneous Co0ts        20,000
FOB Douala Price.                              240,000
Allocation of FOB Price:
Export Costs:                                   26e250
Transport costs and losses, project area
to Douala                                   6,000
Handling, bagging, & storage                   6eo00
Insurance & financial expenses                 5,800
Miscellaneous fees and charges                 2,4o0.
Stabilization Fund tax                         1.000
Exporterls gross profit margin                 5,050
Economic Value                                 213 750
Producer price                               100,00
Intermediary margin                            5,100
Export tax                                    34,062
Stabilization Fund surplus                    74,588
Non-Export Cocoa (off-grade)
Economic Value:                                 85 430
Producer price
Intermediary margin                            5,100
Tax                                           15,330
Average Economic Value of Project Cocoa           200,918
(90% export, 10% non-export)



cAliraooN                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 2
COCOA PROJECr
1974/75     1975/76     1976/77     1977178     197i./79    1979/80     1980/81     1981/82     1982/83      1983/84     1984/85     1985/86     1986/87     1987/88      1988/89 to
1998/99
COSTS Wl1S PROJECT
Total PFroeet Co-t                           696.3       708.2       B17.5       718.7       685.1        555.2
Le: ..   ore enta1 Fart Inputs               (81.1)     (114.8)     (120.5)      (95.5)       (94.2)      (25.3)
1.lvase Valoe of BoildiRg &
V.hi.le. s                                                              (11.5)      (66.4)
Subtotal                       615.2       593.4       697.0       611,7       524.5       529.9
Pls:  Fhysical Costlsgaaaias                 20.7        18.7        21.3        17.4        17          14
Subt.tal                       635.9       612.1       718.3       629.1       541.5       543.9
t        tcs:  Internal T..es                 19.1        19.3        28.0        27.7        25.0         25.4
Subtots1                       616.8       592.8       690.3       601.4       S16.5       518.5
Add:    On-Farr Icputs                        74.7       127.3       158.5        175.4       202.5       168.7       185.2      196.4      210.0       222.5       130.9        236.8         240.4       240.6       240.8
Fa.ily Labos                         144         393.2       691.5     1,022.2     1,227.5     1,179.2     1,108.0    1,248.2    1,172.7      1.230.5     1,274.5      1,306.9       1,326.5     1,339.0     1,342.5
Post Project Admi.i.tratioe C.st                  ______304.7                                                            268.1      268.1       238.6       297.0        246,0        244.0        244.0       244.0
Total                          835.5     1,113.3   1.540.3       1.799_0     1,946.5     1866.4      1,597.9   t.7_127    1 6_50.8      1,691.6     1.802.4      17B77              .      1,82316 1,827.3
C08T WlT8017f PROJECT
Ad4ii.strat1nn                                24.0        54,5        88.2       124.2       161.7        164.0       164.0      164.0      164.0       164.0       164.0         164.0        164.0       164.0       164.0
Os-Pcra, Itcut.                               34.2        58.4        70.4        98.1        118.8        89.6       104.3      108.9      112.4       115.9       119.1         121.4        122.5       122.8       122.8
Fa.ity Lab.r                                  86.5       211.5       352.8       501.3       620_8       1603.8       583.5      590.5      604.5       621.8       634.3         643.8        649.8       653.0       653.8
Total                          144.7       324.4       511.4       723.6       899.3       897.4        851.8      863.4      880.9       901.7       917.4        929.2         936.3       939.8       940.6
INCR1E4NTAL ECOoOMrC C0STS                        690.8       788.9     1,028.9     1.075.4     1,047.2     1,0D9,0       746.1       849.3,   769.9         789.9       885.0        858.5         874.6       883.8       886.7
INCREIDSNTAL ECONOMIC 8ENEPITS
lncraematal Productin                          -         600       1,900       3,300       4,700       6,370        7,640      8,719     10,216      11,943      13,360        14,396       15.000      15,304       15,40V
YIsSue vf Incaraeaet.  Production  1/          -         120.6        381.7       663.0       944.3    1,279.8      1,535.0    1,751.8   2.052.6      2,399.6      2,684.3      2,892.4      3,013.8     3,074.8      3,094.1
Ecoccd.c Rate ef Return 26%
1/ Average price of CFAF 200,918tt, based on values at Tabla 1 and output  iotcicttng in                                                                                            SEN81TIVITY ANELYSIS
90D  Grade I and 107 off-grade ooaea.
SENP,FIT
CecI       108.      *10       -25%
10    2         23        la
+107.       73   23   2          5
4.257,      19        17        12



IBRD 10805
UNITED REPUBLIC 0F CAMEROON                                                                    î'4J    19 .
COCOA PROJECT 
10          20       30       40      50 
KILOMETERSBAA 
10                  20            30
I             I                                                                       M
N                   ~~~~~MILES               oto~1I*                                                CMR
..........            o 
**  O Ndom                  t                   \     <      Ntui         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project Area
\f~~~toe               N1iongngok ivdola                                                Obolo   s              International Soundaries
0 NdolmYm h                                                                                                 to.',, rho  m  th    mil
ç~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\ ENgog Mopubi~                                                                                   Nk/oîAU>bong~~
.EMbonglon    Motomb      z          .      f                             ~aolo
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~saComnl Ro/ od- s/ ,`
,)  oundÉ9-klNgoumou                               goulemakong
K on R.i.B..........En                                                                                P r    c  E b d o ries ol b n
SANAGA ~       ~       ~ MA Ri  Kgèèmg                                                                     Division Boundories
~~~~~~~~~~~~is'                                                                  ''                                               -    h,   -, d.'



