Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2366 BEN
CREDIT NUMBER 2367 TO
(Engineering and Technical Assistance Project)
among
REPUBLIC OF TOGO,
REPUBLIC OF BENIN,
COMMUNAUTE ELECTRIQUE DU BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 26, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2367 TO
JOINT FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 26, 1992, among the REPUBLIC OF TOGO (hereinafter called 
Togo), the REPUBLIC OF BENIN (hereinafter called Benin), the COMMUNAUTE ELECTRIQUE DU 
BENIN (hereinafter called CEB) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by development credit agreements of even date herewith between Benin 
and Togo, respectively, and the Association (hereinafter called the Benin Development 
Credit Agreement and the Togo Development Credit Agreement, respectively), the 
Association has agreed to make available to Benin an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,100,000) (hereinafter called the Benin Credit), and to Togo an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,100,000) (hereinafter called the Togo Credit), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreements (as such term is defined 
hereinafter), but only on condition that Benin, Togo and CEB agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association and toward each other as are hereinafter set forth; 
and
(B)
the proceeds of the Credits (as such term is defined hereinafter) will be 
made available to CEB on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth; and
Page  2
WHEREAS Benin, Togo and CEB, in consideration of the Association's entering into 
the Development Credit Agreements, have agreed to undertake the obligations 
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall 
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Benin Development Credit 
Agreement, in the Togo Development Credit Agreement, in the General Conditions (as so 
defined) and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
the term "Development Credit Agreements" means the Togo Development 
Credit Agreement and the Benin Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term "Credits" means the credits provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreements; 
(c)
the term "Borrowers" means Benin and Togo, individually and not jointly;
 
(d)
the term "fiscal year" or "FY" means, with respect to CEB, the period 
January 1 through December 31; and
(e)
"CFAF" or "CFA Franc" means the Franc de la Communaute Financicre 
Africaine, the currency of the Borrowers.
ARTICLE II
Undertakings of Togo and Benin:
Execution of the Project and other Covenants
Section 2.01. (a) The Borrowers declare their commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreements and, to 
this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of their other obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreements or this Agreement, the Borrower shall exercise 
any right, power or remedy available to them as a signatory of the CEB Treaty or 
otherwise so as to permit or cause CEB to perform all the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrowers shall relend to CEB all proceeds of the Credits which may 
have been withdrawn under Categories (1) and (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreements all as further set forth in Article 
IV of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any other provision of this 
Agreement, the Borrowers undertake, whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that 
the funds available to CEB will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures 
required for the carrying out of the Project or inadequate to permit CEB to comply 
with its obligations under the Joint Financing Agreement, to make arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Association, promptly to provide CEB, or cause CEB to be provided, 
with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures or to comply with such 
obligations.
Section 2.03. CEB shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively).
ARTICLE III
Undertakings of CEB:
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. CEB declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreements and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project described in said Schedule with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and power 
Page  3
utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, civil works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credits shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) CEB undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for the 
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credits 
made available to it by the Borrowers against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such 
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by CEB to replace 
or repair such goods.
(b)
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, CEB shall cause all goods 
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credits made available to it by the 
Borrowers to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
(c)
CEB shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record and 
monitor the progress of the Project, (ii) furnish to the Association quarterly reports 
on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project.
(d)
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than 
six months after the Closing Date, or after the latest of the Closing Dates, as the 
case may be, under the Development Credit Agreements, or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between CEB and the Association, CEB shall, prepare and 
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) CEB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credits.
(b)
CEB shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credits or the performance by CEB of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Onlending of the Proceeds of the Credits
Section 4.01. The Borrowers agree to onlend to CEB, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Article IV, amounts in various currencies equivalent 
to the proceeds of the Credits which may have been withdrawn under Categories (1) and 
(2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreements. All amounts of the Credits withdrawn under such Categories pursuant to 
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreements shall be deemed to have been so 
onlent by the Borrowers to CEB.
Section 4.02. CEB shall pay to the Borrowers, the Commissions referred to in 
Sections 2.04 and 2.05 of the Development Credit Agreements. Such commissions shall be 
payable semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 4.03. (a) CEB shall repay to the Borrowers the principal amount onlent 
by the Borrowers to CEB pursuant to Section 4.01 of this Agreement in approximately 20 
equal semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commencing 
February 1, 1997 and ending August 1, 2006.
(b)
The principal amount of such onlending shall be the aggregate of all 
proceeds of the Credits in various currencies withdrawn under the categories referred 
to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Undertakings of CEB:
Management and Operations of CEB
Section 5.01. (a) CEB shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, commercial, financial, engineering and power 
Page  4
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b)
CEB shall: 
(i)
duly exercise all responsibilities entrusted upon it by the CEB 
Treaty and shall, in particular but without limitation, exercise 
the following responsibilities:
(A)
the development of power generation facilities in Togo and 
in Benin;
(B)
the interchange of electric power with countries neighboring 
Togo and Benin;
(C)
the supply to CEET and SBEE of electricity generated by CEB 
or obtained through interconnections with other countries; 
and
(D)
the dispatching of (including accounting for) all 
electricity from power plants in Togo and Benin connected to 
CEB's system, and electricity obtained through 
interconnections with other countries, in order to 
achieve 
at all times the least cost supply to Togo and 
Benin; and
(ii)
for the purposes indicated in sub-paragraph (i) above:
 
(A)
maintain a Permanent Coordinating Committee (hereinafter 
called PCC) composed of the Directors-General of CEB, CEET 
and SBEE for the purpose, inter alia, of developing all 
proposals including, inter alia, proposals for power sector 
planning, investments, operations, finance and training, to 
be submitted to CEB's Haute Autorite for decision, and cause 
it to meet at regular intervals and not less than once every 
three months;
(B)
maintain PCC's working committees which shall assist PCC in 
developing said proposals; and
(C)
make arrangements to ensure that, in application of Article 
L 24 of the CEB Treaty, CEET and SBEE shall be represented 
on CEB's Haute Autorite referred to in said Article.
Section 5.02. CEB shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provisions satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 5.03. (a) In accordance with the terms of the CEB Treaty, CEB shall take 
all steps necessary to maintain its legal existence and right to carry on its 
operations and shall take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew such licenses, consents, franchises or 
other rights as may be necessary or useful for its operations.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CEB shall not sell, 
lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which shall be 
required for the efficient conduct of its operations.
ARTICLE VI
Undertakings of CEB:
Financial Covenants
Section 6.01. (a) CEB shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition.
Section 6.02. CEB shall:
(a)
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
Page  5
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested;
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
accounts, financial statements, records and expenditures, as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 6.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CEB shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of CEB 
shows that the projected internal cash generation of CEB for each fiscal year during 
the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the projected debt 
service requirement of CEB in such year on all debt of CEB, including the debt to be 
incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of CEB maturing by its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or further modification of its 
terms of payment, on the date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee 
has been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt shall be 
outstanding.
(c)
The term "internal cash generation of CEB" means gross revenues of CEB 
from all sources, adjusted to take account of CEB's rates in effect at the time of the 
incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during the twelve-month period 
to which such revenues relate, less all operating expenses of CEB, including expenses 
accountable to administration, maintenance and taxes (or payments in lieu of taxes), 
but before provision for depreciation of assets and interest, and other charges on 
debt.
(d)
The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate amount of 
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other 
charges on, debt.
(e)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by CEB in the 
fiscal year in which the debt in question is to be incurred, which both the 
Association and CEB accept as reasonable and as to which the Association has notified 
CEB of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such notification 
which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future
to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition or future operating 
results of CEB.
(f)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of currency of the Borrowers, debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, with absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate 
of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 6.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree: 
(a)
CEB shall, from time to time, take or cause to be taken all such measures 
(including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) 
as shall be required to produce an annual return, defined as a percentage of the 
average current net value of CEB's fixed assets in operation of at least 6 percent.
(b)
CEB shall, as and when required and at least before the beginning of each 
of its fiscal years, review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the requirement set 
forth in the preceding paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following 
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review upon its 
completion.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing CEB's net 
Page  6
operating income for the fiscal year in question by one half of 
the sum of the current net value of CEB's fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii)
The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues 
less total operating expenses.
(iii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to operations.
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
and payments in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 4% per annum of the 
average current gross value of CEB's fixed assets in operation, or 
other basis acceptable to the Association, but excluding interest 
and other charges on debt.
(v)
The average current gross value of CEB's fixed assets in operation 
shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value of 
CEB's fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of 
the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in accordance with 
sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation 
satisfactory to the Association.
(vi)
The term "current net value of CEB's fixed assets in operation" 
means the gross value of CEB's fixed assets in operation less the 
amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.05. (a) CEB shall, not later than the beginning of FY94, take or cause 
to be taken all such measures as shall be required to adjust the structure of its 
electricity tariffs on the basis of the marginal cost of supplying electricity, 
through adjustments to take place from time to time.
(b)
Not later than three months before the end of each of its fiscal years, 
CEB shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by CEB and satisfactory to the 
Association, review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the goals set forth in the 
preceding paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following year and shall 
furnish to the Association for its comments:
(i)
a copy of the findings of such review upon its completion;
 
(ii)
the financial projections for said two fiscal years together with 
a proposed plan of action for tariff adjustments; and
(iii)
a proposed budget and financial plan for the next immediate fiscal 
year.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section, the term "marginal cost" means the 
optimal investment and associated operation and maintenance expenses needed per unit 
of energy output to increase the size of the utility's plant in order to adjust output 
to the increase in demand.
Section 6.06. The Borrower and CEB shall take all necessary measures to ensure 
that, receivables shall not be outstanding for more than 90 days after the date of 
billing.
Section 6.07. CEB shall consult with the Association annually on its investment 
program.
Section 6.08. CEB shall bear the risk of loss resulting from changes in the 
rates of exchange between the various currencies (including CFA Francs) used in its 
operations.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
Page  7
which both Development Credit Agreements shall have become effective.
Section 7.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
CEB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Togo Development Credit Agreement and the 
Benin Development Credit Agreement shall have terminated in 
accordance with their terms; or
(ii)
a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If both the Togo Development Credit Agreement and the Benin Development 
Credit Agreement terminate in accordance with their terms before the date specified in 
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify CEB of this 
event.
Section 7.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 8.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For Togo:
Minister of Economy and Finance
Lome,
B.P. 387
Republic of Togo
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINFIE 5286
Lome, Togo
For Benin:
Minister of Finance
B.P. 302
Cotonou
Republic of Benin
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINIFINANCES 
MINFIN or 5289
Cotonou, Benin
For CEB:
Communaute Electrique du Benin
Direction Generale
Rue de la Kozah
B.P. 1368
Lome, Togo
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
BENELEC 5230 
or
Lome, Togo 
5355
 
For the Association:
Page  8
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 197688 
(TRT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI)
 82987 (FTCC)
Section 8.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Borrowers 
may be taken pursuant to Section 6.01 of the Development Credit Agreements and Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions in the same manner as if such action were taken under 
the Development Credit Agreements.
Section 8.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CEB may be 
taken or executed by CEB's Director General or such other person or persons as CEB 
shall designate in writing, and CEB shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 8.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Candide Ahouansou
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By /s/ Ellom-Kodjo Schuppius
Authorized Representative
COMMUNAUTE ELECTRIQUE DU BENIN
By /s/ Ellom-Kodjo Schuppius
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ F. J. Aguirre-Sacasa
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
Procurement and Consultants' Services
1.
(a)
Equipment for thermal plants, under Part A of the Project, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $400,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of 
evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three qualified 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections 3.2 of the Guidelines, and
(b)
spare parts and proprietary equipment estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $200,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the 
equivalent of $600,000, may be procured directly from the supplier thereof.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
3.
Up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, other 
equipment may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.
(a)
With respect to each contract for equipment estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information required to 
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the 
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedule to this Agreement.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
5.
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to contracts on 
account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure.
6.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
7.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
