Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2366 BEN
(Engineering and Technical Assistance Project)
  between
 REPUBLIC OF BENIN
 and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 26, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2366 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 26, 1992 between the REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Republic of Togo has also requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and by an agreement 
of even date herewith between the Republic of Togo and the Association (hereinafter 
called the "Togo Development Credit Agreement"), the Association is agreeing to 
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to two million one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,100,000);
(C)
pursuant to an agreement of even date herewith among the Republic of 
Togo, the Borrower, the Communaute Electrique du Benin (hereinafter called CEB) and 
the Association (such agreement hereinafter called the Joint Financing Agreement), the 
Project will be carried out by CEB with the assistance of the Borrower and the 
Republic of Togo, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to 
CEB the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided and the Republic of Togo will 
make available to CEB the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Togo 
Page  2
Development Credit Agreement in accordance with the terms of said agreement;
(D)
the Borrower, the Republic of Togo, and the Association intend that for 
the financing of the Project to be carried out by CEB, the proceeds of the Credit 
provided for in this Agreement be disbursed, pari passu, with the proceeds of the 
credit provided for in the Togo Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of thisAgreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CEB" means the Communaute Electrique du Benin, an international public 
enterprise established and operating pursuant to the Accord Relatif l'Institution d'un 
Code Daho-Togolais de l'Electricite et la Creation d'une Communaute Electrique du 
Benin, between the Borrower and the Republic of Togo, dated July 27, 1968, as the same 
may be amended from time to time; and "CEB Treaty" means said Accord;
(b)
"CEET" means the Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo, a public company 
established pursuant to Ordinance No. 63-12 of March 20, 1963, of the Republic of Togo 
and operating pursuant to statutes approved by Decree No. 63-152 of December 11, 1963, 
as such statutes may be amended from time to time;
(c)
"SBEE" means the Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau, a Societe 
d'Etat operating pursuant to statutes approved by Decree No 83-339 of September 27, 
1983 of the Borrower, as such statutes may be amended from time to time;
(d)
"Joint Financing Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith 
among the Borrower, the Republic of Togo, CEB and the Association, as the same may be 
amended from time to time;
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated 
respectively June 3, 1988, and June 17, 1988, and April 12, 1991 and June 5, 1991, 
between the Borrower and the Association; and
(g)
"FCFA" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 2,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Page  3
FCAF a special deposit account in a commercial ank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 2002 and ending April 1. 2032. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 1, 2012 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
Page  4
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. CEB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower (a) declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, (b) shall carry out its obligations and exercise its rights under 
the Joint Financing Agreement, (c) shall cause CEB to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Joint Financing Agreement all the obligations of CEB therein set 
forth, (d) shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
CEB to perform such obligations, and (e) shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Joint Financing Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CEB 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Joint Financing Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause CEB to furnish to the Association 
quarterly reports covering Project implementation and expenditures and containing key 
indicators for monitoring the progress of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause CEB to submit, by October of each year, 
to the Association for approval, the program of activities to be carried out during 
the subsequent year.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that the terms of reference of the 
studies under Parts A (e) and (f) of the Project, include an examination of any 
potential riparian issues.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause (i) CEB to submit to the Association, not 
later than September 30, 1993, the conclusions of the studies under Part A (d) of the 
Project; and (ii) CEB and SBEE to implement the recommendations of such studies, as 
agreed upon between the Association and the Borrower, before the mid-term review 
referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall (a) not later than October 31, 1993, carry out 
jointly with the Association and CEB, a comprehensive mid-term review of the 
implementation of the Project. Such review shall, in particular, assess the progress 
achieved in carrying out Part A (a), (c) and (d) and Part B of the Project; and (b) 
cause CEB to furnish to the Association, not later than four weeks before the review 
referred to in the above subparagraph (a), a report on the implementation of the 
Project including an action plan proposing such measures as may be required for 
further implementation of the Project; and (c) implement with due diligence the 
recommendations of such review.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
cause CEB to maintain in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
Page  5
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall cause CEB to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CEB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Joint 
Financing Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that CEB will be able to perform its obligations under the Joint 
Financing Agreement;
(c)
the Accord Ralatif l'Institution d'un Code Daho-Togalais de l'Electricite 
et la  Creation d'un Communaute Electrique du Benin, dated July 26, 1968, or the Code 
de l'Electricite annexed to such Accord, shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
CEB to perform any of its obligations under the Joint Financing Agreement;
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CEB or for the suspension of its 
operations; and
(e)
(i) the right of the Republic of Togo to withdraw the proceeds of the 
credit made available to it under the Togo Development Credit Agreement shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the Togo Development Credit Agreement, and (ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph 
shall not apply if adequate funds for the Project are available to CEB from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of CEB under the Joint 
Financing Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
Page  6
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Joint Financing Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower, the Republic of Togo and CEB; and
(b)
the conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Togo Development 
Credit Agreement, other than fulfillment of the conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement have been satisfied.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Joint Financing 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Togo, the Borrower and CEB, and is 
legally binding upon Togo, the Borrower and CEB in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article 3 of this Agreement 
and the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall 
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date twenty-five (25) years after the date of this Agreement, 
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
at the time responsible for finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
B.P. 302
Cotonou
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
MINIFINANCES 
MINFIN or 5289
Cotonou, Benin
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 197688 
(TRT),
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Candide Ahouansou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ F. J. Aguirre-Sacasa
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment                   340,000        100% of foreign
                                                expenditures or
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
(2)  Consultants'              1,380,000        100%
     services and
     training
(3)  Refunding of                220,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
                                                Agreement
(4)  Unallocated                 160,000
         TOTAL                 2,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower and the 
Territory of Togo; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also 
that of another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, 
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be 
"foreign expenditures".
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawal in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 100,000 or one 
hundred thousand may be made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made 
for expenditures under Part I of the Project, before that date but after March 1, 
1992.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  8
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) pave the way to minimize the long-term 
cost of electricity supply in Benin and Togo; (b) strengthen all facets of CEB's 
management and operations mainly through technical assistance and training programs; 
and (c) improve sector efficiency and regional cooperation and integration.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Studies covering the following:
(a)
Updating and integrating the generation, transmission and distribution 
master plans of Togo and Benin.
(b)
Studying the short-term supply requirements of CEB, including the 
technical audit of the operation of existing thermal plants in Benin and Togo and 
their rehabilitation.
(c)
Preparing the detailed engineering and the bidding documents of the 
northern interconnections.
(d)
Tariff studies for CEB, SBEE and CEET, including the definition of a 
model for regional interchange, as well as a detailed analysis of long-term marginal 
costs and mark-ups applied.
(e)
Environmental assessments for future generation and transmission 
projects.
(f)
Updating as required the technical, economic and financial studies 
relating to the Adjarala hydroelectric project on the Mono river and to the Ketou 
hydroelectric project on the Oueme river or undertaking the feasibility study for the 
next generation and transmission project in the least-cost expansion plan.
Part B:
Institutional strengthening of CEB, in particular its legal, planning and 
computerization departments, as well as its relationship with CEET and SBEE.
Part C:
Technical assistance and training to CEB, including further reinforcement of 
CEB's training capabilities at its Abomey-Calavi training center, which will also 
benefit CEET and SBEE.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 60 
million to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  9
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  10
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows:
1.
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
2.
The following paragraph 21 is added at the end of Section 2.01:
 
"21.  the term "Togo Development Credit Agreement" means the development 
credit agreement between the Republic of Togo and the Association for the 
purpose of the Project, of even date with the Development Credit Agreement, as 
such 
agreement may be amended from time to time."
3.
The following paragraph (m) is added at the end of Section 10.03:
 
"(m) If any arbitration proceeding is instituted under this Section and 
if the controversies or claims to be submitted to arbitration involve a 
question of law or fact common to any controversy or claim submitted to 
arbitration under the Togo Development Credit Agreement, such arbitration 
proceedings shall be consolidated into one proceeding upon request by either 
party notified to the other, provided that if in such other arbitration 
proceeding a period shall have been fixed for the presentation of evidence, 
such notice shall have been given prior to the expiration of such period. A 
request for consolidation shall be promptly notified to the parties to such 
other arbitration proceeding and, if already appointed, to the Umpire of the 
arbitral tribunal constituted for such other proceeding. The Borrower and the 
Association hereby accept any consolidation of arbitration proceedings duly 
requested pursuant to Section 10.03 (m) of the General Conditions Aplicable to 
the 
Togo Development Credit Agreement. The provisions of paragraph (a) through 
(l) of 
this Section shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to any consolidated 
arbitration proceeding, except that the parties shall be the Association on 
the one hand, and the Borrower and the Republic of Togo on the other, and the 
Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as follows: one 
arbitrator shall be appointed by the Association; a second arbitrator shall be 
appointed by the Borrower and the Republic of Togo; and the third arbitrator 
(hereinafter sometimes called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of 
the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the President of the International 
Court 
of Justice or, failing appointment by him, by the Secretary-General of 
the 
United Nations. If the Borrower and the Republic of Togo shall not agree 
on the 
appointment of a common arbitrator, the Borrower and the Republic of 
Togo 
shall each appoint one arbitrator and, in such event, the Association, on 
its 
part, shall appoint two arbitrators and the four arbitrators so appointed 
shall, 
together with the Umpire appointed as provided above, constitute the 
Arbitral Tribunal. If any party shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such 
arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire."
