Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIClAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13822
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1584-YAR)
DECEMBER 28, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal Report (1985)
US$ 1 = 4.5 Yemeni Rials (YRls)
Completion Date (1992)
US$ 1  =  12.1 Yemeni Rials (YRls)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AFESD       Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
CACB        Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
ERADA       Eastern Region Agricultural Development Authority
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP      FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
IDA         International Development Association
KD          Kuwaiti Dinar
MAWR        Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources'
PCR         Project Completion Report
PMU         Project Management Unit
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
1 January - 31 December
1/   Also called Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries during part of the project period.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 28, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDEN'I
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on the Republic of Yemen
Wadi Al-Jawf Agricultural Development Project
(Credit 1584-YAR,
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Republic of Yemen-Wadi A4-Jawf
Agricultural Development Project (Credit 1584-YAR). Parts I and III were prepared by the Middle
East and North Africa Regional office. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project was designed to assist the Government in promoting the development of a settled
rural economy in an area of the north-east which had only recently seen the installation of a civil
administration. This was to be done through the provision of irrigation infrastructure, agricultural
research and extension, animal health services, rural roads and village water supplies.
The Credit was approved in March 1985 but the search for cofinancing delayed effectiveness
until December 1986. Project management was weak from the beginning. This situation was
exacerbated by on-going security problems in the project area. In 1990 the project was restructured,
which improved the overall management and changed the scope of some project components.
However, the security situation never improved. After a six-month extension of the Credit closing
date to allow for completion of on-going contracts, the Credit was closed in December 1992. The
undisbursed balance-82 percent of the Credit amount-was canceled.
The project is rated as unsatisfactory by both the Borrower and the Bank. The institutional
development is rated as negligible and sustainability as unlikely, though the Government remains
committed to the development of the area and has maintained the project unit.
The quality of the PCR is satisfactory. The PCR believes the project to have been over-
ambitious and should have begun as a pilot operation. The Borrower's report (Part II) is short but
satisfactory.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFECIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1584-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE      .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ii-v
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       1
1.   Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     1
2.   Background     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  1
3.   Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    2
4.   Project Design and Organization    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    3
5.   Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     4
6.   From Restructuring to Closing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    6
7.   Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    7
8.   Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     7
9.   IDA Performance  .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                    8
10.   Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      9
11.   Project Relationships    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
12.   Consulting Services    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
13.   Project Documentation    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
14.   Lessons Learned    . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . .                        12
PART III: SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
TABLES
1.   Related IDA Credits    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
2.   Project Timetable.  . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
3.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Credit Disbursements  . . . . .    17
4a.   Project Costs    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
4b.   Detail of Actual Project Costs   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
4c.   Project Financing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
4d.   Credit Allocation at Appraisal  (IDA-financed only)  (SDRs)    .                   20
4e.   Credit Re-Allocation After June 1990 Restructuring  (SDRs)    .                    20
5.   Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
6.   Project Direct Benefits    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of thdr
[official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



7.   Status of Legal Covenants   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
8.   Use of IDA Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
a. Staff Inputs  (staff weeks)    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
b. Staff Missions   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                    4. . . . . . . . 
IBRD Map: 18379R1



-i -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1584-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Wadi Al-Jawf
Agricultural Development Project, for which IDA Credit 1584-YAR in the amount
of SDR 10.5 million was approved on April 23, 1985. The Credit was closed on
December 31, 1992 after one six-month extension. A total of SDR 1.89 million
(US$2.51 million equivalent) was disbursed, with the final disbursement being
made on May 5, 1993. The undisbursed balance of SDR 8.61 million (US$11.90
million equivalent, 82% of the Credit amount) was cancelled. The actual total
cost of the project amounted to US$ 16.45 million, for which IDA provided the
equivalent of US$ 2.51 million, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development US$4.85 million, and Government the remaining US$9.09 million in
local currency.
2.          Parts I and III were prepared by a World Bank mission which
visited the Republic of Yemen in September 1993 for the Agricultural
Operations Division, Country Department II of the Middle East and North Africa
Region of the World Bank. The Borrower has prepared Part II.
3.          This PCR is based, inter alia, on information gathered in Yemen,
and on discussions with staff and officials of the project and of the Ministry
of Agriculture and Water Resources, in addition to information and data
gathered from the Preparation Report, Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the
Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between IDA
and the Borrower and internal IDA documents.



Il
i



- ii -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1584-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives and Description
i)    The Wadi AI-Jawf Project in north-west Yemen was one of a series of area development
projects in Yemen providing a range of rural development services. These projects were appropriate
for a country with little physical or institutional infrastructure. The Wadi was and still is a tribal
area which, at the time of appraisal (1984), had only recently seen the installation of a civil
administration. The economy was largely traditional pastoralism. Government's strategy was to
complete the pacification of the Wadi and promote the development of a settled rural economy
through the provision of services and infrastructure.
ii)    The project comprised:
irrigation, including improvement of gravity-fed irrigation on about 3, 100 ha, well
irrigation on about 1,650 ha, rehabilitation of spate irrigation on 2,050 ha and
development of extension for water management.
agriculture and livestock development, including training, extension, animal health
and research.
rural infrastructure, including 45 km of feeder roads and 20 village water supply
schemes.
iii)    Beneficiaries of the irrigation component were to be 1, 700 farm households (10,000
people). A total of 2,900 farmers were to benefit from the agriculture, livestock development, and
extension component. About 30,000 villagers would benefit from the water supply, and the entire
population of the Wadi (about 50,000 people) were to benefit from the roads. Project cost was
estimated at US$38.0 million, financed by an IDA Credit of SDR 10.5 million, a Government
contribution of US$6.0 million and proposed but not firm cofinancing of US$22.0 million. The
economic rate of return was estimated at 13%.
Design and Implementation ExDerience
iv)    The project was appraised in April 1984. The project concept fitted well with Government
and IDA strategies but there were some design flaws that contributed to the failure of the project.
These were principally lack of participation methodology, the failure to decentralize, and the over-
ambitious scale of the project.



- iii -
v)    It was recognized from the beginning that participation of the local people and ownership of
the project would be essential. However, the history of the project proved to be largely one of
conflict. This risk was correctly identified from the beginning of the project cycle, but was
evidently underestimated. There was no formal mechanism for including the voice of the Al-Jawf
population in the project.
vi,'   There was no existing rural development agency in the Wadi and implementation
responsibility was assigned to the central agriculture ministry (MA WR). This created problems early
in the life of the project.
vii)   The project was conceived as a full scale area development program. At the identification
stage, a pilot adaptive research and extension project was suggested. In the light of subsequent
events, this would have been a better approach.
viii)   The search for cofinancing delayed effectiveness until December 1986 and momentum was
lost. However, implementation of IDA-financed components began before effectiveness on
Government financing and PPF. The conflict latent in the management arrangements soon became
apparent. The central ministry set up a field office but had no real capacity to implement, and the
project team lacked the independence and authority needed to operate effectively. The project
manager appointed at the start of the project was particularly weak. The problem was exacerbated
by the security problems and by the lack of infrastructure in the Wadi. Until well into the project,
the project management unit stayed in the capital and made only periodic flying visits to the project
area. In 1989, changes brought the project under the new autonomous rural development agency,
ERADA, established to implement the IDA-financed Eastern Region Agricultural Development
Project. Only in 1990 was most of the project team finally installed in the project area - in a well-
protected compound.
ix)    The irrigation component was never completed. Each of the schemes ran into conflicts
between tribal interests, and there were substantial technical problems as well. On one scheme a
contractor was driven off by bazooka fire. The well irrigation program was never implemented.
The agriculture and livestock development component was able to introduce some new crops,
varieties and techniques. The methodology was based on demonstration plots, on farmer training
days and farm visits, and on distribution of improved seeds and planting materiaL Research got
underway only in 1991 on a very small scale. The veterinary service vaccinated and treated
animals, and introduced some new techniques, particularly in poultry. The rural infrastructure
component suffered particularly from the chronic security problems in the Wadi and from scant
cooperation from the intended beneficiaries. The roads program was partially implemented, very
late in the project period. The village water supply program was never implemented.
Y)    Implementation was so weak that in 1990 the project was restructured. Following
restructuring, the pace of implementation picked up somewhat. However, this period coincided
with an increase in insecurity in the Wadi. The agreed timetable was consistently overstepped.
IDA agreed reluctantly to one six-month extension of the Credit closing date (to December 31,
1992) to allow the completion of ongoing contracts. However, the last supervision mission was
not even able to visit the project area, so bad was the security situation. When further agreed
steps had not been taken on time, Government's request for a further extension lacked all
credibility and IDA let the Credit close.
xi)    Total IDA disbursements were US$2.51 million, and total project cost was YRIs 159.6
million, equivalent to US$ 16.45 million. The economic rate of return of the project was not



- iv -
calculated at completion, as no reliable monitoring of project impact has taken place. However, on
appraisal assumptions, the ERR is probably negative. This finding is consistent with the situation
observed on the ground; the economic impact of the project on the living conditions of the
inhabitants of the area has been negligible.
Results and Sustainability
xii)    The project has established an institutional presence for agricultural services in the Wadi.
However, the achievements of this structure to date have been scant. Irrigation development was
cancelled, development of agriculture and animal husbandry has been limited, and the rural
infrastructure component has been suspended with very little of its objectives accomplished. The
future activities of the project unit will depend on the resolution of the apparently chronic insecurity
problems. Under these circumstances, "sustainability" is hardly the issue.
Findings and Lessons Learned
xiii)   From the beginning, the security and institutional problems that subsequently plagued the
project were correctly identified by IDA. However, the problems were underestimated and the
resulting project was overdimensioned and contained design flaws. In addition, IDA was too
ambitious in agreeing to a project for which essential cofinancing was far from assured. IDA
supervision missions were effective in fire fighting but could never have any impact on the
fundamental lack of security and ownership. IDA's decision to continue with a restructured project
was justified by the belief that security was improving. This belief, based on Government
assurances, proved incorrect. Once the situation deteriorated, IDA correctly allowed the Credit to
close.
xiv)   Government has to take some responsibility for the poor security situation. The civil
administration in the Wadi did little to help the project and on occasions opted for palliatives rather
than supporting the project management. Government proved flexible in agreeing with IDA on
changes in the project during implementation. However, management performance was extremely
weak in the early years of the project and not enough was done to implement the project after
restructuring. In addition to these project-specific problems, the project suffered from general
problems that affect all projects in Yemen. There were long procurement delays, technical
assistance was of mediocre quality and staff incentives have been eroded in recent years.
xv)    The Wadi Al-Jawf Agricultural Development Project was a high risk attempt to introduce
rural development investments into an only partly pacified tribal society. The fact that public
institutions in the country generally were weak increased the risk. With hindsight, it is evident tha.
the project came too early in the development history of the Wadi. Security was not really assured.
Local people were not attuned to cooperate with a modern development project, and the basic
infrastructure was inadequate. In addition, Government and particularly the local administration in
the Wadi were not able to deliver on promises of security and, at a later stage, of a more
participatory approach. The problems were identified from the start but the project went ahead on
the assumption that things would improve. The country focus and more concentrated responsibility
that prevail today within IDA, together with current trends toward "hard review" upstream in the
project cycle, may help to avoid such errors in the future. A number of specific lessons can be
learned from the experience:
*     Pursuit of strong political objectives may lead to a poorly thought out ttevelopment strategy



*      Without security, a project cannot succeed. Development has to follow the establishment
of a sound security situation, and cannot be relied upon to create it.
*      Where no development project has ever been implemented and where the technical
packages and socio-economic viability of project ideas are not proven, the indicated
approach is a small-scale pilot project.
*      Where a tribal society and economy are in the early stages of transition towards modern
civil structures, there is special value in participatory preparation, appraisal and
implementation. Time must be invested in understanding how local societies work and how
they interact with each other and with change brought from the outside.
*     In new frontier projects where trial and error and flexible response are essential,
decentralized management is appropriate.
*     Where cofinancing is essential to a project, it should be identified at appraisal and secured
by negotiations, otherwise momentum can be lost while the financing is being sought.
*     Early recruitment of technical assistance should not be a goal in itself. It is costly and
inefficient unless the management and implementation structure is in place to get the
assistance operational.



REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1584-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Name:             Wadi Al-Jawf Agricultural Development Project
Credit Number:    1584-YAR
RVP Unit:         MENA Region
Country:          Republic of Yemen
Sector:           Agriculture
Subsector:        Rural Development
2.    Background
2.1   Agriculture is an important sector in the Yemeni economy, contributing
over a quarter of GDP and employing 58% of the workforce. Although resources
are limited, agricultural potential is greater than elsewhere in the Arabian
peninsula. There are one million hectares of cultivated land, about one third
under some form of irrigation. With increases in population and the
introduction of mechanized cultivation and tubewell technology, pressure has
been growing on land and water resources. However, growth potential in other
sectors is limited and agriculture is likely to remain an important activity.
2.2   The former Yemen Arab Republic' was created in 1962 following a
revolution that overthrew the former Imamate. The new Government set about
creating a modern administration and public services in what was still an
undeveloped country. At the time the project was appraised in 1984,
Government had completed a decade of rapid development of public services,
including agricultural services, in the accessible, high potential southern
and western parts of the country. Extension of the rule of law to the unruly
eastern and northern parts of the country had become a priority. For those
areas, Government envisaged a parallel process of development of civil
administration and of public services in the social and agriculture sectors.
)/   The former Yemen Arab Republic (northern Yemen) and the former People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
(southern Yemen) merged in May 1990 to become the Republic of Yemen.



2.3   IDA's strategy in Yemen's agricultural sector was, and has continued to
be, largely based on area development projects providing a range of rural
development services. This strategy has been appropriate for a country with
little physical or institutional infrastructure. Projects in the Tihama and
the Southern Uplands have been relatively successful in providing rural
development services and have been renewed several times (Tihama V and
Southern Uplands III are still current). During the 1980s IDA supported
Government's program of establishing similar projects in other parts of the
country (Central Highlands FY84, Wadi Al-Jawf FY85, Northern Region FY88, and
Eastern Region FY89). In addition, IDA has begun support to programs that
strengthen national services to the agriculture sector and begin to tackle the
difficult issues of land and water management.
3.    Proiect Oblectives and Description
3.1   Life in the Wadi Al-Jawf in north-east Yemen was, and still is,
organized on traditional tribal lines. At the time of appraisal (1984), the
Wadi had only recently seen the installation of a civil administration. The
economy was largely traditional pastoralism, with some smuggling. Settled
agriculture was practiced by dependents of the tribes, who themselves rather
disdained the activity. Economically, the area was only loosely tied into the
rest of the country. Tribes moved freely between the Wadi and Saudi Arabia
and the Saudi Rial circulated freely. There was even opposition to road
construction as this was perceived as a threat to autonomy and to the
profitable smuggling trade. Government's strategy was to complete the
pacification of the Wadi and promote the development of a settled rural
economy through the provision of social and producer services and through the
development of infrastructure. Education and health services were introduced
in the early 1980s and work started on a road to link the Wadi to the outside
world. The IDA Wadi Al-Jawf Agricultural Development Project was part of this
program. Project objectives focussed on development of production
infrastructure and introduction of technology to improve the use of existing
resources, and on development of social and transport infrastructure.
3.2   The project comprised:
irrigation, including improvement of gravity-fed irrigation on
about 3,100 ha, well irrigation on about 1,650 ha, rehabilitation
of spate irrigation on 2,050 ha and development of extension for
water management.
agriculture and livestock development, including training,
extension, animal health and research.
rural infrastructure, including 45 km of feeder roads and 20
village water supply schemes.
Beneficiaries of the irrigation component were to be 1,700 farm households
(10,000 people). A total of 2,900 farmers were to benefit from the
agriculture and livestock development. About 30,000 villagers were intended



to benefit from the water supply, and the entire population of the Wadi
(about 50,000 people) were to benefit from the roads. Project cost was
estimated at US$38.0 million, financed by an IDA Credit of SDR 10.5 million, a
Government contribution of US$6.0 million and proposed but not firm
cofinancing of US$22.0 million. The economic rate of return was estimated at
13%.
4.    Proiect Design and Organization
4.1   The project was prepared by consultants and by the FAO/CP between 1980 and
1983. It was appraised by IDA in April 1984. The principal issues identified
were the endorsement of the project by local people, and the difficulty of
introducing modern irrigation into a system of traditional land and water rights.
The appraisal mission took account of this analysis by incorporating design
changes that were intended to avoid interference with existing rights, and by
calling for involvement of tribal leaders in implementation.
4.2   The project concept fitted well with Government and IDA strategies.  It was
cast in the successful regional development mould pioneered in the Tihama and
Southern Uplands projects. However, from the start, it was evident that
conditions in the Wadi were far more difficult than in the old and settled
agricultural regions. Issues identified in the preparation report included the
need to gain the adhesion of the local population to the project and the
contentiousness of water rights. These issues were not well analyzed before
agreement to proceed with the project. Government wanted the project for
political reasons and pressed IDA, despite the significant uncertainties. The-
then processing procedures did not help. The dissipation of responsibility
between IDA Programs and Projects staff, and the lack of an issues oriented IEPS
document at the identification stage were noticeable weaknesses in the management
of the project cycle at the time.
4.3   It was recognized from the beginning that participation of the local people
and ownership of the project would be essential. The appraisal mission included
a sociologist to sound out the views of the key participants - the intended
beneficiaries. In the post-appraisal decision meeting, it was noted that "one of
the important shavkhs participated fully in the appraisal, and communications
between the various tribes appeared to be good." However, it soon emerged that
the tribes saw the project differently. Three sets of conflicts overlapped - the
historical conflict between the antinomian tribal way of life and the
Government's plans for settlement and control; the specific conflict between the
project's components and the economic rules that obtained in the Wadi,
particularly those relating to land and water rights; and the traditional
friction between tribes exacerbated by movements of population and resources as
modernization began. These conflicts were correctly identified from the
beginning of the project cycle, but they were evidently underestimated.
4.4   The project was conceived as a full scale area development program,
comparable to projects in other parts of the country. Indeed, because of the



absence of institutions and infrastructure, the costs were higher than in other
similar projects.2 Three factors could have suggested a smaller scale of
intervention. First, the uncertainties surrounding security and acceptability
to local people. Government gave assurances to the appraisal mission that
security would improve but these assurances do not seem to have rested on any
objective fact and were soon confounded by events. Second, the lack of
information on water resources and soils. Finally, the absence of a
development track record and the lack of a developed institutional framework
in the area. The Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR)3 had
virtually no experience or presence in the area, and the availability of
appropriate new technology was a matter of speculation. At the identification
stage, a pilot adaptive research and extension project was suggested. In the
light of subsequent events, this would have been a better approach.
4.5   There was no existing rural development agency in the Wadi and
implementation responsibility was assigned to MAWR. This was a departure from
the Tihama model of a strong regional development agency but was part of IDA
and Government strategy to strengthen central ministry control of regional
operations and to start to build up the central ministry capabilities. A
coordinating committee of different central and local agencies was to be set
up. A Project Manager was to be supported by a big team of internationally
recruited technical assistants (up to nine at a time) and their counterparts.
4.6   Perhaps the most striking anomaly in the institutional set up is the
absence of any mechanism for including the voice of the Al-Jawf population in
the project. The coordinating committee did not include any representatives
of the Al-Jawf population. For example, the irrigation component had been
reduced specifically in order to avoid affecting existing tribal rights. In
the event, even the reduced component was perceived as a threat by the tribes.
This could have been avoided, had there been a mechanism for involving, or
listening to, local opinion and for reconciling differences.
4.7   In summary, there were some design flaws that contributed to the failure
of the project. These were principally lack of participation methodology, the
failure to decentralize, and the over-ambitious scale of the project.
5.    Project ImRlementation
5.1   The Credit Agreement was negotiated in March 1985.  However, IDA
financing covered less than a third of project cost, and Government had to
identify additional financiers for the other components. This was done rather
late in the cycle. No cofinancier had been identified by the time of
Compare Wadi Al-Jawf Project (FY85), with a total cost of US$38 million and 2,900 farm families
benefitting from the production-oriented components (US$13,100 per family), with the Central
HighLands Project (FY84), with a total cost of US$20 million for 8,325 farm families benefitting
from the production-oriented components (US$2,400 per family).
The Ministry of Agriculture was called Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries at the start of the
project, but subsequentLy became the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MAWR).



- 5 -
negotiations. There was the prospect of Saudi Fund financing but this fell
through. After a number of potential cofinanciers had been canvassed, the
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) finally agreed to
cofinance. This delayed effectiveness until December 1986 and some momentum
was lost. The AFESD Loan Agreement finally became effective only in September
1987 (KD 3.1 million, equivalent to about US$ 10.75 million).
5.2   Proiect Management.  Implementation of IDA-financed components began
before credit effectiveness on Government financing and Project Preparation
Facility (PPF). A project manager was appointed and agriculture and
engineering departments were set up. By the time of the first supervision
mission in April 1987, the nine technical assistants had been recruited,
together with a sizable local staff. The conflict latent in the project
management arrangements soon became apparent. The central ministry had no
real capacity to implement, but the nominal allocation of responsibility to
the ministry meant that the project team lacked the independence and authority
needed to operate effectively. The project manager appointed at the start of
the project was particularly weak. The situation was exacerbated by the
security problems and by the lack of infrastructure in the Wadi. Until well
into the project, the project management unit stayed in the capital and made
only periodic flying visits to the project area.
5.3   In 1988, the attempt to manage the project from the capital was
abandoned. The project was brought administratively under the new autonomous
rural development agency, Eastern Region Agricultural Development Authority
(ERADA), established to implement the IDA-financed Eastern Region Agricultural
Development Project. By 1990, most of the project team had been finally
installed in the project area - in a well-protected compound.
5.4   Irrigation Component.  The irrigation component was never completed.
Each of the gravity-fed schemes ran into conflicts between tribal interests,
and there were substantial technical problems as well. On one scheme a
contractor mobilized but was driven off by bazooka fire. The well irrigation
program in the project was never implemented. Instead, Government set up a
line of credit at the Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) to lend
money for groundwater development. The program rather had the predominantly
political objective of pacification and settlement. As a result, the drilling
was unlicensed and unmonitored, and the recovery rate on CACB's lending
program was 2%.
5.5   Agriculture and Livestock Component.  The agriculture and livestock
development component was implemented by the agricultural department, set up
in 1986. Throughout the project period the methodology was based on
demonstration plots (orchards, vegetables and cereals), on farmer training
days and farm visits, and on distribution of improved seeds and planting
material. Research got underway only in 1991, on a very small scale, but the
extension service did introduce some new varieties of wheat, together with
crops new to the Wadi such as potatoes and elephant grass. Some new
mechanization techniques were also introduced. At times of insecurity (which
were many) extension was conducted through "office clinics" in the project's



- 6 -
well-protected compound. The veterinary service vaccinated and treated
animals, and introduced some new techniques, particularly in poultry. The
results of this component are hard to gauge. Certainly, the cultivated area
has increased, and project reports suggest that yields, particularly of fruit,
have gone up. However, no real monitoring of project impact or reliable
collection of production or yield data has taken place, and it is difficult to
substantiate the sporadic data given in the progress reports (e.g. vegetable
production is reported to have risen 33%, from 24,000t to 32,000t between
1985-89 but the source of the data is not evident). In any event, the results
recorded seem meager in relation to the effort - at one time the agriculture
department numbered eight local graduates, three expatriate technical
assistants and 11 extension and veterinary agents for a maximum recorded
number of 600 farmers reached.
5.6   Rural Infrastructure.  The rural infrastructure component suffered
particularly from the chronic security problems in the Wadi and from scant
cooperation from the intended beneficiaries, who either opposed the
implementation or tried to bend it to suit particular interests. The roads
program was partially implemented, and very late in the project period. A
contract was signed in March 1990, but the work was only partially completed
when security deteriorated alarmingly. The contractor partially demobilized
and has subsequently been embroiled in contract disputes with the project.
The village water supply program was never implemented. A hydrogeological
survey was carried out only in the final few months of the project.
6.    From Restructuring to Closln2
6.1   Implementation was so weak that IDA sent a major mission in June 1990 to
assess what, if anything, could be done to save the project. The most
important issue was the security situation, which was virtually paralyzing the
project. Other issues included procurement delays and difficulties ir getting
competent staff to work on the project. The main recommendation of this
mission was to switch to a more participatory approach, including creation of
a local coordination committee chaired by the Gcvernor and including tribal
leaders and other representatives of beneficiaries. The mission also
recommended that future design and implementation be done in close
coordination with local people. Based on the results of this mission,
Government, IDA and AFESD agreed to continue with the project with an amended
project description and reallocation of funds. Froject objectives in
irrigation were scaled down to be more realistic in the light of experience
and to take account of the need for consultation with local people.
Components which were felt to be most attractive to communities were to be
expanded: the rural roads and village water supply components were enlarged;
and the cons_ruction of market centers was included for the first time.
6.2   Following restructuring, the pace of implementation picked up somewhat.
Contracts for import of road maintenance and agriculture demonstration
equipment were let and serious attempts were made to implement the rural
infrastructure component. The restructuring called for a two year extension
of the Credit closing date. As the original closing date of June 30, 1992



- 7 -
approached, IDA laid down a series of conditions before it would consider an
extension. These conditions, which included the letting of equipment
contracts, progress on construction and the engagement of consultants, were
met. However, this period coincided with an increase in insecurity in the
Wadi. Unrest led to confrontations between the civil administration and the
tribes. Moreover, the participatory approach was hardly implemented. The
civil administration proved reluctant to form the local coordination
committee, and the project staff lacked skills in promoting participation with
the local people. For these reasons, IDA concluded that the project was
unimplementable; agreement was given only for a six-month extension of the
Credit closing date (to December 31, 1992) in order to allow the completion of
ongoing contracts. IDA's conclusion proved correct. The security situation
deteriorated to the point that the last supervision mission was not even able
to visit the project area. Since further agreed steps had not been taken by
the target dates, Government's request for a further extension lacked all
credibility and IDA let the Credit close.
7.    Project Results
7.1   The project has established MAWR's institutional presence in the Wadi.
There is a well-endowed central compound, adequate equipment and a staff of
relatively well-qualified and motivated employees. However, the achievements
of this structure to date have been scant. Irrigation development has
comprised only anarchic groundwater development beyond the knowledge and
control of the project, development of agriculture and animal husbandry has
been limited, and the rural infrastructure component has been suspended with
very little of its objectives accomplished.
7.2   Total IDA disbursements were US$2.51 million, and total project cost to
the closing date was YRls 159.6 million, equivalent to US$16.45 million. The
economic rate of return (ERR) of the project was not calculated at completion,
as data on changes in production and resulting increases in net margins are
not available. However, at appraisal 80% of the projected benefits that
produced the ERR of 13% were expected to stem from the irrigation component.
In the event, the irrigation component never generated any benefits. With
actual costs about 50% of appraisal estimates and actual benefits unlikely to
exceed 20% of appraisal estimates, the rate of return would be, on appraisal
methodology, negative. This finding is consistent with the situation observed
on the ground; the economic impact of the project on the living conditions of
the inhabitants of the area has been negligible.
8.    Project Sustainabilitv
8.1   Government is evidently committed to the development of the Wadi Al-Jawf
and intends to maintain the project unit, under the management of ERADA.
Adequate budgetary provisions have been made for 1993 and 1994. There is a
risk, however, that as external financing ceases (the AFESD loan closing date
was December 31, 1993), finance may diminish. Already at the time of the
completion mission, the special allowances paid to staff in this difficult



- 8 -
area were under threat (although this particular problem was subsequently
solved through the intervention of the Prime Minister).
8.2   The future activities of the project unit will depend on the resolution
of the apparently chronic insecurity problems. Recently, the main road was
cut by armed action and the project compound had to be evacuated by
helicopter. The completion mission was accompanied on field trips by a seven
gun escort and hijacking of project vehicles is commonplace. Under these
circumstances, "sustainability" is hardly the issue.
8.3   If, however, the project unit is to work towards the accomplishment of
original project goals, then there are some key actions that need to be taken.
First and foremost, the civil administration has to be able to establish law
and order. In complement to this necessary precondition, the project has to
develop a participatory relationship with local people and back this up with
programs adapted to locally selected priorities. Technical packages relevant
to the Wadi have to be developed; this will require adaptive research.
Progress is likely to be slow; but indications are that a cautious and
participatory approach could create relationships that would allow the project
to earn some returns on the large investment that has been made.
9.    IDA Performance
9.1   From the beginning, all the problems that subsequently plagued the
project were correctly identified by IDA. Looking back, it has to be said
that the problems were underestimated and the resulting project was greatly
overdimensioned and contained serious design flaws.
9.2   Project financing was only one third assured at negotiations and a long
hiatus ensued before effectiveness while Government was trying to secure
cofinancing. AFESD cofinancing became effective only in September 1987, and
this contributed to delays in implementation. IDA was too ambitious in
agreeing to a project for which essential cofinancing was far from assured.
9.3   In the eight-and-a-half years between Appraisal and Credit closing, IDA
sent 16 missions, including 12 formal supervision missions in the six years of
Credit effectiveness. These missions correctly identified the project's
problems and were successful in obtaining some improvements, such as, transfer
of the project to the more autonomous ERADA and the transfer of the project
management to the Wadi. Once major problems began to emerge, IDA demonstrated
awareness of the fundamental causes of the poor performance of the project,
particularly of the friction between the project and tribal life. IDA
included a sociologist in three supervision missions in the last two years of
the project. Considerable attention was also paid to the mechanics of
implementation - procurement, recruitment, flow of funds - and IDA showed
imagination and flexibility in trying to devise solutions.
9.4   By 1990, IDA correctly concluded that the project's problems demanded
radical solutions, and despatched a major five person restructuring mission.



The thrust of the mission's recommendations - to increase local ownership of
the project - was a valuable corrective to a major fault in project design and
could, under certain circumstances, have saved the project. The necessary
conditions to improvement were, first, the re-establishment of security in the
Wadi, and second, a participatory approach from the project.
9.5   IDA's decision to accept restructuring rather than to seek closure of
the project was based on Government assurances about improvement in security
and on an appreciation of Government's willingness - and the project staff's
ability - to pursue a more participatory approach. Although, with hindsight,
the decision to restructure was evidently the wrong one, IDA cannot be faulted
for having accepted Government's assurances on security, an area in which IDA
missions can have no competence. IDA was, however, over-optimistic in
believing that the local administration or project staff would or could adopt
a participatory approach. Except at the level of some improved consultation
with tribal leaders, this approach was never realized, and it is doubtful
whether there existed either commitment or the necessary skills to implement
it.
9.6   At the time of the original closing date of the Credit, IDA had already
taken the decision that the project had no future under the prevailing
security conditions. The six-month extension was granted only to allow
completion of the ongoing feeder road contract. IDA accepted the extension
out of an understandable desire to secure at least some physical benefit for
the local population. In the event, the extension proved useless as the roads
contract had to be abandoned. IDA might have taken the tough decision in June
1992 and closed the Credit on the due date; IDA was certainly correct to allow
the Credit to close after the one six-month extension.
10.   Borrover Performance
10.1 Government had clear objectives for this project: to reinforce order
through development and to strengthen the central ministry (MAWR) In the
event, neither objective was achieved. The project did not contribute to the
development of civil order in the Wadi, and may, in the irrigation component,
have provoked the kind of conflict it was intended to allay. Government has
to take responsibility for this, as, despite continued reassurances that
security would improve, the civil administration in the Wadi did little to
reinforce the project and on occasions opted for palliatives rather than
supporting the project management.
10.2 Nor did the project succeed in reinforcing the central ministry (MAWR),
and the attempt to do so weakened implementation until Government changed its
mind.
10.3 Government proved flexible enough to agree with IDA on changes in the
project during implementation, and accepted the restructuring. However,
Government - and particularly the provincial authorities - never made a
serious attempt to establish the coordinating committee, and the project unit
failed to adopt the proposed participatory approach in implementation.



- 10 -
10.4 At the level of the project, management performance was extremely weak
in the early years of the project. However, with the appointment of the
present project manager and the leadership provided by ERADA since 1989,
serious efforts were made to improve project implementation. There has been
quite good continuity of project staff and commitment is evident. However,
project management must bear some responsibility for accepting what proved to
be the unrealistic timetable adopted at the restructuring.
10.5 In addition to these project-specific problems, the project suffered
from general problems that affect all projects in Yemen. There were long
procurement delays, technical assistance was of mediocre quality and
incentives have been eroded in recent years.
11.   Proiect RelationshiRs
11.1 Bank-Borrower relationships were good throughout the project. Contacts
with cofinanciers were intermittent. Financing was not fully secured for two
years after appraisal. Once secured, AFESD cofinancing appears to have worked
relatively well, although there were never any joint missions and there was a
hiatus caused by the Gulf crisis.
12.   Consulting Services
12.1 The project employed extensive technical assistance. However, much of
this was ineffective as the experts were employed before the project had
established an effective presence in the Wadi. Quality was in general
mediocre. This is largely attributable to Yemeni procedures for recruiting
technical assistance which place emphasis on low cost services rather than on
quality or value for money4. The remote location and difficult conditions in
the Wadi also discouraged high caliber staff.
13.  Proiect Documentation
13.1 The Credit Agreement and Staff Appraisal Report were clear. The only
non-standard covenants concerned irrigation cost recovery, which was never
applicable, and the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. This
unit was established but never functioned effectively due to management
problems which the legal covenant was of no help in remedying. Progress
reports of variable quality were prepared by the project unit.
13.2 The compilation of this Report has been done on the basis of past
project progress reports and supervision reports. Project accounts are
adequately maintained by ERADA. Very little data on farmers or farming is
available that would permit an evaluation of the impact of the project.
i/    These procedures have recently been revised in agreement with IDA and there is some hope that the
quality of technical assistance wilt improve as a resuLt.



- 11 -
14.   Lessons Learned
14.1 From the perspective of a decade of expensive failure, IDA could
conclude that the project came too early in the development history of the
Wadi. Security was not really assured, local people were not attuned to
cooperate with a modern development project and the basic infrastructure was
inadequate. The country focus and more concentrated responsibility that
prevail within IDA today, together with current trends toward "hard review"
upstream in the project cycle, may contribute to avoiding such errors in the
future. A number of specific lessons can be learned from the experience:
*     Pursuit of strong political objectives may lead to a poorly thought out
development strategy.
*     At the most basic level, the lesson of Al-Jawf is that, without
security, a project cannot succeed. Development has to follow the
establishment of a sound security situation, and cannot be relied upon
to create it.
*     In an area where no development project has ever been implemented and
where the technical packages and socio-economic viability of project
ideas are not proven, the indicated approach is a small-scale pilot
project.
*     In an area where a tribal society and economy are in the early stages of
transition towards modern civil structures, there is special value in
participatory preparation, appraisal and implementation. Contemporary
moves towards participatory design are perhaps fashioning the tools the
Bank needed ten years ago when the Wadi Al-Jawf Project was appraised.
*     In new frontier projects where trial and error and flexible response are
essential, decentralized management is appropriate. In addition,
project design should avoid confusing project management needs with
generalized but irrelevant objectives such as strengthening the
capacities of the central ministry.
*     Where cofinancing is essential to a project, it should be identified at
appraisal and secured by negotiations, otherwise momentum can be lost
while the financing is being sought.
*     Early recruitment of technical assistance should not be a goal in
itself. It is costly and inefficient unless the management and
implementation structure is in place to get the assistance operational.



- 12 -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1584-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The following is the substance of the review of the project conducted by the
Borrower:
Prolect Implementation
1.    The objectives of the project as appraised were to increase agricultural
productivity and farm incomes by improving the use of land and water resources
and by introducing new production packages. The components of the project
were: (a) irrigation works; (b) feeder roads; (c) village drinking water; (d)
extension and research; and (e) animal health.
2.    During the period 1987-90, the project started from scratch to establish
limited staff housing in Al-Hazm and started recruitment of some local staff
and experts. Also designs and tender documents for the headquarters
buildings, nursery, extension center, Al-Khalq/Al-Hazm diversion structure and
Al-Ghayl irrigation scheme development were prepared by the project staff.
The project also signed an agreement with a survey company to undertake the
surveys for irrigation works for Al-Kharid. Designs for about 15 km of feeder
roads were prepared by the Highway Authority. The project then prepared the
tender documents required for implementation of the feeder roads. During the
same period, the project provided some agricultural extension services,
including provision of inputs, introduction of some crops like potatoes for
the first time in the area, and animal health and veterinary services.
Contracts were signed with local contractors for the construction of the
headquarters buildings, feeder roads and extension centers. Also during this
period, vehicles, agricultural machinery and heavy equipment were procured.
3.    The project was restructured in 1990 and implementation continued up to
December 1992 (the revised closing date of the IDA Credit). Project
components were implemented with the exception of the irrigation works, two
thirds of the feeder roads program and the village water supply program.
IDA's Performance
4.    IDA's performance would have been more satisfactory if the following
factors had been improved:



- 13 -
(i) the design appraised and approved by IDA should have been better
adapted to fit the social conditions and hardship nature of the
project area. This fact was the main reason that caused IDA to
restructure the project in 1990.
(ii) The effectiveness of IDA restructuring was conditional on the
approval of the cofinancier, AFESD. This approval was delayed on
the part of the AFESD for about 18 months due to the Gulf crisis.
This led to almost complete stoppage of implementation of the
project during that period.
(iii) This delay led to an accumulation of works ready for
implementation at the end of the original Credit period.
Unfortunately, it was precisely at this juncture (the end of 1992)
that the beneficiaries started to realize the benefits of the
project and to show more cooperation. The security situation was
also improving. Yet IDA insisted on closing the Credit.
(iv) IDA insisted on the appointment of experts well before
commencement of field activities. This led to waste of funds and
reflected haphazard planning.
Borrower's Performance
5.    In general, the performance of the Borrower during implementation of the
project was not satisfactory:
(i) in promoting the project, the Borrower did not take into
consideration the nature of the project area, particularly tribal
conflicts and the fact that tribesmen of the area are not adapted
to Government rules and regulations. In practice, the Al-Jawf
governorate authorities could not provide the required control of
security. This led to difficulty in implementation of field
activities. In particular, movement of technical staff on field
trips within the project area was restricted, unless accompanied
by local guards.
(ii) The Borrower did not yet solve the constraint facing most projects
in the country, including Al-Jawf project, regarding cumbersome
long Government procedures.
Comments on the Completion Report
6.    The Government did not fully agree with the strictures in Part I
regarding relations between the project and the community. The Borrower's
comments run: "We would like to clarify that the relationship between the
project and the local people is very good since 1989 and up to now. However,
it is difficult for the project to satisfy everybody, especially in an area
like that of the project, which lacks security whereby a single person can
misbehave and this may affect reputation of the whole area. Consequently,



- 14 -
this means the participatory relationship of the project with the local people
was successful and the main defect lies in the weak control of local
administrative authorities."
7.    The Borrower also commented on paragraph 11.1 of Part I as follows:
"Under sub-heading "Relationships" it was mentioned that AFESD cofinancing
appears to have worked relatively well. We disagree with you and we believe
that AFBSD cofinancing performance was poor."
8.    The information contained in Part III is adequate and accurate.



- is -
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1584-YAR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART III
SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA



- 16 -
Table 1. Related IDA Credits
Approval   Status       Comments
FY
- Cr. 615-YDR. Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project        1976        Closed       This project
(WHADP I) built up infrastructure and institutions, carried out pilot             Dec. 1982   led into
developments in area of the follow-up WHADP II.                                                WHADP II
- Cr 1346-YDR WHADP 11 increased agricultural production, raised      1983        Closed
farmer incomes, corrected falling water table via use of deep-lying               June 1992
aquifers, provided farm machinery and technical assistance.
- Cr. 1557-YDR Agricultural Research and Extension Project,           1985        Closed
strengthened agricultural research and extension capacity in Central              Dec. 1991
Highlands, Tropical Lowlands, Southern Uplands regions.
- Cr. 2045-YDR WHADP III, a follow-up of WHADP II with intention      1989        Ongoing      Being
of expanding irrigated area.                                                                   restructured
- Cr. 1453-YAR Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project,    1984        Closed
improved farm incomes through production and productivity increases;              Dec. 1992
provided potable water.
- Cr. 1772-YAR Southern Regional Agricultural Development Project,    1987        Ongoing
intended to increase agricultural productivity and farmer income in
Southern Region through strengthening agricultural services in extension,
credit and input supplies, assist O&M of project infrastructure and
water; raise technical capability of staff; provide assistance to women
farmers.
- Cr. 1886-YAR Northern Regional Agricultural Development Project,    1988        Ongoing
intended to: improve agricultural productivity by (i) improved
agricultural services, (ii) better land management, (iii) improved
irrigation and agricultural practices and improved health/nutrition;
establish regional extension and O&M to ensure sustainability.
- Cr. 1983-YAR Eastern Region Agricultural Development Project,       1989        Ongoing
provided extension and research services, irrigation management,
institution building to improve agricultural productivity and farmer
incomes in Marib Governorate, particularly area around Marib Dam.
-Cr. 2299-YAR Agricultural Sector Management Support Project,         1992        Ongoing
intended to create within MAWR the management basis for modern
agricultural sector, and to strengthen agricultural research. Also to
improve general operations of MAWR.
-Cr. 2373-YEM Land and Water Conservation Project, beginning a        1992        Ongoing
national program to gain control over land and water resources.



- 17 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
Planned                 Revised                 Actual
Identification            n.a.                    n.a.                  March 1981 FAO/CP
Preparation               n.a.                    n.a.                  June 1983 FAO/CP
Appraisal Mission       February 1984             n.a.                  March-April 1984
Credit Negotiations       n.a.                    n.a.                  March 1985
Board Approval                                                          April 23, 1985
Credit Signature                                                        September 24, 1985
Credit Effectiveness   January 24, 1986         July 24, 1986           December 24, 1986
October 24, 1986
December 24, 1986
Credit Restructuring      n.a.                    n.a.                  June 1990
Credit Closing          June 30, 1992           December 31, 1992       December 31, 1992
Delay in credit effectiveness was due to lag in finalizing and ratifying co-financing with Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development; final co-financing arrangements completed September 1987.
Table 3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual IDA Credit Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
1986     1987    1 1988      1989      1990      1991       1992
- ---------------------------- US$ million-------
Appraisal Estimate   0.60      1.85      3.00     2.20      1.20      0.80        0.35
Cumulative         0.60        2.45     5.45      7.65      8.85      9.65       10.00
Estimate
Actual cumulative    0         0.30     0.99       1.19     1.65      1.65       2.51
Actual as % of     0.00%      12.24%    18.17%    15.56%    18.64%    17.10%    25.10%
Cumulative
Estimate
Cumulative amount disbursed at end of fiscal year shown, except for 1992 which is amount at final
disbursement (May 5, 1993).



Table 4a. Project Costs I/
(US$ Million)
Appraisal                            = =                         Actual    _       l
Local     Foreign    Total          Local    Foreign      Total     Local  Foreign      Total
Irrigation Development                 1.3       2.4         3.6        3.4       2.7        6.1
Feeder Roads                          0.7        1.8         2.5        1.5       3.7        5.2
Village Water Supply                  0.6        1.9         2.5        0.8        1.6       2.4
Buildings and Support facilities      0.9        3.4         4.3        0.2       4.1        4.3
Management, Technical Assistance       2.0       3.3         5.3        2.4       4.4        6.8
and Training
Agricultural Development               2.6       1.3         3.9        0.9       4.5        5.4
Agricultural Credit                   0.8        1.6         2.4        1.1        3.2       4.3                                         m
Further Studies                       0.5        1.7         2.2         0        0.2        0.2
TOTAL BASELINE                         9.4      17.3        26.7       11.7      24.4       36.1
Physical Contingencies                0.7        1.9        2.6
Price Contingencies                   3.7       5.0         8.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    13.8      24.2        38.0       11.7      24.4       36.1       13.6      2.9      16.5
1/ Foreign"includes both IDA and cofinancing.
Note: Data for local and AFESD financing by category is not available. Accounting data for the project is shown in Table 4b below.



- 19 -
Table 4b. Detail of Actual Project Costs
Local    J   Foreign          Total         US$
--------------------------YRIs '000----------------------------   Equiv.('000)
Land                            25              0              25               3
Buildings                    85,425         11,206          96,651          9,964
Equipment                    18,842           486           19,320          1,993
Cars                           244           1,953           2,197            226
Furniture                     1,623           134            1,757            181
Salaries                     18,196         13,213          31,409          3,238
General Expenses              6,324             4            6,328            652
Studies                        740             26             766              79
131,539        28,072          159,611         16,454
1/ Source: Draft unaudited accounts for 1992.
2/ At historical exchange rates of YRIs 9.7 = US$1 to 1991,and of YRIs 12.02 = US$1 for 1992.
Table 4c. Project Financing
(US$ '000)
Source                Planned (Credit       Restructured      Actual
Agreement)
IDA                   10,000                13,600             2,512
AFESD                                       10,800             4,855
Other External         2,850                                 __ _
Government             4,000                 11,700            9,087
TOTAL                 38,000                36,100            16,454



- 20 -
Table 4d. Credit Allocation (IDA financed only)
(SDRs Equivalent)
Credit Allocation at Appraisal in DCA signed Sept. 24, 1985
Category                             Planned Allocation
(1) Vehicles and equipment for O&M     420,000
(2) Machinery for project unit         680,000
(3) Buildings                         1,880,000
(4) Civil Works                       5,210,000
(5) TA for M&E and training            630,000
(6) Special Account                    520,000
(7) Refunding of PPF Advance           370,000
(8) Unallocated                        790,000
TOTAL                                10,500,000
Table 4e. Credit Re-Allocation After June 1990 Restructuring
(SDRs Equivalent)
Planned       Actual
(1) Civil works                                5,700,000       47,728
(2) Vehicles, machinery and equipment for O&M  1,700,000       504,360
(3) TA for M&E and training                    1,800,000       975,101
(4) Refunding PPF Advance                       250,000        247,026
(5) Unallocated                                1,050,000         0
Special Account                                0            114,443
TOTAL                                         10,500,000      1,888,659



- 21 -
Table 5. Project Implementation
Unit     Appraisal    Revised    Actual      Comments
Estimate     Target
1. CIVIL WORKS
Wadi Al Kharid
a. rehabilitation          km        54            54          0        Deferred
b. land levelling          ha       800             0          0        Deferred
Al Gayal Irrigation
a. diversion structure   no.          1             1          0        Deferred
b. rehabilitation          km         8             8          0        Deferred
Flood Protection along
Wadi Medhab                 km         -           4.5          0         Study completed 1/93
Feeder Roads                  km        45            70         20         1.5 km surfaced, approx 20
km in various stages of
progress. Contractor
abandoned site due to
security problems and
contract dispute.
Rehab of existing wells
in Wadi Medhab              wells    350          220         220        AFESD-financed
Rehab of existing
diversion structures,                                                    Govt of Yemen financed.
Al-Hazm and Al-Khaliq       no.        2             2          0         80% of intake weir
completed when work halted
11/91 due to tribal
attacks.
Village wells                 no.       20            55          -         Study completed 9/92
Building facilities
a. headquarters bldgs    no.         21            25         25        AFESD-financed
b. block centers           no.        3             0          0
c. extension centers       no.        7             7          3        AFESD-financed. 3
completed, 3 in varying
stages of completion.
Contractor has demobilized
due to security problems
and contract dispute.
d. market centers         no.        0             4          0
2. EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
Feeder Road maintenance
and flood control          no.       20            20         14
emergency works
Agricultural Machinery       no.       11            11         11
Vehicles
a. 4WD field vehicles       no.       25            25         23        AFESD-financed
b. Motorcycles              no.       21            25          0        AFESD-financed
3. MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING         staff
a. Experts                  years     39.5          58         30
4. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                   All AFESD-financed;
a. Ag. research             ha        10             5          -         facilities built at
project HQ
b. Nursery                  ha         8             8          8
c. Demonstration farms    ha          39             -          -



2 22 
Table 6. Project Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate      Restructured            Actual
Irrigation              1,700 households;                               No projects completed
10,000 individuals
Village wells           20 villages; 30,000     55 villages: 25         20 wells completed by
individuals.            rehabilitated wells, 30    June 1990 under
new wells               bilateral assistance
from Japanese govt.
Feeder Roads            45 km                   70 km, plus 30 km       Approximately 1.5 km
resurfacing; 12,300     completed, 20 km in
people benefitting.     various stages of work
Extension               1,200farmers                                    Three extension
buildings completed;
extension has reached
a maximum of 600
farmers.



- 23 -
Table 7. Status of Legal Covenants
Section     Subject                         Deadline        Compliance  Comments
(DCA)
4.01 b (ii)    Certified copy of the audit  9 mos. after    through
report for each FY             each FY          1991
4.01 c (iv)    Annual audit to include a                    through
separate opinion on statements                  1991
of expenditures
5.02 a (i)    Bi-annual progress reports on  Sept 30, March  through
all aspects including extension    31 of each year   1992
and research
5.02 a (ii)    Annual Progress report on all    March 31 for 3   NYD
aspects                        years after
completion of
project
5.02 b      Mid-Term Evaluation Report      June 1990                     June 1990 mission
reviewed all
project
components and
recommended
restructuring
5.03        Cost recovery of irrigation     on completion    n/a         irrigation works
works in real terms without    of irrigation                 deferred
interest over 50 years and full    works                     indefinitely due to
O&M cost. Annual surcharge of                                security problems
2% on gross agricultural
production with adjustment
every 5 years
5.06        Establish M&E unit              within 6 mos. of  nominal     Unit established
effectiveness   compliance   1986 but not
effective due to
weak management
and absence of
staff including
long-term expert
Table 8. Use of IDA Resources
8a. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Planned       Revised       Actual         Comments
Through Appraisal                                       95.1
Appraisal through Board                                 26.4         FY 1985
Approval
Board Approval Through                                   5.6         FY 1986 plus
Effectiveness                                                        supervision in FY
1985 (9/84)
Supervision                 76            80.2          66.7
TOTAL                                                   193.8



- 24-
gb. Staff Missions
Date                   No. On       Specialities      Length of      Performance            Comments
Mission                         Mission
____ ____ ___ ____ __   ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ (D ays
March-April 1984          6       IE, Ag, Ec, So,    21, 8 in field                    Pre-appraisal mission
Li                                          became appraisal mission
August-Sept 1984          1             IE                4
Oct-Nov 1985'             1             IE                15
January 1986'             1              IE           9, 2 in field
Oct 1986'                 2           IE, Ag              18
Supervision
April 19872               1             lE                10              2                   T, DAS
Nov 1987                  2           AE, Ag               8              3              F, S, M, DAS, T
April 1988'               3         AE, Ag, IE            21              3                C, DAS, ACC
Sept-Oct 1988             2           AE, IE               6              3
July 1989                 5         IE, Ag, AE             9              3         M, S, A, B Wadi Al Kharid
work deferred indefinitely
Feb 1990                  1             IE                13              3                    S, A
June 1990                 5         IE, Ag, Ec,      11, 3 in field       3                  G,A, M, S
So/Ec, M&E
September 1990            1              IE          16, 3 in field       3                  G, M, AC
March - April 1991        4        IE, AgE, Ag,    20, 2 in field         3                G, S, PC, EX
So/Ec
September 1991            3          IE, Ec, Ag       5, 3 in field       3                LAS, S, DWR
Feb-March 1992            3        IE, Ag, So/Ec     13,2 in field        3                LAS, S, EX
Oct-Nov 1992              2           AE, IE         12, 0 in field       3                     S,U
bbreviations:
Performance: I=problem free, 2=minor problems, 3=major problems
Comments/Problems: T=lack of vehicles or transport; DAS=delays in appointing key staff, ACC=inadequate project
accounting or audits; B=budgetary situation in ERADA, S=security,M=management by ERADA, F=finance/funding
delays, G=lack of commitment by Governorate of Wadi Al Jawf, C=coordination with Arab Fund,PC=delays in
payment to contractors, A=approval process delays by High Tender Board, EX=delays in extending contracts or hiring
new experts, DWR=disputed water rights, LAS=lack of TA, key project staff, U=unable to visit project area due to
security problems, AC=access possible only when accompanied by village chiefs
Specialties Represented on Mission: IE=Irrigation Engineer, Ag=Agriculturalist, AgE=Agricultural Economist,
Ec=Economist, So=Sociologist, Li=Livestock Specialist, M&E=Monitoring & Evaluation Expert
1/ Includes supervision mission to Tihama, SURDP projects
2/lncludes preparation mission for NORADEP and visits to Al Marib.
3/lncludes ERADP project appraisal mission.



IFRD Ia3-,9Fl
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
WADI AL JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
~~~~C O(~~~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~LOCATION AND PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE
bA > ; i; + _; ( --                                 t-~                                                                                                                                         F eeraRoars. PtrteCt                                         Mountainorus Areas
-o'': arr                       '';  ,\                                                                                                                                           fi , ts, ~r,'  "'\\ A;T''"'' S^""Per ,anoDs Wadr /[D.Al-
_0 r''d52a.e "/t'"                    i werr- e-_                 >
Wat ndS dt lrrrOGtron
-'               SpateuAAIr  Itr,R                                    C  OFYEMEN
<  \                                2  3 ;
-<O-T ERS;           COors                               7
;aonr,n,adat



