Docxumentof
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repst No. P-4005-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
- ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 10.5 MILLION
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 26, 1985
Ths docmme_t h8m a _eted diirb.    ad my be and by re_leab emly I hd pewferu     of
their olAl s dudeu lb entent mny ma ehwwihe be dbdlod weh   We DBk aatbiatl.n



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit - Yemeni rial (YRI)
Calendar year 1984                        March 1985
US$1ti    YRls 5.35                   US$1  -  YRls 6.49
YR1 I -  US$0.19                       YR1 1 -  US$0.15
YAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer (km) - 0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)      2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
CACB        Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
FAO/CP      Food and Agriculture Organization/Cooperative Programme
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IS          International Shopping
LCB         Local Competitive Bidding
MAF         Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
PPF         Project Preparation Facility
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
1/ The exchange rate used in the project appraisal is the rate prevailing
at the time of appraisal, namely, US$1 = YRls 5.40.



FOR OFFCUIL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower;             Yemen Arab Republic (YAR)
Amount:               Special Drawing Rights 10.5 million (approximately
US$10.0 million equivalent at negotiations in mid-March
1985)
.
Terms:                Standard
Project Description;  The key objectives of the project are to increase agri-
cultural productivity and farm incomes in Wadi Al-Jawf
by improving the use of available land and water re-
sources and introducing suitable technical packages;
and to develop rural infrastructure in this first proj-
ect in the northeastern region of the country. The
project would consist of: irrigation development;
agricultural extension and veterinary services; estab-
lishment of a nursery and an agricultural research
station; provision of credit, construction of 45 kms of
feeder roads and 20 water supply schemes; technical
assistance and training; and studies for a possible
second phase project.
The project would benefit, directly or indirectly, a
total of about 50,000 people in Wadi Al-Jawf. The main
risk is the possible hesitation of the tribal popula-
tion to adopt various technical packages. This is
alleviated in the project design by ensuring minimum
interference in the existing landholding and water
distribution patterns. In addition, the project would
ensure that the tribal leaders (Shaykhs) participate in
project activities and persuade the farmers to adopt
recommended technical packages. The Government has
established in the project area a regional office of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries--the imple-
menting agency--which has established contacts with the
tribal leaders.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Project Costs 1/
Local     Foreign     Total
-----~t million----
Irrigation Development               1.3        2.4         3.6
Feeder Roads                         0.7         1.8        2.5
Village Water Supply                 0.6         1.9        2.5
Buildings and Support Facilities    0.9         3.5         4.4
Management, Technical Assistance
and Training                       2.0        3.3         5.3
Agricultural Development             2.6         1.3        3.9
Agricultural Credit                  0.8         1.6        2.4
Studies for Future Project           0.5         1.7        2.2
BASE COST                                 9.4        17.4       26.8
Contingencies
Physical                                  0.7         1.9        2.6
Expected price increase                   3.7        4.9         8.6
Subtotal                         4.4        6.8        11.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       13.8        24.2       38.0
Financing Plan;
IDA                                   -        10.0        10.0
Government                           6.0         -          6.0
Beneficiaries                        0.1         -          0.1
Other financiers                     7.7        14.2       21.9
Total                            13.8       24.2        38.0
Estimated IDA Disbursement:
IDA FY             1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
=-$l million -
Annual         0.60   1.85   3.00   2.20   1.20   0.80   0.35
Cumulative     0.60   2.45   5.45   7.65   8.85   9.65  10.00
Estimated Completion Date;  December 31, 1991
Rate of Return: 13 percent
Appraisal Report; Report number 5326-YAR, dated April 1, 1985
1/ Cost estimates exclude taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.
Totals may not add up exactly due to rounding.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing Rights (SDRs)
10.5 million (approximately US$ 10.0 million equivalent at negotiations in mid-
March 1985), on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Wadi Al-Jawf Agricultural
Development Project.  The Saudi Fund for Development and the Islamic Development
Bank have expressed interest in participating in financing this project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report on domestic resource mobilization (No. 3554-YAR) dated
January 6, 1982 has be.zn distributed to the Executive Directors. A Country
Economic Memorandum covering the period 1982-84 will be distributed to the
Executive Directors shortly. Country data are attached in Pnnex I.
Introduction
3.       Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in its
socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The republi-
can government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution succeeded in
establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the foundations of a
modern state. Political integration and the build-up of public institutions,
while maintaining a liberal market orientation, have provided the basis for
rapid development of the public and private sectors. Under the Three-Year
Development Program (1973/74-75/76) and the First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81),
the foundations of the country's physical and social infrastructure were laid
and expanded, and first attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay
of the economy, out of its medieval setting; industrialization was also started,
albeit on a small scale.
4.       Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by the
large inflow of remittances and transfers by Yemenis abroad, particularly work-
ers in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. These are estimated to have increased
from around $65 million in 1971/72 to a level that has fluctuated around $1.2
billion per year between 1977 and 1983. Largely as a result of these cash in-
flows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased significantly over the last ten
years, reaching an estimated $510 in 1983 (World Bank Atlas methodology). Al-
though there are no reliable data on income distribution, there are reasons to
believe that the benefits from recent growth have been widely distributed.
Strong family ties ensure that many people benefit from the increase in incomes.
1/ Substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report (P-3934-YAR),
dated February 6, 1985, for the Technical Assistance Project to the Central
Planning Organization approved by the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.



-2-
Maior Development Issues
5.       Overall economic performance during the First Plan period (1976/77-
80/81) has been satisfactory. GDP grew at around 6 percent per annum in real
terms. Investment effort was impressive averaging around one-third of GNP.
These achievements, remarkable as they are, should not detract from the fact
that YAR continues to be one of the world's least developed countries. Few
mineral deposits have been discovered so far. As a result of recent exploration,
oil has been discovered in the Marib area.  An assessment of commercially ex-
ploitable reserves is presently underway. 1/ YAR's commodity exports are
negligible, reflecting the country's limited resources and the underdeveloped
state of its economy.  Productivity levels are still extremely low, especially
in agriculture which accounts for about 70 vercent of the labor force. Agricul-
ture's development has been constrained by the scarcity of agricultural land and
water and the high cost of production.
6.       Water related issues are among the most serious in the medium- and
long-run. Water resources are scarce and are being depleted rapidly around
cities and towns. A number of initiatives are, therefore, called for to address
these problems: Ci) establishing a comprehensive water resources data base;
(ii) improving coordination among the various agencies operating in the water
sector; (iii) introducing legislation to manage water use, and (iv) strengthen-
ing cost recovery policies. At the request of the Government, IDA is preparing
a detailed assessment of the sector to strengthen the water management policy
and provide the required technical assistance.
7.       Despite the impressive achievements in the development of social infra-
structure, much remains to be done. The adult literacy and school enrollment
rates are still very low; the shortage of skilled and semi-skilled manpower is
an overriding constraint to development and limits the capacity of the public
administration to manage and implement a growing and increasingly complex
development program. Health indicators depict serious problems that call for an
adequate policy framework and substantial efforts and resources to improve the
situation. The rapid population growth (estimated at about 3.0 percent per
annum) requires that the Government reach a better understanding of the conse-
quences of this high growth rate and develop an appropriate policy as soon as
possible.
8.       YAR's physical infrastructure remains underdeveloped despite the fact
that it has received the lion's share of public investment under the First and
Second Five-Year Plans. Thus, although the length of the main road network has
tripled over the last decade, many areas are still without adequate road connec-
tions. This is understandable in a country with a very rugged terrain and
scattered population and where the first paved road connecting the main harbor
to the capital city was completed only about two decades ago.
9.       The budget deficit has emerged as a major concern in recent years.
Between 1978 and 1982, Government expenditures have increased at a pace double
that of revenues. By 1982, revenues represented only about 40 percent of
1/ Oil has been recently discovered in YAR, but the extent of the discovery is
not known yet.



- 3 -
expenditurt.s and che budge. deficit increased to 33 percent of GDP. At the same
time, th: share of the budget deficit financed by external loans dropped from an
average 44 percent during 1977-81 to 16 percent in 1982, which compelled the
Government to increase its borrowings from the banking system (mainly the Cen-
tral Bank). As a result, the money supply grew rapidly during the recent years,
and by more than 25 percent in 1982. However, inflation hardly exceeded 6 per-
cent since increasing imports responded to the growing money supply and demand.
But, the continuous increase in imports, together with the levelling-off in
workers' remittances resulted in a large decline in foreign reserves, from 16
months of imports of goods and services in 1977/78 to 3.5 months by end 1982.
10.      In 1983, the Government succeeded in reversing the deteriorating macro-
financial trend despite adverse exogenous factors; e.g., the earthquake that
caused substantial damage in the Dhamar area in December 1982, a severe drought
and a large drop in official grants. The balance of payments deficit declined
by 30 percent mainly because of a substantial reduction in imports. The budget
deficit decreased by 9 percent over 1982 as a result of the Government's effort
to increase tax revenues and to bring its expenditures under control; in parti-
cular, capital expenditures were down by 27 percent in line with the recommenda-
tions of the Bank's report on the public investment program, which was discussed
with the Government and broadly agreed upon.
I1.      However, with the budget deficit still representing about 28 percent of
GDP and the money supply growing by 28 percent in 1983, the financial situation
remains serious as illustrated by increasing inflationary pressures and it would
be premature to discontinue the austerity effort at this time. The Government
has no intention to do so, as reflected by the following; The Yemeni Rial was
devalued by about 40 percent between January 1984 and February 1985. Prelimi-
nary data show that the balance of payments and budget deficits have indeed been
decreased further in 1984, and the draft 1985 budget foresees no increase in the
deficit during this year.
Government Objectives
12.      Since the early 1970s, the country has been trying to develop human
resources and build new institutions, to strengthen the physical and social
infrastructure, to raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors,
and to improve the standard of living of the people, giving priority to their
basic needs. Most of the First Plan's targets which were in line with these
objectives have been met except in the agriculture sector where the output of
some traditional crops has declined and overall growth fell considerably below
targeted levels. The primary reason for this appears to have been the abandon-
ment of marginal rain-fed areas where income opportunities could not compete
with the opportunities of migration. The production of qat (a mild stimulant)
has been on the increase and has competed for agricultural land.
13.      The Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86) 1/ has a 7 percent GDP growth tar-
get calling for a total investment of around i6.5 billion (1981 prices) over the
1/ The Yemeni fiscal year was changed to coincide with the Gregorian calendar
year as of 1982.



- 4 -
plan period. The sectoral distribution of investment emphasizes physical infra-
structure, agriculture and manpower development. The plan's financing envisioned
heavy dependence on external sources with around 70 percent of investment ex-
pected to be covered by grants and loan disbursements and direct foreign private
investment. However, since this expected level of foreign finance has not been
forthcoming and because of the extremely tight budgetary situation that has
developed recently, the Government has been revising its investment program with
IDA's assistance (para. 10).
Capital Flows and External Debt
14.      Since the 1962 Revolution, YAR has received large amounts of foreign                v
assistance.  Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classification
as a "least-developed country," most of the aid has been provided in the form of
grants and concessionary loans.  Cumulative aid disbursements, including grants,
came to around $3.2 billion by the end of 1983. The principal donors have been
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Iraq, USA and the Federal
Re?ublic of Germany as well as IDA and the Arab development funds.
15.      About one-half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and, more recently, for budget
support, primarily from Saudi Arabia. Food aid has been provided through the
World Food Program and by a number of bilateral donors. A significant part of
official grants has been made available in the form of technical assistance.
Given the extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high
priority and will be needed by the country for many years to come.
16.      Besides the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans,
chiefly for the financing of specific projects, with the main emphasis on roads,
agriculture, and utilities. YAR's external public debt outstanding on
December 31, 1983 was estimated at $2,356 million, of which $1,568 million (about
43 percent of GDP) was disbursed. IDA credits accounted for $163.6 million or
about 10 percent of the total disbursed and outstanding debt reported. The
terms of official loan assistance have been very favorable. Loans from the USSR
and the People's Republic of China are, for the most part, free of interest.
Western European countries have generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2
percent. Interest rates charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4
percent. Loan maturities range from 5 to 50 years, with an average of 20 years.
17.      In 1983 commitments decreased sharply by about 77 percent overall and
by about 90 percent for bilateral sources. This decline is partly related to
the depressed oil market and the Iran-Iraq war, since commitments from oil
surplus countries and mul-ilateral institutions related to them declined from an
average of $150 million per year over 1977-82 to t44 million in 1983. Debt
service amounted to $42.3 million in 1983, hardly more than 3 percent of gross
fcreign exchange earnings (including workers' remittances and private transfers).
However, the debt service is projected to increase substantially over 1985-90,
and its budgetary burden could become difficult to bear. These developments
indicate that YAR would have to rely increasingly on domestic resource mobiliza-
tion.



PART II - WORI BANK OPERATIONS 1/
18.      This credit would be the forty-second to YAR, bringing total IDA
commitments to $409.8 million net of cancellations. The main goals of IDA's
assistance in YAR have been threefold; (a) to develop the basic institutions,
skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development; (b)
to develop production and income in the dominant productive sector, agriculture;
and (c) to support the Government in its programs to meet basic needs in rural
and urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA has extended twelve credits
($127.9 million) for agriculture, fisheries and rural development; fifteen
credits ($158.6 million) for infrastructure; six credits (*61.0 million) for
*          education and training; three credits for industry ($22.0 million); two credits
for petroleum and geothermal promotion and exploration ($15 million); a $10.5
million credit to strengthen and expand the capability of the Ministry of Health
to plan, staff and manage the country's health care system and a $4.7 million
credit to provide technical assistance to strengthen the Central Planning
Organization. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has made three
investments in YAR: (i) $2.4 million in FY78 to help finance a dairy and juice
project; (ii) $4 million in FY84 for a dry cell battery project, and (iii) $4.5
million in FY85 for a vegetable cooking oil and ghee project. Further oppor-
tunities for IFC involvement are being explored. Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1984. The
attached map (number IBRD 15174R5) illustrates the IDA-financed projects in YAR.
19.      Despite the urgency of assisting the YAR Government in its attempts to
overcome the serious short-term budgetary and macrofinancial problems (paras.
9-11), the thrust of the IDA assistance strategy remains focused on long-term
development and fundamental structural, institutional and policy issues. These
include agricultural productivity; manpower development and institutional
support; water resource management; exploration for energy sources and minerals;
identification of viable industrial opportunities; and maintaining, upgrading
and expanding the physical infrastructure within the constraint of available
resources.  Thus, while IDA's economic work is focused on assisting the
Government to address the broad issues of macrofinancial stability, IDA lending
operations, which typically include considerable technical assistance compo-
nents, are directed mainly at the longer term structural and institutional
problems and sector work complements both the economic work and lending opera-
tions and serves to bridge the recommended short- and long-term measures.
20.      YAR's disbursement performance has been affected by a number of imple-
mentation problems, although it still compares favorably to the EMENA region's
average. Among the recurrent problems that are common to most countries at
YAR's stage of development are; delays in recruitment of consultants, delays in
award of contracts and resolution of contractual issues with contractors, and
finalizing cofinancing arrangements. In addition, other serious project-specific
problems have also been affecting the implementation of two projects; fisheries
and Ibb and Dhamar water supply; these problems have been discussed with the
1/ Substantially the same as Part II of the President's Report (P-3934-YAR),
dated February 6, 1985, for the Technical Assistance Project to the Central
Planning Organization approved by the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.



Government and corrective action is being taken to resolve them. The Government
and IDA have agreed to hold country implementation reviews twice a year to
monitor the recurrent implementation problems more closely and to address them
promptly.
21.      Future World Bank operations are expected to consolidate past achieve-
ments in the main infrastructure subsectors, spread the benefits of agricultural
and rural development projects to new outlying areas, accelerate assistance to
the Government in the field of energy, and continue to meet the large require-
ments of education and training. Particular attention will be given to YAR's
ability to implement projects by insuring the availability of key staff and
technical assistance needs.  A project to provide technical and management                   a
assistance to the state agency in charge of mineral and oil resources (YOMINCO)
and an education project have been appraised and a power distribution, an agri-
cultural development, and a highways project are under preparation. Future
operations are expected in the areas of energy, transport, and possibly in the
water supply and sewerage sector.
22.      YAR contributed an increasing portion of local currency financing for
IDA-assisted projects in the years when the budgetary situation was favorable.
However, in view of the tightness of the budget in recent years and the fact
that YAR remains among the least-developed coun_ries, it still reqtires special
assistance through financing of a large part of project costs, including local
expenditures when appropriate. As in the past, the costs of future projects are
expected to be substantially higher than the amounts that IDA can provide, and
IDA will continue to cooperate closely with other donors to maximize it's
catalytic role in stimulating cofinancing. IDA-supported projects have so far
led to about $370 million equivalent of cofinancing from other aid donors.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Mriculture in the Economy
23.      Agriculture remains the most importa.it sector of the economy accounting
for about 30 percent of GDP and 75 percent of employment. It is largely sub-
sistence oriented and heavily dependent on weather conditions. Due to erratic
rainfall and recurrent droughts and floods, agricultural production fluctuates
considerably. In addition, productivity remains low because of inadequate
infrastructure, insufficient support services and traditional, inefficient tech-
niques.
24.      In the wake of the 1973 increase in oil prices, the sector was sub-
jected to a significant change in its economic environment. Higher wages in
neighboring oil-exporting countries lured many Yemeni workers into emigration.
Their remittances raised domestic disposable income considerably resulting in an
upsurge in the local demand for foodstuffs, including fruits and vegetables,
some of which were new to the Yemeni diet. In response to these changes, some
marginal rainfed land cultivated with traditional grains was abandoned and more
effort was directed to cultivating more rewarding, and often new types of cash
crops. The cultivation of qat (a mild stimulant), which is very remunerative,
has also increased. Moreover, the yield for all crops, including cereals,
increased because of better techniques and varieties, and a number of profitable



aew _rops were intro.luced. Still, the growth in demand has far exceeded domes-
tic supply of foodstuffs. As a result, agricultural imports increased about
sevenfold during the past decade. In particular, imports of cereals reached
about 26 percent of total imports in 1981. Overall, the average annual growth
of agriculture during the past decade is estimated at 1 percent, a rate sub-
stantially below the estimated population growth rate of nearly 3 percent. The
production of cereals is believed to have declined significantly in the last two
years because of a continued drought.
Growth Potential and Major Constraints
25.      The potential for agricultural growth is significant and may be achieved
by applying yield improving technology in rainfed areas (which account for 80
percent of the area with potential for development) and through improvements in
the irrigated areas (accounting for the remaining 20 percent). The major con-
straines to the achievement of this potential include: (a) poor management of
the existing limited water resources; (b) insufficient support services; (c)
inadequate infrastructure; (d) shortage of skilled manpower; and (e) the high
cost of farm labor. Despite these constraints, however, there has tlready been
some success in achieving higher yields and switching to higher value crops due
to the initiative and responsiveness of Yemeni farmers and, to some extent, in
response to the improved support services in the areas of applied research,
training, extension and credit, often under the aegis of IDA-supported projects.
Much more needs to be done.  In the last few years, IDA has approved an agricul-
ttural research project which aims at achieving some of this potential through
the further strengthening of applied research, as well as an agricultural credit
project designed to strengthen the credit delivery system. The proposed project
includes research, extension and credit components that would develop and
strengthen these activities in the project area on the basis of the experience
gained so far in other areas of the country.
Government Objectives and Development Strategy
26.      The Government's main objectives in the agricultural sector, as arti-
culated in the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-86), include: (a) reducing the
dependence on food imports and, thereby, reducing the trade deficit in the
sector; (b) raising the incomes of farmers and the nutritional level of the
population; and (c) providing additional raw materials for agroindustries. In
order to achieve such objectives the Government is assisting the private sector
to increase the level and diversify the composition of agricultural production.
Therefore, it is undertaking plans to increase the supply of water for irriga-
tion through improved irrigation systems and tubewells, strengthen the implemen-
tation capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF), develop the
necessary infrastructure to facilitate farming operations and marketing, promote
the application of agricultural research recommendations to increase yields,
expand extension services to assist farmers in adopting improved technology,
arrange for the provision of credit to farmers to facilitate the purchase of
farm inputs, and provide training facilities. In doing the above, the Govern-
ment mainly looks to the private sector to play an active role, and its general
policy is not to interfere in the operation of market forces but to stimulate
and guide private initiative by undertaking extensive improvements in infra-
structure. However, in order to control the deteriorating balance of payments



position and to provide an incentive for the domestic production of fruits, the
Government has recently placed a ban on the importation of some citrus fruits.
It is hoped that this will be a temporary measure. Nevertheless, this policy
matter will be addressed in the report of the recent Agricultural Sector Strategy
mission.
27.      The Goverment't  strategy in the past has been to concentrate its efforts
in areas of greatest agricultural potential in the southern and western parts of
the country through well-designed and prepared irrigation imp-ovements and inte-
grated rural development projects. The most notable examples are the IDA-
assisted projects in the Tihama coastal plain and the Southern Uplands (paras.
31 and 32). However, in order to ensure a more balanced regional distribution
of development projects, the Government has recently started expanding its
efforts to the Central Highlands and the northern and eastern parts of the
country as well. The proposed development of the Wadi Al-Jawf is another step
in that direction following the most recent IDA-assisted Central Highlands
Agricultural Development project (para. 32).
IDA Strategy and Operations in the Agricultural Sector
28.      IDA's strategy in the agriculture sector aims at assisting the country
in attaining its stated objectives (para. 26), and specifically to help raise
the standard of living of the rural population through well designed projects in
areas of known potential. Through its economic and sector work, IDA has also
been able to influence the broad economic policy framework of the country and
the size and composition of the public investment program. An IDA sector review
mission is currently preparing an agricultural sector strategy paper that should
serve as a vehicle for-further dialogue with the Government on agricultural
development in general and on the role that IDA could play in this sector.
29.      While supporting regional agricultural development, IDA has concurrently
endeavored to assist the Government in dealing with sectoral issues at the
national level. The areas so far addressed relate to institution building of
MAF, agricultural research and credit, for which projects are being implemented.
In the future, emphasis should be laid on the integration of project-based ex-
tension services into regional and national extension services, preparation of a
master plan for the integrated development of water resources of the country,
food security and other related issues at the national level.
30.      In addition to its lending operations, IDA is alsn active in serving as
the executing agency for a UNDP-financed project of institutional support to
MAF. Furthermore, IDA has helped attract a number of cofinancing agencies to
finance agricultural development (para. 31). This has resulted in mobilizing
additional resources, which is viewed by the Government as an essential element
of IDA's assistance to YAR.
31.      Completed and On-going IDA-assisted Projects.  IDA has assisted in
financing 13 agricultural projects in YAR to date. The first, approved in 1973,
was the Tihama Development I project (Cr. 376-YAR), involving a credit of $21.2
million and cofinancing of t16 million from the Kuwait Fund. In spite of
start-up difficulties and cost overruns, the project was completed in December
1979.  The second project, SURDP I (Cr. 545-YAR), was financed with an IDA



- 9 -
credit of $10 million and cofinanced with $10 million from the Abu Dhabi Fund.
This project, which is the first integrated rural development project in YAR,
wqs started in 1976 and completed in December 1982. The Grain Storage and
Pr3cessi-ig project (Cr. 636-YAR) and the Livestock Credit and Processing project
(Cr. 662-YAR) were completed in 1983 and 1984, respectively.
32.      On-going IDA assisted agricultural projects include the SURDP II
(Cr. 1067-YAR) and Tihama Development 1 , III and IV projects (Credits 805-,
880- and 978-YAR, respectively) which build upon the experience o. ;URDP I and
Tihama I.  These projects, which are at varying stages of implementatior, are
making satisfactory progress, usually after initially experiencing start-up
difficulties due to financing, managerial and staffing problems of varying
degrees and severity. The Fisheries Development project (Cr. 1025-YAR) has had
serious implementation difficulties and is behind schedule. Three other recently
approved credits in agriculture-the Agricultural Research and Development
project (Cr. 1259-YAR), the Agricultural Credit project (Cr. 1308-YAR) and the
Central Highlands Agricultural Develop-mcot project (Cr. 1453-YAR)--are still in
the start-up stage.
33.      The benefits and the economic rates of return of the completed Tihama I
project (Cr. 376-YAR) and the SURDP I project (Cr. 545-YAR) exceeded appraisal
estimates. The Project Performance and Audit Reports for both projects were
generally favorable about their achievements. Still, these audit reports, along
with the audit report of the Grain Storage and Processing project (Cr. 636-YAR),
highlighted some significant difficulties encountered in the implementation of
these projects, includingz (a) slow mobilization of the new agencies; (b)
shortage of technical and administrative staff; (c) escalation in project costs
because of delayed execution; (d) ineffectiveness of monitoring and evaluation
programs; (e) insufficient recognition of the requirements of the local environ-
ment; and (f) inadequate infrastructure for the timely marketing of agricultural
products. The lessons learned from completed and on-going projects have been
taken into account, as far as possible, in formulating the design of subsequent
projects, including the proposed Wadi Al-Jawf project (para. 39).
34.      IDA's involvement in the agricultural sector is viewed as a long-term
association designed to strengthen the capability of MAE to support agricultural
development in the country and to assist the Yemeni farmer raise his standard of
living. The achievements of the first two completed agricultural development
projects suggest that IDA's continued involvement in the sector is very impor-
tant. In particular, the proposed project is modelled after some of the
successful agricultural projects in the country and falls within IDA's strategy
of replicating these successful experiences in the various parts of the country
with sufficient development potential. MAW, and the YAR Government in general,
continue to rely heavily on IDA's assistance and have considerable regard for
the policy and technical advice they receive. As more of the IDA-assisted agri-
cultural projects reach their productive phases, it should be possible to
generate a momentum of agricultural growth that would have a tangible effect on
the sector at large. It is important to have a critical mass of agricultural
projects, appropriately located, that can sustain such a momentum, and the pro-
posed project is one such project in the eastern part of the country which has
been rather isolated so far and which the Government is keen to integrate with
the rest of the country. The general eastern area of Marib and Al-Jawf are now



- 10 -
expected to experience a significant economic development with the discovery of
oil close to Marib, the building of the Marib Dam which will be financed by Abu
Dhabi, and the implementation of the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.      The project was prepared in June, 1983 by the Food and Agriculture
Organization/Cooperative Programame in cooperation with the Government. An ad-
vance of $355,000 from the Project Preparation Facility was approved in June
1984 to finance completion of the engineering design of a part of the proposed
irrigation scheme. The project was appraised by IDA in March/April, 1984.
Negotiatious were held in Washington in March 1985, with a delegation headed by
the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, Dr. Ahmad Al-Hamdani, and which
included other representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Central
Planning Organization, and the YAR Embassy in Washington. A staff appraisal
report entitled "Wadi Al-Jawf Agricultural Development Project" (No. 5326-YAR),
dated              ) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
The main features of the credit and the project are presented in the Credit and
Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area is attached (Map
IBRD 18379).
Project Area and Sociological Environment
36.      The project area is part of the Al-Jawf Governorate located in the
northeast of YAR. It is formed by a large plane of alluvial deposits totaling
about 150,000 hectares. It comprises the gravity perennial irrigation areas of
Wadi Al-Kharid and Wadi As-Saghi as well as the well and spate irrigated areas
of Al-Hazm and Al-Khalq. The social and political life patterns of the popula-
tion of Wadi Al-Jawf are governed by an indigenous tribal system, functioning
under a tribal law, which is derived from past customs and traditions. The
tribal leaders (Shaykhs) are dominant in the legal and political spheres. The
economic lifestyle of the population is oriented towards subsistence production
of grains and livestock, practiced in a rudimentary fashion, from the available
land and water resources. The tribal structure has lately adapted to the
development of the monetized economy and the mobility imparted by the modern
four-wheel drive vehicles, resulting in business contacts mainly with Sanaa in
YAR and Jizan across the border in Saudi Arabia. The consumption of imported
commodities, financed in large measure by remittances from the migrant workers,
is rising due to these contacts.
37.      Partly because of this strong tribal tradition, and partly because of
its geographical isolation and self-sufficiency, the Al-Jawf area remained out-
side the orbit of central government influence until recently when the Govern-
ment extended education and naealth services to the population and began increas-
ing itL influence in tribal administration and introducing various development
measures to improve irrigation and rural infrastructure. The tribesmen, who
have started to appreciate the advantages of modern techniques in development,
are receptive to the Government's initiative to increase the provision of ser-
vices and facilities and are looking forward to the initiation of a major effort
for agricultural development in the project area. The Government expects the
development impact of the proposed project to be significant, considerably
beyond what is captured by its economic rate of return.



- 11 -
Projeet Objectives and Components
38.      The key objectives of the project are to improve agricultural produc-
tivity and farm incomes in the Al-Jawf Governorate by making the best use of
available land and water resources and by introducing modern technical packages
for increasing crop yields, and to achieve a balanced geographical distribution
in the development of agriculture across the country. To achieve these objec-
tives, the project aims to: (a) develop irrigation infrastructure to ensure
efficient use of water and land resources; (b) develop rural infrastructure to
improve the quality of life and 'iving standards of the rural tribal population
by providing them with a network of feeder roads and potable water supply; (c)
develop agriculture by providing technical know-how through training, extension
and applied research; (d) support animal health services; and (e) provide credit
facilities for agricultural machinery, equipment and inputs and for poultry
development. The project also includes studies for future projects for full
development of the area's resources.
39.      The lessons learned from completed and on-going IDA-supported agricul-
tural projects in the country have been incorporated in the project design
(para. 33). These include; (a) provision for technical assistance including a
considerable amount of specialized and on-the-job training as well as recruit-
ment of staff from abroad, as needed, for implementation of the project, (b)
provision of incentives and facilities for the national staff for strengthening
the implementation unit and ensuring their commitment to the project, (c) pro-
vision of infrastructure to facilitate marketing of agricultural products, (d)
provision of operating facilities and financial support to the Cooperative and
Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) to ensure the timely availabilitv of farm in-
puts, (e) application of realistic disbursement profiles to account for possible
delays in project mobilization and implementation, (f) improvements in the tech-
nical design of project structures based on the experience of similar works in
the region, and (g) provision for an effective monitoring and evaluation pro-
gram. Moreover, the project design and proposed implementational set-up have
taken into consideration the strongly tribal character of the Wadi's populat:on
and considerable attention was devoted to ensuring that they are consistent %- :th
acceptable norms. 1/
40.      Irrigation Development.  This would focus on the reduction of water
losses in the existing conveyance and distribution systems of canals, and the
development of on-farm works for improved water management and higher irrigation
efficiency. The works would include: (a) concrete lining of those reaches of
the main and secondary canals which pass through sandy soils and are susceptible
to high seepage losses; (b) construction of permanent diversion, distribution
and check structuTes, bridges and culverts; (c) rehabilitation of surface drain-
age ditches; and (d) construction of on-farm works including land levelling. In
1/ The project components were discussed at all levels of the area's population
and administration and found generally acceptable. An alternative scheme of
irrigation development in the Wadi Al-Kharid area, involving consolidation of
tribal land into compact irrigation blocks, though more attractive from the
economic point of view, was not adopted as its design was not acceptable to
the concerned tribes.



- 12 -
addition, about 350 wells would be rehabilitated, two main distribution struc-
tures for spate irrigation would be constructed, and about 2 kilometers of
existing dikes would be rehabilitated to protect the service areas from flood-
ing. Drip and sprinkler water application methods would also be introduced
after testing at the agricultural research station.
41.      Agricultural Development
(a) Extension Service. Seven extension centers would be established,
of which three would be part of three block centers which would
house veterinary and irrigation staff and extension agents. A
horticulturist and an extension agronomist would set up the
extension service, develop and implement extension programs,
train counterpart staff and provide technical backstopping to the
extension agents.
(b) Animal Health Service. To provide support to the Government's
efforts to improve animal health in Wadi Al-Jawf, a veterinary
service would be established and would include; (a) an office-
clinic complex at each block center; (b) an internationally
recruited veterinarian; (c) six vaccinators and three veteri-
nary assistants; and (d) vehicles, drivers and equipment.
(c) Agricultural Research. A regional research station would be
established to develop and test applied research packages under
Wadi Al-Jawf conditions prior to their dissemination to the farm-
ers through the extension service. The station would be admini-
stered and supervised by the Agricultural Research Authority and,
in addition to the crop section, would have two demonstration and
field research units--one for livestock and the other for poultry.
(d) Nursery. A plant nursery would be established to produce annual-
ly about 200,000 fruit and forestry seedlings. Seedlings would
be sold at a nominal price in order to encourage farmers to
invest in orchard development and forestry planting.
(e) Demonstration Farms. These would be established, in consultation
with the Governorate's administration and under the supervision
of the extension service, on two privately owned well-irrigated
farms and three perennial irrigation farms on Government lands.
They would be used for demonstrating modern irrigation and pro-
duction practices and for well-irrigation trials in the eastern
part of the Wadi. The demonstrations on well-irrigation would
also include sprinkler and drip irrigation to introduce these
techniques for progressive adoption by the farmers in the future.
(f) Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. This would include the services
of internationally recruited short-term experts and national
counterparts and support staff established for the project under
the direct control of MAF. Establishment of the unit should take
place no later than six months after credit effectiveness
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.05).



- 13 -
(g) Agricultural Credit. The project would support CACB operations
in the area by providing buildings for an office and stores,
vehicles and a line of short-term and mediuu-te-m credit for the
purchase of machinery and materials for well irrigation improve-
ment and the establishment of poultry farms. The onlending terms
and conditions for the sub-loans would be the same as those
applied under the o-igoing IDA-assisted Agricultural Credit proj-
ect (Cr. 1308-YAR) which includes provisions for periodic review.
42.      Feeder Roads.  A road to connect Sanaa with Al-Hazm, the Governorate
headquarters, financed by the Government, is currently being constructed with
*          completion expected in 1985.  The construction of a link road to connect Al-Hazm
with the existing Sanaa-Marib highway, which would provide an alternative route,
has also been started and is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986 (Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Schedule 5, Section 4b(iiiD). Assurance was obtained at
negotiations that this link road would be completed on schedule. The project
includes construction of 45 kms of feeder roads to link various villages with
the above-mentioned main roads in the Wadi, as shown on the attached map (IBRD
18379).
43.      Village Water Supply Schemes.  Twenty schemes proposed to be con-
structed as part of the project would provide safe and convenient sources of
water for a population of about 30,000 people. The general locations of the
schemes have been agreed upon by the Governor of Al-Jawf. These would involve
investigations (geoelectric probing) in order to locate suitable drilling sites
with fresh water in sufficient quantities, the drilling of 16 deep holes and
deepening of four existing wells, and the installation of relevant storage and
distribution facilities. As A prerequisite for receiving project assistance,
the beneficiary communities would finance the cost of construction of the roads
providing access to the pumphouses, estimated at 5 percevt of the total invest-
ment cost, by depositing the requisite amount with the project prior to the
commencement of construction. The estimate of acquifer recharge shows that the
demand for water supply can easily be met from the aquifer. Operation and
maintenance costs of the schemes would be borne entirely by the beneficiaries.
44.      Buildings and Support Facilities.
(a) Buildings. The buildings for the project headquarters at Al-Hazm
would be prefabricated units comprising an office, five houses of
three-bedrooms each, twelve houses of two-bedrooms each, a
bachelor housing unit, a guest house, CACB buildings, central
stores and an extension block center. The block centers at Matun
and Husn-al-Shanan and the four extension centers would each
preferably be of block and masonry construction.
(b) Project Machinery Unit. The feeder roads to be constructed under
the project wnuld be maintained by the project during the imple-
mentatie-n phase. For this purpose, a project machinery unit
would be established and staffed adequately. The project would
provide the operating and running expenses for the machinery unit
until the completion of the project. Assurance would be obtained
from the Government at negotiations that, until Local Development



- 14 -
Associations become effective in the project area or other insti-
tutional arrangements are made, the project machinery unit would
continue to function as part of the MAF beyond the project's
implementation stage (Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 5,
Section 3(b).
(c) Equipment and Vehicles. Twenty-five vehicles and 21 motorcycles
and their operation and maintenance costs have been provided to
meet the staff's transportation needs during project implemeenta-
tion. Provision has also been made for necessary furnishings and
engine2ring equipment for the project office.
45.      Management, Technical Assistance and Training.                                    -
(a) Management and Technical Assistance. About 40 man-years of
internationally recruited consultants including one project
advisor/irrigation engineer, two civil engineers, one design
engineer, one mechanical engineer, one surveyor, one extension
agronomist, one horticulturist, one veterinarian, and short-term
consultants would be provided to assist the Government in project
implementation. They would set up the engineering office and the
extension service, develop project implementation plans and guide
their execution, train counterpart staff and provide backstopping
to the local staff. The Government has already appointed the
project manager, a civil engineer and some support staff to
coordinate the updating of designs and establish a project
office. Since the extension service would be an important
element for agricultural development in the Wadi, it would be
established early during the first year of project implementa-
tion. The selection of 15 trainees to fill 10 extension agent
posts would be made within six months of the credit effectiveness
(Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 5, Section 3(a)(ii)).
The selected candidates would enroll in a course similar to the
one conducted at Sanaa by the Directorate of Extension of MAF so
that the graduates would assume their duties early in the projkct
implementation.
(b) Training. On-the-job training would play an important part in
preparing local counterpart staff in assuming their duties and
would be appropriately emphasized in the terms of reference of
the international consultants.  In-country training would also be
emphasized since several agricultural development projects have
been implemented in the Tihama and Southern Uplands areas and
could provide practical training opportunities. The Project
Manager and his staff would undertake several field visits to
these areas in order to acquaint themselves with management pro-
cedures, particularly in procurement, agricultural extension and
monitoring and evaluation. In addition, the management staff
would be encouraged to enroll in short-term courses offered by
the National Institute of Public Administration in Sanaa. Simi-
larly, the extension agents are expected to enroll in short-term
refresher courses offered by the MAF Directorate of Extension.



- 15 -
The Agricultural Research Authority would also conduct short-term
training courses for agricultural staff, extension agents and
farmers in the project area. Training equipment, vehicles and
visual aids would be provided under the project. Extension meet-
ings with farmers using field days and other methods would be
timed to fit with the crop production calendar and advertised in
advance to the farmers. The in-country training efforts would be
supplemented with overseas training programs related to strength-
ening project staff abilities in project implementation. The
Project Manager would prepare an annual training program (in-
country and overseas) and submit it for IDA's review before its
implementation (Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 5, Section
2(b)(vi)). Follow-up of the training program would be the
responsibility of the monitoring and evaluation unit. Reports on
training activities will be prepared twice a year by the Project
Manager and the monitoring and evaluation unit and submitted for
IDA's review.
46.      Studies.  The project would include funds for further studies of a
possible second phase project for making optimum use of all available land and
water resources. The terms of reference for the studies would be reviewed
by IDA. The studies would be carried out by employing a firm of consulting
engineers to be selected internationally in consultation with IDA.
Project Implementation
47.      Responsibility for project implementation would rest with MAF.  This is
in line with the Government's strategy, supported by IDA, to strengthen MAF by
giving it more direct responsibility for the implementation of projects and the
development of its capacity to maintain them. l/ An organizational setup agreed
to by MAF is shown in Chart World Bank 26380 (attached). A Coordinating Com-
mittee headed by the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries and including
representatives of concerned agencies 2/ would be formed to ensure coordination
among all the concerned agencies. A national Project Manager, assisted by a
team of international consultants, their national counterparts, and local
support staff would be in charge of directly implementing the project. A
project advisor would serve as team leader to the international consultants and
would advise the project manager on project implementation issues. Appointment
of the expatriate project advisor and a civil engineer, two national civil
engineers, one associate extension expert, and establishment of the Coordinating
Committee would be conditions for credit effectiveness (Development Credit
Agreement, Sections 7.01(b) and (c)). An Engineering Section consisting of
1/ The World Bank is acting as an executing agency for an ongoing UNDP-financed
institutional support project to MAP.
2/ These comprise of the Governorate of Al-Jawf, the Central Planning Organiza-
tion, the Agricultural Research Authority and CACB. Representatives from the
Ministry of Public Works, the Confederation of Yemeni Development Associa-
atous and other concerned agencies may also be invited to attend the
Committee's meetings.



- 16 -
internationally recruited consultants and their counterparts would assist the
project manager in matters of engineering designs, construction and procure-
ment. An Agricultural Section also comprising internationally recruited consul-
tants and their counterparts would assist the project tuanager in implementing
the agricultural development components of the project. The Agricultural
Research Station financed under the project would function under the administra-
tive and technical control of the Agricultural Research Authority of MAF. CACB,
in coordination with the project manager, would administer the agricultural
credit component through its branch office at AL hazm (Development Credit Agree-
ment, Section 5.06). The Government would conduct a mid-term project evaluation
in which IDA and the cofinanciers would be invited to participate (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.02(b)). Assurance to that effect was obtained from
the Government at negotiations.
48.      The project area is short on skilled manpower to implement the various
project components. This would be overcome by recruiting local staff from other
parts of YAR. Assurances were obtained from the Government that, in addition to
providing free accommodations, staff would be provided adequate incentives to
attract and retain them in the project area (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 5.04). The shortage of trained and experienced technicians would be met
by recruiting expatriate experts.
Project Cost and Financing
49.      The total cost of the project, including physical contingencies and
allowances for expected price increases, is estimated at $38 million with a
foreign exchange component of about US$24 million, or 64 percent of total cost.
The base cost is calculated using unit costs adjusted to the fourth quarter of
calendar 1984. Physical contingencies on construction and running costs have
been calculated at 10-20 percent and allowances for expected price increases in
the foreign exchange components are estimated at 8 percent, 9 percent, 9 percent,
9 percent, 7.5 percent, and 6 percent during the years 1985-1990, respectively,
and the local component at 10 percent annually. The project is exempt from
local duties and taxes.
50.      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 10.5 million (equivalent to about $10
million at negotiations) would finance about 41 percent of the foreign exchange
component. The balance of total costs would be financed by the Government ($6
million) and other cofinanciers. The Saudi Fund for Development and the Islamic
Development Bank have both shown interest in cofinancing the project. The
satisfaction of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of loan agreements
with the cofinanciers is a condition of credit effectiveness (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 7.01(a)).
Procurement
51.      A procurement plan is presented in the table below.  The construction
of block centers, extension centers and water supply schemes would be scattered
in time and space and are, therefore, not likely to interest international
bidders. These works would be procured through local competive bidding (LCB)
procedures which allow foreign bidders to compete and are acceptable to IDA
although no IDA financing is expected for any major LCB procured items. Items



- 17 -
of miscellaneous goods which cannot be grouped and would cost less than $20,000
each could be procured by LCB up to an aggregate cost of $500,000 over the
entire project implementation period. Standard IDA guidelines would be followed
in the hiring of consultants for engineering and management and for carrying out
the further studies envisioned under the project. For consulting services to
update irrigation designs amounting to $0.16 million financed under a PPF ad-
vance (para. 35), IDA agreed to the recall by the Government of the firm which
had done the original designs. For goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more and for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$200,000 or more whether to be procured by international competitive bidding
(ICB) or international shopping (IS), IDA would review and approve tender docu-
ments and contracts before they are issued/awarded.
Procurement Plan
Project Element                                Procurement Procedure I/
ICB          LCB          IS         Other
-  - --    million
Civil Works
Irrigation Development             5.75
(3.45)
Project Headquarters               2.55
(2.25)
lock/Extension Centers                          0.95
Water Supply Schemes                            3.55
Feeder Road Construction           3.30
(2.30)
Equipment
Vehicles and Office                                         0.50
(0.50)
Heavy Machinery                    0.88
(0.80)
Light Farm Equipment               0.50
Well-Improvement                                             1.80
Consulting Services                                                          5.00
(0.70)
TOTAL                          12.98         4.50        2.30          5.00
(8.80)                   (0.50)       (0.70)
1/ Figures presented in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the
proposed IDA credit. Costs include contingencies.



- 18 -
Disbursement
52.      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed over seven years as follows;
100 percent of foreign expenditures for all project components financed by the
IDA credit; that is, the feeder roads and the irrigation development works,
vehicles, equipment and machinery, project housing, consultancy services and the
PPF advance. In order to expedite disbursements, a Special Account (revolving
fund) would be established at the level of $500,000.
Environmental Impact
53.      The project is not expected to have any detrimental impact on the en-
vironment. On the contrary, (a) upgrading of the existing irrigation infrastruc-
ture, intensification of agriculture and introduction of fruit and forestry trees
would improve the existing dry and dusty environment; (b) the improved water
supply would reduce the present health hazards; and (c) the feeder road system
would allow isolated villages easy access to markets and medical facilities. The
extension service would take necessary care to avoid the negative effects of the
use of plant protection chemicals by monitoring and advising on the transport and
use of chemicals and the disposal of empty containers.
Riparian Issues
54.      All waters to be used in the system have catchment areas within the
political boundary of YAR; therefore, there is no international water rights
problem. Within the project area itself, the development works have been designed
so as not to interfere with the traditional water rights of the clans within the
tribes as well as of the individual tribesmen.
Project Benefits
55.      The project would primarily improve the income and living standards of
about 1,700 farm households or about 10,000 people by improving the irrigation
infrastructure and providing extension and credit facilitids. An additional
1,200 farmers would benefit indirectly from the extension service. The increased
production of cereals, fresh fruits and vegetables would improve caloric intake
and nutrition. The project would also provide potable water to about 30,000
people and help reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases. Feeder roads would
facilitate marketing and also help accelerate technological and social change in
the Governorate. With increased productivity and employment opportunities at the
farm and improved living conditions, more of the labor force is expected to remain
in the area, helping to create a stable rural economy. The entire population of
the Wadi Al-Jawf (50,000 people) would thus benefit directly or indirectly from
the project. At full development, the project would utilize, on average, an
incremental 28 man-years of hired labor and 42 man-years of family labor in agri-
cultural activities. It would also create employment opportunities in construc-
tion, trade and transport activities.
Economic Rate of Return
56.      The economic rate of return (ERR) on the investment in the project is
estimated at about 13 percent. Sensitivity analysis indicated that the ERR is



- 19 -
greatly affected by major increases in costs, a reduction in benefits, or both;
and by a combination of delays in project implementation and increased costs. If
the project cost increases by 20 percent and the benefits remain unchanged, or if
the benefits are reduced by 20 percent and the cost remains unchanged, the ERR
would be 10 percent in each case. A lag of two years in attaining benefits would
result in an ERR of 10 percent. The 13 percent ERR uses a premium price which
reflects consumers' preferences for some tradeable products but which is phased
out over a ten-year period. A sensitivity analysis to test the effect of using
such a price indicates that without the premium price, the ERR would be 12
percent.
Risks
57.      The main risk in achieving the project objectives is associated with the
extent to which the tribal population adopts the various technical packages pro-
posed. This is being addressed by (a) ensuring that the project design would not
interfere with the existing landholding and water distribution pattern; (b)
involving the tribal chiefs (Shaykhs) in project implementation activities; and
(c) carrying out field demonstrations of the recommended technical packages. The
Government recognizes the needed to educate the farmers on the benefits of
improving their centuries-old irrigation techniques and practices. Toward that
end, a project field office has already been established in the Wadi which, in
addition to project mobilization, would explain to the intended beneficiaries,
through the Shaykhs, the project's objectives and design. An early establishment
of rural infrastructure facilities (feeder roads and village water supply) as
proposed in the implementation schedule is also expected to generate interest
among the population and make the farmers more receptive to the project's
development approach.
58.      There are also risks associated with the pace of implementation of the
project. The area being remote and lacking in infrastructure and public facili-
ties, the start-up may be slow and mobilization of manpower and other resources
for project implementation difficult. These factors have been taken into account
in designing the project and scheduling its implementation as follows: (a) the
implementation period has been kept realistic and stretches over six years, ex-
cluding time provided for establishment of the project office prior to that
period; (b) the first two years would be devoted only to procurement of equipment
and machinery and tendering for civil works; and (c) the Government has agreed to
provide special incentives to the local staff assigned to work in the Wadi
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.04).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab Republic
and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Association's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.      Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest are
referred to in Section III of Annex III. The following are conditions of effec-
tiveness of the credit: (i) fulfillment of conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the cofinanciers' loan agreements (para. 50); (ii) appointment of an



- 20 -
expatriate project advisor and civil engineer, two national civil engineers and
one associate extension expert (para. 47); and (iii) establishment of the
Coordination CoTmittee for project implementation (para. 47).
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Develop-
ment Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 26, 1985



- 21-                                          ANNl
Page 1 of 5
TAIL! 36
IE. Ain RP             - OCUAL ISUICATT DATA 8
TItNl; ARABu. w                     awam   slaps CEOU         a< U    za-EN7
NOBT                (MOST RGENT ESTIATE) At
3961    i7c4i         IECOIT          MIDUL. INCI1          Ifb
9EU7! UMATELI   N. APRICA4   ID EAST    LAT. AmiCk 4 CAR
AM (TmA uq.u)
TOrAL                               195.0                  195.0
AGRICULTURAL                        96.1        97.3        97.9
a cArPIT (U41)                          ..       110.0       500.0             1149.6                210Z.6
(KILOGIIAS Or OIL [OUIVAUlEi)        5.0        11.0        57.0             622.1                  995.5
M T[   A  VIaL  nsTITE
POPULATION ,ID-TEAR (THOUSANDS)    4161.0     5256.0      7470.0 j        
URBAN POPULArLON (R OF TOTAL)        3.4         7.5        14.3              48.2                   66.5
POPULATION PrOJECTIONS
*                        LPOPUATtON IN YAR 2000 'fILW                            12.4.
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                              43.5
POPULATION 1M1ID1                                         1.9
ropULATION DCNS m
PER SQ. NH.                       21.3        27.0        37.2              36.3                   35.7
Pr SQ. M. ACRI.  ND               43.1        54.0        74.1             '61.7                   92.4
POPULATION ACE SYRUCTUEt (I)
0-14 TRS                         42.4        43.0        U.5                43.6                   39.9
15-64 TRS                         54.4       53.9         52.0              53.1                   56.0
65 AND AsOVE                       3.2         3.1         3.2               3.3                    4.1
POPULATION GROWTIH RATE CZ)
TOTAL                             L21          2 3         2.9                2.8                   2.4
URlA                               8.1        10.2         8.1               4.5                    3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        49.7        48.8        48.3              40.4                   31.3
CRUnE nATH RATE (PEt TNOLUS)        23.8        26.5        21.6              11.5                    8.1
GROSS REPROWUCrION RATE              3.4         3.3         3.0               2.8                    2.0
PAMILY PLANNING
ACEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)            .
USERS (Z OF MARID WOMN)             ..          ..         1.0 /d           22.2                   40.3
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      119.0       84.0         93.0              97.3                  114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY or
CALORIES (2 OF REQUUIENTS)        90.0        76.0        76.0             110.8                  110.6
PROTEINS (CRAMS PE OAY)           69.0        55.0        58.0              70.1                   67.3
OF HHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       18.0        14.0        19.0 /.            17.8                  34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DfATH RATE         60.4       49.0         38.0              14.6                    5.7
unt
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (TEARS)       35.6       38.5         43.7              57.5                   64.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER T OIS)      211.6       3M8.0       163.0             tO1.5                   60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (IPOP)
TOrAL                               *-         4.0         4.0 if           59.7                   65.4
URBAN                               ..       43.0         3L00 7F            4.5                   78.1
RURAL                               O. LO                  2.0 7F           38.4                   46.2
ACCESS TO EIICRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF OPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..          ..                ..                   52.9
r                     URBAN                                ..         ..          ..                 ..                   67.0
RURAL                               ..         ..           ..                ..                   24.5
POPULATION PER PFTICIAN         130090.0    24370.0      11670.0            4345.1                 1917.7
POP. PER NURSING PESON                .,         ,,       45W.0             1831.1                  815.8
POP. PFE HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2730.0      1430.0      1700.0             632.9                  367.2
URBAN                               ..         ..        340.0             545.5                  411.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      6380.0            2513.5                 2636.3
AIKISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            .         .          14.3              26.2                   27.3
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLO
TOTAL                               ..          ..         5.0 /h
URBA                                ..         ..          4.2 7 
RURAL                               --          ''         6.07i-'
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSOHS/ROS4
TOTAL                               ..          ..         2.8 /h'
URBAN                               ...                    I.J rh. i..
RtgAL                               ...                    3.I Ji             .                      .
ACCQSS To ELECT. (S OF DIELLXNCS:
TOTAL                               ..          ..4. 2                                               .
URBAN                               .          .          56.5 /h.l         77.7                     .
RURAL                                                                        16.1
ACCESS TO ELICT. (I OF WELLINCS



- 22 -                                          ANNE I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE IA
lESS. ARAB lP.  PT   - OCUIL IZt   DAA 6E
trUgs  A4W  i.| OF                   kwuuusZ  ainan cvEIGWrmD AVN 3 lC
NOSS BQ (MMS UCER Z                     ) L
RECENT         KIDD33  1ICOME          IDDhRICN
196Ao      1970,      ITIMATS      N. APUICA 6 RED AST    LAT. a ZCA a Cn
ADJUSTED E L       IT TIOS
PRIMARY   TOTAL                     6.0        12.0         47.0               86.3                   105.4
HALE                    14.0        23.0         62.0              102.3                   106.3
FEKALE                   0.4         2.0         12.0               73.6                   104.3
SECONDARYY TOTAL                     ..         1.0          5.0               43.0                   43.2
MLr                       .          2.0          9.0               52.3                    42.3
FEALE                     ..         0.1          2.0               33.0                   44.3
VOCATIONAL CE OF SECONARY)            3.2 a       2.2          4.6 1             10.3                   33.6
PUPIL-TACHER RATIO
RUARLY                             45.0         1 5L.0      44.0               30.3                   30.1
SECONDARY                          24.D 01     24.0         16.0 f             23.1                   16.6
ADULT LITZRACY RATE CE)               2.5 f      10.0 h       21.0               43.3                   79.5
COEflEOI
PASSEN     CARS/THOUSN   or            ..          ..           ..               17.                    46.0
RADIO REIZERI/TNOIJAMD POP             ..        13           15.6              138.8                  225.6
TV  RCVERS/TnOUSAJN PoP                ..          ..          0.2               46.1                   107.2
NEWSPAm  ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATIO
PER ToSADa POPULATION                ..        10.7           ..               31.2                    63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        ..           .          2.1                1.7                    2.6
LAM
TOTAL LAN0R FORCZ (TIUS)           1263.0      1481.0       1863.0
FEKALE (PERCENT)                    3.7         4.5          3.4               10.6                   23.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCEtS)              U3.0        79.0         75.0               62.4                   31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  7.0         9.0         11.0               27.9                   23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              30.3        28.2         24.9               26.2                    32.2
HAIZ                               57.7        55.0         49.9               46.4                   49.3
FEMALE                              2.3         2.3          2.6                3.6                    13.2
ECONOWIC DEPENDENCY RATX              1.5         1.6          1.9                1.8                     1.4
flz DISi TDlO
PERCENT oP PRIVATE MM
RECEID BY
HIGHEST 15 OF HDUSHDS                .....
HIGHEST 201 OF HOU    S              .....L.
LOWEST 20Z OF HDUSEROLDS             ..          ..           ..                 ..
LOWEST 402 OP  aUUWLDS               ..
vOrr s   -
EST1mATED ABLUTZ POVERTY INCOE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URJAN                                ..          ..        366.0              274.8                   2U8.2
RURAL                                ..          ..           ..              177.2                   164.0
tIMATD RELATIXV  POETY S     OME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
uRBAN                                ..          ..           ..              402.6                   522.8
RURAL                                ..          ..        157.0              264.9                  372.4
ESTIMAZD POP. BUL  ABSOLUTS
POVERTY UIC    LEVEL (I)
URRAN                                ..          ..           ..                 ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
NOT AVAILABlE
NOT APPLICALE
NOTES
na  The group averges for each indicator -  populatian-mighted aritltic insane.  Coerag  of countris  own the
indicator dopends on availabiLity of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unlern otherwis  noted, "Dat for 1960" refer to my yeer betwn 1959 and 1961; "Date for 1970" betwen 1969 and
1971; and data for "loet Recent attmate" between 1180 end 192.
I.  Resident population. Includes sVanto worker abroad for lame tha  a yer; Id 1979;  A 1977; If 1976;
/It 1972; Ih 1975; /t In th  major cities of Seuns, TaS  and Hodeidah; Li 1962; /kh 1 3.
JUNE 1984



I.W ~~~_113110124'333333333.3  3333.33
PbI",3433   . *fPI     b343. 3Iq.4b   3   bn*-    b
33344.4~-  3   ~3.d3*44333333 ~3333  3b.-*3* '   33.L43334*3
V:,. I7~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~I~ 33 33d*~-.44'b3*33  '334. 33.*b.3-*f.
. ..... . .. .... ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       ~       ~ ~ ~~-3-.43-3343b-P4~330333Pb b3Ab'3333  33.dS 430 
3b'JP-b'3.34'333.3-  .33)b34b   3-3344333334b   33L.3-33  34.                    3
P..~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p   3-  -.3343  -~is33A   3
J. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~1   44.unb..dI        .4   -    ~ b-                                                            333b.343   .33333
...J., ~I I--          .-I               I" ~ ~              ~ ~~~~~1.*3 S33 .3. P   b443-MM3-fbj                                                   343 4  1_ 3 -**I
3*3343  b*43   33b33*3~4b3-33   -343   b   443 - J-~*   3   33.33  b
-6 .3  I..-. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~b34   334  333*3.3*-3b333'   bd3-3    b333333   3333                                                                34
%:,= =  ....... .... J.-  A, ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      'db.  b-33333331%.ll               3.3-    3pb-3-343   ub3
P.                                                                                       fti.7 -1         1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~333.4a  P.C   n   o.    3133S
* *...3      3db1b3'33.3- -      ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ..P           -     ,.         ' w _ v_
34A-33.3     3333333..43  PbL          '33bb . -J      -3 .'b3-.bL                                ..: -I3-  33.3 33bb1 ..3.Id 'fj3   b3-  1343  --- P`3              b3b39-I-  1b33sitbD
3E4'4- NP b*43  - .     343   4 41         3...' dbP...b3 J3...  .43*...*3t3333- 3b                              ..   ,'jb3~   Iu-.. u   L3L3 PIPS",.3  -L*3
P -   4. l-d% ql..l.3....  -*'*3l                                                                       3 33  3.33 44--13 I_-33*3    )b -3 -
P   I.                                                                                                                                                         Z                     I            P.-3b.'3b . b.b33.3-b-3'3*4b-.113333.43  33.,.n331..b3.33~s.L4-34-b3
3313-l' 4.3343  5443'4     3b43*  '3-33b4.3  j.3~33-433 3-3*3-33     d-4-I ..            l,3b  3   i--'4  ..3u4L -.-
*b3-bb333~3       ~                   33-3-.3    d,g 43.3-3343-b43-3P.
3-     ~.                            3033.3*   33.4   343-3bb33lbb33."~33   .   30L33
T4.    b4--                            -  *-a..L  .  ,.j            ..                              33.-3033    -  -3.    m34b                      '.-        p.3    P-Md . 31
43b-.'33333-3'3.3-33 333.33  -b   3*     0'3.L!'    4)IbM.--- .34.-i .  31                                              -      ...v4 fjt  PW1Il33            3,34..a.,~
b3341b333.33   4.333                                             P-3I  'b-  333           3333   3.L33-3-Ib3-  l
dq_                            4 1M      ,                                                                                        l~~~~~~~~~~~~a -333.3. ~   'n3b33 b3-   .4.-  an!-
"I J.                         __-.P43-33.33              m -         .                           PP  ,           -'.3.'. - 'bb3.-3L0 d-   3-4it) 413LL"L
.3 33.3b3   31333  3'3- %.3-b3-3b3'3  lb P433- Jb. .  .33                        b3-. ....30' .        3'343f7. ..........33 -3b   33...44.3. 33.r-'3
p       33.33                                                                                                P-                  P......i-33P-
I_-I                V.41                   61 ~~~~~~~~3--. 131 -                      t.IP- .j3 '3.-3'r        b    b333P.... n ..,44.. 3'3'.  .-34.3-3         -3-I       Pb3
 1--d   34                                       4..0.3    3b'  '3C                                                            -43  3  333bbL               333.'3b'3 3.'33-'N 33b
I  .3   -gb.b.-3.'b.b33b    .  *3.q*433-3  -33-44333.13                                                           3'bb33bb33b'   b333-  4- 333b333.4. b5333343Ib



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US, Mln)                              ANNUAL RATE 0F GPROWTH
1983                   (Constant Price)
(Current krices)          FY1977-82       1983
GNP at Market Prices                  4179                    7             2
GDP at Market Prices                  3670                    8             2
Imports of GNFS                      2088                     7           -12
Exports of GNFS                        246                   15            14
Consumption                          4424                     6            -3
of whichs  Government             (1380)                   26            -4
Investment                            1088                   14           -11
Gross National Savings                 530                   -9           -11
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1981)
Value Added    Resident Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US$ Min       %    Thousand        %        us$        Z
Agriculture              820      32         830        69         988       47
Industry                206        8          54         5        3815      182
Services                1492      60         318        26        4691      224
TOTAL/AVERAGE      2518      100        1202      100         2095      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRIs Mln)
2 of GNP
1978/79  1979/80  1981   1982   1983       1983
Current Receipts                 2161      2755   3329   3692   4401        23
Current Expenditure              1847      2531   3325   5181   5924        31
Current Deficit(-)/Surplus(+)   314         224      4  -1489  -1523        -8
Capital Expenditure              2618      2492   3683   4017   2937        15
Extrabudgetary Expenditure          -       523    792   1764   1098         6
Overall Deficit                   848      2333   2949   5262   4807        25
External Assistance, Net         1904       976   2436   2851   1647         9
(including Grants)
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRlo Million Outstanding End Period--
1980      1981      1982      1983
Money Supply                        9180      9905    12519    15967
Domestic Credit                    4956       7273    11834    15980
Of which:
Claims on Government            (2017)    (4039)   (8454)  (12361)
Claims on Private Sector        (2939)    (3234)   (3380)   (3619)
----Percentages--
1979/80   1981    1982      1983
Money Supply as 2 of GNP               63       64       69       83
Annual Increase in:
Money Supply                      16         8       26       28
Consumer Price Index              11         5        3        5
I/  Not including private transfers by Yemeni migrants whose duration of
stay abroad exceeds one year.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Mln)
1978/79   1980   1981   1982   1983
Exports of Goods, fob                 3       13     10      5      10
Imports of Goods, cif            -1250   -1915  -1748  -1952  -1796
Trade Balance                     -1247   -1902  -1738  -1947  -1786
Non Factor Services, net            -36     -21    -51    -37    -52
Transfers and Factor
Income, net                       833    1084    788    924   1103
Balance on Current Account         -450    -839  -1001  -1060   -735
M & LT Capital, net                 416     600    542    633    366
Official Grants                   312     148    337    445    166
Official Loans, net 1/            104     452    205    188    200
Disbursements                 (114)   (467)  (262)  (232)  (224)
Repayments                     (-10)   (-15)  (-57)  (-b4)  (-24)
Other Capital (including
errors and omissions), net        162     200    198    116    153
Overall Balance (- = deficit)       128     -39   -261   -311   -216
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                          DEBT SERVICES RATIO {1983) 2/
(US$ million)               1983
Total Outstanding            2356          Total Outstanding and
of which disbursed            1568         Disbursed                     2.7
1/ Based on figures published in the Central Bank's financial statistical
bulletins. These figures differ slightly from debt information
compiled on a loan-by-loan basis.
2/ Workers' remittances and transfers included in denominator.
EM1DB
March 1985



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAJ REPUBLIC
A.  Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1984) 1/
\ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                          (less cancellations)
Number Year      Borrower               Purpose                   IDA   Undisbursed
Twelve credits fully disbursed                       94.6
662   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Livestock Credit and Processing 5.0 2/    0.6
670   1976 Yemen Arab Republic Sanae Water Supply II            10.0       2.2
794   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Highways III                     11.5       3.7
805   19?8 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture II            10.5        1.7
837   1978 Yemen Arab Republic Power Distribution               10.0       2.7
880   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture III           15.0       12.0
915   1979 Yemen Arab Republic Education III                    10.0       2.3
950   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply    12.0        11.7
978   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Tihama Agriculture IV             5.5        1.7
1025   1980 Yemen Arab Republic Fisheries Development            17.0       9.8
1067   1980 Yemen Arab Republic S. Uplands Rural Dev. II         17.0 3/    5.5 3/
1102   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Regional Electrification         12.0       1.6
1122   1981 Yemen Arab Republic Industrial Development           12.0       4.0
1202   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Sanaa Urban Development          15.0       9.6
1203   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Education IV                     12.0       7.7
1216   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Petroleum and Geothermal Exp.   2.0         1.1
1259   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agr. Research and Developrw-nt   6.0        3.2
1267   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Highways IV                       7.0       4.2
Q94   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Health                            10.5       7.3
.3U8   1982 Yemen Arab Republic Agricultural Credit               8.0       7.4
1340   1983 Yemen Arab Republic Education V                      10.0       9.2
1361   1983 Yemen Arab Republic Power III                        19.0      17.5
1413   1983 Yemen Arab Republic Highways V                       13.0      12.0
1441   1984 Yemen Arab Republic Urban II                         12.0      11.5
1453 4/1984 Yemen Arab Republic Central Highlands Ag. Devt.       8.0       7.8
1470   1984 Yemen Arab Republic Education VI                     10.0       9.5
1484 4/1984 Yemen Arab Republic Geothermal Exploration           13.0      12.3
Total                                              387.6
of which has been repaid                            0.7
Total now held by IDA                               386.9
Total undisbursed                                             179.8
1/  The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2/   i.5 million cancelled subsequent to preparation of this annex.
3/   Beginning with Credit 1067-YAR, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalents as of September 30, 1984, for the undisbursed amounts.
4/   Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1984)
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year            Obligor            Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice      Dairy Products        3.15      --    3.15
Industries Co. Ltd.
1983    Yemen Dry Batteries        Dry Cell Batteries   3.25      0.60   3.85
Total Gross Commitments                          6.40     0.60   7.00
less cancellations, terminations,             2.29       --    2.29
repayments, sales
Total commitments now held by IFC                4.11     0.60   4.71
Total Disbursed                                  0.86     0.20   1.06
Total Undisbursed                                3.25     0.40   3.65
NOTE;   An investment loan of $5.4 million to the National Company for
Vegetable Oil and Ghee Industries was approved on September 11,
1984; it is not yet signed.
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were approved
in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 respectively to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later a management/adminisLrative expert.
The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:              about 2 years
(b)  The agencies which prepared the project:  Government, assisted by
consultants Agrar Und
Rydrotechnik, FAD/CP
(c)  Date of first presentation to IDA:          1980
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission.  March 14, 1984
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:        March 15, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness;              October 30, 1985
II. Special IDA Implementation Actions
(a) Close coordination with the cofinancing agencies will be
maintained during project implementation and supervision. In
particular, a mid-term project evaluation would take place in
which IDA and the cofinanciers would take place (para. 47).
III. Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness:
Ci) Fulfillment of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the cofinanciers' loan agreements (pars. 50).
(ii) Appointment of an expatriate project advisor and civil
engineer, two national civil engineers and one associate
extension expert (para. 47).
(iii) Establishment of the Coordination Committee for project
implementation (para. 47).



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Other Conditions:
(i) Village water supply schemes would be implemented only after
the cost of construction of the access road to the well has
been contributed by the beneficiaries (para. 43).
(ii) Establishment of the monitoring and evaluation unit to take
place no later than six months after credit effectiveness
(para. 41(f)).



YAR.
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENW PROJECT
Organization of Implementng Agencies
GEKRALS                                         CC___E
U%Ooa                                          Gvc      o
Rur-. flei
CBRANCH
ACCOUNTS                                                                                  OfflE
RNANCE                                                                                   AL4UAS
MANWAGEhNI
TRANNG
MOM01NG
& EVALUATON
_                                           A -  MURE   _    K RE5ARCH
SECTiN                                      SECTON    -     sATION
CVI. & RIGcAT1O        M14ANCAL               LIVESCCK            AMSROLfM
ENG?JEDI?G           MFGUERMI               R...crd &           Extndwn
Design              I*Ct MOCK rt~ h           Ew?NiNW            Nwmuy
Ccmhuctlon         W.S sciwesf               VeedO&M             Onfxrm
O&M
Woil Bcm*-26380
-----------1~I  ' 



. *f-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AlKher'
AS                           .LS
unMAfl Sana
Malaha.OsSwhaA                                   W.
A~~~ SAf..                            *



IBRD 18379R
I,  '                                                     YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION AND PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE
: - Main Roads. Proposed / Under Construction              I       Development Areas
-1                    - - - -Feeder Roads. Project                                      *s;  Mountainous Areas
---      Tracks                                                         Wadis / Canals
I
- ,,                          *      Weirs
-  ,                               O     Welr.Proposed
Agricultural Areas and Present Irrigation Practices
,  Parennial Flow and spate Irrigation
Well and SPate irrigation
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                         S~~~~~~~~~~AUDI                          4
Wall Irrigation                    ARABIA
j-'~       --                                   ______ Spate Irrigation                                   /
LjREA OF MAP
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h~.  4' _ t ow we F.W4'b
\                           p,6s -                                        M'131w    I sIG                 VEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
\  d  Tl_ ,_ ' '~~~~~~F                                                              SA.-'
~~ \                                                            e-rnw_lb              _S_i   I               h             ,f  |~~~~~*4' 11
F_~ N.      _ bO.                        X            
- _1 -      _Wd  l....1  
91o1TV.nu" W* W v".
t        Baraqlsh                                                                                                    J
v                                        Ia                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PEOPLE'S OEMOCRATIC
a     '         ~0 12 3 45                    1 0
KILOMETDERS
- -  -L'1>AETHIOPIA                                                                                         19,4
AUGUST 19841



--r--ISLAMIC                                              4 Ad
IRAO\,.   REP OF APGHANISTAN
%% RA                                                                                                         YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
PA~ISTAN                                                            IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY SECTOR
\UAE4Y 7                                                                                                               Agricultural
SAUDI ARABIA                                                                                                                EJ CooperatiVe and Agricultural Credit Bank
"I                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(CACB) Rsac   etr
0                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural FesarmsCntr
I Grain Storage
.'WSOUTI                                                                                                                   4)(Fisheries
PIAALIA                                                                                                                   L   Industrial
EtHIOPA                                                                                                                       +    Health
                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Highways
(~~~~~J.                                                         -  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Highway Maintenance
Power Distribution Areas
0    Power Stations
Transmission Lines
*                   .      . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Geothermal Exploration
U Water Supply
-                                  L   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Port Development
10   Urban Development
EXISTING FEATURES:
Primafy Roads
Secondary Roads
WE-5rcRN.                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Airports
MIDLANOS5                                 N :L   Ports
/                      J.                                                                      Wadis
~Governorate Capitals
~~~~~~v  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~@National 'opitals
16  ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tX ~~~~~~~~~Provincial Boundaries
2                        1k                                        -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Inetenotional Boundouies
44011 ~~~~~~~~~~~~           'I"    ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~yqleaio~n (meeterL)
300~~           2
~~AI44g#rMA   I                                                                              L~~~~5FJ_
KhOD                     P,
4tee(~



KIILOMETERS
HODEID
RED SEA
FISCAL YEAR
bah                                   PRO_ ECT                              APPROVED
r-.                             t                                                                                                         * H ahways 1                               1972
T* ihoma Agriculture 1                     1973
Sarobr Water Supply I                   197A
 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0Small Inustry Developsies                                                                                           1974
H;3ybon0 Jcjrhern Uplands Rroai Deselopnent 1                                              1975
-        -t  . . .  f  - Fr *,^   ^': ;;        Hlghwaoys 01                            1975
* -ldodedo Water Supply & Scoeraqe         1975  __
.  )   ..;    eEst.  E.'djot*n L1         *976
* Oro,m Sioroge & Processng                1976
Lt,estock Credit & Prcessing            1977
Mocha. -- "                                                                                                                 Sontat  Water Supply  a  Sewerage        1977
_-41,>  * Part Deftlo nt I                 1977
M                             gZ \ r,l ^gkt - r 1978
Tliamas Agriculture I                   197S
Paower D,strnbsa.on                     2979
TrhADE  AgricutuASre M                  1979
, ,.f  Education M                     1979
hIS & Dh.amw YIter Supmply  Sewerisage   1960
Tihama Agriculture IV                   19t0
Aruasanal Faslierms 1                   1960
7  \N"  ra     p                                                                                           Southern Upnonds tJrvrle b,yRural De*elopmnt U  2981
PFwer IL Regioali Electrfifcatmus        1951
or,                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Industrial Demvelpwws  1931
ADEN                        Education 1W                             19U2
Urban 1                                  9I
Agricultural Retouch  Oewebpmecnr      19
Bob el Mandeb                                                                                            rlsghwayrs 17                            1982
petroleum & Gealherroa                   1982
Health                                  1953
Agrkcultural Credit                     1983
#  I   + 5   5 S   t    h p.,   CA   ?7|@   p&X?  rat  IhE    ?e *t  tinll   cn?t  ?7W   tnlarutinol  F n  o t a  w ( Y 7 ?  _ducati n     T                       198
Power II18
Central Highlands Agricultural Deawtoptner  198A
Urban D'el_p_,    II                     1984 
HighwasaV                               1984 
Tows mop his been prepared by TMe Kbhb*lBwtas af& exctaitr lo t 9cnraevrm at                     Education VI                             1954         0
ft readers arnd isexuach* for ft ntwnel weaof The IiWU St ard fw                                  Geauliemol ErpAwatson                    19184     C  -
Fsmwe Corpuatn Te dwn,*utn  wed end ft~ bossnh  to~  on Ins mnat dgo notr-L
an ft legal slabA ofeny karriby ofwvanydwrsentrr or accepta,c of sch bmaavibs



