Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C A,5 'Sy Yve
Report No. 5326-EAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 1, 1985
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CRRENCY EIVALENTS AT APPRAISAL
US$1.00           =    Yeseni Rials (YRis) 5.4
I  1.00           =    US$O.185
YRls I million    =    US$185,185
(As of April 1984)
WEICEITS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (ur)      =  0.039 inches
1 meter                =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (mi2)   =  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)         =  2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)     =  2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)            =  0.264 gallons
1 1/s                  =  One liter per second
1 Mm3                  =  One million cubic meters
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AMC      =     Agricultural Marketing Company
ARA      =     Agricultu-al Research Authority
CACB     =     Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
CPO      =     Central Planning Organization
CYDA     =     Confederation of Yemeni Development Associations
DCA      =     Development Credit Agreement
FAO/CP   =     Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Program
ICB      =     International Competitive Bidding
IDA      =     International Development Association
IFAD     =     International Fund for Agricultural Development
iS       =     International Shopping
LCB      =     Local Competitive Bidding
LDA      =     Local Development Association
M&E      =     Monitoring and Evaluation
MAF      =     Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MPW      =     Ministry of Public Works
MTS      =     Ministry of Trade and Supply
O&M     O= peration and Maintenance
P?F      =     Project Preparation Facility
SURDP    =     Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
SURDU          Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TDA            Tihama Development Authority
UNDP     =     United Nations Development Program
YAR      =     Yemen Arab Republic
GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMFCUAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YEHEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULWURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                               Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .----------............    i-ii
I. BACKGROUND ...........                                              1
A. Project Background.                                           1
B. The Agricultural Sector.                                      2
II.    THE PROJECT AREA AND DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL ..............        9
A. Description .                                                  9
B.  Project Rationale ...................................       15
III.    THE PROJECT ..........      ...................................   16
A.  Aims and Objectives .................................       16
B.  Detailed Features ...................................       17
C. Engineering Design .22
D.  Implementation Schedule .............................       23
E. Cost Estimate .23
F. Financing .24
G. Procurement .25
H. Disbursement .27
I. Accounts and Audits .29
J. Environmental Impact .29
K. Riparian Issues .29
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                      30
A. Institutional Aspects .30
B. Implementing Agencies .30
C. Implementation .31
D. Monitoring and Evaluation .34
E. Progress Reporting .34
F. Operation and Maintenance .34
G.  Lands for Project Facilities ........................       35
Project was prepared by FAO/CP in June 1983 and appraised by 1DA in
March/April 1984. IDA appraisal mission consisted of Messrs. S. Rana,
Irrigation Erngineer and Mission Leader; R. Eisa, Agriculturist; M. Woldu,
Economist (EMPAl); and R. Tutwiler, Consultant Sociologist. Messrs. S.
Serdahely, Water Supply Engineer (WUDDR) and R. Khouri, Livestock Specialist
(EMPA1) participated on a part-time basis. hr. L. Revuelta (EMPT2) advisea on
the feeder road component.
Tbis document has a restited distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
V.      PRODUCTION, MARIETS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS ....     ...........    35
A. Production ....................    35
B. Markets and Prices ..................................         36
C. Farm Income .........................................         38
D. Cost Recovery and Taxes .............................          39
VI.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............................          40
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries ..........................         40
B. Economic Analysis ...................................         41
C. Project Risks .......................................         43
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................          43
ANNEX 1: Supporting Tables
1.  Detail of Irrigation Areas .46
2.  Village Water Supply Schemes .47
3.    List of Vehicles and Heavy Equipment and Machinery                  48
4. Project Staff .49
5.(a) Summary Accounts by Year .50
(b) Summary Accounts by Year (Including Contingencies)                 51
'c) Breakdown of Sunary Accounts .52
6.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit    .........        53
7.   Present/Future Cropping Pattern on Holding
Represented by Farm Models .............................         54
8.   Cumulative Number of Farmers Participating in Project                55
9.   Number of Farm Units and Area to be Developed ....     ........     56
10.   Model 1: Gross Value of Production and Operating Costs               57
11.   Model 2: Grose V±aluie cf Production and Operating Costs             58
12.   Model 3: Gross Value of Production and Operating Costs               59
13.   Model 4: Gross Value of Production and Operating Costs               60
14.   Estimated Increases in Crop Production ....       ...............   61
15.   Financial and Economic Prices ............................           62
16.   Derivation of Farmgate Prices of Tradable Products   .......        63
17.   Economic Cost and Quantifiable Benefit Streams ..... ......          64
18.   Sensitivity Tests ........................................           65
ANNEX 2: Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File              66
CHARTS
World Bank - 26380: Organigram of Implementing Agencies ......           67
World Bank - 26594:  Implementation Schedule - Bar Chart                 68
World Bank - 27037:  Civil Works Implementation Schedule                 69
World Bank - 26845: Crop Calendar .70
MAP
IBRD 18379R: Location and Project Infrastructure



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower: Government of Yemen Arab Republic
Amount: SDRs 10.5 million (about US$10 million equivalent)
Terms: Standard IDA
Beneficiaries: Inhabitants of the Al-Jawf Governorate
Implementing Agency: The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (NAF)
Project
Objectives:  Improvement of agricultural productivity and farm incomes in Wadi
Al-Jawf by improving the use of available land and water
resources and introducing suitable technical packages; and
development of rural infrastructure in this first project in the
northeastern region of the country.
Project
Design:       The project would consist of:  rehabilitation of perennial
gravity irrigation on about 3,100 ha of service area, of which
1,350 ha would be cropped annually; well irrigation on about
1,650 ha; demonstration of improved water and crop management
practices on well-irrigated and gravity irrigation farms
(39 ha); completion of rehabilitation of spate irrigation areas
(2,050 ha); establishment of extension and veterinary services;
establishment of a nursery and agricultural research station;
provision of short- and medium-term credit; technical assistance
and training; construction of 45 km of feeder roads and 20 water
supply schemes; and further studies for a possible second phase
project. The project would benefit about 50,000 people at a
total cost of US$38 million. The direct beneficiaries would
include 1,700 farm-holds comprising 10,000 people from
irrigation improvement and extension, 1,200 additional farmers
from extension service only, and 30,000 villagers from water
supply. The remainder would be indirect beneficiaries. The
main risk is the possible hesitation of tribal population to
adopt various technical packages. This is alleviated in the
project design by insuring minimum interference in the existing
landholding and water distribution patterns. In addition, the
project will ensure that tribal leaders (Shaykhs) participate in
project activities and persuade the farmers to adopt recommended
technical packages. The Government has already established a
regional office of NAF in the project area which is educating
the tribal leaders on the benefits of improvements under the
proposed project.



- ii -
Project Cost:1'
Local        Foreign          Total
---     (US$ Million)
Irrigation Development                 1.3            2.4            3.6
Feeder Roads                           0.7            1.8             2.5
Village Water Supply                   0.6            1.9             2.5
Buildings and Support facilities       0.9            3.5             4.4
Management, Technical
Assistance and Training              2.0            3.3             5.3
Agricultural Development               2.6            1.3             3.9
Agricultural Credit                    0.8            1.6             2.4
Further Studies                        0.5            1.7             2.2
Total Base Cost                        9.4           17.4            26.8
Physical Contingencies                  0.7            1.9             2.6
Price Contingencies                 3.7            4.9            8.6
Total Project Cost-'                  13.8           24.2            38.0
Financing Plan:
Local Fin-
ancing incl.
Other        Beneficiar-
External      ies Contri-
Item                        IDA            Financing      bution       Total
(US$ Million)
Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local
Irrigation Development       3.45     -        -         -        2.30        5.75
Feeder Roads                 2.30     -         -        -        1.00        3.30
Village Water Supply         -        -         2.80     0.75     0.15        3.70
Buildings and Support
Facilities                 3.55     -   -    1.60      0.80     0.30        6.25
Management, Technical
Assistance & Training      0.70     -         3.20     0.50     2.40        6.80
Agricultural Development    -         -         1.60     3.45     -           5.05
Agricultural Credit          -        -         2.45     1.30     -           3.75
Further Studies              -        -         2.55     0.85     -           3.40
Total±"                10.00     -       14.20      7.65     6.15       38.00
Estimated Disbursements:
Disbursements                           IDA Fiscal Year
1986    87     88     89      90     91     92
…          ----- (US$ Million)  - ---------
Annual                      0.60   1.85   3.00   2.20   1.20   0.80   0.35
Cumulative                  0.60   2.45   5.45   7.65   8.85   9.65  10.00
Economic Rate of Return: 13Z
1/ Differences in totals due to rounding.
2/ Exclusive of taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Proiect Background
1.01      The Government of Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has requested the
International Development Association (IDA) to assist in financing an
agricultural development proiect in the Al-Jawf Governorate. The project is
in line with the Government's strategy to progressively extend development of
agriculture to all regions of the country. In support of Government's efforts
to develop the agricultural sector in YAR, IDA assisted the Government in the
identification and preparation of the proposed Wadi7' Al-Jawf Agricultural
Development Project (para. 1.02) by financing technical assistance for
carrying out feasibility and the related studies.
1.02      Agrar-und Hydrotechnik Consultants (ART) prepared a feasibility
report in 1979-80 for the development of Wadi Al-Jawf. This report formed the
basis for the identification of a possible Phase I development project by the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) in March 1981. The size and scope
of the Phase I project was agreed upon between the Government of YAR and IDA,
and ART was entrusted to carry out the related hydrological, infrastructural
and irrigation improvement studies for that phase under an IDA Credit for
Southern Uplands II Project (Cr. 1067-YAR). Based on those studies, FAO/CP
prepared a project in June 1983 aiming at the development of agriculture in
the Wadi Al-Jawf.
1.03      The proposed project consists of (a) development of surface and
groundwater irrigation; (b) provision of agricultural extension services,
credit, farm inputs and livestock health services; (c) establishment of
project administration including staff, buildings for offices and staff
housing; (d) technical assistance and training; (e) construction of 20 village
water supply schemes; (f) construction of about 45 km of feeder roads and
(g) carrying out further studies aiming at full development of the Wadi's
resources to be followed up in the future.
1/ In Arabic language, Wadi is a valley. It is also used as a synonym for
stream or channel.



-2-
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.04      Agriculture in the Economy:  Agriculture is the single most
important sector of the economy. It generates about 30Z of the country's
GDP1', and employs about 70X of the resident labor force.  About 902 of the
total resident population lives in rural areas, where farming is the major
source of livelihood. The YAR has not suffered from the major rural-to-urban
exodus, experienced by many developing countries, and Yemenis returning from
abroad are largely returning to their native villages.
1.05      Even with the limited resources at their disposal, the Yemenis have
achieved a remarcable degree of agricultural efficiency using traditional
techniques, as manifested by their continued reliance on agriculture. The
bench terraces constructed through the centuries by generations of peasant
farmers provide a level area of deep soil and collect runoff water. These
form the basis for much of the country's output of food grains. Irrigation
also has a long tradition in YAR, as illustrated by the remains of the Marib
dam which was built in the 7th Century B.C.
1.06      Agriculture is largely subsistence-oriented and heavily dependent on
weather conditions. Due to erratic rainfall and recurrent droughts and
floods, agricultural production fluctuates widely. While the production of
traditional crops (sorghum and wheat) has stagnated, cash crops (fruits,
vegetables and qat) have increased significantly. Traditional livestock has
declined but poultry and egg production have increased remarkably. The
average annual growth of agricultural production during the past decade is
estimated at 1.01 with large interannual variations.
1.07      Domestic cereal production accounts for about 60-70% of consumption
requirement. The shortfall was met through imports, which reached YRIs 2.2
billion (US$489 million) in 1981, representing about 261 of total imports.
Worker remittances, which have largely financed imports, are not expected to
increase in real terms. This could hold serious implications for the YAR's
foreign exchange position and, therefore, its ability to pay for its imports
of consumer and intermediate goods, including wheat and wheat flour.
1.08      In the face of high population growth rate and a likely increase in
the number of returning migrant workers, demand for food, including fruits and
vegetables, will continue to increase significantly. This will imply
increased reliance on the agricultural sector to fulfill its traditional role
as a major source of income and employment in YAR.
1.09      The Resource Base.  The total land area of YAR is estimated at 20
million ha, of which approximately 3.5 million ha (18X) are cultivable, the
rest being mostly steep slopes and desert. Only about 1.5 million ha are
actually cultivated annually, of which about 1.3 million ha (84Z) depend on
1/ GWP per capita is estimated at US$500. The YAR has a population of
7.2 million, of which about 1.3 million are migrant workers in the Gulf
area, remitting annually an estimated US$1.0 billion (1981).



-3-
rainfall, about 120,000 ha (82) depend on spates, about 73,000 ha (5X) are
irrigated perennially from springs and streams and about 54,000 ha (3%) are
irrigated from wells. The remaining 2 million ha are marginal lands
cultivable once every three to five years depending on availability of
rainfall which varies on the average between 50 m and 400 mm annually. Only
in the area of the Southern Uplands does the rainfall exceed 500 ".
1.10      Although overall endowment in water resources limits the scope for
agricultural development, YAR has untapped agricultural potential in its four
major agricultural zones: the Tihama Coast, the Western Slopes, the Eastern
Slopes and the Central, Southern and Northern Highlands areas. In all these
zones, cereals and some fruits and vegetables are presently grown.
1.11      Farm Technolo  y.  Though traditional farming techniques are
predominant in YAR, there has been a significant increase in the use of
fertilizer and pesticides over the past decade. Farmers are increasingly
responding to extension service advice presently available through specific
development projects, principally in the Tihama and Southern Uplands.
Farmers have also demonstrated a strong interest in planting improved
varieties of crops, as in the case of wheat and potatoes in the Highlands and
maize, sorghum and millet at lower elevations. The most far-reaching change
in farming methods, however, is the introduction of tractors in response to
labor scarcity.  It is estimated that some 200,000 ha (13% of the total
cultivated area) are ploughed with tractors, the number of which had grown
from almost none at the beginning of the decade to about 4,000 in 1980. The
proposed project would support this trend towards mechanization of farming in
the Wadi Al-Jawf area by financing medium-term credits through the
Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) for purchase of agricultural
machinery and inputs.
1.12      Production. Shortage of farm labor and increase in household
income resulting from workers' remittances have led to: (a) a significant
decline in the production of low-value traditional crops (e.g., sorghum,
millet); (b) an increase in the production of higher-value and income-elastic
crops (e.g., legumes, fruits and vegetables); and (c) a decline in the
production of export crops (e.g., coffee and cotton). These structural
changes in the pattern of agricultural output have largely developed in
response to free market economic forces.
1.13      The major cereal crops grown are sorghum, millet, wheat and maize.
Sorghum and millet are grown over half of the total cultivated area of the
country. Wheat, which is gradually replacing sorghum, has increased in area
from 30,000 ha in 1973/74 to 68,000 ha in 1981. Wheat yield appears
stationary at about 1 ton/ha, except in those areas where the improved
variety, Sonalika, is yielding about 1.9 tons/ha. Maize has increased in
area from 10,000 ha to 36,000 ha during the above period, and yields an
average of 1.5 tons/ha. The major constraints to intensive agriculture are
poor irrigation techniques and insufficient support services. In the
proposed project, irrigation infrastructure would be developed and support
services provided to ensure changeover to more profitable cropping patterns,
thus increasing farmers' income.



-4-
1.14      Legumes, fruits and vegetables have been the main coutributors to
the recent growth in crop production. Between 1971/72 and 1980/81,
production of legumes increased from 60,000 tons to 79,000 tons, of
vegetables from 137,000 tons to 305,000 tons, and of fruits from 68,000 tons
to 158,000 tons. About 36% of total legume and vegetable production and 452
of fruit production are grown in the Southern Uplands area. The Central
Highlands area produces 302 and 35Z, respectively, followed by the Tihama
area, which produces 281 of the legumes and vegetables and 152 of the fruit.
1.15      Cotton and coffee were the two principal export crops.  The
increase in labor costs, and higher returns from other irrigated crops
resulted in a drop in cotton production from 27,000 tons in 1974/75 to about
6,500 tons in 1981/82. Coffee production declined from 3,900 tons to 3,500
tons during the corresponding period. Cotton production has subsequently
picked up because of a new Government policy of supplying free seeds and
offering reasonable producer prices at the Government mill. However,
primarily because of increasing qat cultivation, coffee production is
stagnant. Recently, the Government has started establishing nurseries, with
IDA's assistance (Cr. 1067-YAR), in coffee production areas in order to
encourage coffee cultivation.
1.16      Qat, a mild stimulant plant, has become the most important cash
crop in the country competing with horticultural crops and coffee
production. Government estimates that 40,000 ha to 50,000 ha (mostly in
highlands) are devoted to qat production. Because of low production cost and
high prices, qat has become the most profitable crop to grow at higher
elevations in YAR. There are no official estimates of qat production in the
country.
1.17      Livestock and Poultry.  Total livestock population in the country
is estimated at 0.9 million cattle and 3.8 million sheep and goats. Animal
production is still conducted on a rudimentary traditional basis and is
handicapped by inadequate veterinary services and meager and uncertain feed
supplies. Poultry production has demonstrated its considerable potential for
further expansion and greater contribution to the economy during the past
three years. While there were no modern poultry farms earlier, there are now
242 broiler farms, with a combined annual output of about 30 million birds,
two large layer farms that are expected to produce around 35 million eggs
this year (1984), and 60 million eggs next year, and two hatcheries capable
of producing 30 million day-old chicks annually. There are also a number of
other poultry enterprises of various types and sizes under construction.
Most of this poultry farm development has taken place close to the principal
urban centers of the country, and none has been established in the project
area.
1.18      Forestry.  The limited forestry resources of YAR continue to be
depleted at an alarming rate, primarily to meet local fuelwood requirements.
A national forestry project is presently under consideration that would link
existing forestry initiatives at Dhamar, El Haraz and Wadi Rima, and the 18
forest nurseries that already exist at strategic sites throughout the country
into a national forestry program. It is intended that a further
forestry/horticultural nursery will be established at Wadi Al-Jawf, under the
proposed project, to contribute to this objective and provide forestry and



-5-
fruit tree seedlings for planting by individuals and by Local Development
Associations (LDAs). Promotion of tree planting by farmers will be actively
pursued by the agricultural extension service.
1.19      Fisheries.  The fisheries subsector is characterized by traditional
fishing technology, marketing patterns and organization. At present, an
estimated 3,000 full-time fishermen land about 11,600 tons of fish annually,
which has an ex-vessel value of YRls 67 million (US$12.4 million). The
country's sustainable potential has been estimated at about 30,000 tons
annually. The principal constraints in the development of the subsector have
been the lack of fisheries-related infrastructure, low productivity of
existing technology and lack of financial, technical and extension services.
The General Corporation for the Development of Fisheries Resources (GCDFR) is
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries' (MAF's) executing a&ency for
fishery development projects, but has not proved to be an effective
organization. An effort is being made under the IDA-financed on-going
Fisheries Development Project (Cr. 1025-YAR) to strengthen the structure and
remedy the institutional weaknesses.
AMricultural Support Services
1.20      MAF is responsible for overall development of agriculture in the
country and functions through nine central directorates and eleven regional
offices in the seats of all Governorates. Semiautonomous organizations, such
as the Tihama Development Authority (TDA), the Cooperative and Agricultural
Credit Bank (CACB) and the Agricultural Research Authority (ARA), also fall
within the jurisdiction of MAF.
1.21      Extension.  Since the scope for significant increases of
agricultural production is mainly through intensive production on existing
cultivated lands, the Government's strategy has been to increase agricultural
output through modern practices with the establishment of extension
services. While the extension programs under TDA and SURDU produced good
results, progress in reaching farmers with extension services in other areas
of the country was much less, mainly owing to lack of skilled professionals,
low remuneration and inadequacy of local funding. However, in recognition of
the vital role that an effective extension service program plays in
increasing farm output, there has been a modest build-up in extension
services and new extension centers are being established in different parts
of the country. The extension service program included in tne proposed
project will establish this important institution in the Wadi Al-Jawf area.
1.22      Training.  There is practically no college-level agricultural
education at present in YAR. Agricultural technicians and extension agents
are trained in the Agricultural Secondary Schools at Ibb and Surdud.
Specialized training is also provided at the Veterinary School in Sana'a, and
by ARA and TDA. The Government sends students abroad for higher education,
but some of them do not return to YAR because they find the salaries low and
work conditions unattractive. Even many of those who do return do not work
in the Government organizations but are employed by the private sector which
offers better service conditions. The Government should provide incentives
to attract qualified people to strengthen its institutions engaged on various
national development projects.



-6-
1.23      Agricultural Research.  Agricultural research was nonexistent in
YAR until the FAO/UNDP-assisted agricultural research project started in
1970. Central Agricultural Research Station (CARS) was established at Taiz
in 1979 to carry out agricultural research. This effort has been
supplemented by research under several multi- and bilateral agricultural
projects. The Government, under an IDA-assisted Agricultural Research and
Development Project (Cr. 1259-YAR), has recently set up the Agricultural
Research Authority (ARA), with responsibility to manage and coordinate
agricultural research on a national basis and strengthen the links between
research and extension services. The proposed project will extend the
activities of ARA to the Wadi Al-Jawf area by providing a field research
station to conduct applied research for the Wadi's specific conditions.
1.24      Agricultural Credit.  By merger of the Agricultural Credit Bank
(ACB) and the National Development Cooperative Bank (NDCB), the Cooperative
and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) was established in 1982 in order to
provide credit for on-farm development in agriculture, livestock and
fisheries, and to promote and support agricultural and handicraft cooperative
associations. The sale of fertilizer and pesticides is open to the private
sector in YAR; however, CACB is involved in the distribution of certain items
purchased by the Government on concessional terms under bilateral assistance
from abroad. At present, CACB charges 9X on short-term loans and IOZ on
medium- and long-term loans. To qualify for loans, the farmers contribute
about 25Z of the estimated investment cost. The IDA-financed Agricultural
Credit Project (Cr. 1308-YAR) is designed to improve loan supervision and
recovery, which have been found to be deficient (para. 4.14). The activities
and operations of CACB and its interest rates policies are detailed in Staff
Appraisal Report No. 4102-YAR for the above project.
1.25      Marketing.  Marketing of agricultural produce has been essentially
undertaken by the private sector with the Government intervention limited to
basic food imports and cotton. Food imports are controlled and marketing
margins set by the Ministry of Trade and Supply (MTS). Government has
imposed import restrictions on wheat and wheat flour, a levy of 100l import
duties on vegetables, and banned imports of some fruits (citrus, apples and
bananas), and has thus provided an almost guaranteed market and premium price
for domestic produce, thus encouraging increased domestic production.
1.26      Marketing of domestically produced agricultural commodities is free
of Government intervention. The system is fairly competitive and includes
various channels through which farm outputs are distributed. Although there
are inefficiencies within the existing system (mainly inadequate storage
facilities), it enables farm products to be distributed to rural and urban
markets throughout the country. The Agricultural Marketing Company (AMC) was
established in 1981 as a joint venture of public and private organizations
with the objective of buying, grading and selling agricultural produce to
wholesalers. By signing contracts with farmers before the planting season,
AMC fixes quantities and producer prices. The rationale in establishing the
company was to improve on the existing marketing system by providing
facilities including those for storage, collection, grading and packaging.
It is expected that the establishment of AMC would result in minimizing
wastage and losses thereby assuring an efficient and effective marketing
system.



-7-
Maior Constraints
1.27      The major constraints in the development of agriculture potential
in YAR include (a) poor management of existing limited water resources,
(b) insufficient support services, (c) inadequate infrastructure, (d) lack of
skilled manpower, and (e) high cost of farm labor.  Recognizing the important
role of agriculture in the economy, the Government has given high priority to
the development of the sector and has taken measures to ease some of the
above constraints, as reflected in its plan of actions (para. 1.28).
Government's Development Strategy
1.28      The main objectives in the agricultural sector of the Second
Five-Year Plan (SFYP) are:   (a) to reduce the dependence on food imports
and, thereby, reduce the trade deficit in the sector; (b) to raise farmers'
incomes and nutritional level of the population; and (c) to provide
additional raw materials for agro-industries. To meet these objectives and
help realize the potential of the agricultural secter, the Government has
undertaken measures (i) to increase supplies of water for irrigation through
improved irrigation systems and tubewells, (ii) to strengthen implementation
capacity of MAF, (iii) to develop necessary infrastructure for facilitating
farming operations and marketing, (iv) to promote application of agricultural
research recommendations so as to increase yields, (v) to expand extension
services so as to assist farmers in adopting improved technology, (vi) to
arrange for provision of credit to the farmers for facilitating the purchase
of farm inputs, and (vii) to strengthen implementation capacity of MAF and
provide training facilities. Government mainly looks to the private sector
to play an active role -in--chieving these objectives. Its general policy is
not to interfere in the operation of the market forces but to stimulate and
guide private sector efforts by undertaking extensive improvement in
infras tructure .
1.29      With the improvement in agricultural services and infrastructure
development being carried out by the Government, private investment in
agriculture has increased significantly. This includes investment in new
wells, motorized pumps, trucks and agricultural machinery. In addition, the
rural populace formed the Local Development Association (IDA) to channel
resources from the already active private sector.
1.30      The Government's strategy in the past had been to concentrate
development efforts in areas of greatest agricultural potential in the
southern and western parts of the country through irrigation improvement and
integrated rural development projects. The most notable examples are the
Tihama I, II, III and IV (Credits 376-, 805-, 880- and 978-YAR) and Southern
Uplands I and II (Credits 545- and 1067-YAR) Development Projects. However,
in order to ensure a balanced regional distribution of development projects,
the Government now aims at extending its development efforts to northern and
eastern areas of the country as well. The proposed development of the Wadi
Al-Jawf is a step in that direction.



-8
IDAts Sectoral Strategy
1.31      IDA's strategy in the agriculture sector aims at assisting the
country in attaining its stated objectives (para. 1.28), and specifically to
help raise the standard of living of the rural population through well
designed projects in areas of known potential. IDA mounted a special mission
to YAR in November/December 1984 to review the problems, constraints and
needs of the sector and the policies and programs of the Government, with a
view to having a dialogue with the Government on agricultural development in
general and, in this context, on the particular role IDA can play in the
sector.
1.32      In addition to its lending operations, IDA is also active in
serving as the executing agency for the MAE's UINDP-financed Institutional
Support Project. Furthermore, IDA, by playing a catalytic role in processing
of projects, has helped attract other co-financing agencies to finance
agricultural development. This has resulted in mobilizing additional
resources, which is viewed by the Government as an essential element of IDA's
assistance to YAR.
1.33      While supporting regional agricultural development, IDA has
concurrently endeavored to assist the Government in dealing with sectoral
issues at the national level. The areas so far addressed relate to
institution building of MAF, agricultural research, and credit, for which
various projects have been or are presently being implemented. In the
future, emphasis should be laid on the integration of project-based extension
services into regiona'l and national extension services, preparation of a
master plan for the integrated development of water resources of the country,
food security arl other related issues at the national level. The recent
agriculture sector mission (para. 1.31) is expected to address these issues
and formulate a strategy for IDA's future assistance to YAR.
1.34      Completed and On-going IDA-assisted Proiects.  To date, IDA has
assisted in financing 12 agricultural development projects in YAR. The first
IDA-assisted agricultural project (1973) was the Tihama Development I Project
(Cr. 376-YAR), involving a credit of US$21.2 million and cofinancing of
US$16 million from the Kuwait Fund. In spite of start-up difficulties and
cost overruns, the project was completed in December 1979. The second
project, SURDP I (Cr. 545-YAR), was financed with an IDA credit of US$10
million and co-financed with US$10 million from the Abu Dhabi Fund. This
project, which was the first integrated rural development project in YAR, was
started in 1976 and completed in December 1982. The Grain Storage and
Processing Project (Cr. 636-YAR) and the Livestock Credit and Processing
Project (Cr. 662-YAR) were completed in 1983 and 1984, respectively.
1.35      On-going IDA-assisted agricultural projects include the Tihama
Development II, III and IV projects (Cr. 805-, 880- and 978-YAR,
respectively) which build upon the experience of Tihama I.  The SURDP II
(Cr. 1067-YAR) is presently under implementation as a follow-up project to
SURDP I. These projects, which are at varying stages of implementation, are
making satisfactory progress, usually after initially experiencing start-up
difficulties due to financing, managerial and staffing problems of varying
degrees and severity. The Fisheries Development Project (Cr. 1025-YAR) has



-9-
had serious implementation difficulties and is behind schedule (para. 1.19).
Three other credits in agriculture-the Agricultural Research and Development
Project (Cr. 1259-YAR), the Agricultural Credit Project (Cr. 1308-YAR) and
the Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1453-YAR)-are
still in the start-up stage.
1.36      The principal lessons derived from past experience in the
implementation of agricultural projects in YAR, as brought out in the Project
Performance Audit Reports of the First Tihama Project (Cr. 376-YAR), SURDP I
(Cr. 545-YAR) and Grain Storage and Processing Project (Cr. 636-YAR),
include: (a) slow mobilization because of the difficulties of making a new
agency operational; (b) chronic shortage of technical and administrative
staff to implement the project; (c) escalation in project costs above
appraisal estimates because of delayed execution; (d) ineffectiveness of the
Monitoring and Evaluation program; (e) lack of recognition of local
environment, stage of development and desires of target groups; and (f) lack
of infrastructure for timely marketing of agricultural products. The lessons
learned from completed and on-going projects, including improvements in
technical designs based on actual performance of structures on completed
projects, have been taken into account, as far as possible, in formulating
the design of subsequent projects, inclnting the proposed Wadi Al-Jawf
Project, with due concern for conditions of labor shortages, rapidly
expanding markets for high-value crops, high financial liquidity in rural
areas and a growing demand hy farmers for technical services, physical
infrastructure and input supplies.
II. THE PROJECT AREA AND DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL
A. Description
2.01      Location and Population.  The project area (Map, IBRD L8379R) is
part of the Al-Jawf Governorate located in the northeast of YAR. It is formed
by a large plain of alluvial deposits totalling about 150,000 ha in which the
main irrigated areas comprising (a) the gravity perennial-irrigated areas of
Wadi Al-Kharid (2,800 ha) and Wadi As-Saghi (300 ha); the well-irrigated areas
(1,800 ha) and the spate-irrigated areas of Al-Hazm (1,000 ha) and Al-Khalq
(1,050 ha) are located. The project area borders with Saudi Arabia in the
northeast, Peoples' Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) in the east, and the
Governorates of Marib, Sana'a and Saadah in the south, west and the northwest,
respectively. The total population in the project area is estimated at about
50,000 (60Z of the total population in the Al-Jawf Governorate).
2.02      The social and political life patterns of the population of Wadi
Al-Jawf are governed by an indigenous tribal system, functioning under a
tribal law, which is derived from past customs and traditions. The tribal
leaders (Shaykhs) are dominant in the legal and political spheres. The
economic lifestyle of the population is oriented towards subsistence
production of grains and livestock, practiced in a rudimentary fashion, from
the available land and water resources. The tribal structure has lately
adapted to the development of the monetized economy and the mobility imparted
by the modern four-wheel drive vehicles, resulting in business contacts mainly



-10-
with Sana'a in YAR and Jizan across the border in Saudi Arabia. The
consumption of imported commodities, financed in large measure by remittances
from the migrant workers, is rising due to these contacts.
2.03      Partly because of a strong tribal tradition, and partly because of
i:s geographical isolation and self-sufficiency, the Al-Jawf area remained
cutside the orbit of Central Government influence until recently when
government extended education and health services to the population. The
Government is constantly increasing its influence in tribal administration and
introducing various development measures to improve irrigation and rural
infrastructure. The tribesmen, who have started appreciating advantages of
modern techniques in development, are receptive to the Government's initiative
for greater provision of services and facilities and are looking forward to
the initiation of a major effort for agricultural development in the project
area.
2.04      Geology and Soils.  The project area is characterized by a flat
bottomed valley draining into the Rub-al-Khali desert in the east surrounded
by mountains in the north, west and the south. The Wadi Al-Jawf and its two
main tributaries, namely, Wadi Al-Kharid and Wadi Al-Madhab, drain a catchment
area of about 14,000 kmz, which lies on the highlands between Sana'a and
Saadah more or less parallel to the Red Sea coast with elevations of 2,000 m
to 3,000 m. The elevations of the valley, 20 to 25 km wide, range from about
1,300 m at the upstream end to about 1,000 m--60 km downstream where it
borders with the Rub-al-Khali.
2.05      The basin of the Wadi Al-Jawf represents a tectonic depression
filled with fluviatile and aeolian deposits of thickness exceeding 110 m near
its central axis. These deposits store the groundwater which is a major water
resource for the development of irrigated agriculture in the Wadi. The
catchment area of the Wadi is mainly composed of Mesozoic rocks of
fluviolacustrine (Kohlan Series) and limy shallow water sediments (Amran
Series) of the lower and upper Jurassic overlying the Precambrian basement.
The soils in the project area are deep and of moderately fine texture, with a
high silt content (50Z-60%) and a clay content varying from lOS to 30P. The
infiltration rates are sufficient for irrigated agriculture and vary between
1-3 cm/hour for heavy soils and 10 cm/hour for light soils.
2.06      Climate.  The climate is hot and arid, with average maimum
temperatures varying from 30°C in December-January to 42'C in June-August.
The corresponding minimum temperatures are 0°C and 18'C, respectively.
Relative humidity varies from 10% in winter to about 85X in sumner. Potential
evapotranspiration is high and ranges, on the average, from 144 mm/month to
259 mm/month in December and September, respectively. The average rainfall is
about 50-200 mm/year, but is erratically distributed.



-11-
2.07      Local Institutions:  There are four main tribes1' and several
subtribes in the Wadi Al-Jawf area, each having a Shaykh as its leader who,
after consulting with the tribe's elders, conducts administrative activities,
including but not limited to deciding land tenure, water rights and arranging
cost recovery. The Central Government exercises its authority through the
Governor of Al-Jawf, with headquarters at Al-Hazm, supported by several civil
servants representing different ministries. Local Development Associations
(LDAs) as operating in other parts of YAR have not yet been established in the
Wadi Al-Jawf; the Governorate's administration conducts its business through
the tribal hierarchy.
2.08      Rural Infrastructure.  The project is accessible from two sides:  on
one side by a 145-km long western route from Sana'a to Al-Hazm and, on the
other side, by a 130-km long eastern route linking Al-Hazm with Sana'a-Marib
road at km 90 from Sana'a (Map, IBRD 18379R). The western route, which is a
20-km paved road and the remaining gravel topped, is scheduled for completion-
in 1985.  When 40-km long link road portion of the eastern route between
Al-Hazm and Sana'a-Marib road is completed, it would provide a better access
to the project than the western route. The construction of the link road has
been started and is expected to be completed in 1986.
2.09      The supply of potable water in the project area is primitive.  A
significant part of the population still draws water from shallow-dug wells
and perennial streams for domestir purposeRF  Some small schemes have been
established by the rural communities locally and consist mainly of wells
equipped with motor pumps without an adequ xte distribution system. There is
no public electric supply or telephone facility in the project area except a
small scheme in Al-Hazm area financed by IDA (Cr. 1102-YAR). Small private
generator units have been installed in villages by the population on an
individual basis. Medical facilities have improved lately; there is a
hospital in Al-Hazm, though not well staffed, and there are dispensaries in
almost all major villages. More than 90X of population in the project area is
illiterate; however, the situation is improving fast with the establishment of
new schools having, at present, an enrollment of more than 2,500 students.
Rural roads are nonexistent in the project area at this time; the various
villages are interconnected by tracks with a total length of about 100 km and
can be travelled by 4-wheel drive cars only.
2.10      The nonexistence of other internationally financed infrastructure
and social services in the project area is understandable, because the tribal
area of Wadi Al-Jawf has only been recently accessible to the outsiders. In
the past, some facilities like hospitals and private schools, as mentioned
above, were provided in the area by the Government with bilateral assistance
from the Gulf states. The implementation of the proposed agricultural
development project will be a major undertaking by the Government, supported
by various development agencies including IDA, in the Wadi. Henceforth, the
social services development projects at the national level are expected to
include Wadi Al-Jawf as well.
I/ Namely, Dhu-Hussayn, Hamdan Al-Jawf, Al-Ashraf and Bani Nawf.



-12-
2.11      Farm Size and Land Tenure.  Private ownership of the irrigable land
in the project area accounts for over 952, while WaqfL' land is about 2X to
31 in spate areas of Al-Hazm and Al-Khalq and about 5S to 81 of the Al-Ghayl
and Upper Madhab areas. Grazing land belongs to the tribes, and grazing is
free for members of the same tribe owning the land.
2.12      Water is the limiting factor for irrigation in the project area and,
presently, about 780 ha are cropped annually through perennial gravity
irrigation out of a total coimmand area of 3,100 ha, i.e., about 751 of the
land remains fallow every year. Part of the water requirements (about 301)
for sorghum and sesame in the above area are met from spate irrigation. The
command area for spate irrigation is about 2,050 ha, while the cropped area
varies according to the intensity of spates. Average farm size is about 7 to
10 ha in the spate irrigation area, and 2 to 4 ha in the well irrigacion area
of Upper Madhab. In the gravity irrigation areas of Al-Ghayl (Wadi As-Saghi)
and Al-Kharid, farms are small.  About 891 of all holdings ha,ve an annually
cultivated area of less than 1 ha each (average 0.6 ha), and the remaining 111
cultivate some 1.2 ha each.
2.13      With increased labor shortage, crop sharing arrangements tend to
move gradually in favor of tenants. The present extent of sharecropping is
not well defined, but the tenant's share of production in perennially
irrigated areas may reach 501 of the crop after the ZakatL' tax, and 251 in
well irrigation areas, which could reach 30% depending upon the tenant's
contribution to production costs.
2.14      Water Resources.  The surface flow in the Wadi occurs in the form of
spates in Wadi Al-Kharid, Wadi Al-Madhab and Wadi As-Saghi, havinR catchment
areas of 8,080 km' (at Gurdud), 3,670 km2 (at Sarahat) and 240 km (at
existing diversion point), respectively, and minimum base flows in Wadis
Al-Kharid and As-Saghi of 1,250 ls and 250 l/s at the respeocive points of
existing diversions for irrigation service areas. The minor catchments
(area: 2,000 kmn) also contribute flow to the main Wadi. Data on total
runoff in the Wadi are scanty; however, based on conservative assumptions of
rainfall-runoff parameters, the annual volume of runoff entering the
project area could be of the order of 150-160 million cubic meters (Mm3),
which corresponds to an average specific discharge of less than
15,000 m3/year/km2.
2.15      The groundwater bearing formation of the Al-Jawf plain consists of
fractured limestones which, together with the Quaternary covering strata, is
believed to form a single multiaquifer system. The depth of the Quaternary in
the northwest (Upper Wadi Al-Madhab) amounts to about 50-60 m, and diminishes
to the east down to 10-20 m. The hydrogeological data base being scarce, only
rough estimations of groundwater potential are available, which indicate that
the annual groundwater recharge in a wet year could be about 900 Mm3 for
combined areas of Wadi Al-Kharid and Wadi Al-Madhab. The corresponding value
in a dry year could be about 230 Mm3.
1/ Land donated for religious reasons.
2/ A religious tithe.



-13-
2.16      There are about 800 wells (shallow tubewells and some open wells
with diesel units for pumping) of which about 500 wells exist in the Wadi
Al-Madba and the remaining are concentrated in the vicinity of the main
villages, namely, Al-Matun, Maslub, Al-Hazm, Al-Khalq and Ad-Darb. The
observed discharge capacities of the wells vary between 5 I/s and 8 ls,
yielding estimated annual abstractions of about 32 Mm3 in the Wadi Al-Madhab
and about 20 Mm3 in the remaining areas.  The total annual abstraction in
the project area is thus about 52 Mm3, which appears to be below the
sustainable production capacities of the existing wells.
2.17      The quality of surface water varies from good to excellent for
agricultural purposes as the electrical conductivity (Ec) of water is less
than 1,000 mmho/cm. The quality of groundwater is good in the Upper Madhab
area (Ec = 1,000 mnholcm) but it deteriorates towards the east.  The
electrical conductivity ranges from 1,000-2,000 mmhos/cm in the central part
of the valley and from 3,000-20,000 mmhos/cm in the eastern plain . The
characteristic mineral components in water are sodium sulphate and chloride.
2.18      Water Rights.  The use of water for irrigation in spate areas is
based on the prior rights of the upstream farmers.  Wells are privately owned
and the owner has the exclusive right to draw as much water as he can use.
Well ownership may be obtained by digging on private or allotted tribal land,
or through inheritance or purchase of an existing well.  The most important
factor determining water rights and water diversion from perennial streams is
a tribal tradition according to which the rights could be obtained through
inheritance, participation in the construction and maintenance of canals and
ditches, renting from other owners or they could be temporarily awarded by
Sarrafs (elected representatives delegated with the authority to manage water)
on the basis of need or service to the tribe.
2.19      The perennial water of the Al-Kharid system is shared, by mutual
agreement, equally by the two subtribes, namely, Az-Zuwamilah and Al-Hamad,
without any major problem. The perennial water of Wadi As-Saghi is used
exclusively by the Ashraf tribe of the Al-Ghayl area. Apparently, and based
on the available information, all water enterIrg the Wadi Al-Jawf area, or
existing therein, is owned exclusively by the population of the project area.
2.20      Irrigation Infrastructure.  For the diversion of perennial surface
water from Wadi Al-Kharid, a diversion weir has recently been constructed by
the Government at Gurdud. The main supply canal at the diversion weir
delivers irrigation supplies over a distance of about 20 km to a system of
secondary and tertiary canals through rudimentary means of control and
distribution. The perennial surface water from Wadi As-Saghi is diverted to a
system of earthen ditches in the Al-Ghayl area, lacking permanent diversion
and control works, presently serving an area of about 80 ha. Two permanent
diversion structures, one each at Al-Hazm and Al-Khalq, have recently been
completed for equitable distribution of spate flows in the eastern part of the
Wadi. Some permanent control structures have also been constructed at
important points in the spate irrigation service areas. Other than concrete
or masonry cisterns at the delivery ends of the pumps, no permanent
distribution structures exist anywhere in the well-irrigated areas. All
conveyance and distribution of well water are done through earthen ditches.



-14-
2.21      Irrigation Practices.  At present, basin irrigation is commonly
practiced on poorly graded fields, varying in size between 250 m2 and
1,000 m2 and irrigation depths averaging 120 mm to 150 mm as applied. In
the absence of permanent on-farm structures, the irrigation flows are
controlled by means of temporary earth bunds reinforced by brushwood. The
diversion of flows is effected by cutting the bunds and blocking the channels
at desired points in the system.  The existing overall irrigation
efficiencies, as estimated, are about 25% and 35% in the perennial gravity
irrigation and well irrigation areas, respectively.
2.22      Cropping Systems/Patterns.  Availability of irrigation water is the
main limiting factor in the expansion of cropped area in Wadi Al-Jawf,
particularly in perennially irrigated areas.  In addition to water,
temperature is a decisive factor in crop selection. Frequency of water
application is also an important factor in perennial areas which, at present,
is done at about 40- to 50-day intervals. The crops grown in Wadi Al-Jawf are
wheat in the winter season, sorghum and sesame in the summer, and alfalfa as a
perennial crop. Wheat occupies about 55% of the cropped area, with 25% for
sorghum, 10% for sesame and 10% for alfalfa in the irrigated areas. A few
farmers in well irrigation areas have planted a few grape vines and citrus
trees and some vegetables. The grapes are reported to ripen earlier than
those grown near Sana'a and Khawlan areas. This is expected as differences in
altitude and temperature are conducive to early production in Wadi Al-Jawf.
Present crop intensity in perennial gravity irrigation areas-Lis about 25%,
while in well irrigation areas it reaches 95%.
2.23      Agricultural Practices.  The present agricultural production
practices are primarily limited to land preparation, seeding, irrigation and
harvesting. Use of fertilizers, pesticides and improved cultural practices is
practically nil as no extension service exists in the Wadi and farmers are
isolated from other areas where use of modern farm inputs is growing.
However, the farmers would be receptive to newly introduced technical
innovations if demonstrated in a convincing manner. Draft animals were used
in land preparation until a large percentage of animals were decimated by a
rinderpest epidemic in 1981. Since then, tractors have been used increasingly
in land preparation, seeding and harvesting are done manually, threshing of
cereals is done using animals or tractors, flood irrigation is presently
practiced, and furrowing or ridging is unkuinw-n.
2.24      Livestock and Animal Health.  The indigenous livestock population of
the project area is estimated at about 27,500 sheep, 38,500 goats,
2,000 cattle, 2,500 camels and 1,600 donkeys. These evolved over time through
a process of natural selection and are presently better noted for their low
productivity but ability to survive the harsh conditions of the region.
Livestock is kept as security in case of drought and crop failures. Lambs are
usually slaughtered for meat; goats, cattle and camels normally serve as
sources of milk; and donkeys are used as beasts of burden and for draft
purposes.
1/ Due to tribal land holdings scattered over irrigable area and scarce water
resource, irrigation is rotated over a 4-year cycle.



-15-
2.25      Due to dry, hot climatic conditions in the Wadi, native pastures are
green and nutritious for only a very short period of the year. The
supplemental animal feed consists mainly of cereal stubble, straw, stover and,
to a lesser extent, sesame residues. All these feeds are high in fiber and
low in palatability, digestibility and essential nutrients. Alfalfa is grown
widely, but is used mainly as a condiment to improve the palatability and
increase the intake of these coarse feeds, and not as a supplement to improve
their digestibility and correct their nutritional deficiencies. The presence
of far too many animals in the Wadi (mainly sheep and goats) in relation to
feed supply results in widespread semi-starvation and malnutrition. The
situation is further exacerbated as the Veterinary Department of MAF has
placed the Wadi Al-Jawf region near the bottom of the animal health priority
list due to staff and resource constraints. Hence, though a decision was
taken recently to establish a veterinary office in the area, it is likely to
be understaffed and not well-equipped.
B. Proiect Rationale
2.26      Infrastructural Improvement.  The crucial factors for the
development of the Wadi are efficient use of the available resources supported
by adequate infrastructure and institutions, an effective extension service
and introduction of improved cropping practices. Though there is a
considerable potential for development of the available land and water
resources in the project area, arable land is more than could be irrigated for
agriculture from the presently known water resources of the Wadi. Water is,
therefore, the limiting factor, and its efficient management at the source and
in the field is the cornerstone in the Wadi's agricultural development
program. The main thrust for development would, therefore, be towards the
elimination of the presently high water losses and effective water management
to achieve higher degree of overall irrigation efficiency which could be
raised to, at least, 40% and 55% from the existing levels of 25% and 35% for
perennial gravity and well irrigation, respectively. The cropped area under
development in the project would thus increase by about 50% with the use of
the existing water resources (Annex 1, Table 1).
2.27      There is insufficient knowledge regarding the water resources
potential due to lack of the data base. Before embarking upon a more
ambitious program which would tap the entire water resources potential, an
additional study would be required particularly on hydrology, hydrogeology and
soils.  Proposed development under this project would, therefore, be confined
to the presently known amounts of the available water in the Wadi.  The
maximum water requirement, based on the adopted cropping pattern, would, on
the average, be about 3,000 m3 during the month of January, which can be met
from the available perennial flow of 1,500 1/s.
2.28      As most of the villages in the project area do not have safe fresh
drinking water sources, village water supply schemes would be included in this
project to improve health conditions of the population. This, combined with a
system of feeder roads for easy access to the agricultural areas and extension
centers, is also proposed to be implemented in the early phase of the
project. These two facilities of water supply and roads would, inter alia,
elicit the necessary initial public interest in the project and involve
beneficiaries in the implementation of the project.



-16-
2.29      The development of the Wadi's agricultural potential lies, in
addition to improving irrigation practices (para. 2.26), in: (a) introducing
fruit and vegetable cultivation in the predominantly cereal-alfalfa cropping
pattern in the perennial gravity and well irrigation areas; (b) applying
proven agricultural practices based on applied research including improved
varieties, seed treatment, fertilizer and pesticide application, weed control,
efficient use of machinery in land preparation and harvesting to increase
farmers' income, and (c) establishing an effective extension service to
introduce economically viable technical packages which would alleviate present
production constraints and make farmers aware of the means to achieve
increased production. Such technical innovations have been introduced
successfully in other projects in YAR, namely, Southern Uplands and Tihania
areas; Wadi Al-Jawf offers similar prospects.
2.30      Sociological Aspects.  It is apparent that only such development
measures as would be consistent with the tribal customs and values, water
rights and distribution pattern should be the basis for a successful project
design. Therefore, the project design ensures that: (a) the existing tribal
system of water rights and allocation of irrigation areas is respected and
modifications, if absolutely necessary, are introduced with extreme caution;
(b) the development packages are explained and adequately demonstrated to the
population; (c) the project staff work closely with local elected water
managers (Sarrafs) and tribal leaders (Shaykhs) in the implementation of
physical improvement and operation and maintenance (O&M) of upgraded systems;
and (d) the existing tribal system of resource mobilization form the basis for
financing O&M of the upgraded system.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Aims and Obiectives
3.01      The key objectives of the project are to improve agricultural
productivity and farm incomes in the Al-Jawf Governorate, by making the best
use of available land and water resources and introduction of modern technical
packages for increasing crop yields, and to achieve balanced geographical
distribution in the development of agriculture across the country. These are
in line with the priorities established in the Government's development
strategy for Agriculture Sector in YAR, as supported by IDA (para. 1.31). To
achieve these objectives, the project aims to:   (a) develop irrigation
infrastructure to ensure efficient use of water and land resources,
(b) develop rural infrastructure to improve the quality of life and living
standards of the rural tribal population by providing them with a network of
feeder roads and potable water supply, (c) develop agriculture by providing
technical know-how through training, extension and research, (d) support
animal health services, and (e) provide credit facilities for agricultural
machinery, equipment and inputs and for poultry development. The project also
includes studies for a future project for full development of the area's
resources.
3.02      The lessons learned from previous and on-going IDA-supported
projects in the country have been incorporated in the project design
(para. 1.36). The project provides for: (a) technical assistance and



-17-
recruitment of staff from abroad as needed for implementation of the project,
(b) incentives and facilities for the national staff for strengthening the
implementation unit and ensuring their commitment to the project,
(c) infrastructure to facilitate marketing of agricultural products,
(d) operating facilities and financial support to CACB for timely availability
of farm inputs, (e) application of realistic disbursement profiles to account
for possible delays in project mobilization and implementation,
(f) improvements in the technical design of project structures based on
experience of similar works in the region, and (g) an effective monitoring and
evaluation program. Moreover, the project design and proposed implementation
setup have taken into consideration the strongly tribal character of the
Wadi's population and considerable attention was devoted to ensuring that they
are consistent with acceptable norms (para. 3.15)'-.
B. Detailed Features
3.03      Irrigation Development.  Thnis will focus on the reduction of water
losses in the existing conveyance and distribution systems of canals and
development of on-farm works for improved water management and higher
irrigation efficiency in Al-Kharid and Al-Chayl gravity irrigation areas. The
works will include (a) concrete lining of those reaches of the main and
secondary canals which pass through sandy soils and are susceptible to high
seepage losses (estimated length: 26 km); (b) construction of permanent
diversion, distribution and check structures, bridges and culverts;
(c) rehabilitation of surface drainage ditches; and (d) construction of
on-farm works including land levelling (about 800 ha).
3.04      There will be no new canal in the Al-Kharid area.  The existing
layout of the network will be improved with minor adjustments. The system
will draw water (1,250 l/s) from the existing diversion weir at Gurdud which
will be adjusted to provide necessary command for the irrigation service
area. However, for tbe Al-Ghayl area, a diversion structure will be
constructed on the Wadi As-Saghi from where a piped conveyor (2.2 km) will
supply irrigation water (250 lls) to the terminal point of the existing
irrigation canal. Beyond-that point, the distribution system will be improved
on the same lines as for the Al-Kharid area. To ensure sustainability,
on-farm works will be constructed in an area only after an undertaking has
been obtained from the Shaykhs of the area that operation and maintenance of
the system on completion will be done under the technical guidance of MAF's
field office. The engineering design criteria for the works to be constructed
and the related details are given in the Project File (Annex 2).
1/  The project components were discussed, at appraisal, at all levels of
project population and administration and found generally acceptable. An
alternative scheme of irrigation development in Wadi Al-Kharid area,
involving consolidation of tribal land into compact irrigation blocks,
though more attractive from an economic point of view, was not adopted as
its design was not acceptable to the concerned tribes.



-18-
3.05      Most of the farmers using well irrigation are eager to develop their
farms for improved agriculture provided they are given technical guidance and
credit.  In view of the limited duration for implementation of
the project, however, it was considered prudent to include rehabilitation of
only 350 wells in the project at an average of 70 wells per year (para.
4.07). The works would include: (a) replacement of the defective and
inefficient pumping units, (b) PVC conveyance (4" dia.) and distribution
(3" dia.) buried pipelines, (c) hydrants and concrete cisterns, and (d) land
levelling (about 110 ha). The equipment and materials for rehabilitation of
well irrigation areas, which would be carried out by the farmers, will be
acquired by obtaining loans from CACB (para. 3.13), and installed under the
project's technical supervisiou.
3.06      Two diversion structures, one for Al-Hazm area (1,000 ha) and the
other for Al-Khalq area (1,050 ha), along with the main supply canals and some
minor distribution works, have been constructed by the Government for spate
irrigation (para. 2.20). However, to make the systems fully operative, two
main distribution structures will be constructed. Also, some rehabilitation
of existing dikes (about 2 km) will be done to protect the service areas from
flooding.
3.07      The irrigation efficiency could further be improved in well
irrigation areas by using drip and sprinkler methods of water application
(para. 4.07). These techniques would be introduced after testing at the
agricultural research station and demonstrations by the project [para. 3.12(c)
and (e)] and are expected to be adopted by many progressive farmers in the
future, particularly in the establishment of citrus and grape orchards in well
irrigation areas. However, the benefits from this possible development, which
may be achieved only over the medium. t-erm, are not included in the project's
economic evaluation.
3.08      Feeder Roads.  A road to connect Sana'a with Al-Hazm, the
Governorate headquarters, is currently being constructed, with completion
expected in 1985.  The, construction.of a link road to connect Al-Hazm with the
existing Sana'a-Marib highway, which would provide an-alternative route, has
also been started. During negotiations, the Government assured IDA that the
link road would be completed by June 30, 1986. The project includes
construction of 45 km of feeder roads to link various villages with the
above-mentioned main roads in the Wadi (Map, IBRD 18379R). The feeder roads
would be designed for an average daily traffic of 100 vehicles/day and speed
of 40-60 km/hr. The width of the carriageway would be 5.0 m topped with 20 cm
thick base course material. The alignments of the feeder roads and the
corresponding lengths were determined to ensure that all agriculture
production areas would be connected to the nearest markets.
3.09      Village Water Supply Schemes.  Twenty schemes proposed to be
constructed as part of the project (Ainex 1, Table 2) would serve a population
of about 30,000 people with safe and convenient sources of water. The
locations of the schemes have been agreed upon by the Governor of Al-Jawf.
These would involve geoelectric investigations in order to locate suitable
drilling sites with fresh water in sufficient quantities, the drilling of 16
deep holes and deepening of four existing wells, the installation of 20 new
water pumpsets, 20 pumphouses, 20 water tanks and distribution lines up to
community taps for each scheme. As a prerequisite for receiving project



-19-
assistance, the beneficiary conmunities would finance the cost of construction
of the roads providing access to the pumphouses estimated at US$150,000 (5X of
the total investment cost). The annual abstraction from the aquifer for water
supply schemes would be of the order of 0.5 Mm3. The estimate of aquifer
recharge (para. 2.15) shows that the demand for water supply can easily be met
from the aquifer.
3.10      Buildings and Support Facilities.
(a) Buildings. The buildings for the project headquarters at Al-Hazm
would be prefabricated units comprising of an office, five units of
three-bedroom houses, twelve units of two-bedroom houses, a bachelor
housing unit, a guest house, CACB buildings, central stores and an
extension block center. The blork centers at Al-Matun and
Husn-al-Shanan and the four extension centers each would preferably
be of block and masonry construction. All buildings will be
provided electricity and water supply.
(b) Proiect Machinery Unit. The feeder roads to be constructed under
the project would be maintained by the project during the
implementation phase. Some bank protection and flood control works
would be maintained to protert thp agricultural land and property
within the project area. For these purposes, a project machinery
unit would be established and staffed adequately to be the core of
the project's field service and maintenance. The unit's machinery
would comprise two bulldozers, one front-end loader, two graders,
two tipper trucks, one water tanker, two compacting rollers, six
small tractors and one mobile workshop unit (Annex 1, Table 3). The
project would provide the operating and running expenses for the
machinery unit through the completion of the project. Assurances
were obtained from the Government at negotiations that, until LDAs
become effective in the project area or other institutional
arrangements are made, the project machinery unit would continue to
function as part of the MAF beyond the project's implementation
stage [para. 7.01(a)].
(c) Equipment and Vehicles. Twenty-five vehicles (4-WD, land
cruisers/land rovers or equivalent) and 21 motorcycles and their
operation and maintenance costs have been provided to meet the
staff's transportation needs during project implementation (Annex 1,
Table 3). Also, provision has been made for necessary furnishings
and engineering equipment for the project office.
3.11      Management, Technical Assistance and Training.
(a) Management and Technical Assistance. About 39.5 man-years of
internationally recruited consultants including one Project
Advisor/Irrigation Engineer, two Civil Engineers, one Irrigation
Design Engineer, one Mechanical Engineer, one Surveyor, one
Extension Agronomist, one Horticulturist, one Veterinarian, and
short-term consultants, including one M & E Specialist, would be
provided for technical assistance to the Government in project
implementation. They would set up the engineering office and the



-20-
extension service, develop project implementation plans and guide
their execution, train counterpart staff and provide backstopping to
the local staff (Annex 1, Table 4). The G6vernment of YAR has
already appointed the Project Manager, a Civil Engineer and some
support staff to coordinate updating of designs (para. 3.15) and
establish a project office. This staff would continue through the
project implementation stage. Since the extension service would be
an important element for agricultural development in the Wadi, it
would be established early during the first year of project
implementation (para. 4.11). The selection of 15 trainees to fill
10 extension agent posts, as needed, would be made within six months
of the effectiveness of the IDA Credit. Assurances to that effect
were obtained during negotiations (para. 7.01(b)]. The selected
candidates would enroll in a course similar to the one conducted at
Sana'a by the Directorate of Extension so that the graduates would
assume their duties early in project implementation.
(b) Training.
(i) Government institutions in the project area are in their
embryonic stage, mainly due to lack of infrastructure and the
very recent involvement of the Central Government in the
Wadi's development. However, the tribal population has
expressed increased receptivity to the Government initiatives
to develop and extend services to the project area as
manifested by the fact that they cooperated with the
Governmental agencies conducting the feasibility study for the
project, albeit not without some minor problems at the
beginning. Manpower needs for project implementation at all
levels were assessed and the need for employing consultants to
assist in implementing key project components was apparent,
particularly in engineering and agricultural development. In
this respect, on-the-job training will play an increasing part
in preparing local counterpart staff in assuming their duties
and will be appropriately emphasized in the terms of reference
(TOR) of the international consultants. In addition,
in-country training will play an important part as several
agricultural development projects have been or are being
implemented in the Tihama and Southern Uplands areas and these
could, consequently, provide practical training
opportunities. The Project Manager and his staff will
undertake several field visits to the aforementioned areas in
order ti acquaint themselves with management procedures,
particularly in procurement, agricultural extension and
monitoring and evaluation. In addition, the management staff
will be encouraged to enroll in short-term courses offered by
the National Institute of Public Administration, Sana'a.
Similarly, the extension agents are expected to enroll in
short-term refresher courses offered by the MAF's Directorate
of Extension.
(ii)  Assisted by the establishment of the research station a-d the
nursery in the project area, the ARA staff will also rlay a
significant role in conducting short-term training courses for



-21-
agricultural staff, extension agents, Sarrafs and farmers in
the project area. Training equipment, vehicles and visual
aids would be provided under the project. Extension meetings
with farmers through field days and other methods will be
timed to crop production calendar and advertised in advance to
the farmers. The in-country training efforts will be
supplemented by overseas training programs related to
strengthening project staff abilities in project
implementation. Countries where the courses will be
undertaken and timing of study tours will be determined during
the project implementation. The Project Manager will prepare
an annual training program (in-country and overseas) and
submit it for IDAs review before its implementation.
Assurances to that effect were obtained from the Government
during negotiations [para. 7.01(b)].
3.12      Agricultural Development.
(a) Establiskment of Extension Service. This would include
establishment of seven extension centers at Al-Hazm, Al-Matun,
Husn-Al-Shanan, Al-Ghayl, Al-Kbalq, Al-Darab and As-Samum (Map, IBRD
18379R). The first three extension centers will be part of three
block centers which will house veterinary and irrigation development
staff in addition to extension agents. Farming machinery and
equipment comprising tractors, harvesters, threshers, and vehicles
including motorcycles (Annex 1, Table 3) will be provided to support
the extension service which will conduct programs for training of
extension agents and farmers. A Horticulturist, who will also have
a knowledge of the application of forestry on farmlands, and an
Extension Agronomist would set up the extension service, develop and
implement extension programs, train counterpart staff and provide
technical backstopping to the extension agents.
(b) Support for Animal Health Service. The veterinary service staff
(Annex l. Table 4) would be housed in the block centers and the
extension centers except those required to be at the research
station for whom necessary accommodation has been provided at the
station. The services would include: (i) an office-clinic complex
at each block center; (ii) an internationally recruited
veterinarian; (iii) six vaccinators and three veterinary assistants
and (iv) three vehicles with drivers, drugs, vaccines and veterinary
equipment.
(c) Agricultural Research Station.  A 10-ha regional research station
would be established to develop and test applied research packages
under Wadi Al-Jawf conditions prior to their dissemination to the
farmers through the extension service. This will cater for
agronomic, horticultural and livestock development in irrigated
areas. The station will be administered and supervised by the
Agricultural Research Authority (ARA) and will have, in addition to
the crop section, two demonstration and field research units--one
for livestock and the other for poultry.



-22-
(d) Nursery. A plant nursery (8 ha) would be established to produce
annually about 200,000 fruit and forestry seedlings. Seedlings will
be sold at a nominal price in order to encourage farmers to invest
in orchard development and forestry planting (fast growing
fuelwood). The proposed nursery would cater for the needs of the
project as well as the adjoining regions.
(e) Demonstration Farms. These would be established in consultation
with the Governorate's administration, and under the supervision of
extension service, on two well irrigation farms (about 9 ha), and
three perennial irrigation farms (about 30 ha in total) on
Government lands, for demonstration of modern irrigation and
production practices, and for well irrigation trials in the eastern
part of the Wadi Al-Jawf for conjunctive use of low-quality well
water with spate flow for irrigation and leaching. The
demonstrations on well irrigation will also include sprinkler and
drip irrigation in order to introduce these techniques for
progressive adoption by the farmers in the future.
(f)  Monitoring and Evaloati On-.nit.  This would include services of
internationally recruited short-term experts, as needed, a national
counterpart and support staff established for the project under the
direct control of the Project Manager (para. 4.15).
3.13      Agricultural Credit.  The project will support CACB operations in
the area by providing buildings for office and stores, vehicles to provide
mobility to the field staff and the funds required for agricultural credit
(paras. 3.05 and 4.14). The incremental short-term credit and medium-term
credit for the purchase of machinery and materials for well irrigation-
improvement and establishment of poultry farms would amount to YRls 13.3
million (US$2.46 million). The Government will strengthen the local branch of
CACB adequately to handle the additional business in the project area.
Assurance to this effect was obtained from the Government at negotiations
[para. 7.01(c)].
3.14      Studies for Future Project.  The project includes funds for further
studies of a possible second phase project for making optimum use of all
available land and water resources that may include construction of low
detention dams for improving base flow of the wadis and increasing the
groundwater potential by recharging through percolation of runoff (which
otherwise would flow out of the wadi during floods). The studies would be
carried out by employing a firm of consulting engineers to be selected
internationally.
C. Engineer_ng Design
3.15      Irrigation Improvement.  The project preparation teams (engineering
consulting firm and FAO/CP) analyzed two proposals-(l) for consolidation of
irrigation schemes into two compact blocks and (2) for the rehabilitation and
upgrading of the existing system without affecting tne existing water rights
and the distribution pattern-but presented the detailed designs for only the
former scheme. During appraisal, the first proposal, though economically more
attractive, was not found to be practicable because it would deprive a group



-23-
of farmers of their traditional share of water (para. 3.02). It was,
therefore, decided to adopt the latter proposal and raise the engineering
designs to the final design level with an input of about 12 man-months of
engineering consultants in a period of 3-4 months. The work, financed by IDA
through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance (No. P-294-YAR) of
US$355,000 approved on June 19, 1984, was started in November 1984 and would
be completed, at the latest, by the end of March 1985. The designs of feeder
roads are in final form and those of the water supply schemes would be
finalized by the project's Engineering Section after the sources of water
.supply would have been established on the basis of geoelectric investigations
provided for in the project (para. 3.09). The Engineering Section would
prepare the construction drawings for all works from the data and details
drawn from the finaL designs.
D. Implementation Schedule
3.16      The project is to be implemented over a period of six years.  The
first year would be devoted mainly to project mobilization and building up an
effective organization, including the recruitment of the required
international consultants and local staff. Since the Project Manager has
already been appointed and has established a field office at Al-Hazm, the
Governorate Headquarters, it would be possible to initiate procurement of
equipment, prefabricated housing and machinery at the outset, and award
contracts and place purchase orders during the first year. The construction
of feeder roads would be started during the first year to facilitate access to
the agricultural areas of the project. The geoetectric investigations to
locate the sources of water for water supply schemes and preparation of
construction drawings for irrigation improvement works would be completed and
construction contracts awarded during the first two years. The project
implementation would proceed full swing during the third to the fifth years,
with completion scheduled before the end of the sixth year.  The establishment
of the extension service, the plant nursery and the agricultural research
station and demonstration farms would be initiated during the first year and
operations continued as shown in the implementation schedule (Chart,
IBRD-26594).  The appointment of consultants for carrying out the further   -
studies would be done in the second year of project implementation.
3.17      The project area is short on skilled manpower to implement the
various project components. This would be overcome by recruitment of local
staff from other parts of YAR. Assurances were obtained from the Government
at negotiations that, in addition to providing free accommodations, the
project staff would be paid adequate incentives to attract and retain them in
the project area [para. 7.01(d)]. The shortage of trained and experienced
technicians would be met by recruitment of expatriate experts as is being done
in other IDA-supported projects in YAR.
E. Cost Estimate
3.18      The cost of the project, including physical contingencies and
allowances for expected price increases, is estimated to be YRls 205 million
(US$38.0 million), with a foreign exchange component of US$24.2 million or 64%
of the total cost. The base cost estimate is calculated using unit costs
adjusted to the first quarter of calendar year 1985. Physical contingencies



-24-
on construction and running costs have been calculated at 10-20% and
allowances for expected price increases on the foreign exchange components at
8%, 9%, 9%, 9%, 7.5% and 6% during years 1985-1990, respectively, and local
component at 10% annually. The estimate does not include taxes as the project
will be exempt from local duties and taxes. The cost estimate is summarized
below and the details of expenditure schedules are given in Annex 1, Tables
5(a),(b) and (c).
Table 3.1:  Project Cost Estimate
I  Total
EvRls *,o0         trusc  *oo01   ForeIUn "st
Lm   ~FarenT1l  LgCal  F         T3Ztal Lb    _-
A. IRRIGATmIO DEVELOU,h  6j22 12.7'9.6 1OS56S.4 1.2".1  2.359.Z 3.62Z.3  6S  14
0. FEWER inOS      4.00.2  9.354.S 13.364.0  742.4  1.732.4 2.474.8  70  9
C. VZLLAGE WTE SUPPLY   3.102.7  0.2901.3 13.393.0  574.1  ?.905.6 2.480.2  77  9
U. ILODZ   SU
FACJLT2ES      4.579.6 i.5S8.i 23.137.9  14.1  3.436.7 4.284.8  S0  16
P.ANAGMIhUT. TOICWAL
ASSISTANC & TEAmiG 102.23.2 17. M.9 211.69.1 2.N4.3  3.308.5 S.312.a  62  20
F.AmNn*
-EV&LPWT       14.100.3  6.7MS.3 D1 ?93.5 2.594.1  7.256.5 3.a5S.7  33  14
. AGLTIRAL CnIT   4.424.9  8514.8 13.270.7  819.4  1.639.8 2.459.2  6?  9
N. FllTNE STUDIES FOR
UUTUC PMJM=    2-IJ  LU3a 12D72Z   MLI  fi  227  25            A
Total UaSMLKh Se 50.716.1 93.sn.6 144.295.7 9.31.9 17.329.6 26.721.3  6S  1o
UI1sica1 Cmnt1iewcles   4.N07.9 10.166.4 14.14.4  742.2  1,86.4 2.62S.6  72  10
PriEe Conti - les    1942-4 Z6MLi DOSA  LuLl  422L  L61S  i5Z  12
Total PROMC C5ST  74.i66. 5 130.M.S 205.612.9 1S.UM.1 24.13S.2 37.96S.4  64    142
=      ===                 = w=== ====-==x=   =  8=
F. Financing
3.19       The IDA credit of US$10 million would finance about 41% of the
foreign exchange component. The balance of the project cost would be financed
by other co-financiers (US$21.85 million) and the YAR Government and
beneficiaries (US$6.15 million). The Saudi Fund for Development and the
Islamic Development Bank have expressed interest to co-finance the project
with IDA jointly in some components and on a parallel basis in others.
Agreement between the outside financing agencies and the Government would be a
condition for effectiveness of the IDA credit [para. 7.02(a)]. The borrower
of the IDA credit would be the Government of YAR, who, through MAF, would
utilize the credit in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in a
Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
3.20       Based on the above, the tentative project financing plan would be as
follows:



-25-
Table 3.2: Tentative Proposed Financing Plan
Other.
Outside
IDA   Financing        Local Financing
Item                                              Government  Beneficiaries
(US$ Million)
Irrigation Development
Perennial Irrigation Works       3.45      -            1.90
Spate Irrigation Works            -        -040
Feeder Roads                       2.30      -            1.00
Village Water Supply                -       3.55           -           0.15
Buildings and Support Facilities
Project Headquarters             2.25      -            0.30
Extension Centers                 -       0.95           -
Office Equipment & Vehicles      0.50      -
Project Machinery Unit           0.80      -
Project Maintenance and
Operating Costs                 -       1.45          -
Management, Technical Assistance
& Training
Management, Agricultural
& Engineering                   -       3.45          -
Local Staff and Counterparts      -        -            2.40
M&E and Training                 0.70     0.25           -
Agricultural Development            -       5.05           -
Agricultu-ral Credit                -       3.75           -
Further Studies
Consultants & Equipment           -       1.70           -
Investigations and Local Staff   -        1.70          -
Total                        10.00    21.85         6.00          0.15
G. Procurement
3.21      Works.  The construction of project headquarters buildings estimated
to cost US$2.55 million (IDA financing: US$2.25 million) and civil works for
irrigation development and feeder roads totalling US$9.05 million (IDA
financing: US$5.75 million) including contingencies would be procured by
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA's procurement
guidelines. The construction of block centers, extension centers and water
supply schemes totalling US$4.50 million including contingencies will be
scattered in time and space and are, therefore, not likely to interest foreign



-26-
bidders. These works would be procured through local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures, which allow foreign bidders to compete. No IDA financing
will, however, be involved in any major LCB procurement.
3.22      Goods:  The procurement of heavy machinery (Annex 1, Table 3) and
farm equipment costing US$1.38 million (IDA financing: US$0.80 million)
including contingencies would be done by ICB. The procurement of vehicles
(for speedy project mobilization) and on-farm equipment for well irrigation
(spread over 4-5 years) asounting to US$2.3 million (IDA financing =
US$0.50 million) inclusive of contingencies would be done by international
shopping (IS). Items of miscellaneous goods, which cannot be grouped and
would cost less than US$20,000 each, could be procured by LCB up to an
aggregate cost of US$500,000 over the entire project implementation period.
3.23      Services:  For recruitment of consultants (a) for management and
engineering estimated to cost US$3.3 (IDA financing: US$0.70 million) and
(b) for carrying out further studies estimated to cost US$1.70 million,
including contingencies, standard IDA guidelines would be followed. For
consulting services to update irrigation improvement works designs amounting
to US$0.16 million financed under a PPF advance (para. 3.15), IDA agreed to
the recall by the Government of the consulting firm which had done the
original designs.
3.24      Contract Review:  For goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
uS$100,000 or more, and for civil works estimated to cost equivalent of
US$200,000 or more, whether to be procured by ICB or IS, IDA would review and
approve tender documents and contracts before they are issued/awarded.
3.25      The procurement procedures to be followed for project elements to be
financed by IDA would be as follows:



-27-
3.3: Procurement Plan
Project Element                      Procurement Procedure 11.
International
ICB      LCB         Shapping       Other
(US$ Million) --
Civil Works
Irrigation Development        5.75
(3.45)
Project Headquarters          2.55
(2.25)
Block/Extension Centers                0.95
Water Supply Schemes                    3.55
Feeder Road Construction      3.30
(2.30)
Equipment
Vehicles and Office                                   0.50
(0.50)
Heavy Machinery               0.88
(0.80)
Light Farm Equipment          0.50
Well Improvement                                      1.80
Consulting Services                                          -        5.00
(0.70)
Total                     12.98     4.50           2.30          5.00
(8.80)                  (0.50)       (0.70)
{I Figures presented in parenthesis are the respective
amounts financed by IDA credit. Costs include contingencies.
H. Disbursement
3.26      The proposed IDA credit of US$10 million would be disbursed over 7
years as follows:



-28-
Table 3.4: Disbursement
Category                              Expenditures to be Financed
'Amount
(US$ Million)               2
a)  Vehicles and Office Equipment        0.40        1002 of Foreign Expenditure
b)  Machinery for Project Unit           0.65        100% of Foreign Expenditure
c)   Project Headquarters Buildings      1.80        100% of Foreign Expenditure
d)  Civil Works
Feeder Roads                      1.90        100% of Foreign Expenditure
Irrigation Development            3.04       100% of Foreign Expenditure
e)  Technical Assistance
for M&E and Training              0.60        100% of Foreign Expenditure
g) --PPF Advance                         0.355       100l   of Foreign Expenditure
h)  Special Account                      0.50
i)  Unallocated                          0.755
Total                     10.00
Disbursement would be made in accordance with the Bank/IDA guidelines for
withdrawal of proceeds of loans/credits (Procedures I, III, V and VI).  In
order to facilitate and expedite disbursements, a Special Account (revolving
fund) would be established for an amount of US$500,000. An estimated schedule
of disbursement of the IDA credit, presented in Annex 1, Table 6, is
sumrized below.
3.5: Disbursement Schedule
Disbursements                              IDA Fiscal Year
1985     86    87   88     89    90   91      92
(TUS$ Million)    -      -
Annual                      0.20/1  0.40  1.85  3.00  2.20  1.20  0.80   0.35
Cumulative                  0.20    0.60  2.45  5.45  7.65  8.85  9.65  10.0
Percentage (%)            2.00    6.00 24.50 54.50 76.50 88.50 96.5  100.0
Actual Profile (Years)    1       2      3     4     5     6     7      8
YAR /2  (X)              4.0    16.0  34.0  54.0  72.0  86.0  95.0  100.0
EMENA Agriculture/3(X)   3.0    15.0  33.0  52.0  69.0  83.0  92.0  100.0
/1  Estimated disbursement of PPF advance (prior to credit effectiveness).
/2 Based on 35 projects.
/3 Based on 17 projects.



-29-
The proposed disbursement period, including the period prior to effectiveness
of the credit when PPF advance payments would be made, broadly corresponds to
the actual profile, particularly in total length of the period of
disbursement.
I. Accounts and Audits
3.27      The Project Manager would maintain separate records and accounts
adequate to reflect the financing resources, receipts and expenditures
undertaken for the project, clearly identifying the goods and services
procured and works performed. These accounts, including the Special Account,
would be maintained in accordance with sound and consistently applied
accounting principles as in the cases of Tihama Projects and SURDP.
Similarly, CACB (Al-Hazm Branch) would maintain separate accounts for the
lending operations reflecting short-, medium-, and long-term lending to
farmers in the project area. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations [para. 7.0l(e)1.
3.28      The accounts of both the project and CACB would be audited annually
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. A certified copy of audited accounts,
together with the auditors' report, would be submitted to IDA within six
months of the close of each fiscal year. Though the past experience of
Government's handling of accounts and audits of IDA-supported projects in YAR
has varied, the experience in general has been favorable in the cases of
projects similar to this project (Tihama and SURDP). Assurances were obtained
from the Government during negotiations for the above arrangements and also
that only auditing firms whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to
IDA would be employed for this project [para. 7.01(f) and (g)].
J. Environmental Impact
3.29      The project will have no detrimental impact on the environment.  On
the contrary, as a result of the project (a) upgrading of the existing
irrigation infrastructure, intensification of agriculture and introduction of
fruit and forestry trees will improve the existing dry and dusty environment;
(b) the improved water supply will reduce the present health hazards; and (c)
the feeder road system will allow isolated villages easy access to markets and
medical facilities. The extension service would stress safe handling of
pesticides in transportation, storage disposal of containers as well as
application.  Materials recommended for use should be of low toxicity and
present low risk to operators, the public and the environment in the event of
misuse or accident. The support of the industry through their agents would
also be elicited to promote better safety and regulation of pesticides in
YAR. Assurances to this effect were obtained from the Government during
negotiations [para. 7.01(h)].
K. Riparian Issues
3.30      All waters to be used in the system have catchment areas within the
political boundary of YAR; therefore, there is no international water rights
problem. Within the project area itself, the development works have been
designed so as not to interfere with the traditional water rights of the
subtribes as well as of the individual tribesmen.



-30-
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Aspects
4.01      Institutional Aspects.  At the present time, the Government's
agricultural institutions in the project area are weak and ineffective, the
credit facilities are inadequate, and collection, monitoring and evaluation of
data are completely lacking. The project would address these problem in three
stages. In the first stage, a project office of the MAF, which has already
been established with the appointment of a Project Manager, an Irrigation
Engineer, some support staff and facilities under a PPF advance (para. 3.15),
would prepare the basis for project implementation. It would be followed by
the project implementation stage during which (a) the involvement of MAF in
the agricultural development of the project would increase, (b) the credit
facilities would be strengthened through CACB, and (c) agricultural extension
and veterinary services would be established, assisted by international
consultants. The third stage would involve the operation and maintenance of
the project and its monitoring and evaluation. The field organization of the
MAF would emerge stronger, as a result of the training and technical
assistance provided under the project, and be in a position to support further
efforts for progressive development of agriculture in the Wadi. Since there
are no LDAs in Wadi Al-Jawf, the project would provide the opportunity for the
Government to bring the Shaykhs into the mainstream of its administration by
involving them in the establishment, operation and maintenance of irrigation
and rural infrastructure facilities.
B. Implementing Agencies
4.02      Implementing and Executing Agencies.  The responsibility for
implementation of the project would rest with the MAF, as under previous
IDA-supported projects, such as, SURDP I and II (Credits 545- and 1067-YAR)
and the Central Highlands Agricultural Development Project (Credit 1453-YAR).
This is in line with the Government's strategy, supported by IDA, to
strengthen MAF by giving it more direct responsibility for the implementation
of projects and the development of its capacity to maintain them. An
organizational setup, as agreed by MAF, is shown in Chart IBRD-26380. A
committee, comprising representatives of the regional and central governments
(MAF, CPO, ARA, CACB and the Governorate of Wadi Al-Jawf) and headed by the
Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, would be formed to ensure coordination
of all concerned agencies. Representatives from MPW, CYDA and other
development agencies may also be invited to attend the Committee's meetings.
A national Project Manager, assisted by a team of international consultants,
their national counterparts and local support staff, will be in charge of
implementation of the project in all aspects including, but not limited to,
(a) preparing of implementation schedules, coordinating and streamlining
project implementation procedures and endeavoring to meet the deadlines of
various implementation activities; (b) processing tender documents and
contract awards; (c) making procurements; (d) keeping project accounts;
(e) keeping liaison with other governmental agencies and external donors on
project related matters; (f) monitoring and evaluation of the project; (g)
compiling progress, status and other project-related reports and ensuring
their timely issuance/submission; and (h) implementing the training program.
The Project Advisor will be the team leader for international consultants and



-31-
will also advise the Project Manager on project implementation issues.
Appointments of the expatriate Project Advisor and a Civil Engineer, two
national Civil Engineers and one Associate Extension Expert, and establishment
of the Coordinating Committee would be conditions for effectiveness of the
credit [para. 7.02(b)].
4.03      An Engineering Section consisting of internationally recruited
consultants and their counterparts will assist the Project Manager in
completing, reviewing and updating all engineering designs as necessary,
preparation of construction and as-constructed drawings, technical
specifications and procurement, and construction management. The execution of
civil works will be done by local/international contractors; nurseries and
demonstration/research farms would be implemented by the project, using force
account.
4.04      An Agricultural Section, comprising internationally recruited
consultants and their counterparts, will assist the Project Manager in
organizing an effective extension service and liaison witLh CACB in
credit-related activities, livestock improvement and poultry development. The
Agricultural Research Station, financed through the project, would function
under the administrative and technical control of the Agricultural Research
Authority (ARA) of MAF. CACB, in coordination with the Project Manager, would
administer the Agricultural Credit component through its branch office at
Al-Hazm.
4.05      Feasibility studies for a possible follow-up project in Wadi Al-Jawf
would be done by a firm of internationally rec uited engineering consultants
employed under the project. The consultants w.i-l also assist the Project
M-nger in preparation of terms of reference for mapping and sit-
investigations contracts and will supervise those works as part of their
responsibilities under the consultancy agreement.
C. Implementation
4.06      Irrigation Infrastructure.  The rehabilitation and construction of
irrigation improvement works for surface water irrigation comprising
diversion, conveyance and distribution canals up to and including the farm
turnouts and land levelling would be done through contracts. Detailed designs
for all works were prepared by a firm of engineering consultants (para. 3.15),
including construction drawings for the first year of work prior to credit
effectiveness. Revisions, if necessary, and preparation of construction
drawings for the remaining part of works, including spate irrigation works,
would be done by the project's Engineering Section in accordance with the
design criteria established by the above consultants. The design of
demonstration farms would be prepared by the Engineering Section in
coordination with the Agricultural Section, and construction will be done by
force account.
4.07      The rehabilitation of well irrigation farms would start with the
project equipping two farms, on a force account basis, with conveyance and
distribution system of buried pipes and on-farm works including some drip and
sprinkler irrigation for orchards to serve as demonstration farms. The
farmers' requests to equip their farms with irrigation techniques, as
demonstrated in those farms, would be processed jointly by the project and



-32-
CACB. The Engineering Section will prepare designs and quantity and cost
estimates for the individual farms and group those farms on a quarterly
basis. The farmers will enter into loan agreements for the amounts borrowed
from CACB for the development of their respective farms. The project will
then arrange execution of irrigation improvement and on-farm works for a group
of farms through local contractors paid directly by CACB out of the farmers'
accounts (para. 3.05).
4.08      Feeder Roads.  The designs for the feeder roads (45 km) have already
been finalized by the consultant. The approximate alignments of the roads are
shown on Map IBRD 18379R. The site-specific details after strip surveying of
the actual alignments would be worked out and contract documents prepared by
the Engineering Section in collaboration with the Highway Authority of the
Ministry of Public Works. Construction will be done by contracts awarded on
the basis of ICB.
4.09      Village Water Supply. Typically, the village water supply schemes
would involve construction of access roads, drilling and constructing wells,
equipping wells with diesel-driven pumps, construction of reinforced concrete,
elevated and ground level storage reservoirs and masonry pwophouses, and
installation of transmission mains to public standpipes. The cost of
construction of access roads to the wells would be contributed by the
beneficiaries. An assurance to that effect was obtained from the Government
at negotiations [para. 7.01(i)]. Because investigation and knowledge of
groundwater in the project area are rather limited, the specific location of
the new wells would be based on hydrogeological investigation utilizing a
geoelectric survey. Based on the results of the survey, a priority selection
list would be prepared jointly by the project and the Governorate's
administration. Design work by the Engineering Section, in collaboration with
the Rural Water Supply Division of the Ministry of Public Works and in
consultation with the beneficiaries, would proceed concurrently. The
locations of water supply schemes, as agreed upon by the Governorate's
administration, are given in Annex 1, Table 2. The execution of schemes would
be done through contracts awarded locally.
4.10      Buildings.  The design of buildings would be similar to that of
those constructed in the Tihama III-Wadi Mawr Project (Cr. 880-YAR) and
finalized for the field conditions by the Engineering Section. The Layout of
prefabricated units for the project headquarters (staff housing and office
buildings) would be prepared by the Engineering Section of the project based
on specifications similar to the Tihama projects.
Agricultural Development
4.11      Agricultural Extension.  The extension service would be headed by an
Extension Agronomist, supported by a Horticulturist and a Veterinarian, all
expatriates, and national counterparts and local staff. Each of the three
block centers would be staffed by an Agriculturist, a Plant Protection
Specialist and a Veterinary Assistant. In addition, ten village Extension
Agents would be deployed in the block centers and four extension centers.
They would preferably be from the area in which they will be stationed and
would be trained at agricultural schools within the country [para. 3.11(a)].



-33-
The Extension Agronomist and the subject matter specialists would be
responsible for preparation of extension programs and packages based on
research findings and experience of other projects which would be conveyed to
the farmers through leader farmers, applications in the demonstration farms
and demonstrations on the farmers' fields. The extension packages will
include use of modern irrigation practices and on-farm works and would be
prepared in coordination with the Engineering Section. The plant nursery
would be established under the technical guidance and supervision of the
expatriate Horticulturist, and would be operated by national staff comprising
a horticulturist counterpart, a technician and an Accountant, in addition to
labor.
4.12      The agricultural research, to be carried out at the Agricultural
Research Station under technical supervision of the ARA, would be in close
contact with the extension personnel. The extension service would keep the
research staff apprised of field conditions and problems in order to make the
research progrAms generally problem-specific. In order to strengthen
agricultural research and extension linkages, the ARA research program in Wadi
Al-Jawf would be prepared by ARA in coordination with the project staff. The
program will be reviewed annually and modified to cater to the changing
situation. The research program and the annual reviews thereof would be
forwarded to IDA for comments. Assurances to this effect were obtained from
Government at negotiations [para. 7.01(j)]. The extension staff would, in
cooperation with the M&E Unit, conduct farmers' survey periodically to ensure
adequate feedback to and from the applied agricultural research and extension
recommendations. Close cooperation and coordination of extension activities
between ARA and the project's staff is crucial to achieve the envisaged
changes in cropping pattern, improvement in yields and increase in farmers'
income.
4.13      The infrastructure, staff and equipment provided in the project
would support the veterinary service of MAF by extending the program of the
Directorate of Animal Health Services to the project area. The expatriate
veterinarian would assess needs of the area and formulate a program for
rendering veterinary service, cooperate with ARA in formulating field research
for animal health problems and carry out demonstrations for introduci-ng
poultry production in the project area. The demonstrations and field research
related to animal health and poultry development would be conducted at the
Agricultural Research Station.
4.14      Agricultural Credit.  Total project cre,dit requirements excluding
contingencies are estimated at about YRls 13.3 million (US$2.46 million).
CACB, which is the credit channel for all IDA projects in YAR, will also
administer this facility in Wadi Al-Jawf.  CACB's operat-ons are constantly
under review by IDA. To improve CACB's capabilities in appraisal and
processing of loan requests, an IDA-assisted Agricultural Credit Project
(Cr. 1308-YAR) is currently underway. The lending procedures and the interest
rates to be charged by CACB for lending in the Wadi Al-Jawf Project would be
governed by its regulations (para. 1.24).



-34-
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15      Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E) of the project would be done by an
M & E Unit established for the project in close coordination with the
Department of Planning, Statistics and Follow-up of MAF, which is functioning
within the MAF to, inter alia, monitor and evaluate agricultural projects in
YAR. The Unit would be staffed with internationally recruited short-term
M & E Specialists/Rural Sociologists, as needed, a full-time national
Monitoring Officer and two Field Assistants, including a Rural Sociologist,
and would be established within six months of effectiveness of the IDA
Credit. The Government would conduct a mid-term project evaluation in which
IDA and the co-financiers would be invited to participate. Assurances to
these effects were obtained from the Government at negotiations
[paras. 7.01(k) and (1)].
4.16      The project staff of the M & E Unit would set up procedures and
maintain records of all inputs furnished to the farmers, their production
costs, prices received and collected, yield.s and other relevant data in order
to evaluate improvement in agricultural production. Special emphasis will be
placed upon monitoring (a) the distribution of project benefits,
(b) acceptance of the project concepts by the tribal population and their
participation and (c) success of the project in achieving the goals as set
forth in the project design.
E. Progress Reporting
4.17      The Project Manager will prepare progress reports twice each
calendar year for periods January-June and July-December and submit to IDP
within three months following the report periods. The reports prepared by the
consultants on further studies would be summarized and included in the
project's progress reports with the full reports appended thereto. The
information to be included in the progress reports and a format for data
presentation are included in the Project File. The Government would prepare a
Project Completion Report (PCR) on the lines suggested by IDA and submit to
IDA no later than six months after the project closing date, or by such later
date as the Government and IDA may agree. Assurances to these effects were
obtained from the Government at negotiations [paras. 7.01(m) and (n)].
F. Operation and Maintenance
4.18      The diversion structures and the main irrigation canals and
appurtenant structures would be maintained and operated by MAF through its
field office which vill continue to function after completion of the project.
The O&M Unit would include an Engineering Supervisor, a Foreman and an
Accounts Clerk. Funds for O&M (YRIs 450,000 per annum) would be available out
of the surcharge on Zakat (para. 5.19). The involvement of local farmers in
the 0 & M of facilities serving irrigation areas directly should be
maintained. Therefore, the distribution system lower down would be maintained
and operated by the Sarrafs (locally elected water managers), under the
technical guidance of the MAF's field office (para. 3.04). Funds for this
activity would be raised through the existing tribal structure, as is being
done at the present time, which could ultimately lead to the formation of
water users' associations. The O&M Unit will prepare annual operation and



-35-
maintenance estimates, for the main civil works which will be funded by MAF,
and for the on-farm works to be carried out by the Sarrafs. The O&M of the
feeder roads would be the responsibility of the project during implementation
and of the MAFPs regional office, subsequently. The O&M of the water supply
schemes would be the responsibility of the beneficiaries who would enter into
agreements with the project to that effect before a scheme is installed.
Assurances to these effects were obtained from the Government at negotiations
[para. 7.01 (o) and (p)].
4.19      Tubewells and well irrigation schemes are in the private sector in
YAR. The O&M costs of well irrigation schemes would, therefore, be borne
directly by the farmers. However, the MAF's field office will provide
technical guidance to the farmers in operation and maintenance of the
schemes. The demand for replacement items, like engines and pump spare parts,
hydrants and valves, is expected to generate interest amongst local traders to
stock them within the project area. (This is presently happening in respect
of availability of spare parts and services for truck and wagon repairs). In
the interim period, CACB's branch at Al-Hazm would stock those items for sale
to the farmers on a cash basis as in other areas of YAR.
G. Lands for Proiect Facilities
4.20      The Government owns enough land in the project area needed for the
construction of headquarters buildings, extension buildings, research station
and the demonstration farms, and would allocate the same to the project
through necessary notifications. The irrigation improvement works will be
rehabilitated/modified at the existing sites and locations, and very little
additional land would be needed for these works. The land required for the
access roads and irrigation improvement works, if any, not belonging to the
Government would be acquired by the Government for the project well ahead of
the time of construction. The Government would submit to IDA the proof of
having acquired all needed lands at the time of submission of the tender
documents for respective works for IDA's approval. Assurances to this effect
were obtained from the Government at negotiations [para. 7.01(q)].
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
5.01      With improvement in irrigation water use efficiency, and
establishment of an effective extension service, the project is expected to
increase production of wheat, sorghum, sesame, potatoes, alfalfa, grapes and
citrus fruits (Annex 1, Table 14). The increase in production would be
achieved largely by expanding the use of inputs and improving land
preparation, plant protection, and irrigation techniques. This is primarily
dependent upon the rate at which area farmers adopt technological packages
recommended by extension agents. The present and future cropped areas and
projected increase in irrigated areas for various models are shown in Annex 1,
Table 7. Yields without the project were based on Government's reports and
discussions with ARA staff.  As for yields with the project, due to lack of
applied research experimentation in the project area, estimates were based on



-36-
results and experience obtained under geographically and climatically similar
areas in the region (e.g. Wadi Hadramawt II Project, Cr. 1346-YDR) as well as
on discussion with ARA staff.
5.02      The phasing of farmers' participation in the project has taken into
consideration likely progress in irrigation infrastructure and the
establishment of supporting services, particularly extension and credit and
adoption by farmers of technical package recommendations from applied
research. The total cultivated area is expected to increase from about
1,850 ha at present to about 3,000 ha 11. The number of farmers who would
enter the project each year and the area to be covered are projected as shown
below. The number of farm units represented by each model that would
participate in the project is shown in Annex 1, Table 8.
Table 5.1: Participatinx Farmers and Areas to be Covered
Participating Farmers            Areas to be Covered
Year     Annual       Cumulative           Annual       Cumulative
(ha)
1.         O
2         86             86                152            152
3        257            343                450            602
4        342            685                597          1,199
5        513          1,198                901          2,100
6        341          1,539                597          2,697
7        172          1,711                303          3,000
B. Markets and Prices
5.03      Markets. Agricultural output has not been able to cope up with the
dramatic increase in demand. The result has been a widening gap between food
production and consumption thereby leading to growing food imports. The
projected incremental production of cereals, fruits and vegetables would,
therefore, find a ready domestic m-rket and help meet YAR's growing food
deficit.
5.04      Farming in YAR is primtrily subsistence-oriented, with only a small
proportion of produce reaching the market at the present time. However, an
increasing number of farmers are producing fruits and vegetables for the
domestic market. It is assumed that, at full development, about 20% of the
grains, 701 of fruits and 802-90 of vegetables produced in the project area
would be marketed, the balance being used by producers for their own
consumption.
5.05      Rural cash incomes have enabled many farmers to purchase pickup
trucks and, with a network of dirt tracks existing between various villages,
farmers have become increasingly mobile with access to the several local
1/ At full development.



-37-
markets (souks). Marketing is mainly carried out by village merchants, the
greatest number of whom are concentrated in Al-Hazm. The main market in the
project area is Souk Al-Etnin. Some merchants bring goods from Jizan in Saudi
Arabia and buy crops, livestock and handicrafts. With the construction of
feeder roads, which is provided for under the project, and a gravel road being
constructed by the Government, the project area would be linked with the
capital Saua'a and the existing national road network. A large proportion of
the surplus produce of fruits and vegetables could, therefore, be marketed to
Sana'a. It is expected that trade would be oriented more towards Sana'a in
the future rather than towards Jizan (Saudi Arabia), as it is at present.
5.06      Marketing.  Beyond the measures cited in para. 1.2.5 and the marginal
involvement of the AMC, there is no governmental intervention in the marketing
of domestically produced agricultural goods. The present marketing system
includes various channels through which farm outputs are distributed and is
fairly competitive. The system consists mainly of the mobile farmers and
wholesalers who purchase either in the field or at a local market and then
transport the produce to urban centers in search of the highest price.
Although there are weaknesses within the system (para. 5.08-5.09), the
existing arrangements enable agricultural produce to be marketed throughout
the country in an efficient manner.
5.07      Over the past several years, with more farmers shifting to fruit and
vegetable production, and an increasing proportion of total output entering
the market, new marketing opportunities are beginning to arise. To meet part
of these opportunities, the AMC was established (para. 1.26) with the primary
responsibility of purchasing and marketing of agricultural produce. At
present, the AMC deals with marketing of selected fruits and vegetables (e.g.,
okra, tomatoes, potatoes, etc.). In some instances, it makes pre-harvest
contractual agreements with farmers. This enables farmers to receive assured
prices for their produce. It is expected that AMC will be able to expioit
existing and potential marketing opportunities by improving market
intelligence, grading, storage and packing. The company operates from Sana'a
as its headquarters; regional storage centers and several permanent and
seasonal buying centers are located near principal production zones.
5.08      There are no standards or grades formally established for
agricultural commodities. However, buyers recognize quality differences on
the basis of visual assessment of the parcel (or other unit) on offer. There
is also a widespread deficiency of storage facilities for perishable
commodities. This has resulted in perishables having to be sold sooner,
rather than being held over for better prices. Storage facilities in the
market centers are required to provide a marketing flexibility enabling
producers to sell at premium prices, by reducing crop spoilage.
5.09      There is little information, as yet, compiled and disseminated to
producers on recent and current prices/quantities traded at different
markets.  The only effective market intelligence on pricing and markets is
word-of-mouth communication by farmers and wholesalers as well as farmers' own
intuition.



-38-
5.10      According to the AMC, an estimated 70Z of fruit and 80-901 of
vegetables marketed are traded directly by producers at locations other than
the farm. This direct marketing enables farmers to secure an increased share
of the price paid by the consumer and suggests that there is no widespread
trader exploitation. Trade prospects for fruits and vegetables exist in the
domestic market. Further opportunities exist through increasing efficiency,
stimulating consumption by publicity and developing new market outlets
including grocers, institutional buyers and food processing factories.
5.11      Prices.  For the financial analysis, 1984 farmgate prices were
used. The incremental volume of output produced under the project accounts
for a small proportion of total demand, and it is not expected to have an
impact on domestic price levels.
5.12      YAR is expected to remain a net importer of cereals in the
foreseeable future. The local market prices for these products are much
higher than those in the world market, partly because of the Government's
intervention through quantitative restrictions, tariffs and bans but also due
to the pronounced strong preference by consumers for domestically produced
goods as reflected in their willingness to pay higher prices for those goods.
The impact of a combination of import restrictions and local preference is
illustrated by the price relationship between imported and domestic wheat. In
1984, the average price of imported wheat in the S-na'a market was about
'Rls 1.5 per kg compared with local wheat ranging from YRls 3.0 to YRls 4.0
per kg. Despite availability of cheaper imported alternatives, consumers
prefer the local wheat and are willing to pay a premium price of 501-200% for
it. Consumers' preference for local products has been taken into account in
the economic analysis.
C. Farm Income
5.13      Farm models.  To demonstrate on-farm development under perennial
gravity and well irrigation, four farm models have been analyzed. The number
of participating farmers and present and future cropping patterns and holdings
represented by each farm model are presented in Annex 1 (Table 9).
5.14      Models 1, 2, and 3 illustrate the on-farm improvement for
perennially gravity-irrigated farms. This improvement in water use efficiency
through project investments in expansion of existing irrigation schemes would
allow the farmers to increase the cropped area in the future as shown in Annex
1, Table 10, and to follow a modified cropping pattern.
5.15      Model 4 demonstrates the gains from investment on well-irrigated
farms aimed at increasing efficiency and expansion of irrigated area. The
improvement of well irrigation systems, coupled with the effects of an
efficient agricultural extension service, is expected to generate high returns
from these farms. Average size of holding to be developed is estimated at
5.6 ha, of which 4.0 ha is presently irrigated.
5.16      Farm Income.  At the present yield level, the gross revenue would
slightly exceed the cost of production (including the imputed wage of family
members), resulting in a marginal net return to the farmer. However, higher
product prices relative to the cost of labor and other inputs have enabled



-39-
many farmers to substitute high-value crops (fruits, vegetables and alfalfa)
for low-value crops (sorghum and wheat). Through partial mechanization of
production and the use of high yielding varieties, high net returns would be
generated from fruits and vegetables farms. For grains, high yield levels and
high crop prices paid to producers would provide an adequate incentive for
increased production. For each farm model, a modest increase in cost of
production would result in a significant gain in net farm income at full
development, which is expected to provide the necessary stimuli for project
area farmers to increase production. Present and future farm incomes for each
model are summarized below, and detailed in Annex 1, Tables 10-13.
Table 5.2: Farm Incomes Derived from Farm Models
Model    Model     Model      Model
Unit      1        2          3        .4
Number of Farms                    No.    1,017        318        80       296
Land Area per Farm Model           ha       0.6       1.7        2.5       5.6
Investment                         YR1        -         -          -    63,886
Incremental Gross Value
of Production-'                  YRl    7,938    30,886    41,945    82,495
Incremental Operating Cost-'       YRl    3,019     8,748    12,267    16,049
Net Farm Income at
Full Development                 YR1    4,919    22,138    29,678    66,446
Financial Rate of Return           Z %    >100      >100       > 100        77
D.  Cost Recovery and Taxes
5.17      The project is expected to generate a significant increase in public
revenue through .he zakat which is recovered by the Central Government through
local administration. The zakat is set at 10% of the gross value of crop
production in gravity irrigated areas and 5% in well irrigated areas. The
latter is lower-Lhan the former presumably because irrigation infrastructure
costs on well ivelgation are borne by the farmers themselves.  The zakat would
generate a revenue of approximately YRls 2.8 million annually at full
development.
5.18      It was agreed under the on-going Tihama Development Projects
(Cr. 880- and 978-YAR) that full capital cost for irrigation infrastructure
investment and the uperation and maintenance cost of the related works would
be recovered from the landowners in real terms with no interest over a period
of 50 years. On this basis, a surcharge of 2% of gross output on gravity
irrigation areas, to be collected along with zakat, was also agreed upon
1/ Year 12.
2/ Excluding Family Labor Costs.
3/ Financial rates of return to the beneficiaries under perennial irrigation
(Models 1, 2 and 3) are higher than those under well irrigation (Model 4)
because investment and O&M costs for perennial irrigation have not been
charged to the beneficiaries as they are borne by the project and
recovered through the arrangements indicated in para. 5.19.



-40-
between the Government and IDA with the understanding that this rate would be
reviewed for adjustment, if needed, over 5-year intervals in the future. A
decision to that effect was taken by the High Council for Agriculture and
Rural Development of the Government of YAR on April 7, 1984.
5.19      The same principle as was accepted in Tihama projects would apply in
respect of cost recovery in the Wadi Al-Jawf Project as well. A surcharge of
4X of the gross value of production in the perennial irrigation areas,
collected along with zakat, would recover the full investment cost of
irrigation works and O&M costs over a period of 50 years. However,
considering that project area farmers, who are still living in the framework
of traditions and controls of tribal society, may not be willing to pay higher
taxes at this stage, an initial rate of surcharge of 21 is proposed, which
would be raised progressively by reviewing the situation at 5-year intervals
until full recovery as set forth in the principle governing cost recovery
outlined above has been made. An assurance to that effect was obtained from
the Government at negotiations [para. 7.01 (r)]. The annual collection of
zakat and tax revenue generated from the project at full development is
estimated at YRls 3.14 million, made up of YRls 2.16 million from the
perennial irrigated areas and YRls 0.98 million from the well irrigated
areas.
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.01      The proposed project would primarily improve the income and living
standards of about 1,700 farm households or about 10,000 people by improving
irrigation, development of infrastructure and providing them extension and
credit facilities. An additional 1,200 farmers would benefit indirectly from
the extension service to be established under the project. The increased
production of cereals, fresh fruits and vegetables would improve caloric
intake and nutrition. By providing some 20 village water supply schemes, the
project would also provide potable water to about 30,000 people and help
reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases. Feeder roads will facilitate
marketing and also help accelerate technological and social changes in the
Governorate. With increased productivity and employment opportunities at the
farm, and improved living conditions, more of the labor force is expected to
remain in the area thereby helping to create a stable rural economy. The
entire population of the Wadi Al-Jawf (50,000 people) would thus benefit,
directly or indirectly, from the project.
6.02      By establishing essential infrastructure (i.e., project
organization, rural roads and water supply schemes) and public services (e.g.,
veterinary services, applied agricultural research, credit and extension) in
the Wadi Al-Jawf area, the project would contribute to achieving the
Government's stated objective of a geographically more balanced growth. By
increasing food production, it would help progress toward the food security
objective which has become a major concern of the Government because of the
increasing food imports.



-41-
6.03      During the six year implementation period, apart from the 80 Yemeni
nationals who would be employed directly by the Project, the project would
additionally create employment opportunities in the construction of irrigation
works, rural roads, village water supply schemes, buildings and maintenance
activities. At full development, the project would utilize, on the average,
an incremental 28 man-years of hired labor and 42 man-years of family labor in
agricultural activities. The project would also create employment
opportunities in construction trade and transport activities that would result
from implementation of civil works and from the flow of more agricultural
produce into the market.
B. Economic Analysis
Assumptions
6.04      The economic analysis is based on the benefits and cost streams and
the technical assumptions as described below.
(a) Without the project, the production level would remain at present
levels.
(b) With the improvement in farm technology and the investment in
irrigation development, cropped areas and yield are expected to
increase and the mix of crops would change with emphasis on wheat
and fruits. The benefit streams are based on conservative
assumptions regarding yields and their periods of development, as
reflected in the farm models.
(c) Investment and O&M costs associated with feeder roads constructed
under the project have been included. No corresponding benefits,
however, have been included on the assumption that they are covered
by incremental benefits resulting from facilitating project
implementation and marketing of output, to which the roads would
have contributed.
(d) Investment and O&M costs associated with village water supply and
expenditures on nursery and veterinary services will have a positive
impact on the farmers in the project area, but have, nevertheless,
been excluded from the calculations because it is difficult to
attach monetary value to the resulting benefits.
(e) The life of the project would be 30 years.
Benefits and Costs
6.05      Incremental production of sorghum, wheat, fruits and vegetables,
alfalfa and cereal by-products constitutes the quantifiable economic benefits
of the project (Annex 1, Table 14). The quantifiable economic costs of the
project include investment, operation and maintenance costs of the irrigation
development, rural roads, project services and agricultural development.
However, investment and operating costs of research substations and village
water supply and costs of studies for a possible follow-up project have not
been included as the corresponding benefits have not been quantified and
included in the benefit stream.



-42-
6.06      The daily wage rate for male and female unskilled labor is YRIs 70
and YRls 35, respectively. Assuming (a) peak and normal seasons last three
and six months, respectively and (b) about 60% of farm work is done by men and
40% by women, the average daily wage rate is, therefore, estimated at YRls 60
per day; and this is used as the opportunity cost of labor. With more Yemenis
returning from abroad, the growing scarcity of farm labor is expected to ease,
resulting in a consequent significant drop in the wages paid to farm labor.
This could result in higher net farm returns than estimated in this analysis.
Prices
6.07      For the economic analysis, border prices are used to value costs and
benefit streams (Annex 1, Tables 15 and 16). For internationally tradable
goods (i.e. wheat, sorghum, citrus and potatoes), economic farmgate prices
derived from international market price projections for 1995 at 1983 constant
prices with adjustments to include transport, handling and marketing costs are
used. For nontradable goods (i.e. grapes, sesame, alfalfa and grain
by-products), financial farmgate prices are used.
6.08      Economic farmgate prices have taken into account consumers'
preference for local products. Although the prices consumers actually pay for
the local varieties are as much as twice the price of imported products of
comparable quality, a premium price of only 50% over the farmgate price has
been added to arrive at the economic price. In this analysis, it is assumed
that (a) preference for locally grown products would decline gradually and
premium will be phased out uniformly over a ten-year period, (b) workers'
remittances will stabilize as more Yemenis will return home from abroad, and
(c) imported products would be readily available in the market at prices
cheaper than the local varieties.
Results
6.09      On the basis of the cost and benefit streams outlined above over a
project life of 30 years, the economic rate of return (ERR) on the proposed
project is estimated at about 13% (Annex 1, Table 17). The net present value
discounted at 12% aver the life of the project is estimated at about YRis 6.4
million (US$1.2 million).
6.10      Sensitivity analysis indicates that the economic rate of return
(ERR) could be affected by major increases in costs and/or reduction in
benefits, and a combination of cost overruns and delays in project
implementation. A 20% increase in cost with the benefits remaining unchanged,
or a 20% decrease in benefits (or yields) with costs remaining unchanged from
the base cost, would reduce the ERR to 10%, in each case. A lag of two years
in attaining benefits would result in an ERR of 10% (Annex 1, Table 18). The
probability of prices decreasing appreciably is low due to high domestic
demand for cereals and a growing consumption of fruit.
6.11      A sensitivity analysis to test the effect of using an estimated
premium price, reflecting but not fully incorporating locally observed market
prices, with a provision that this preference would fall to zero over a
ten-year period, indicates that, without consumer preference premium added to



-43-
farmgate prices, the ERR would be 122. The assumed preference premium,
therefore, does not appear to have a significant impact on the ERR and the
project is economically viable even if the preference premium is not used.
C. Proiect Risks
6.12      The main risk in achieving the project goals is associated with the
extent to which the tribal population adopts various technical packages
proposed for the improvement of irrigation and development of agriculture in
the project area. This is being addressed by (a) insuring that the project
design will not interfere with the existing landholding and water distribution
pattern, (b) involving the tribal leaders (Shaykhs) in project implementation
activities and (c) carrying out field demonstrations of the recommended
technical packages. The achievement of crop yields, as projected on full
development, also depends upon the application of improved irrigation and
agricultural practices by the farmers. The Government recognizes the need to
educate the farmers on the benefits of improving their centuries-old -
irrigation techniques and practices to ensure agricultural development.
Toward that end, a project field office has already been established in the
Wadi Al-Jawf by the Government which, in addition to project mobilization,
will explain to the intended beneficiaries, through the Shaykhs the project's
objectives and the scope. An early establishment of rural infrastructure
facilities (feeder roads and village water supply) as proposed in the
implementation schedule is also expected to generate interest among the
population and make the farmers receptive to the project's development
approach.
6.13      There are also risks associated with the pace of implementation of
the project. The area being remote, and lacking in infrastructure and public
facilities, the start-up may be slow and mobilization of manpower and other
resources for project implementation difficult. These factors have been kept
in view in designing the project and scheduling its implementation as
follows: (a) the implementation period has been kept realistic and stretches
over six years, excluding time provided for establishment of the project
office prior -to-that period; (b) the first two years of the proposed
implementation period would be devoted only to procurement of equipment and
machinery and tendering for civil works and (c) the Government has agreed to
give adequate incentives to the local staff assigned to the Wadi Al-Jawf
Project.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government
would:
(a)  arrange continued functioning of the project machinery unit as part
of MAF after completion of the project until LDAs become effective
in the project area, or other institutional arrangements have been
made [para. 3.10(b)];
(b)  ensure that the staffing as needed for timely and efficient
implementation of the project would be done in accordance with the
given schedule, that about 15 extension agent trainees would be



-44-
selected within six months of effectiveness of the credit and
training programs would be reviewed by IDA before implementation
[para. 3.11(a) and (b)];
(c) ensure that the local branch of CACB will be strengthened adequately
to handle the additional business in the project area (para. 3.13).
(d)  ensure that, in addition to providing them free accommodations, the
project staff would be paid adequate incentives to attract and
retain them in the project area (para. 3.17);
(e) ensure that separate project accounts would be kept including the
Special Account and Credit (para. 3.27);
(f) ensure that audited accounts of the project in details as agreed
with IDA would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.28);
(g) ensure that auditing firms would be appointed of qualifications and
experience as acceptable to IDA (para. 3.28);
(h) ensure that all necessary precautions will be taken in the use of
pesticides to avoid any possible health hazard (para. 3.29);
(i) ensure that cost of construction of the access road to the well for
water supply schemes would be contributed by the beneficiaries
(para. 4.09);
(j) ensure that the research programs would be reviewed annually and
forwarded to IDA for comments (para. 4.12);
(k) establish M&E unit within six months of effectiveness of the IDA
Credit (para. 4.15);
(1) conduct a mid-term project evaluation in which IDA and the
co-financiers would be invited to participate (para. 4.15);
(m) ensure that biannual progress reports would be submitted within
three months after each report period (para. 4.17);
(n) prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) on the lines suggested by
IDA and submit the same to IDA no later than six months after the
project closing date, or by such later date as the Government and
IDA may agree (para. 4.17);
(o)  maintain a regional office of MAF in the Wadi, which would carry the
responsibility of the maintenance of feeder roads constructed under
the project, carry out the O&M of major irrigation works and provide
technical guidance to the Sarrafs (locally elected water managers)
in the O&M of the distribution system (para. 4.18);



-45-
(p) ensure that a water supply scheme would be implemented only after an
agreement has been reached with the beneficiaries that they will be
responsible for its O&M (para. 4.18);
(q) submit to IDA the proof of having acquired ill needed lands at the
time of submission of the tender documents for respective works for
IDA's approval (para. 4.20); and
(r) ensure that cost recovery of project investment would be made
through the traditional zakat tax on agricultural production plus an
initial surcharge of 2f levied on the direct beneficiaries of the
project upon completion of the project, to be raised progressively
by reviewing the situation at 5-year intervals until full
investment cost of irrigation works and O&M costs have been
recovered (para. 5.19), on the same lines as done for the Tihama
projects.
7.02      The conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit would
be:  (a) co-financing agreements for an amount of US$21.85 million
(para. 3.19), and (b) appointment of Expatriate Project Advisor, Civil
Engineer, two national Civil Engineers and one Associate Extension Expert for
project implementation, and (c) establishment of a Coordinating Committee
(para. 4.02).
7.03      Subject to the conditions set out above being met, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$10 million on standard terms. The Borrower
would be the Government of Yemen Arab Republic.



-46
ANNEX 1
Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detail of Irrigation Areas
Net Equipped Area                  Cropped Area
Sector                        Present    Future                Present    Future
(ha)------                    (Tha)
Perennial Gravity Irrigation
Wadi Al-Kharid               2,800      2,800                   700       1,150
Wadi Al-Ghayl                  300         300                   80         200
Project Efficiency                                              25%         40Z
Well Irrigation
Upper Madhab                 1,000       1,050                  875       1,375
Other Areas (Maslub,
Al-Hazm, Al-Khalq)           200        210                   175         275
Project Efficiency                                              35%        55%



-47-
ANNEr 1
Table 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Village Water Supply Schemes
Location2l                  Population Served
Ad-Darb                               800
Al-Ghayl                            2,300
Al-Mausaf                           1,400
Al-Matun                            3,000
Maslub                              1,600
Husn-al-Shanan                        800
Husn-bin-Saad                       1,600
Nalaha                                800
Sarahat                               600
Al-Khalq                            1,600
Al-Hazm                             6,900
Az-Zahir                              800
Husn bin Kurshan                      930
Nualna                              1,000
Mataaif                             1,000
As-Sanum                              570
Salamat                             1,500
Na Ayinarah                           800
Alhumaidat-Alqabbe                  1,500
Ar-Rawd                               500
- - Total                         30,000
/1 Locations of only major schemes are shown on the Map, IBRD 18379R.



-48-
AMN  1
Table 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Vehicles, Heavy Equipment and Machinery
Number
Project                   Consultants'
Item                        Management   Agriculture       Further
& Engineering  & Livestock       Studies    CACB    Total
Long Wheel Base Land Cruiser             2            3              1          1      7
Type 4WD
Short Wheel Base Land Cruiser            5            3              2          2     12
Type 4WD
Pickup Trucks 4WD                        1            4              1          -      6
Motorcycles                              -           21              -          -     21
Tractors 45-55 hp                        6            4              -          -     10
Bulldozers 110-125 hp                    2            -              -          -      2
Front-end Loader 75 hp                   1            -              -          -       1
Graders 75 hp                            2            -              -          -      2
Tipper Trucks, 5 ton                     2            -              -          -       2
Water Tanker                             1            -              -          -       1
Backhoe                                  1            -              -          -      I
Compacting Rollers                       2            -              -          -      2
Combine Harvesters                       -            4              -          -      4
Thresher                                 -            2              -          -      2
Ditcher                                  1            1              -          -      2
Mobile Workshop                          1            -              -          -      1



- 49 -
AbEX  1
Table 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DUELOPMEbT PROJECT
Project Staff
Number            Man-Years
Expatriate National Expatriate National
Administrative Staff
Project Manager                   -           1         -           7.0
Project Advisor                   1           -         5.0
Monitoring & Evaluation
Specialist                                  1                     3.0
Administrative Officer                        1                     6.0
Accountant                                    1                     7.0
Clerk                                         3                    18.0
Secretaries                                   2                    12.0
Drivers                                      12                    48.0
Heavy Equipment Operators                    10                    36.0
Mechanics                                     3                    15.0
Messenger                                     1                     6.0
Engineering Services Staff
Civil Engineer                    2           2          8.5       10.0
Irrigation Design Engineer        1           1         3.0         5.0
Mechanical Engineer                1          1          2.5        5.5
Surveyor                          1           3         2.0         6.0
Technicians                                   6                    22.0
Draftsmen                                     3                    10.0
Extension Staff
Extension Agronomist               1                     5.0
Horticulturist                    1           1         5.0        14.0
Veterinarian                      1                     4.0
Associate Experts                             2                    10.0
Plant Protectionist                           3                    14.0
Agriculturist                                 3                    14.0
M & E Officer                                 2                     3.0
M & E Assistants                              2                     6.0
Extension Agents                             10                    38.0
Veterinary Assistants                         3                    60.0
Vaccinators                                   6                    50.0
Tractor Driver                                2                     9.0
Short-term Consultants        As Needed       -         4.5          -
Subtotal                     9          85        39.5      434.
Engineering Consultants
for Further Studies               6           6        10.5        11!0
15         91        50.0       445.5



-50-
Table 5(a)
WUtDI AL-3Sr AGLTU    EL EWLOPMENT uiEIrt
Ssrv Accounts by Year
.(VNls5 *090)
mats Costs                                SE     n Exchm nge
INVESTMNT COSTS
T. IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
Al-Kharid Perennial IrrigatiOn           -        2so.6    2.509.6   6.838.0   4.450.6        -      14.04.Z  64.7    9. 04.S
Al-Gayl Perennial Irrtgation            -        605.0   1.47.9    1,108.1        415.3       -       3.610.1  67.2    2.427.4
Spate Irrigation                                 3 312 S    s.uh  o    Ees. D   -       ------        1       4571S nj 12J7Z
Total                                     1.         LU          l 2LL 51.1Af11.   13.2   12IELZ
z.  RURAL RFRASRTUTRAL DEVEOPOT
Construction of Feeder Roads          637.0    7.492.0   5.235.0         -          -         -      13.364.e  70.3    9.354.I
Village water Supply Sdebsts
Geoelectric                         500.0        -          -          -          -         -         500.0  90.0        450.0
Drilling of wells                     -        528.0      792.0      792.3      528.0       -       2.640.0  0S.0    2.2*4.0
Equipment                             -      1.ODS.6    1.673.4    1.508.4   1.005.6        -       s5193.0  s8.u    4,S60.2
Civil Works                            -      101120   1l.SB.0   1.51s7       10230         =       S-0Lf-8  fiB   3LDS.J
Total                          1.137. 0   1lD037.6  9LIL&    31!   L2SL6                 =      26757Z    iL!    i9-6
IIZ. BUILDINGS AND SUPPORr FACILITIES
Project Neadquarters                    -      7.427.S    2.187.5        -          -         -       9.615.0  99.o    *.653.5
Extension Centers                       -      1.952.5   1.952,5         -          -         -       3.90S.8  81.0      3.162.5
Office Equipment                      310.0       210.0       -          -          -         -         620.0  80.2        498.0
achinery for 06                        -- - -  -..u                                                    3617za  =  =  .1   25 H
Total                            3104   1z      g 41140 eI--                                    17 758 =lLZ        15.57Ji-
IV. MANAGEMET. TECHNICAL ASSISTANICE                                             -
AND TRAINING
Consultant Staff                     1.700.0   3.400.0    3.400.0    2.4s0.0    2.100.0   1.000.0   14.050.0  95.0    13.347.5
Counterpart Staff                     415.0      S57.0      91z.0      912.0      780.0    700.0    4,s76.0    -
Local Support Staff                   135.0      544.0      718.0   1.044.0   1,164.0  1,164.0    4.769.0    -
Training                                -        450.0      430.0      725.0      725.0       -       23220.6  9s.0    2.213,5
fbitaring and Evaluation              -.:.        J0         1902L 3e6S. eL       3oLl        -.    .LZL    21            *472s
Total                           251-    L2se!  o 6lL0e0S   1420    L134-0  L.!    2e77 010    e                    16-033L s
V. AGRXCtLTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Extenston Service                       -      2.029.5      994.6    1,074.0   1.,S4.0   1.129.0    6.3O8.S  27.8    1.77S.3
Animal Health Services                  -        764.0      496.0      496.0      496.0    496.0    2,688.0  36.4          978.6
Nursery                                 -      1.030.9      676.0      676.0      676.0    676.0    3,734.9  27.0    1,010.0
Agriculture Research Station            -       1.,26.3    1.678.7    1.091.0    1.098.0    574.0    5.775.1  33.6       1.942.9
Deamnstration Farms                   240.0      46S.       22S                               - 2e  _ 930..      1D2       6.ff0
Total                            25 4    S.Z    LU069.7   L344e.   3,524.0  _2Z37  D             LMLI  124          t.I1Z.1
VI. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Well Irrigation Development              -       556.0    1.667.9    2.223.9   2.223.9   1.667.9      8.339.7  68.7    5,726.8
Agricultural Machinery                  -        300.0      606.0      600.0      600.0    600.0      2.700.6  90.0    2,430.0
Poultry Development                                -        696.0    1.044.0        -         -       1.740.0  20.0        348.0
Short-tern for Agricultural nDputs               I_L!    ..JLI  e.J               ..JL!  o.J        .....Leo               30 e.
Total                                   9sI6e   3L06L.9  31967.9            .2923.9  2-367.9   1-3279.7  BISL,L
VIZ. Fm te STISES FOR FUnTS P8DJECT
Caualtuat Services                      -          -      2, on.a   2,063.5    1,815.0        -       S3967.5   95.0    5,69.1
Cemerpart Staff                         -          -        338.5      459.2      236.0       -       1.080.8    -
Support Staff                           -          -        334.4      231.8      220.8       -         844.8    -           -
Eqauaiint and Vehicles                  -        242.0   1.279.2    1.079.2        79.2       -       :.679.6  90.0      2.411.6
Aerial Photography                      -        7so.0  7.S..                                         I _   _ l   2seo e   I0..e
Total                   _                   B2Le   4L791        3,U2  B    213114        =      12922.2  2L&        LZI3.7
VIIr. PPF ADVANCE
Vehicles. Inl. 1 Year Operation       285.0        -          -          -          -         -         285.0  90.0        256.5
Consultants' Services                 760.0        -          -          -          -         -         760.0  90.0        684.0
ministry-s Staff                      555.6        -          -          -          -         -         S53.6  39.0        216.9
Housing                               7a..Jf-                            -          -         =         7J7I5S IL          6se0.
Total                          2.3U-1                   -          -          -                 L                  1.25.1.
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS            6325.1   37625.7    354129.7  29J059.s   21,1e2j4   LI16I.   1372 a9.2 7 L*W   89193.2
RIECUIRENT Cqs
IX. PROJECT OPERATING COSTS                  468.0   1.328.0    1.040.0   1.040,0    1.040.0   1,040.0    s.956.0  3S.9    2.s56.4
X. 081 COMLETEo CivIL  DKS                  ___-                               -           -_    4s e         450.u  e L       ..Ee
TaTAL RWIRRENT COSTS                46L0    1.21!   L00S    L0LE 1.e,0400   1 490-!   6Lglt! 46                 _      3-6L6 4
TOTAL BASELIHE COSTS                  679l 1389S3.7  36I9s7   30e.49S9   22 342.4  i 5N6.9  144.2957 J            !.!     3.579.6
Physical Contingencies                446.7   3.210.9    4.001.9   3,562.6   2.413.6    558.6   14.194.4  71.8   16,186.4
Price Contingencies                   308.h    S.1210-I   9.a49L 9   1292110  12420 2j   6.4SL7  46i.s22    5271   26-580-4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          7S471a             472S75.2   SLAL.5  4587316       3fi.7932 7 7it2  22050129  LI.130 3          46L 5
Foreign Exchange                   5L6AL3   3s26.7   3L3I4.7  272725 4   2219,   LISL7    ?30*346s.3   LA    o   o



- 51 -
ANNtEX I
Table 5(b)
YEMEN ARAB REPUIBLIC
WADI AL-.IAWF AGRCILTURAL DEVELOP14ENT PROJECT
Sumarv Accounts by Year
(YRIs O0O3
Total Including Contincencies
1   2        3           ~    ~ ~       ~ ~ ~~4 5_    T otal
INVESTMENT COSTS
I. IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
Al-Kharid Perennial Irrigation             -         346.5    3,739.6   11,164.2   7,917.3       -     23,167.6
Al-Ghayl Perennial Irrigation              -         828.2    2,205.7    1,809.9    740.3        -      5.584.t
Spate Irrigation                           _        413.5       8 18.      983.8      -                 2 215.9
Total                                        1.S882    6.763.9   13.9S7.9  8L657.6                309f7.6
II.  RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
Construction of h-eeder Roads            764.0    9.792.0    7,478.8         -         -         -     18,034.8
Village Water Supply Schemes
Geoelectric Survey                     598.6        -           -          -         -         -        598.6
Drilling of Wells                        -        687.7    1,126.0    1,229.0    888.9         -      3,931.6
Equipment                                -      1.308.9    2,376.7    2,338.0   1,690.4        -      7,714.0
Civil Works                              -       1.325.7    2J7S.7    2,3803   1.728.9               7.610.6
Total                             136Z.6  13.114.3   13157.2    5.947.3   4.3082           _     37.889.
III. BUILDINGS AND SUPPORT FACILITIES
Project Headquarters                       -      9,242.5    2,969.8         -         -         -     1z.212.3
Extension Centers                          -      2,434.7    2.658.6         -         -         -      5.093.3
Offtce Equipment                         355.3       386.6        -          -         -         -        741.9
Machinery for MM                           -       .027           -          -         -4.092.7
Total                               355.3  16.156-S    S.628.4          -         -         -     22.140.2
IV_. MANAGEMENT, TECHNICAL ASSISTAHCE
AND TRAINING
Consultant Staff                        1,768.9    3,841.7    4,189.4    3,292.1   3,056.3   1,555.8   17,704.2
Counterpart Staff                        435.8       989.8    1.158.7    1,274.6   1,199.1   1.183.7    6,241.7
Local Support Staff                      141.8      628.3       912.2    1,459.0   1,789.4  1,968.4    6.899.1
Training                                   -         559.3      582.8    1,071.6   1,160.7       -      3.374.4
Monitoring and Evaluation                  -         417.4      241.4      501.Z     S47.5       -      1.77.5
Total                             2.346.5    6.436.5  7Z084.5    7.5985  7L753.0  4.707.9   35.926.9
V. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Extension Service                          -      2.328.0    1,276.1    1,513.8   1,784.7   1,917.2    8,819.8
Animal Health Services                     -        821.9       652.9      716.3    784.4    855.7    3.831.2
Nursery                                    -       1.187.2      878.1      964.4   1.057.8   1.157.6    5.245.1
Agriculture Researcn Station               -       1.523.6    2,126.0    1,547.1   1,695.8    985.1    7.877.6
Demonstration Farms                      27S.4      582.0       308.5-                _-                1.165.-
Total                               Z75.4   6.442.7    5241.6   4.741.6 5L 322.7  4.915.6   269239.6
VI.  AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
We1ll Irrigation Development               -         758.S    2,487.5    3.625.8   3,944.6   3.188.9  14,005.3
Agricultural Machinery                     -        339.4       740.5      807.9    875.8    937.7    3,701.3
Poultry Development                        -          -        878.7   1,447.2         -         -      2,325.9
Short-term for Agricultural Inputs         -         113.7      124.2      1354      147.7   -. .9_1   _  680.5
Total                                 -      1211L6    4230.9    6 016.7  4.968.1  4Z285.7  20L7130
VII. FURTHER STUDIES FOR FUTURE PROJECT
Consultant Services                        -          -       2,961.6   3,187.1   3.037.8        -      9.186.5
Counterpart Staff                          -          -         490.2      738.1     505.6       -      1,733.9
Support Staff                              -          -         488.6      452.6    404.5        -      1,345.7
Equipment and Vehicles                     -        314.8    1,815.6    1,671.2      132.9       -      3,934.5
Aerial Photography                         -        980.z    1.071.5                                    Z.7
Total                                 -      1L295L0    6.827.5    6.049.0   4.080.         _     18252. 3
VIII. PPF ADVANCE
Vehicles. Incl. 1 Year Operation         306.1        -           -          -         -         -        306.1
Consultants Services                     870.3        -           -          -         -         -        870.3
Ministry's Staff                         581.2         -          -          -         -         -        581.2
Housing                                  943-=                    =          -         =                  9 7
Total                             2701.3270.3
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS              7Z041.1   46.244.8   48.934.0   44.t3l.0  35.090.4  13.909.2  19S.53I.5
RECuRRENT COSTS
IX. PROJECT OPERATING COSTS                     506.7    1,630.4    1,427.5    1,562.6   1,703.3   1.843.1    8,673.6
X. OUM COMPLETED CIVIL WORKS                     -          -           -          -          -      80AQ8      8R.A 8
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                  506DZ    1A630,4    1427.5    JL562.6   1L733   Z.651,!    9482l4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      7 547.B  47.7S.z  50 361.S  45.873.6  362793.     7 L6Zs61.1  ZQ05J12.9



-52-a
Tale 5(c)
uSE ~~~~wnn am  inuosinWN 5
Foeign                     FOI                        Forein                        rn
ExMue   LOCal   Total  Euchle  Local    Total  tuhtr"    Local   Total              EHrnoe    Local       Total
DNEn cTOST
X.  fTn.tirni  Ol _nlt
AV-tEhrid fer1m'nat Irrigation  1."2.3    919.2  2.601.5   220.S  132.       520.3    713.5    454.9  1.1".5    2.732.2   1.55L.0   4.290,3
Al-1h3yal Perwnmal Irrigation    449.5    219.0    60.5    89.9   42.8    133.7    143.6         06.2    221.8      6U3.0      251.1   1,034.1
Sbte Irrigatten                 194072  .21.1   5 I.!  _23.   --L.           .1L2    .332        n     .34 .-A1_ 1             1143.!   .112.
Total                  2.325.8  1.214.1  3.39.9   465.2  24Z.3    708.0    917.4            .9   1,406.5    3.703.2   2.026.O   5.734.7
22. Rural  fr.tructu. Omlee_otf
construction or Fedar Rams   1.72.4    742.4  2,474.5   259.9  111.4    371.2    327.1    1".7    492.3    2.319.2   l.028.5   3239.0
Vtllage Water Supply Schms   L LS  522974-6  2J30.2   2315 1    .2            22720   604-0    22311   .124.       2 .5    .I-4 ELJ     7L!3
Total                  2.638.0   1.317.0  4.9f550   545.7  197.6    742.2    921.1    387.3  1.311.4    5.114.8   1.901.9   7,016.6
Project Hedquarters           1.602.5    17J.1  1,730.6   160.2   17.0    178.?    267.4         25.5    202.9    2.030.Z      231.4   2.261.5
Exteuion Centers                sSa.6    137.5    723.1    5s.6   12.0       72.3    11S.6       22.2    147.7      759.3    1U.4       943.2
Office Equipimt                  92.2     22.6    114.8       9.2   * 2.3     11.5      8.6       2.3     11.1       110.0      27.4      137.4
Chletnary far OM              .431.0    .12.   ...JZO e    _ _               -         77-5      It.aS    ..Z.2                 77-4      7se.9
Total         _ULl    581.2  2J203.    314    22.                     ROl    561.        A 3       4611.   1.50.5      511.6  fi100-L
1V.    _ aent. Tecniical
*          hgsiqtanre and Trrtinine
Consultant Staff              2.471.6    120.1  2,601.9        -      -         -     636.7      40.0    676.7    3.105.4      170.1   2.,2786
Counterpart Staff                  -     847.4    547.4        -      -                  -      303.5    20.5           -    1.155.9   1.155.9
Leoal Smort Starr                  -     382.1     033.1      -       -        -         -      394.5    294.5         -    1.Z77.6   1.277.6
Training                        409.9     21.6    421.5    41.0    2.2        42.1    141.5       3.8    150.2       592.4      32.5      024.9
monitorinf  A Evaluation        s.53l   .se.s -1.253.!        _21.                                        7S .24 .2    . S_4J5  20DLI   .1fLi2
total LtLl  LDJZ..Z   LU.012                                            L      135.1    322    -fin,2    .RiS    2.83.0            6.2
V. Awr cultural Oevel mwnt
Extension Service               32sza     852.3   1181.6      3.3    5S.6     13.9     69.0    36.1    427.3         406.9   1.226.4   1.633.3
ahiul Health Services           181.2    316.6    497.0    12.0    3.0        20.0     34.0    137.6    191.7        247.3     462.2      709.S
Nusery                          187.0    S04.6    691.7       9.6    6.4      16.0     50.1    213.6   26.7         246.7     724.6      971.3
Aoricultural Research Statien   359.8    709.7  1.59.5        9.2    6.2      25.4     96.0   *277.2    274.0        465.0     993.0   1.453.3
aesnstration Fetus            .12.2   __Mh         172.2   .1L2    -At        17.2 7    16       10.0.   ... 4       119 1 . 2L           215.9
Total                   IMl       ..916 . 2_4 . 7    612! 5 a so.2   .1l A.!     115.    007.3 12A   L2ILI    LLS]   243.01   01.6
VI. Agricult,ur l Credit
Wall Irrigatioa Ueveloo.uat    1.06t.5    483.9  1.544.4   212.1   96.8    306.9    477.9    262.4    74e.3    1.750.5         043.1   2.593.6
Agricultural Mchinery           450.0      s0.0    500.0       -      -         -     163.5      21.9    155.4       612.5      71.9    605.4
Multry iovlopra.t                64.4    237.3    322.2        -      -         -      19.1      ".4    100.5         83.6     347.2      430.7
Shlt-toms for Ag. fartSa       __MA      -2      -.22.      ..z.    ..z.      4        2 -. z   .134   __..j       .3.6    ...2        . 22 
Tel                    1*131.2    521.5  2431.2        1     5.3      23.S1    S.!       2304  -LULl    22334.4   1IlLS    2431.Z
VIz. f     r Studis for
£uaM..rnea                  1.690.9    544.8  2.235.7   252.6   81.7    333.4   55.1    224.0    809.0    2.529.6           350.5   3.30,1
VIXI.  .F Mzvance                   ..hILA      111.   ...12.   --a2    .1.1   ..LS   ..JlI    -s.J              2L10 4     177.0   __.=2    __83Z
TOTAL DWvESrTOT  STS         16.46.7  3.,83.4  250535.2  1.,27.7  H2.1  2,020.6  4.691.4  3.462.3  a.1U3.6   23.16.0  13.,43.6  26.209.3
*ICERENT COSTS
*x. Protect oDeratin. tCnt          649.3    4S3.6  1,103.0    55.3   44.3        99.6    210.3    192.8    402.6        915.5      690.7   1.606.2
X. M         te Cam   le l vid 1 Wrks  *    ...St   ---ALI ...     ..s 5a       B..3              __M2     ..1   ...4tJ   .3LO   .
TyrAL RECURcsr COSTS            682.6   -JLI  ±L1i  ..UJ6S  492S   ..1E7.9    _223.    22_J             AS 461 -7 .22.1        732    .1,753.0
UrTAL PUECT CSTS             17.329.3  9.392.0 26.721.5  1.006.3  741.4  2.23.5  4,922.3  3,693.1   3.615.3   24.130.3  13.027.2  37.965.3



- 53 -
AN,NEX I
lable 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WAIDI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEIT PkOJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of IDA Credit
IDA Fiscal Year           Quarterly Disbursement        Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending                                                    Percentage
----- --US$ Million   (X)
1985
June 30, 1985                     -                       0.20          2.0
1986
September 30, 1985                0.05                    0.25          2.5
Decenber 31, 1985                 0.05                    0.30          3.0
March 31, 1986                    0.15                    0.45          4.5
June 30, 1986                     0.15                    0.60          6.0
1987
September 30, 1986                0.20                    0.80          8.0
Decenber 31, 1986                 0.30                    1.10         11.0
March 31, 1987                    0.60                    1.70         17.0
June 30, 1987                     0.75                    2.45         24.5
1988
September 30, 1987                0.75                    3.20        32.0
December 31, 1987                 0.75                    3.95         39.5
March 31, 1988                    0.75                    4.70        47.0
June 30, 1988                     0.75                    5.45        54.5
1989
September 30, 1988                0.70                    6.15        61.5
December 31, 1988                 0.50                    6.65         66.5
March 31, 1989                    0.50                    7.15         71.5
June 30, 1989                     0.50                    7.65         76.5
1990
September 30, 1989                0.40                   8.05         80.5
Decenber 31, 1989                 0.30                    8.35         83.5
March 31, 1990                    0.25                    8.60         86.0
June 30, 1990                     0.25                    8.85        88.5
1991
September 30, 1990                0.20                    9.05        90.5
December 31, 1990                 0.20                    9.25        92.5
March 31, 1991                    0.20                    9.45         94.5
June 30, 1991                     0.20                    9.65        96.5
1992
September 30, 1991                0.15                   9.80         98.0
December 31, 1991                 0.10                    9.90        99.0
March 31, 1992                    0.05                    9.95         99.5
June 30, 1992                     0.05                   10.00        100.0



ANNEX I
Table 7
YEMXN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Present/Future Cropping Pattern on
Holding Represented by Farm Models
Area
Model/Crops                 Present           Future
--    (ha)
Model 1       Perennial
Wheat                 0.17            0.26
Sorghum              0.09             0.14
Sesame               0.04             0.06
Potatoes               -              0.08
Alfalfa               0.02            0.06
Total             0.32             0.60
Model 2       Perennial
Wheat                 0.50            0.73
Sorghum              0.27             0.27
Sesame               0.10             0.15
Potatoes               -              0.20
Alfalfa               0.07            0.15
Citrus                 -              O.iO
Grapes                                0.10
Total               T.972
M-odel 3      Perennial
Wheat                 0.65            0.96
Sorghum              0.35             0.51
Sesame               0.13             0.22
Potatoes               -              0.29
Alfalfa               0.09            0.22
Citrus                -               0.15
Grapes                 _              0.15
Total               1.22            2.50
Model 4       Well
Wheat                 1.70            2.00
Sorghum               1.00            1.20
Sesame               0.30             0.40
Potatoes              -               0.40
Alfalfa               1.00            1.20
Grapes                 -              0.20
Citrus                                0.20
Total              4.00             5.60



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cumulative Number of Farmers Participating in Project
Models
Project Year                 1           2          3           4          Total
1                        -          -           -            -            -
2                       51         16           4           15           86
3                      204         64          16           59          343
4                      407        128          32          118          £25
5                      712        223          56          207        1,198
6                      915        286          72          266        1,539
7                    1,017        318          80          296        1,711



- 56 -
ANEX 1
Table 9
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Number of Farm Units and Area to be Developed
Number of Farm Units
Number of Farms      Area of Present Rolding        Area to be Covered
Model     Total      X           Per Farm    Total          Per Farm   Total    2
---------- (ha) 
1       1,017      59           0.32         325            0.60        610    20
2         318      19           0.94         299            1.70        540    18
3          80       5            1.22         96            2.50        200     7
4         296      17            4.00      1,180            5.60      1,650    55
1,711    100                       1,850                     3,000   100



YEMEN ARA! REPURLSC
Wadi Al-Jawf Rural Developmnt Prolect
Model 1: Gross Value of Productlon and Oneratino Costs
Without                                    Proiect Years
Project        1           2          3           4           5           6           7           12 !_
…----f------------------------ (YRIs) ------…---
Gross Value of Product
Wheat Local                      504         564         729         930       1,089       1,247      1.426       1,426        1,426
Sorghum                          201         246         305         403         464         538        593         593          593
Sesame                            76         102         145         204         255        323         357         357          357
Potatoes                           -           -       1,500       2,025      2,625       3,400       4,000       4,000        4,000
Alfalfa                          420       1.080       1,590       1,980       1,860      1,980       2,340       2,340        2,340
Subtotal                    1,201       1,992      4,269       6,542       6,293       7,488       8,716       8,716        8,716
Wheat Straw                      204         228         284         341         369         398        420         420          420
Sorghun Straw                    189         231         282         332         359        384         396         396          396
Subtotal                      393         459         .K66       673         728         782         816         816          816
Total Value              1,594      2,451       4,835       6,215       7,021       8,270       9,532      9,532        9,532
Oaerbtina Costs
Seed Wheat Local                  29          32          40          50          57         64          73          73           73
Fertilizer                         -          12          50          80         109        139         159         159          159
Pesticides                         -           2          14          23          32         40          48          48           48
mechani zation
Tractor                       160         174         221        266         282         331         353         353          313
Threshing                       -           5          16          32         48          61          70          70           70
Perennial Water                    -          25          56          8B         118         148        161         161          161
Packing (Main Crop)               94         207         360         456        468         527         618         618          618
Packing (Straw)                   32          38          47          56         60          65          68          68           68
Seed Sorohum                       2           2           3           3           4           5          5           5            5
Seed Sesame                        1           2           3           3           4          5           5           5            6
Seed Potatoes                      -           -         180         243         315        408         480         480          480
Seed Alfalfa                       9          27           9           9           4         54           -           -            -
Subtotal                      327         526         999      1,309       1,501       1,847       2,040       2,040        2,040
Hired Labor                      175         231         315         375         397        456         497         497          497
Zakat                            160         245         483         621         702        827         953         953          953
Tax                                -          49.         97         124         140        165    .   191          191          191
Subtotal                      662       1,051       1,894      2,429       2,740       3,295       3,681       3,681        3,681
Family Labor                     256         343         464         656        594         688         741         741          741
Total Costs                918       1,394      2,358       2,985       3,334       3,983       4,422      4,422        4,422                   ' 
__.
Net Farm Income ai                    932      1,400       2,941       3,786       4,281       4,975      5,851       5,851        5,851                  O
/I. Excluding Family Labor Costs.
/2 Year of Full Development



YEMEN ARAB REPUI:
Wadi Al-Jawf Rural Develonmmnt ProJect
Model 2: Gross Value of Production and Oneratina Costs
Without                                     Prolect Years
Project        1           2           3           4           5           6           7           12/2
…---------------------------------------- (YRls) -…_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_
Gross Value of Product
Wheat Local                     1,485       1,782      2t211        1,845       2,109       2,570       2,967       2,967         2,967
Wheat High Yield                    -           -            -        462         726        1,109       1,201       1,201        1,201
Sorghum                           604         604         632         739         890       1,053       1,165       1,165         1,166
Sesaim                            255         255         357         527         689         935       1,045       1,045         1,045
Potatoes                            -           -       1.500       3.376       5,250       6,375       7,100       7,500        7,500
Alfalfa                         1,470       2,460       3,420       4,380       4,350       4,590       5,310       5,310         5,310
Citrus                              -           -           -            -           -         320        960       2,240         7,040
Grapes                              -           -           -            -        480       1,920       3,200       4,480         7,660
Subtotal                    3,814        5,101       8,120      11,328      14,494      18,872      23,348      25,908       33,908
BIRroducts
Wheat Straw                       600         720         864         815         936        1,123       1,188       1,188        1.188
Sorgh&um Straw                    567         567         585         624         689          747         771         771          771
Intercrop Alfalfa                   -           -         720         720         900           -            -           -            -
Subtotal                    1,167        1,287       2,169       2,159       2,525       1,870       1,959       1,959        1.959
Total Value              4,981       6,388      10,289      13,487       17,019     20,742       25,307      27,868       35,867
Operatina Costs
Seed Wheat Local                   8s         101         122          98         110          131         151         151          151                  I
Fertilizer                          -          29         106         212         330         434         496         513           524                  n
Pesticides                          -           6          24          51          78          110         132         137          156                 co
Mechanization
Tractor                        475         530         598         526         623         738         796         796          796
Threshing                        -'         18          42          83         122         180         205         204          204
Perennial Water                     -          49         137         228         326         411         453         463           467
Petrol/Oil                          -           -         410           -            -           -        240            -            -
Packing (Main Crop)               314         488         843       1,087       1,217       1,212       1,429       1,477         1,517
Packing (Straw)                    97         107         120         120         135          166         163         163          163
Seed Wheat HYV                      -           -           -          27          42           64          69          69           69
Seed Sorghumn                       6           6           6            7           8          10          11          13           13
Seed Sesame                         5           5           6           8           10          13          14          14           14
Seed Potatoes                       -           -         180         405         630          765         900         900          900
Seed Alfalfa                        -           -          32          27          22          121          14          14           14
Mach. Sprayer                      31          58          90            -           -           -           -         240            -
Subtotal                    1,013        1,307       2,716       2,879       3,653       4,345       5,073       5,154        4,988
Hired Labor                       544         604         794         904       1,055       1.175       1.315        1.378        1.512
Zakat                             498         633       1,029       1,349       1,702       2,074       2,531       2.787         3,586
Tax                                 -         128         206         270         340         415          506         557          717
Subtotal                    2,055        2,762       4,745       5,402       6,750       8,009       9,425       9,876       10,803
Family Labor                      780         893       1,171       1,343       1,579       1,775       1,997       2,064        2,268
Total Costs              2,835       3,655       5,916       6,745        8.329       9,784      11,422      11,940       13,071
Net Farm Income Li                  2,926       3,626       5,544       8,085       10,269      12,733      15,882      17,992       25.064
1 Excluding Family Labor Costs.
2 Year of Full Development,



YEHEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Wadi Al Jawf Rural Davelonmmnt Prolact
Model 3: Gross Value of Production and Onoratina Costs
Without                                     PrPjaet YCars
ProJect        1           2           3           4           5           6            7           12 /2
flra3S Valuet of Product
Wheat Local                     1,931       2,376       2,838       2,475       2,772       3,399       3.894        3,894        3,894
Wheat High Yield                    -           -           -         660       1,089       1,564        1,716       1,716        1,716
Sorghum                           784         896       1,050       1,377       1,562       1,926    - 2,122        2,122         2,122
Sesome                            331         382         552         697         816        1,198       1,326       1,326        1,326
Potatoes                            -           -       18500       3.375       4.500       8.500      10,000      10,000        10,000
Altalfa                         1,680       3,990       6.000       6,780       6,060       6,660       7,610        7,650        7,650
Citrus                              -           -           -            -           -         320       1.200       2,800        8.800
Grapes                              -           -           -           -         400       1,920       4.000       5,600         9.600
Subtotal                    4,726       7,644       11,940      16,364      17,199      25,507      31,938      35,138       45,138
Erdd
Wheat Straw                       780         960       1,110       1,116       1,290        1,536       1,620       1,620        1,620
Sorghmn Straw                     735         840         972       1,172       1,251       1,386       1,428        1,428        1,428
Intercrop Alfalfa                   -           -                     900         750                  -           -                  -
Subtotal                    1,515        1,800       2.082       3,188       3,291       2,922       3,048       3,048        3,048
Total Value              6,241        9444      14,022      18,652      20,490       28,429      34,986      38,186       48,186
ODertos
Seed Wheat Local                  115         134         157         133         147          175         199         199          199                 I
Fertilizer                          -          50         109         266         354         568         672         693           707                Ul
Pesticides                          -           8          27          59          84          144         174         181          204                %O
Mechanization
Tractor                        616         719         818         790         889       1,102       1,181       1.181         1,181
Threshing                        -          26          52         1OS         151         243         275         275           275
Perennial Water                     -          95         161         304         362         546         620          632          638
Patrol/Oil                          -           -           -           -            -           -         300           -            -
Packing (Main Crop)               370         773       1,190       1,567       1,502       1,716       2,021       2,081         2,111
Packing (Straw)                   126         ISO         173         191         212         244          254         254          2S4
Seed Wheat HYV                      -           -           -          38          63           91          99          99           99
Seed Sorghum                        7           9          11          13          15           19          21          23           23
Seed Sesame                         7           8          11           13          13          17          20          20           20
Seed Potatoes                       -           -         180         405         540       1.020        1,200       1,200        1,200
Seed Alfalfa                       36          99          45          45          45          176          23          23           23
Mach. Sprayer                       -           -           -            -           -           -           -         300            -
Subtotal                    1,277       2,071        2,934       3,929       4,377       6.061       7,059       7,161        6,934
Hired Labor                       687         881       1,103       1,360       1,431       1,680        1,895       1,974        2,138
Zakat                             624         944       1,402       1,855       2,249       2,843       3,499       3,818         4,819
Tax                                 -         189         280         371         410         569          700         763          964
Subtotal                    2,588       4,085        5,719       7,515       8,467      11,153      13,153      13,716       14,855
Family Labor                    1,009       1,309       1,629       2,024       2,145       2,545       2.853       2,961         3,207
Total Costs              3,597       5,394       7.348       9.539       10.612      13,698      16,006      16,677       18.062
Net Farm Income LI                  3,653       5,3S9       8,303       11,037      12,023      17,276      21,833      24,470       33,331
Excluding FamilY Labor Costs.
_ Year of Full Development.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Wadi Al-8awf Rural Dev.loom,nt Pro1eet
Model 4: rnhss Value of Production and Coeratina Costs
Without    _roiett Years
Project        1          2           3           4          5           6           7           1Z/3
…(Y----------___________________   --     _- MURls)…
Cross Valua of Product
Wheat Local                    7,864      8,316       8,S60       6,699       6,996      7,293       7,623       7,623       7,623
Wheat High Yield                   -           -           -      1.320       1,897      2,475       2,673       2,673        2,673
Sorghum                        3,640      3,640       4,480       4,788       5,264      £,768       6.328       6,328       6,328
Sesame                         1,275       1,275      1,785       1,828       2,040      2,465       2,720       2.720       2,720
Potatoes                           -           -      3,000       5,062       9,375     12,750      15,000      15,000     1,000
Alfalfa                       21,000     25,500      33,303      36,000      34,800     37.200      43,200      43,200      43,200
Citrus                             -           -           -          -           -        800       2.400       5,600      19,200
Grapes                             -           -           -          -       1,600      4,800       8,000      11,200       17,600
Subtotal                  33,769      38,731      51,425     55.697      61,972      73,561      87,944     94,344      114,344
Wheat Straw                    3,060       3,240      3,450       2,940       3,144      3.408       3,540       3,540        3,540
Sorghum Straw                  2,700      2,700       3,264       3,390       3,672      4,020       4,140       4,140       4,140
Intercrop Alfalfa                  -           -      1,200       1,800      2,250           -           -           -            -
Subtotal                   5,760       5,940       7,914       8,130      9,066       7,428       7,680       7,680       7,680
Total Value            39,529      44.671      59,339     63,827      71.038      80.979     95.624    102.024       122,024
Investment Cost                        -      30,748     20,090       3,232       1.783       2.514      3,736           -            -
Seed Wheat Local                 291        314         342         265         285        304         319         319          319              1
Fertilizer                         -        144         386         660       1.024      1,308       1.511       1,555       1,583              ON
Pesticides                         -          10         48          97         157        216         254         268          313             0
Mechanization
Tractor (hire)             3,152       3,149       3,121       2,674      2,566       3,100       2,616       2,616       2,616
Threshing (hire)                -         43-        103         194        291         398    -   440          440         440
Well Irrigation               18,362      18,566     19,930      18,714      18,694     17,780      18,429      18,626       18,700
Packing (Main Crop)            3.883      4,647       6,319       6,938       7,052      7,321       8,530       8,650       9,050
Packing (Straw)                  480        495         559         527         568        619         640         640          640
Seed Wheat HYV                     -           -          -          73         105         137        149         149          149
Seed Sorghun                      22          25         34          37          47         55          60          60           60
Seed Sesame                       17          18         25          25          27          33         36          36           36
Seed Potatoes                      -           -        360         608       1,125      1,530       1,800       1,800        1.800
Seed Alfalfa                     450        585         337         270         180.       990          90          90           90
Hech. Sprayer                      -           -        450           -           -           -          -       1,200            -
Subtotal                  26,657      27,996      32,014      31,085     32,121      33,791      34,874     36,449       35,796
Hired Labor                    3,007      3,318       4,095       4,264      4,609       4,945       5,238       5,396       5,792
Zakat                          1,976      2,233       2,966       3,191       3,552      4,048       4,781       5.101        6,101
Subtotal                  31,640      33,547      39,075      38,540     40,282      42,784      44,894     46,946       47,689
Family Labor                  4,462       4,952       6,001       6,139      6,655       7,464       7,860       8,077       8,688           0 §
Total Costs Li         36,102      69,247     65,166      47.911      48,720      52,762     56,490      55,023       56,377
.. _ .. . . . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ,- 
Net Farm Income L2                 7,889    -19,624          174     22,055      28,973      35,681     46,994      55,078       74,335
LI  Including Investment Cost.
LI  Excluding Family Labor Costs.
/3 Year of full development.



-61-
ANNEX I
Table 14
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Increases in Crop Production
in Perennial Gravity and Well-Irrigated Areas
Incre-
Present                  Future          mental
Area  Yield  Produc-  Area   Yield  Produc-  Produc-
tion                    tion      tion
(ha)  (t/ha)  (tons)  (ha)   Ct/ha)  (tons)  (tons)
I. Perennial
Irrigated Crops
Wheat Grain (local)    415        0.9    374    385         2.0     770    396
Stover                            2.0    830                3.0   1,155    325
Wheat Grain (HYV)         -       -         -    165        2.6     429    429
Stover                            -         -      -        4.0     660    660
Sorghum Grain           220       0.8    176    220         1.8     396    220
Stover                           10.5  2,310       -       15.6   3,432  1,122
Sesame                   80       0.3     24    110         0.9      99      75
Alfalfa  /1              50      40.0  2,000    120        65.0   7,800  5,800
Potatoes                  -       -         -    180       20.0   3,600  3,600
Citrus (Oranges)          -       -         -     60       22.0   1,320  1,320
Grapes                    -       -        -      60       12.0     720    720
Well Irrigated CroPs
Wheat Grain (local)    600        1.4    840    500         2.1   1,050    210
Stover                    -       3.0  1,800       -       4.0   2,000    200
Wheat Grain (HYV)         -       -         -    250        2.7     675    675
Stover (HYV)                      -        -       -       4.0   1,000  1,000
Sorghum Grain           250       1.3    325    250         2.0     500    175
Stover                    -      13.5  3,375       -      18.0   4,500  1,125
Sesame                  100       0.5     50    too        0.9       90      40
Alfalfa  A1             100      40.0  4,000    200        65.0  13,000   9000
Potatoes                  -       -        -    250       20.0   5,000  5,000
Citrus (Oranges)          -       -         -     50      22.0   1,110  1,110
Grapes                    -       -        -      50      12.0      600    600
/1 Green matter.



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Table 15
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGPICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices
Financial Price             Economic Price
…                  (-------------- (YRlsIton) ------------
Product
Sorghum              2,800                       1,415
Wheat                3,300                       1,880
Sesame               8,500                       8,500
Potatoes             2,500                       2,020
Citrus               3-400                       4,403
Grapes               8,  0                       8,000
Alfalfa                800                         800
By-products
Sorghum              600                         600
Wheat                600                         600



- 63 -
ANNEX 1
Table 16
YENEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Derivation of Farmgate Prices of Tradable Products
Farmgate
Projected /1    C&F               /3               Local /2  (Incl. Local
Product    Border Price   Sana'a  Wholesale   Fagate   Preference   Preference)
(US$/ton) --    --                     YR1s/ton)-
Wheat          149          174       1,446        1,254           627         1,881
Sorghum       108           133       1,125          933           467         1,400
Oranges       344           394       3,127        2,935         1,468         4,403
Potatoes      160           185       1,531        1,339           670        2,010
A1  1995 International Price Projections.
1'2 The assumption is that the local preference will diminish gradually as consumers
become accustomed to consuming imported products and the 50Z premium will phase out
over a 10-year period.
13 A conversion rate of YRls 6.5 = US$1, which is the estimated market rate, is used to
convert the foreign erchange price into domestic currency.



-64-
AINEX 1
Table 17
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPFENT PkOJECT
Economic Cost and Quantifiable Benefit Streams
(YRls Million)
Farm                                             bet
Tnvestment/I   Operation and       Operating  Labor  Incremental  Incremental  Incremental
Year        Cost        Maintenance Cost       Cost     Cost       Cost         Benefit       Benefits
1         6.41               -               -          -         6.41          -             -6.41
2        34.62               -               0.50      0.02      35.14          0.20        -34.94
3        26.58               -               1.80      0.11      28.49          1.21         -27.27
4        20.44                -              3.10      0.31      23.65          3.47         -20.38
5        16.56               -              4.93       0.63      22.12          7.05         -15.08
6         9.14               -               5.41      1.07      15.62         11.81          -3.81
7          -                2.01            5.12       1.51       8.63         16.65           8.01
8          -                2.01            4.69       1.91       8.61         21.25          12.64
9          -                2.01            4.98       2.25       9.24         25.27          16.03
10          -                2.01            5.53       2.53      10.07         29.07          19.00
11          -                1.99            5.89       2.74      10.62         31.92          21.31
12          -                1.81            6.5j4      2.87      10.72         33.87          23.15
13          -                 1.81            o.20      2.99      11.00         35.31          24.31
14          -                1.81            6.23       3.07      11.11         36.85          25.74
15          -                 1.61            6.31      3.13      11.05         37.88          26.82
16          -                1.61            6.10       3.14      10.85         38.29          27.44
17          -                 1.61           5.94       3.17      10.71         38.28          27.57
18          -                1.61            5.79       3.19      10.58         38.27          27.68
19          -                1.61            5.79       3.20      10.59         38.27          27.68
20-30       -                1.61            5.79       3.20      10.59         38.27          27.68
/1  Includes irrigation development, rural roads, project services, and
agricultural development.



- 65 -
ANNEX 1
Table 18
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Tests
ERR
Test Case                    (2)
Base Case                     13
Cost Up 20%                   10
Benefits Down 20%             10
Benefit Lag 2 Years           10
Benefit Lag 2 Years and
Costs  Up 20Z                 8
Benefit Down 20Z and
Cost -Up 20%                  7



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports Relating to the Project
A-1    Agrar-und Hydrotechnik GNU - Development of Wadi Al-Jawf and its
tributaries - Final Report February 1983.
Hydrology
Water Rights and Land Tenure
Irrigation
Rural Infrastructure
Groundwater Potential
A-2    FAO/CP - Wadi Al-Jawf Agricultural Project Preparation Mission Report,
June 1983.
B. Working Documents
B-i   Irrigation Design Considerations and Cost Estimate.
B-2   Agricultural Data.
B-3    Livestock Production and Development Proposed.
.B-4    Economic and Financial Analyses Data.
B-5    Rural Water Supply.
B-6    Sociological Aspects of Wadi Al-Jawf Development.



YAR.
WADI ALJAWF AGRICULTURAL DMELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizatlon of Implementing Agencles
| MINSfE OF
AGRICUIWURE &
RSHERIES
ARA     ~CACS
DIRECTOR                                        COORDINA1ING
GENERALS                                         COMMMEE
Agrk-ulture
LFvstoCk                                         Gvmrt 
Infigatlan                                       A-a
PlanningCP
Rura   .                                         ARA
CACS BRANCH
ACCOUNTS                                                                                     OFFICE
RNANCE                                                                                      AL-HAZM
PERSONNEL
MANAGEMENT
TR?NNING
MONITORING
& EVALUATION
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a%
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ENGINEERING                                  AGRICULURE        RESEARCH
SECIO                                          SECIO   1STATION |
-_ - - --------               VILUGE
CML & IRRiGATION   'MECHANICAL                  LIVESIOCK           AGRICULtLJRE
ENGINEERING          ENGINEERING              Resmeah &           Extenlo
Design              Prolect Mech. Unlt         Extorslon           Nurse
Construction        W.S. Schomes              Vetednory            On-Form
SupeMsion                                     Poultr               Credit
O&M
Wodd Bonk-26380



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI ALJAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Appralsal Repoit
ImplementatIon Schedule
IDR6CAL YEAR          198                 i  7                4                    i                                                           1
CALENDARYEAR    1965            1956                1967                1966                 19C9                1990                 1991
FRMIECT MANGMENr. ENGINEERING
& EXTENSION SERVICES                      I                                                                                                                             -
¶00%
Mobilization
omce & Stoff Hnous                       ""781                                  1               100%1
Block Centefs. Extengon                                             50%                         1001%
Centews&Stores                      .       *S *s IIIIEZ
25%                                     607.                                           1007.
Nume h Reseach                          1I5SU7I*    .Ul                                 __. 
'16%        70%                        100%
PilotDemonxtlation Fnms        SIllll NegigeeSi1
56%        ~~100%
Equipment rocurement            gigololii lliii
IRIrIGATION IMROVEMENT WORIKS                                             .
IIm.hI.uI                   ~~~~~~~~20%          70               iD
807.               100%
5S                  26%                 S0%                 75%              '100W
tube Well lirtotlon                                                                                                                              -
20%                 60%                        100%
Spate bigatkmion""|||"
INmASTRlCJRE IMPROVEMENT
50%                100%
FherRoada(45km)                         1**I*hI*UIUSU l
Watof Suply Scheme (20)
Geoo-electric uys            |scs201                                                   80%                  75%               1100%
Irnplemntation
10%                 45%                  80%                100%
RJRIHER S1KIES                               SUIIIIIESSSII 
6S                 25%                 55%                  771                  9%                  97%            '100%
DSUlRhSEM    IDA CREDIT                                                                                                                                                  -
l*sisU3l BIds&ControctAward                                                                                                 Wod Bonk-26694



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI ALJAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
CMi Woiks Implementatlon Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR       1965             1166              1987             198i             1989             199               1991
QUAR1R   i   2   3   4   1   2    3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2   3   4   1   2 | 3   4   1   2   3   4
WADI AL-KHARID IRRIGATION VORKS_
Prepraotlon d Construcion Drawings 
Reparaion of Contract Documents
Receipt of Skis
Awad o Controct
Contractoes MobilIzatIon
Constnjcflon d Main Canals                                                           _      _
Construction d Secondoiy Canaols                                                                                                     I _   _ _        _ _
WADI AL-GHAYL IRRIGATION WOWRS
Prparation d Construction Drao2ngs
Repaation of Contract Documents
ReceIpt ofOd |s
Award of Conftrct
Contactors Mobilzation
Constiuction d Dvesion Stnruture. ConveVor
Construction d Secnday Conals                                                                _   _ _ _
FEEDER ROADS
Preparation of Construction Drawings
Reparation d Controct Documents
Receipt of Bids
Award d Contract
Contractoes Mobilization
Road AlJHIom to Moslub
Road Moslub toAzohir_r
Worl BaNe-27037



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
WADI AL-JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Repor
Crop Calendar
Crop             Irigation Method      JAN        FEB      MAR        APR       MAY       JUN        JUL      AUG        SEP       OCT       NOV       DEC
Sorghum          Perennial & Well                     _**                        __ 
Sesame           Perennial & Weill                              k k
Wheat             Perennial & Well _
Potatoes         Perennial & Well            _*k
Alfalfa           Perennial & Well                                                                   __l% J
Citrus (Otongoes)           Well        -             U _                                                                                 *  -  -    m  -
Grapes                      Well                                                            m               .      -          I1111111
Legend.
ikllEllll Land Preporation
& Seeding
-  -  Haresing
_I _       Havestina                                                                                     Wodd Bank-268N4



4~~~~~~~ ''~""-' ' ~¶ tiX                                   .: '
,S,~~~~~~~~I   -k.                                           .'rX 'u/|
W~~~~~~~v 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1¼~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;v



IORD 18379R
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
* - - . WADI AL JAWF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION AND PROJECT INFRASTRUCTURE
I                        - - Main Roads, Proposed / Under Construction        I       I Development Areas
- - -~ -Feeder Roads. Project                                LAM; Mountainous Areas
/-                              Tracks                                              -       Wadis/ Canals
m     Weirs
/'                              C      Welr.Proposed
1ot0
Agricultural Areas and Present Irrigation Practices
tL    -        -      \                                          Perennial Flow and Spate Irrigation
Well and Spate Irrigation
Well Irrigation                  ARABIA
Spate irrigation
ARjEA OF MAP
oA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P 11. R"'.l                                      1=) 
madwo d t..C%..* W N*                      YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
W~- of. fr KM 
SW b1....dfS
/     N\w            r_Wf   -do
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I \b B Le',M. 1w/ RM                                         ..o\ 
9 ecc,h,. or
12345 \.-,, *EOS DEMOCRATIC
-1                                                                   I      12  34                  a
KILOMETERS <
£  ErT.IOPt.\.  ~         GLJLFOFAU ST18
AUGUST 2114



