OCU M ENTS      CREDIT NUMBER 1584 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Wadi Al-Jawf Agricultural Development Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                        2i   , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1584 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated       g>er 4     S   2V   , 1985 between the
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement has requested the Association to assist in
financing the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract with various institu-
tions (collectively referred to as the Cofinanciers) for the
Cofinanciers' loans (the Cofinanciers' Loans) in an approximate
aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty-two million
dollars ($22,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions to be set forth in agreements (the Cofinan-
ciers' Loan Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower
and each of the Cofinanciers; and
(C) the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower on the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following mean-
lrugs:
(a) "CACB" means the Borrower's Co-operative and Agricul-
tural Credit Bank;
(b) "MAF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries, or any successor thereof;


﻿-2-
(c) "Project Area" means an area of 150,000 ha located in
the Wadi Al-Jawf region of the Borrower's Governorate of Al-Jawf;
(d) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project p,e-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pur-
suant to an exchange of letters dated May 21 and June 20, 1984
between the Borrower and the Association to enable preparation of
the engineering designs for the Project; and
(e) "Special Account" means the account referred to in Sec-
tion 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set fo--th or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 10,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes nf the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the Central
Bank of Yemen on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 of
this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and


﻿-3-
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1992 or
such later date as the Association shall determine. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitmenc cnarges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Jutie 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1995, and ending December 15,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MAF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound engineering, administrative, technical, financial, economic
and agricultural standards and practices, with due regard to
safety and public health, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall carry out the Project sub-
stantially in accordance with the Implementation Program and con-
ditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Sched-
ule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the Proj-
ect and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
employment of consultants and key staff to assist the Borrower in
carrying out the Project shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations and resources
related to the Project of the agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account for
each fiscal year, audited in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿5
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by the said auditors, of such
scope and detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall at all times:
(a) cause (i) the facilities provided under the Project to
be (A) operated in conformity with appropriate practices and with


﻿-6-
due regard to economy, and (B) staffed with full-time, suitably
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers, and (ii) the
buildings, irrigation and rural infrastructure vehicles, equip-
ment and furniture provided under the Project to be maintained
and necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all in
accordance with sound technical practices; and
(b) take all action, including the provision of funds,
through   adequate  annual   budgetary   allocations,   equipment,
machinery and other resources necessary or appropriate for the
purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall provide the Association
with the following reports of -such scope and detail as shall be
acceptable to the Association on progress in carrying out the
Project, operating the facilities established under the Project
and on the agricultural training, extension and research program
implemented in the Project Area:
(i) until completion of the Project, biannual reports
to be submitted to the Association no later than
September 30 and March 31 in each year; the first
of such reports shall be submitted no later than
March 31, 1986; and
(ii) annual reports for a period of three (3) years
after completion of the Project, such reports to
be submitted no later than March 31 in each year.
(b) The Borrower shall conduct by June 30, 1988 an evalua-
tion of the progress in implementing the Project with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association and, to the extent
feasible, involving the Cofinanciers, and shall submit not later
than December 31, 1988 a report of such scope and detail as shall
be acceptable to the Association containing, inter alia, the
findings and recommendations, if any, on measures required to be
taken to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the Project.
Section 5.03. In order to ensure the recovery of the full
investment costs (measured in real terms without interest) of the
irrigation works under Part A of the Project over a period of
fifty (50) years and the full operation and maintenance costs of
such works, the Borrower shall take such governmental action
immediately upon the completion of such irrigation works, to
collect from land owners in the Project Area, in addition to the


﻿-7-
charges currently in force, an annual surcharge on gross agricul-
tural production at the rate of 2%. The Borrower shall, in con-
sultation with the Association, review and, if necessary, adjust
the levels of such surcharge at intervals of not more than five
years or, based on such review, introduce an alternative method
for cost recovery acceptable to the Association, in order to take
into account pertinent factors, including actual annual collec-
tions, ability of the landowners to pay, and the requirements of
future irrigation investment.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall implement a scheme of
incentives acceptable to the Association adequate to attract and
retain staff to the Project Area.
Section 5.05. the Borrower shall establish within six months
of the Effective Date of this Agreement a Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Unit with terms of reference and personnel satisfactory to
the Association, and which will work in close coordination with
MAF's Department of Planning and whose function shall be, inter
alia, to monitor and evaluate the Project.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall cause CACB to process in
timely and efficient manner applications for agricultural credits
in connection with Part G of the Project, and shall provide CACB
with necessary facilities and staff to undertake the additional
credit activities generated by the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the   following   additional  events  are  specified,
namely, that:
(a) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
any of the Cofinanciers' Loans made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of any of
the Cofinanciers' Loan Agreements; or
(b) any of the Cofinanciers' Loans shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof; provided, how-
ever, subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall not apply


﻿-8-
if  the   Borrower  establishes   to  the   satisfaction  of   the
Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prem&turing is no- caused by the failure of the Borrower to
perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and (ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of that
Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) the Cofinanciers' Loan Agreements have been duly signed
on behalf of the parties thereto and conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of such agreements or the right of the Borrower to
make withdrawals thereunder, if any, save for the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b) the Coordinating Committee as specified in paragraph 1
of Schedule 5 of this Agreement has been established; and
(c)   the Project Team as specified in the Annex to Sched-
ule 4 of this Agreement has been appointed.
Section 7.02. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; iddresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Development and Chairman of
the Central Planning Organization of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P. 0. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:                       Telex:
CENPLAN                         2266 CENPLAN YE
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By 0& /t l               P&t-
Authorized Re esentative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(egional Vice President
Europe, Mid,' ,e East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category           SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Vehicles and                 420,000          100% of foreign
Equipment under                             expenditures
Part D (3) of the
Project
(2) Machinery for the            680,000          100% of foreign
Project Unit under                          expenditures
Part D (4) of the
Project
(3) Buildings                  1,880,000          100% of foreign
under Part D                                expenditures
(1) of the
Project
(4) Civil works under          5,210,000          100% of foreign
Part A (1) and B                            expenditures
of the Project
(5) Technical Assis-             630,000         100% of foreign
tance for Moni-                             expenditures
toring and Evalua-
tion and Training
under Part E of the
Project
(6) Special Account              520,000         Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 3 to
this Agreement


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category           SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7) Refunding of                  370,000       Amount due under
Project Prepara-                            Section 2.02 (c)
tion Advance                               of the Agreement
(8) Unallocated                   790,000
TOTAL            10,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the afore-
mentioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association


﻿- 13 -
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in carrying
out its program to develop the agricultural resources of the Pro-
ject Area by (a) adjusting and improving the existing irrigation
system to facilitate more efficient water management by the com-
munity, (b) devising more effective community water supply
schemes, and (c) providing infrastructure and support facilities,
training, extension and research in agriculture and irrigation.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve the above-mentioned
objectives:
Part A:   Irrigation Development
(1) Improving the Al-Kharid and Al-Ghayl gravity irrigation
areas by:
(a) making necessary adjustments, additions, altera-
tions, and improvements, including lining of
canals where necessary, and construction of
bridges and culverts, permanent diversion, dis-
tribution and check structures in the existing Al
Kharid and Al-Ghayl irrigation network;
(b) constructing a diversion structure on the Wadi
As-Saghi for Al-Ghayl irrigation area and con-
struction of a lined canal or piped conveyor to
the terminal point of the existing irrigation
canal;
(c) rehabilitating surface drainage ditches;
(d) levelling about 800 ha of land and constructing
necessary on-farm works; and
(e) undertaking other works necessary to improve the
distribution system.


﻿- 15 -
(2) Improving the Al-Hazm and Al-Khalq spate irrigation
areas to make them fully operative by constructing two main dis-
tribution structures on the Wadi Was'ah and the Wadi Al-Jawf and
rehabilitating existing dikes to protect the service areas from
flooding.
(3) Rehabilitation and technical supervision of about 350
irrigation wells in the Project Area.
Part B:   Construction of Feeder Roads
Construction and maintenance of about 45 km feeder roads to
link Project service areas to main roads in the Project Area.
Part C:   Community Water Supply Schemes
Construction of about 20 community water supply schemes in
the Project Area.
Part D:   Buildings, Equipment and Support Facilities
(1) Construction of offices, buildings, staff housing and
provision of utilities for Project headquarters at
Al-Hazm.
(2) Construction of about 7 extension centres and provision
of utilities.
(3) Supply of office equipment, vehicles, stores and other
equipment necessary for the implementation of the Proj-
ect.
(4) Establishment, equipping and maintenance of a Project
Machinery Unit to provide maintenance and support
facilities during the implementation of the Project.
Part E:   Management, Technical Assistance and Training
(1) Provision of technical assistance and management to
assist in implementation of the Project.
(2) Development and implementation of a comprehensive agri-
cultural training program for Project personnel, tribal
leaders and farmers, including field trips and partici-
pation in appropriate courses, designed to promote a


﻿- 16 -
greater knowledge of sound agricultural and irrigation
practices within the Project Area.
Part F:   Agricultural and Horticultural Extension, Research and
Development
(1) Establishment of extension centres and provision of a
comprehensive agricultural and irrigation extension
program to train extension agents and farmers in the
Project Area.
(2) Provision of a livestock improvement program and veter-
inary services associated with the extension centres.
(3) Establishment of an agricultural research station of
approximately 10 ha, and 2 demonstration and field
research units, to be administered by the Agricultural
Research Authority, and to undertake agronomic, horti-
cultural, livestock and poultry research and develop-
ment in the Project Area.
(4) Establishment of a nursery of approximately 8 ha to
encourage farmers in the Project Area to invest in
orcharding and forestry.
(5) Establishment   of   about  5  demonstration   farms  to
encourage  the use   in  the Project Area     of modern
perennial  and well   irrigation  practices, including
introduction of sprinkler and drip irrigation tech-
niques.
(6) Development and application of procedures to facilitate
monitoring and evaluation of the agricultural research
program and extension activities implemented under the
Project.
Part G:   Agricultural Credit
Provision of agricultural credit through CACB to assist
farmers in the Project Area to acquire additional agricultural
machinery, materials for well irrigation improvement and to
assist in establishing poultry farms.


﻿- 17 -
Part H:   Investigation and Studies
The carrying out of further investigation and studies to
determine optimal use of water resources and available land in
the Project Area, and leading to a possible future follow-up
project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1991.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
dollars equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (6) which
is to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
the Association that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent with-
drawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, each


﻿- 19 -
such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Cre-
dit Account under the respective Categories and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus
the amount of any outstanding qualified agreement
to reimburse made by the Association and of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions with respect to the Project, shall
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice have been or will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 20 -
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
otherwise agreed by the Association, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
A.   International CompetiJive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those contained in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines) (excluding
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more each.
B-   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for vehicles and on-farm equipment under Part A
(3) of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of bids invited from a list of
at least three qualified suppliers from at least two countries
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items of goods (a) which are estimated to cost not more
than the equivalent of $20,000 per contract up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $500,000, and (b) which
the Association agrees cannot be grouped pursuant to para-
graph A.2 hereof, may be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
C.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and to each contract for
civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to


﻿22 -
the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however, that where pay-
ments for such contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the
Special Account, the two conformed copies of the contract requir-
ed to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to paragraph 2
(d) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special
Account such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other informa-
tion required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3
(the Special Account Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a)
and (b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
II. Employment of consultants
1.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A
th?ough F of the Project, the Borrower shall employ in accordance
with the descriptions contained in the Annex to this Schedule,
consultants  whose   qualifications  experience  and  terms  and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
2.   Such consultants whose services are to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants 'by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 23 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
The following consultants shall be employed pursuant to
Section 3.02 and Part II of Schedule 4 of this Agreement:
Duration of
Employment
(yrs)
(1)  Consultants for
the Project Team
referred to in
paragraph 2 of
Schedule 5
Project Adviser          As Condition of             5.0
Effectiveness under
Section 7.01 (b)
Civil Engineer                                      5.0
Civil Engineer
Counterparts (2)                                  5.0
Associate Extension                                  6.0
Expert
Estimated
Dates of Employment
(2)  Other Consultants
(a) Engineering
Civil Engineer (1)       October 1, 1985             4.0
Irrigation Design        October 1, 1985            3.0
Engineer (1)
Mechanical               January 1, 1986             2.5
Engineer (1)
(b) Extension
Extension                October 1, 1985             5.0
Agronomist (1)
Horticulturist (1)       January 1, 1986             5.0
Veterinarian (1)         January 1, 1986            4.0


﻿- 24 -
Estimated           Duration of
Dates of Employment    Employment (yrs)
(3) Short-term                As required by              4.5
Consultants as           Project needs
required


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Subject to any modifications which may be agreed from time
to time between the Borrower and the Assoc.ation, the Borrower
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance, inter
alia, with the following:
1.   Project Coordination
In order to ensure effective cooperation and coordination
in the implementation of the Project, MAF will establish a Proj-
ect coordinating committee (the Coordinating Committee) to be
convened and chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries
and comprising representatives from the following agencies and
organizations of the Borrower:
(i) The Governorate of Al-Jawf
(ii) Central Planning Organization
(iii) Agricultural Research Authority
(iv) CACB
2.   Project Implementation
(a) A Project Team shall be established and be headed by
the Project Manager, and consisting of, inter alia, a Project
Advisor, civil engineers, extension experts and other appropriate
consultants and support staff.
(b) The Project Manager shall be responsible for implement-
ing the Project and his functions shall include:
(i) preparation of implementation schedules, coordina-
tion and streamlining Project implementation pro-
cedures;
(ii) reviewing and processing    tender documents and
awarding contracts;
(iii) arranging procurement;


﻿- 26 -
(iv) liaising with local and foreign governmental
agencies and institutions on matters related to
the Project;
(v) monitoring and evaluation of the Project;
(vi) designing and implementing in manner satisfactory
to the Association the training program. under
Parts E and F of the Project; and
(vii) preparation and timely    submission of accounts,
progress, status and other Project related reports
required by    the Association under this Agree-
ment.
(c) The Project Advisor shall assist in supervising and
coordinating the international consultants and shall advise the
Project Manager as required on issues related to the implementa-
tion of the Project.
3.   Organization and Functions of MAF for Implementation of the
Project
(a) To enable MAF to carry out its responsibilities and
activities under the Project in a timely and efficient manner,
the Borrower shall establish, by January 1, 1986 the following
sections to assist the Project Manager and the Project Team
referred to in paragraph 2 above:
(i) an Engineering Section consisting of qualified and
experienced consultants and support staff to
assist and provide support for the civil, irriga-
tion and mechanical engineering requirements of
the Project;
(ii) an Agricultural Section consisting of qualified
and experienced consultants and support staff,
including fifteen (15) extension agent trainees,
to be selected within six months of the Effective
Date of this Agreement; such Agricultural Section
shall have the functions, inter alia, of assisting
in the organization and management of the agricul-
tural components under the Project and to liaise
with CACB in respect of Part G of the Project; and


﻿- 27 -
(iii) a permanent Regional Office of MAF to service the
Project Area with the functions, inter alia, of:
(1) operating   and  maintaining   the  irrigation
works implemented under Part A of the Proj-
ect;
(2) maintaining the roads to be constructed under
Part B of the Project;
(3) ensuring the participation and involvement of
the community leaders, the Sarrafs (the
elected water distributors) and farmers in
the Project Area in the implementation,
operation and maintenance of the Project;
(4) providing technical guidance and assistance
to the Sarrafs in the operation and main-
tenance of the irrigation distribution sys-
tem; and
(5) ensuring that the present system for the
operation and maintenance of irrigation dis-
tribution in the Project Area by the Sarrafs
is continued and maintained.
(b) MAF shall maintain and operate the Project Machinery
Unit to be established under Part D (4) of the Project by Decem-
ber 31, 1987.
4.   Measures Critical for Project Implementation
(a) Implementation of Part A and Part F (5) of the Project
(Irrigation Development) shall involve, inter alia, the follow-
ing:
(i) revisions, where necessary, by the Engineering
Section of MAF of engineering designs and prepara-
tion of designs for Part A (2) and (3) of the
Project;
(ii) preparation of designs for demonstration farms by
the Engineering Section in consultation with the
Agricultural Section of MAF;


﻿- 28 -
(iii) award of construction contracts and commencement
of construction of major irrigation improvement
works by January 1, 1987; and
(iv) rehabilitating some wells in the Project Area and
constructing a modern demonstration irrigation
distribution system, including drip and sprinkler
techniques to encourage farmers to adopt the same.
(b) Implementation of Part B of the Project (Feeder Roads)
shall involve, inter alia, the following:
(i) updating engineering designs, conducting surveys
and establishing road alignments by the Engineer-
ing Section of MAF, in consultation with the High-
way Authority of the Ministry of Public Works;
(ii) preparation of tender documents and award of con-
tracts by December 31, 1986; and
(iii) completion by June 30, 1986 of the gravel link
road from the Sana'a-Marib road to Al-Hazm.
(c) Implementation of Part C of the Project (Community
Water Supply) in accordance with the terms and conditions speci-
fied in the Annex to this Schedule and shall involve, inter alia,
the following:
(i) preparation of designs by the Engineering Section,
in consultation with the Rural Water Supply
Division of the Ministry of Public Works and
appropriate representatives in the Project Area;
and
(ii) conducting geoelectric surveys to locate sources
of water supply by December 31, 1986.
(d) Implementation of Part D of the Project (Buildings
and Other Facilities) shall involve, inter alia, preparation
by the Engineering Section of designs and layout plans for hous-
ing and other buildings in accordance with standard specifica-
tions utilized on similar projects, and award of contracts by
December 31, 1986.


﻿- 29 -
(e)  Implementation of Parts E and F of the Project (Agri-
cultural Training, Extension, Research and Development) shall
involve, inter alia, the following:
(i) employment of consultants pursuant to Section 3.02
and the Annex to Schedule 4 of this Agreement;
(ii)  establishment by January 1, 1986 of an Extension
Service headed by an extension agronomist and
including a horticulturist, a veterinarian and
appropriate support personnel, with responsibility
for preparation of a comprehensive agricultural
extension and training program and development by
the Extension Service, in consultation with the
Borrower's Agricultural Research Authority and the
Project Team, of an agricultural, animal health
and poultry demonstration and research program,
satisfactory to the Association, to be carried out
at the agricultural research station established
under Part F (3) of the Project, such program to
be reviewed and evaluated annually and the results
to be submitted to the Association for its con-
sideration and comments; and
(iii) under the supervision of the Extension Service
veterinarian, extension of the veterinary service
of MAF's Directorate of Animal Health Services to
the Project Area and development of a program,
satisfactory to the Association, of veterinary
services and animal health research for the Proj-
ect Area.
(f)  Implementation of Part H of the Project (Investigation
and Studies) shall involve, inter alia, the following:
(i)   preparation of terms of reference of sufficient
detail and satisfactory to the Association, of
the program of further investigation and studies
required; and
(ii)   preparation of a report by June 30, 1990, for
submission to the Association, summarizing the
findings of such investigation and studies and
containing recommendations for a possible second
phase of the Project.


﻿~ 30 -
ANNEX TO SCREDULE 5
Financing and Construction of the
Comunity Water Supply Scheme under
Part C of the Project
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that:
(a) the water supply schemes under Part C of the Project
shall be constructed in consultation with the Governorate of
.1-Jawf;
(b) the community concerned agrees to contribute towards
the cost of the construction of the access roads to the water
supply schemes (such contribution is estimated to be 5% of the
investment costs of each community water supply scheme estab-
lished under Part C of the Project); and
(c) the water supply schemes so constructed shall be deli-
vered to the community concerned and operated and maintained by
such community and all renewals and repairs thereof shall be
made, all in accordance with appropriate technical practices and
in compliance with such laws and regulations as may be made
applicable from time to time to the operation and maintenance,
including the financing of such operation and maintenance, of
community water supply schemes within the Borrower's territory.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of     ____
198 -3.
FOR SECRETARY


