Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rqit sN.. 12419
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AGRICULTURAL REH&BILITATION PROJECT III
(CREDIT 1866-SU)
OCTOBER 22, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12419
Type: PCR
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
Thbis documet basa restrited distributio  D may be used by ripiet only in th perforane of
tek offic  dutes ItS conets may not odterwi  be dilosd witbout Wodd bank auborkation



PROJECT COMPLEIMON REPORT
SUtDAN
AGRICUILTURAL REHARII,TATION PROJECT m
(CREDrr 1866-SU)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENS
Currency Unit                           =    Sudanese Pound (LSd)
Exc 4oge Rate at Appraisal                    US$ 1.00 = LSd 2.5
Exchange Rate at Credit Effectiveness         US$ 1.00= LSd 4.5
Exchange Rate at Completion                   US$ 1.00 = LSd 95
ABBREVIATIONS
AC                 Agricultural Corporation
ARP                Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
AUAC               Advisory Unit for Agricultural Corporations
BOS                Bank of Sudan
FAO/CP             Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank Cooperative Program
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
EAP                Export Action Plan
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GOS                Government of Sudan
lPM                Integrated Pest Management
MOANR              Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOI                Ministry of Irrigation
PCR                Project Completion Report
PPD                Plant Protection Department
RPMU               Rehabilitation Project Management Unit
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Sudan      =    July 1 to June 30



FOR OMCIAL use ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Off., of imaotor4enera                                                 October 22, 1993
Operatins evaluation
MEMRADU 1 WEEgTOIV DIRCTORS AND THE PRSIEN
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sudan
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project m (Credit 1866-SU)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Sudan - Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1866-SU) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No comments have been received from the
Borrower. Comments were received from two of the cofinanciers, the European Community and the
Goverment of the Netherlands. European Community support was in the form of commodity grant
aid. Its comment notes that, in conditions of rapid depreciation of local currency, the real value of
local currency generated by sale of commodities is greatly reduced if local prices of the commodity
are not raised and if spending of the 'countervalue funds' generated is delayed. The Netherlands
endorse the conclusions of the PCR.
The project was composed of a large, quick disbursing component to be implemeted
along the lines of a program support approach, and a small, longer maturing and more targeted
instituional building component. The project supplied agricultural inputs for crop production,
introduced some institutional changes in the irrigation subsector, led to streamlining of the operations
of the Agricultural Corporations, raised the general awareness of the need for improvement in pest
management practices, and led to improved pesticide handling practices. Although several of these
components were not clearly defined at appraisal (no appraisal report was prepared), intensive
supervision by the Bank was responsible for much of the achievement.
Aside from its failure to encourage Government to implement an overall economic
adjustment program, the other objectives were largely met and overall, the outcome of the project is
considered satisfactory. Institutional development achieved during implementation was partial and
sustanability Is rated as uncertain given the failure of the operation to trigger fundamental
restructuring of the Agricultural Corporations.
The completion report provides a frank and full account of project implementation. An
audit of this project is not planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kapp
Attachment
Ths document has a resricted dIstr on and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance of
thetr offcisl dudes. Its contents may not otherwIse be disclosed wihout Wodd Bank authorIzadon.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMeLETION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILTAION PROJECT m
(CREDfT 1866-SU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PageNo.
Preface   ................................................. i
Evaluation Summary  .............              ........................... i
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ........... 1
Project Identity ...................1...................... 
Background  ....................1....................... 
Project Objectives and Description       .....................                     2
Project Desip and Organization          ......................                     3
Project Implementation             .......................                        4
Project Results and lInpact .................................. 6
Project Sustanability             .......................                          7
Bank Performance                .......................                            7
Borrower Performance  .................................... 8
Project Relationship ...        .........................                          8
Consulting Services and Studies ..................                                 8
Project Documentation ........                                                    9
Lessons Learned                .......................                            9
PART II: PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....  10
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .........................11
Table 1. Related Bank Credits .................. ..11
Table 2. Project Timetable           ................................  12
Table 3. Credit Disbursement .....................                              ...........  13
Table 4. Project Implementation         .............................   14
Table 5. Poject Costs and Financing           ..........................  16
Table 6. Project Results      ..................................   18
Table 7. Status of aor Covenants                       .        .         .   21
Table 8. Use of Bank Resources          .............................  23
Annex 1 - Comments from the Government of the Netherlands ....            .........  24
Annex 2 - Comments from the European Community            ................. 25
Map No.   IBRD 20693
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLEION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTJRAL REHABILITATION PROJECT III
(CREDfT 1866-
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project m in
Sudan, for which Credit 1866-SU in the amount of SDR 64.4 million (US$ 85.0 million equivalent) was
apProved in December 1987. The credit became effective in April 1988 and was closed on December 31,
1992, two and a half years behind schedule.
Parts I and m  of the report were prepared by a mission from the Pood and Agriculture
:ganization/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP), which visited Sudan in June 1992. Part 11,
to be prepared by the Borrower, has not yet been received. The report has been sent to the cofinanciers
(the Governments of the Netherlands, Denmark, and Swizerland and the European Community) for
comment. Comments received from the Government of the Netherlands and the European Community
are attached as Annexes 1 and 2.
Preparation of the PCR was based, Inter alla, on the President's Report, the Development Credit
Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank
memoranda and findings of the FAO/CP mission.



-"'-
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABITATION PROJECT m
(CREDiT 1866-SI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        Tbe project's main objective was to show support for Sudan's limited economic action
program in order to encourage the Government to carry out further and more comprehensive reforms.
The action program was aimed at stimulating sustained output growth, moderating the rate of monetary
expansion and improving the country's balance of payments. Though Incomplete, the Bank felt that the
measures would substantially improve Sudan's credibility among donors, and lay the groundwork for a
comprehensive adjustment program. The Bank showed its support by providing technical assistance to
assist the Government of Sudan (GOS) in preparing a medium-term economic program and financing the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project m. The project was to: (a) provide financial and technical support
to Government's one-year action program to help keep the economic recovery efrort on track; (b)
strengthen and supplement ongoing efforts to address key policy and institutional issues in the irrigation
subsector; (c) sustain irrigated crop production during the 1988/89 season by financing recurrent imported
inputs; and (d) expedite the resolution of long-term growth issues such as reforming production relations
on irrigated schemes, removing obstacles to the expansion of irrigated areas and avoiding environment
contamination from the use of chemical pesticides.
Implementation Experience
2.         The project was composed of a large, quick disbursing input component to be implemented
along the lines of a programme support approach, and a considerably smaller, longer maturing and more
targeted institutional building component characteristic of a traditional development project. It was
processed as an investment project because it preceded the Bank's guidelines on hybrid operations. The
Bank now requires that hybrid operations follow the same procedures and prerequisites for adjustment
loans and credits, namely, a clear understanding with the government on the overal! stabilization and
structral programs for putting the conditions for tranche releases in the proper context. 1/
3.         Procurement of Inputs. Although the project was appraised in 1985, it was not approved
until 1987 when GOS and the IMF agreed on a set of reforms. The long lead time was advantageous to
the preparation of tender documents. When the credit was declared effective, project management was
ready for tendering and procuring pesticides. There was a problem, however, posed by manufacturers
whose products were excluded from the list of acceptable pesticides for environmental reasons. This
problem could have been avoided if technical specialists had been consulted in the procurement process,
and appropriate language used in bid documents. The dispute was eventually settled and the first tranche
of procurement for the early season inputs (herbicides, fertilizer and pesticides) was completed by
November 1988. Procurement of the second tranche, consisting of late season inputs (such as j_e sacks
and baling materials), was contingent upon meeting eight conditions which were mostly targeted at
11    World Bank Operational Directive 8.60, December 21, 1992.



-l{v -
improving the performance of the Agricultural Corporations (ACs). When the Bank considered the
conditions satisfactorily met in December 1988, procurement of the inputs was accomplished almost
immediaely. Fuel and lubricants, also included in the second tranche, however, were not procured until
just before the closing date of June 30, 1990 due to delays In preparing tender documents.
4.         Institution Strengthening and Studies. Due to the attention and importance placed on the
input procurement component, its implementation was accomplished within the original project period
of two years. However, this was not the case with regard to the other component which required
institutional commitment and the continuous interaction of several agencies. Hence, more tkUe was
needed than the original two 'ears. In the end, litde was done to strengthen the Ministf. of Agriculture
and Natural Resources (MOANR) and Ministry of Irrigation (MOI), although MOI succeeded in
preparing the National Irrigation Rehabilitation Program.
5.    The upgrading of the Advisory Unit for Agricultural Corporations (AUAC) proceeded well.
Within the first project year, AUAC received the necessary staff, equipment, operating funds and suitable
office space. AUAC immediately commenced its activity in coordinating, reviewing budgets, evaluating
ACs performance and standardizing procedures.
6.    With regard to improving pesticide handlng, progress was slow. The ACs and the Plant
Protection Department (PPD) of the MOANR started late in preparing safety measures for handling
pesticides, and the works envisaged under the project were still not completed at the time of the PCR
mission, including the incineration of obsolete pesticides. The project was extended to allow completion
of pesticide stores and sheds, procurement of equipment for a closed transfer system for loading pesticides
into planes, improvement of safety at air strips, and steam cleaning of equipment and pesticide drums.
The project provided strong support to the on-going integrated pest management ([PM) activities. Under
the project, important actions were initiated, such as the establishment of an IPM Technical Committee
to guide IPM research and implementation, and changes in wEconomic Threshold Levels' for some pests.
Project Results and Impact
7.     Measured against the stated objectives, project results are satisfactory. Aside from its failure
to encourage the Govemment to implement an overall economic adjustment, the other objectives were
largely met. It provided immediate support to GOS's action program, including balance of payments
support. It introduced institutional and policy changes in the irrigated subsector, and supplied agricultural
inputs for crop production.
8.    The most important and far reaching impact made by the project was related to the operations of
the ACs. After the implementation of ARP III, the operations of the ACs became more streamlined,
providing the basis for easier monitoring and management. GOS went a step further by stopping
subsidies to the ACs through Bank of Sudan lending. Further changes are underway. The Blue Nile
Corporation is now in the process of being privatized while the roles of some other ACs are being
reduced. Other project benefits included foreign exchange savings through the judicious use of pesticides
(Annex 4), and increased revenue from land and water charges (Annex 3). It raised the awareness at
ministerial levels of the need for improvement in pest management practices, particularly reducing
pesticide use for economic as well as ecological reasons. Although the pesticide handling component was
not clearly defined at the time of appraisal, intensive supervision by the Bank was responsible for the
achievements in this area.



-V-
Project Sustainability
9.    Project sustainability can be discussed only with regard to the institution strengthening component
as the financing of a single season's agricultural inputs is not a sustainable development activity. Project
interventions in AC operations resulted in improved operational methods which were incorporated in their
daily administration and procedures. The studies also paved the way for more fundamental changes in
the ACs' roles and might lead to the privatization of some. The pesticide handling system introduced by
the project is a long lasting achievement. This is not only due to the introduction of the physical handling
proceedings established by the project, but mainly due to the important sensitization process. More
people are now aware of the hazards of chemical pesticides, and thus of the need to handle and apply
them with caution. However, such awareness would require continuous reinforcement if the gains made
are to persist.
Lessons Learned
10.   The lessons learned are summarized as follows:
(a)  In Sudan, the use of quick-disbursing input support programs in agriculture (ARP I, II and
m) failed to achieve the expected benefits because the macroeconomic program which they
were meant to encourage and support was not implemented in a serious manner. Future
quick-disbursing programs in the country would have to follow the Bank's policy which
requires a clear understanding with the government on an overall stabilization and struct-al
program before quick-disbursing, policy-based lending can be approved. It would also be
advisable to require the implementation of macroeconomic reforms up front;
(b) Despite three programs to supply agricultural inputs, GOS has not yet addressed the issue
of establshing a sustainable input supply system. With the changing roles of the ACs
which had hitherto channeled all project-financed agricultural inputs, a strategy for the
formation of a future system with the greater involvement of the private sector is required;
and
(c)  Lack of clearly spelled out targets and institutional responsibilities are bound to delay
project implementation or lead to the exclusion of some components. However, incomplete
project design can be improved in the course of project implementation if project
management is active and Bank supervision is intensive. Gains in the pesticide handling
component demonstrated this.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
AGRICULTU         REHABIITATION PROJECr HI
(CREDIT 1866-SU)
PART Ik PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name       :      Agricultural Rehabilitation Project 11
Credit No.                1866-SU
RVP Unit                  AF2AE
Country                   Sudan
Sector                    Agriculture
Sub-sector                Irrigation
Bacgound
1.    Macroeconomic Situation. In the erly 1980s, the Gove ent of Sudan (GOS) faced an
economic crisis that had its origin in its atempt during the 1970s to boost the economy with a wave
of nationalizations and public investments financed by foreign capital inflows. The investments did
not yield good reurns. The projected production of exports and Import subsitutes and domestic
resource mobilization did not materialize. Although public revenues dwindled, public expenditures
remained high. The investment drive contributed to fiscal and monetary expansion resulting in high
inflation, and growing deficits in the current account balance of payments. The deficits were
enlarged by oil price increases and a serious decline in cotton production (see parm. 3). During the
early 1980s, the Government tried on several occasions to establish financial equilibrium, restore
export growth, improve the performance of the public corporations, and insil an adequate system
for management of the nation's external debt. However, these efforts were ad hoc, mcomplete and
unsustned and results were disappointing. Although the current account deficit was reduced
somewhat after 1982/83 by efforts to increase exports and reduce imports, domestic production was
severely curtailed due to the lack of imported inputs.
2.    In October 1987, GOS launched a limited program of action that was to lay the basis for
comprehensive adjustments. The program included reforms in foreign exchange, trade, banking,
fiscal and monetary policies and agricultural producer prices. Its objectives were: (a) to ensure
sustned growth in output; (b) to moderate the rate of monetary expansion; and (c) to improve the
country's balance of payments. Although more needed to be done in trade and price liberalization,
public finance and parasttal refbrm, the Bank felt tat the measures, if implemented satisfactorily,
would substanally improve Sudan's credibility among donors and other cofinanciers. The Bank
showed its support by providing an advance from the Special Project Preparation Facility to assist
GOS in preparing a medium-term comprehensive program of economic measures, and the



-2-
subsector. An Economic Recovery Credit was also planned in 1988189 to support the mediumterm
program.
3.    The Agrkiultl Sector dominates the Sudanese economy. In the early eighties, the sctor
provided the livelihood for 80% of the population and generated about one third of GDP as well as
over 90% of export earnigs. The sector also provided the bulk of the inputs required by the
domestic industry. Agriculture has four distinct sub-sectors: irTigated, mechanized rainfed, traditional
rainfed agriculture and livestock. The country's maS- export crop is irrigated cotton. Other
important irrigated crops are wheat, sorghum and grout ututs. During the 1970s a shamp decline in
cotDt production occurred due to the reduction of yields and cultivated area. Causes included
excessive government controls and bureaucratic procedures that hampered production and marketing,
and an overvalued exchange rate. The decline in cotton production led to a significant drop in export
eaings, exacerbating the precarious economic condition of the country. This resulted in the
deterioration of the istitutions entrusted to manage the irrigation subsector, resulting in the neglect
of irrigation ifastructure maintenance and the irregular supply of critical farm inputs.
4.    The major irrigation schemes in Sudan are publicly owned and managed by parastatal
organizations known as agricultual corporations (ACs). The ACs, which are supervised by the
Mnistry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MOANR), provide most inputs and services, and the
Mnisty of Irrigation (MOI) is responsible for delivering irrigation water. Over the years the
operational efficiency of the ACs has been declining resulting in a heavy drain on Government
resources. In 1980, GOS, with Bank assistance, drew up an Export Action Plan (EAP) with a view
to restoring agricultural production to the level of the early 1970s. This plan included the financing
of badly needed spare parts and equipment, imported agricultural inputs as well as introducing policy
and instituonal reforms. In line with the strategy embodied in the EAP, the Bank had financed a
range of rehabilitation projects (Table 1), including the Agricultural Rehabilitation Programs 1 (1980)
and 11 (1983).
S.    As a foliow-up to these projects, the Bank embarked on another similar project, ARP m. The
project was prepared, appraised and negotiated at a technical level in 1985. However, negotiations
were not completed because Sudan's macro-economic environment was not judged as conducive to
susinable ecowmic recovery. Agreement between GOS and the IMP on a set of reforms in October
1987 facilitated the reactivation of the project. Although the reforms were limited in scope (see
para.2), the Bank decided to support them with the expectation that they would broaden into a more
comprehensive adjustment program. Negotiations on ARP m were therefore completed in November
1987. The project was approved in December 1987, signed in January 1988 and became effective
in April 1988. The credit closing date, originally scheduled for July 1990, was extended three times
to December 31, 1992.
Projed Objectives and Desaiption
6.    The project proposed to:
(a)    provide fcial and technical support to Government'sone-year action program (see
para. 2) to help keep the economic recovery effort on track;
(b)   strengthen and supplement ongoing efforts to address key policy and institional
issues in the irrigation subsector;



-3 -
(c)   sustain irrigated crop production during the 1988/89 season by finacing recurt
Imported Inputs; and
(d)   expedite tho rasolution of long-em growth issues such as reforming production
relations on -rigated schemes, removing obstacles to the expansion of irrgat  areas
and avoiding environmental contamination from the use of chemical pesticides.
7.    The project, estimated to cost US$120 million, consisted of two main components: a)
purchase of agricultural inputs (91% of project costs) and b) institutional strenghening and studies.
Ihese were accompanied by a set of credit conditionalities (rable 7). An agreement was reached
between GOS and the Bank that additional financing of the amount of US$ 34.2 million would be
obtained by QOS from other donors to supplement the IDA credit.
8.    Under the agrictual input component the project was to (a) finance pesticides, jute sacks,
fuel and lubricants and spare parts needed during the 1988/89 cropping season; and (b) support safer
pestcide storage and handling. The institudonal component included (a) the strengthening of
MOANR, MOI, and the ACs; (b-financing a number of studies (Table 6); and (c) monitring
progress on structural changes in the irrigated schemes and inegrated pest management (1PM). The
IPM was an on-going Dutch/FAO asisted scheme. The main GOS inton concerned with IPM
was the Agricultural Research Corporation.
Project Desig and Orgaizton
9.    Project design was unconventional in terms of preparation and appraisal procedures. With
regard to preparation, the only document found in the project files was a draft report prepared by the
Borrower which essentily consisted of a shopping list for agricultral inputs. No staff appraisal
report was produced for this project The main project working document was the President's Report
which presented the project in an unsystumatic fishion. The description of project objectives,
components and activities were presented in a confusing manner, and implementation targets for
insttion strengthening and studies were not clearly established.
10.   The project was composed of a large, quick-disbursing input component to be implemented
along the lines of a program support approach, and a considerably smaller, longer maturing and more
targeted institutional building component. Although it had a quick-disbursing component and
conditionalities for trance release, it was classified as an investment operaion because its processing
preceded the Bank's guidelines on hybrid operations. Since then, the Bank has issued directives
stipulating that hybrid operations should follow the same procedures and prerequisites for adjustment
loans and credits, namely, a clear understanding with the government on the overall stabilization and
strucual programs for putting the conditions for tanche releases in the proper context. 
11.   The conditions attached to the release of funds for inputs pertained mainly to instittfional
changes in the ACs, recovery of irrigation costs, and on the macroeconomic front the preparation
of a public investment program. The conditions were limited to the preparation of studies, plans and
targets for future action. Because of the short-term natre of the program, implementation of the
proposals was outside the scope of ARP 1I. A sectoral adjustment program would have been a more
'  World Bank Opatioa Directive 8.60, December 21, 1992.



-4-
appropriate nteveio for Implemeting reforms, but at the time, this route was not open to Sudan
as GOS had not adopted an overall adjustmet program.
12.    ARP m was to enwurage GOS to carry out comprehensive refoms. However, the lesson
of ARP I showed that a iection of hiputs provided no impetus to policy changes. ARP n1 was
mean to provide trsiional concesmonal financing for impors in the expectation that a broader
macroeconomic reform program would shortly be put In place. No such program materialized and
the ipact of ARP 1 was limited to the iputs provided for the single season and the relatively
modest Istitutional measures and studies carried out. ARP 111 was once again based on the
assmption that a macroeconomic program would be put In place. To hedge against the risk of GOS
renegiog on broadeing reforms, the project included other more limited and attaLnable objectives.
In 1988, a comprehensive adjustment program was formulated, but it was not implemented in any
serious mumner because of OSs preoccupation with holding together fractious coitions, the war
in the south and a mjor flood in parts of the ountry.2 While each ARP resulted in some
improvements, none of them led to an overhaul of the economic system. In retospect, an investment
project with a focus on instiutional changes might have accomplished more in the agriculture sector,
since the longer time frame would bave allowed the development of systems, including one for
sustd iput supply.
13.   Ite design quality of ARP m  was mixed. While the Input component was sufficiendy
defined in terms of prcement procedures, ltle operational detail was given in the case of the
institution stre  g  component which to a large extent evolved in the course of project
implementation. In particular, a straegy for strengthening the concerned insttions was not well
conceptualized. Ibis was partially corrected by the preparation of working papers after credit
effectiveness which specified some of the tasks. Another area where project activities were vaguely
described was pesticides management. Though mentioned in the President's Report, it was loosely
defined. During implementation, however, progress was made in tem  of pesticide inventory
masnagement procuremat procedures and handling practices.
14,   The roles and responsibilities of the institutions involved were not well spelled out. For
example, the President's Report assigned project coordination responsibilities to the Rehabilitation
Project MMagement Unit (RPMU) of the MOANR, while the Development Credit Agreement gave
this role to the Advisory Unit for Agricultural Corporations (AUAC), also of the MOANR. By
agreement of the RPMU and the AUAC, the latter ultimately exercised the role of project
coordiatr, whie the former took charge of project procurmen needs and of the management of
accounts.
Project Implmendtion
15.   Prourment of Inputs. The delay of project sta-up from 1985 to 1988 frustd GS0
plans and discouraged staff. However, with hindsight, the time lag was found to be usefil as it
provided the opporuity for establhing procedures for reviewing and screening pesticides, preparing
a list of environmentaly acceptable chemicals and for refining tendering methods. By the time the
credit was declared effective, project management was ready for tendering aid procurng pesticides.
During the preparation of the list of acceptable pesticides, the Bank and G(OS staff involved in this
exercise were strongly challenged by some manufucturers whose products were excluded from the
2 Sudan. Reversing the Econonic Decine, World Bank, July 1990



-  -
list for environmental or bealth reasons. This problem could have been avoided if technical
specialists had been consulted in the procurement process, and approprate language used In bid
documents. The dispute, which was referred to the Bank's management, was evenually setded by
adhering to the judgement of the Bank and GOS staff. However, it revealed the Bank's vulnerability
on the matter, as it lacked, at the time, specific guidelines for screening pesticides before they were
included or excluded for bidding. An institutional void was also observed as there was then no unit
within the Bank entrusted to provide a final ruling on the dispute, or to list unacceptable chemicals.
Since then, the Bank has made several institutional changes to address this issue. A Bank directive
on Agricultural Pest Management gives principles for selection of pesticides for flnancing while
decisions on specific products must be made by Regional Environment Divisions as part of their
mandatory environmental review function. Pesticide procurement guidelines are also being finalized.
16.   Even thougb the project made the necessary tendering preparations, it was unrealistic to
expect the arrival of pesticides and herbicides in time for use during the 1988/89 season beginning
in June. It normally takes between three to six months from the time of award of contract to the
arrival of the pesticides in the field. However, the project was expected to accomplish this within
two to three months of credit effectiveness. This tight schedule could nt be met and all herbicides,
and some pesticides, arrived too late to be used for that season. The use of carry-over stocks and
redistribution among the different irrigation schemes reduced the negative impact on production. The
fist tranche of procurement for the so-called early season inputs (herbicides, fertilizer and pesticides)
was completed by November 1988.
17.   Procurement of the second tranche, consisting of late season inputs (such as jute sacks and
baling materials), was contingent upon meeting eight conditions CTable 7). While awaiting the
fillment of the conditions the project proceeded with tendering. Hence, when the Bank considered
the conditions satisfactorily met in December 1988, procurement of the inputs was accomplished
almost immediately. Fuel and lubricants, also included in the second tranche, however, were not
procured unil just before the closing date of June 30, 1990 due to delays in preparing tender
documents.
18.   Institution Strengthening and Studies. Due to the attention and importance placed on the
input procurement component, its implementation was accomplished within the original project
execution period of two years. However, this was not the case with regard to the other component
due to a variety of reasons. One was the lack of commitment by the concerned institutions, which
initiated implementation with excessive delays. In addition, unlike the inputs procurement component
which was straightforward, the nature of the work under institution-building was demanding and
required the continuous interaction of several agencies. Hence, more time was needed than the
original two years.
19.   The first institutional achievement of the project was the upgrading of AUAC within the first
year of the project, by providing it with the necessary staff, equipment, operating funds and suitable
office space. AUAC immediately commenced its activity in coordinating, reviewing budgets,
evaluating ACs performance and standardizing procedures.
20.   AUAC's initiatives under ARP m enabled the project to improve the ACs' operations. By
the end of the 1990/91 season, procedures that made the ACs more efficient and cost effective had
been put in place. These included appropriate demand management and financial discipline,
separation of land and water charges and the recovery of irrigation water costs, upgrading of
accounting methods and monitoring of agricultural production, reconciliation of stocks and input



-6-
Inentory, standardizing of AC procedures and more economical application of inputs. 'he ACs'
credit requirement wore worked out widt the assistance of AUAC, takdig into account available
Inventoy figures and Input requirement as recommended by the integraed pest management (1PM)
trials. At the end of the project, the ACs were reciving loam from commercial banks instead of the
Bank of Sudan (BOS). Unlike BOS, the commercial bankm do not provide any credit to the ACs
before they completo recovering the previous advances. Tbis arrangement solved the continuous
accumulation of debt by the ACs and forced the corporations to be more cost effective. However,
the Issue of outstanding debts from the past remained unresolved.
21.   Wih reard to Improving pesticide handling, progress was slow. Ihe ACs and the Plant
Protection Department (PPD) of the MOANR started late in preparing safety measures for handling
pesticides, and the works envisaged under the project were st}i not completed at the time of the PCR
mission. Although the obsolete pesticides had been identified, they could not be incinated due to
PPD's indecisiveness. Only towards the end of the project did PPD decide to purchase an
incinerator, but shortage of time and fiuds did not permit this purchase to be completed. PPD was
compelled to consider repacking the obsolete pestcides into sound containers and consolidating them
to a single safe site, to be incinerated in the future. Implementation of this was initated. The project
was extended for another six months to complete the construction of pesticide stores and sheds,
prment of equipment for a closed transfer system for loading pesticides into planes,
improvement of  afety at air strips, and steam cleallng of equipment and pesticides drm.
Following a study conducted by the ptoject, the Government banned the sale of pesticide drums to
the public.
22.   The activities to strengthen MOANR and MOI were seriously delayed. With regard to
MOANR, little effort was made to formulate a program. Thus project support was limited to the
provision of office equipment No attempt was made to implement the proposed strengthening of the
Miistry's Economic Planning Unit. Tbe MOI, however, succeeded in preparig the National
Irrigation Rebabilitation Program. The report, produced in May 1992, provided the basis for
reorganizing and strengthing the Ministry.
23.   The project provided strong support to the on-going IPM  activities assisted by the
Netheriands/FAO and the Overseas Development Administration. From the outset, the Bank was
determined to support the cotton IPM program by making progrss in this area one of the conditions
for releasing the second tranche of the credit. Supervision missions carried out continuous evaluation
of progress. Follow-up actions were agreed upon, and supportive Goveranent policy sought. These
actions were instumental In initiating important decisions such as the establishment of an IPM
Technical Committee to guide IPM research and implementation, and chges in "Economic
Threshold Levels" f6: some pests.
24. Total project costs are estimated at $114 million, 95 percent of the original estimate. IDA
disbursemn  amountd to $81 million, 95 percent of the credit amount.
Project Results and Impact
25.    Measured against the stated objectives, project results are satisfactory. Aside from its failure
to stimulate an overall economic adjustment, the other objectives were largely met. The project
provided immediate support to GOS's action program, including balance of payments supporL It
intoduced insttutional and policy chges in the irigated subsector, and supplied agricultural iputs
for crop production. The impact on production in irrigated areas (see Annex 2, Table 1) is difficult



-7 -
to mure as there were many other factors at play. Following a drought in 1989, the irrigated
schemes devoted more resources to food crops during the 1990/91 agricultural season, resulting in
a decline in cotton production.
26.   The most iportant and far reaching impact made by the project was related to the opatk_s
of the ACs. After the mlementation of ARP m, the operations of the ACs became more
seamlined, providing the basis for easier monitoring and management. The ACs adopted a standard
procedure for budgeting, based on more accurate inventory data and on the recommendations of
agricultural research. Costs and credit requirements were therefore more precsely known. Based
on their costs and sale prices, the ACs were able to establish cotton procurement prices. GOS went
a step further by stopping subsidies to the ACs through DOS lending. Further changes are underway.
lhe Blue Nile Corporation is now in the process of being privadized while the toles of some other
ACs are being reduced.
27.   Other project benefits included foreign exchange savings through the judicious use of
pesticides (Annex 4), and increased revenue from land and water charges (Annex 3). The project
raised the awareness at ministerial levels of the need for improvement in pest management practies,
paricularly reducing pesticide use for economic as well as ecological reasons. The awareness led
to a number of concrete actions which could represent sustainable improvements. Also, obsolete
pestdcides scatered over the irrigation areas were collected although not yet destroyed (see para. 21).
Project Sustanability
28.   Project sustainability can be discussed only with regard to the institutional strengthening
component as the financing of a single season's agricultural inputs is not a sustainable development
activity. Project interventions in AC operations resulted in improved operational methods which were
incorporated in their daily administration and procedures. The studies also paved the way for more
fundantal changes in the ACs' roles and might lead to the privatization of some.
29.   Ihe pesticide handling system introduced by the project is a long-lasting achievement. This
is not only due to the introduction of the physical handling procedures established by the project, but
mainly due to the important sensitization process. More people are now aware of the hazards of
chemical pesticides, and thus of the need to handle and apply them with caution. However, such
awareness would require continuous reinforcement if the gains made are to persst
Bank Perfonnace
30.   Following the experiences of ARP I and H, the Bank was overly optimistic that ARP m
would stimulate broader macroeconomic adjustment. While such an approach may work in other
countries, it has not worked in Sudan due to difficult political conditions. The irrigated subsector
reforms supported by the project were in the right direction, but they were meant to be only interim
measures. A more basic change in production relationships, such as the decontrol of production and
marketing, is just beginning to take shape. The lack of proper project formulation and omission of
preparation of detailed working papers caused delays in some components. One of them, the
strengthening of MOANR, did not happen, partly due to the lack of guidelines from the Bank and
partly to GOS's oversight. The President's Report also did not present clearly the project rationale,
focus and targets.



-8-
31.   Thes weakns were compensated by a very focused and isive supervsion of ARP m.
(The ratio of supevion to preparation/appraisal was 1.4:1 over the life of the project). Nine
supervision missions reviewed implementation i a period of four years. Six of these missions were
steffed with the same Bank specialist In ecology and entomology. Several new studies also arose as
a result of mission recommendations. 'Me program implemented was therefore wider in scope tha
oiginally envisaged. Oveal, the supervision reports set yardsticks for perfrmnce, and pwvided
guidance to AUACIRPMU in implemtatn.
B8ww Peormce
32.   GOS did not carry out overl macroeconomic adjustment, which was the underlying rationale
for ARP m. However, it fulfilled the project's sector-specific conditionalities as well as a few
additional measures aimed at improving the operations within the Irrigation sector. These include the
abolition of BOS guaanteed financing to e ACs and a drastdc increase of irrigation water rates.
33. The institutional arrangement of having two bodies in charge of implementation - AUAC for
project coordination and RPMU for procurement and account mainte   - was not a good model
for efective oversight of implementation. The delays in completig the pesticide handling activities
were responsible for extension of the project dosing date. Several supervision mission reports
highlighted the need for AUAC and RPMU to coordinate their activities more effectively.
34.   Oversight by the adminstrative ministry, MOANR, was minimal. Furthrmore, the ministry
did not carry out a study for its reorgaaion.  It missed the opporunt to undertake a
comprehensive and critical review of itself. ThiBs exercise would have helped it prepare for its new
role when agriculture is progressively privatized under new government initiatives. AUAC was
effective in promotng reforms in parastat budgetng and accunts and separation of land and water
charges. However, as coordinator, it could have exercised better oversight over other project
activities as well as procremenL
Projet Relationship
35. The relationship between GOS and the Bank remained cordial during the project
implementation period. Both GOS and the Bank maintained good understanding even during the
period when pesticide manufactrers exerted strong pressre to push their interests.
Cosultng Services and Studies
36.   The project carried out ten studies, more than the six specifically mentioned in the President's
Report Two studies on edible oil and gum arabic were drpped as similar studies were undertaken
by other donors. The studies completed were mainly concerned witb the irrigation and cotton
subsectors (Table 6C). Most of their recommendations were implemented, particularly those
concerning improvement of the ACs' efficiency. Another two regarding the recycling of pesticide
containers and assessment of obsolete pesticides led to the fomulaton of clear GOS normative
measures, i.e. the banning of public sale of drums and the assembly and safe storage of sctered
outdated pesticides.
37.   The project provided for about 205 man-months of technical assistance over two years. Ihe
total technical assistance used was close to 300 man-months. This reflect the extension of the project
by two and half years, and would have been much greater if It were not for the under-utilization of



-9-
the MOANR allocations. The latter was expected to utilize a total of 49 man-months of technical
assistance, consisting of 22 man-months of an organization advisor, 21 man-months of an economist
and 6 man-months of an agricultural economist, but none of these were used. In general, the
performance of the consultants was satisfary.
Project Docm  tto
38. A major shrtcoming of the project was the lack of adequate preparation and working papers.
The absence of these documents made difficult the establishment of project targets, the definition of
organization ad management responsibilities and the monitoring of the project. Pinning down the
phasing of project activities, particularly in the institution streogthening component, was not easy.
The President's Report and the Development Credit Agreement, although useful, could not become
substitutes for detailed data on project activities, their phasing and implementation responsibilities.
39.   Forunaely, the AUAC made up to a large extent for this deficiency by establishing targets
and procedures following discussions with Bank supervision missions. The AUAC maintained
adequate d    an  and filing of project related data and accounts, which facilitated the
preparation of this PCR.
Lasons Laed
40.   The lessons learned are summarized as follows:
(a)   In Sudan, the use of quick-disbursing Input support programs in agriculture (ARP I,
Il and 1}1) failed to achieve the expected benefits because the macroeconomic
program which they were meant to encourage and support was not implemented in
a serious manner. Future quick-disbursing programs in the county would have to
follow the Bank's policy which requires a clear understanding with the government
on an overall stabilization and structual program before quick-disbursing, policy-
based lending can be approved.  It would also be advisable to require the
implementation of macroeconomic reforms up front;
(b) Despite three programs to supply agricultural inputs, GOS has not yet addressed the
issue of establishing a sustinable input supply system. With the changing roles of
the ACs which had hitherto channeled all project-financed agricultua inputs, a
strategy for the formation of a futumre system with the greater involvement of the
private sector is required; and
(c)    Lck of clearly spelled out targets and institutional responsibilities are bound to delay
project implementation or lead to the exclusion of some components. However,
incomplete project design can be improved in the course of project implementation
if project management is active and Bank supervision is intensive. Gains in the
pesticide handling component demonstrated this.



- 10-
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower's comment on Parts I and LII has not yet been received.



- 11s -
PART mU: STAThSTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Credits
P|1je! Title               Pwrese                      Year of      Stat
Agriculu   Rehbihtaton    Provsion of nputs and         1980      Compleed
Prgrmm  I                  studies on cottn pncng,                 in 1983
1000-SU                    maketing and irriation
m1anagement"/
Now Half& Irigation        Improving irigation          1980      Complet
Rehabilitation             efficiency and crop                     in 1989
1022-SU                   production
Blue Nile Pump Schemes    Improving irrigation          1981      Completed
Rehabiiton                 efficiency and crop                     in 1990
1118-SU                   production
White Nl-e Pump Schemes   Imprving irgation             1981      Comlted
Rehabilitation             efficiency and crop                     in 1987
1119-SU                   pructiodn
Gezira Rehabilitation      lmprving  igation            1983       Ongoing
1388-SU                   efficiency and crop
producion
Agcultb     R bilitation II Provision of pesticides and  1983     Completed
1389-SU                   other inputs for 1983/84                 in 1986
season,/
Agricultbal Extension and   Stengthnng of aricutul    1985         Ongoing
Training                   extesion services
1639-SU
R Rabtatn pojets strived to stop t shp decline in prodtin and volume of expors of Sudla's
brdkkml cash crps. rs was to be achieved tusgit financing af spa, mahiey and equipent to SB
6i orvestmait_ prviso of foreigxchange to import cennt inputs; and bitodtction of policy and i
iform. ank rhablitation fou was on the major agrlul schm  whr oton is gon.



- 12 -
Table 2. Project Timetable
Item                    Planned Date        Revised Date           Actual Date
Appraisal1'                                                        July 1985
Negotiations1           November 1985    November 1987             November 1987
Board Approval                                                     December 22, 1987
Credit Signature                                                   January 25, 1988
Credit Effectiveness                                               April 14, 1988
Credit Closing         June 30, 1990        June 30, 1991          December 31, 1992
June 30, 1992
December 31, 1992
No Stff Appaisl Rpot ws prepard for this pree but ather a Prdents Report An ealier
venion of thw project WaS apprisd in July 196S. NegoItios waem not conmlete unil an agreemet
betwe  the IMP and 0MS on a set of refoms was weachd in October 1987. The earlier appsWal was
updated in Septebr 1987.



- 13 -
Table 3. Credit Disbursement (US$ million)
FSscai Year    Appraisal Esthnate           Actual          Actual as % of
___ _ Annual   Cumulative   Anntal  Cumulative   Estimate
1988      -51.5       51.5         0        0                  0
1989       33.0       84.5        59.89     59.89             71
1990        0.5      85.0         16.24     76.13             90
1991                  _            3.18     79.31        _
1992                               1.54     80.85*
* Actual cumulative as of end FY 1992. To be updated when the credit account closes.



- 14-
Table 4. Project  Ipl           On                       Table 4
Page I of 2
A. GemI
bdicdw            ~~unit       Estimates"t      ActuaiP             CoGmMuut
Robabuitafimof           store            2               0      Cancelled; fiuds eallocated
exoft  do U   '                                                  to new stonm and sheds
Newt slo<v               store            17              0      Madials puchased;
constuto underay
New ibet                  abtd            30              0      Mateals puaed;
constmction underway
MOANR
. Adviwr t Mter         mim             s18            48      Posted prior to proect
. Orgmizif  Advism      Mlm             22               0      Not posiioned becausoe the
insttution btWheniag
compont was not
imprnnte&
Eoooondd          Mt=/r           21              0
5.Agr. Scnn               m/m              6            Q
67             48
AUAC
. Finen A xvisar        m/m             s18             45
A. ituld*               mlm             s18             48
A A     Bomowist        mlm             s18             48
Fn. L Mt Specaist       m/m              i             -
72            189
ACs
. Finsmoid Advmwaim                     66              54
=11 =  = =D
Total              mlrn/r         205S            291
M O                            ~       ~      ~~~~~S  S
Shdiw                                      see Table 6C
see Table 4B
Tue Praddes  port does no conta tagt; seted rsets have be  taen from worg papers pead
scmn aer da  desivan
21 Soume: AUAC.
Ei E      s fm u Pfem dutWes PRt.
# Only vahm were esmatedW  Pmdats Rimt Physa qustte We estashe  d           upl_mein.



is -
Table 4
Page 2 of 2
B. Trainin"
tituon                      Subject                  Lcaon   Duwaton
(months)
AUAC          M.Sc. Rural Development                  overseas       1S
Data base management                     overseas       3
M.Sc. Agr. Economics                    overseas       12
Management information systems           overseas       3
Diploma in Development Planning          overseas       8
Data processing                         overseas        5
M.Sc. Development Studies               overas         15
Diploma in Economics                    overseas       10
Agriciltural   Training of accountants (30-50 each in   local      3-6 each
Corporations   Gezira, Rahad, New Hafa)
Pestcides handling                        local         4
Source: AUAC.
u      Tamn aounne wOn not specifiad i ft Pidats' Repost
2t     Arial Wayi tihmiquae fot eiomloS



- 16-
Table S
Table S. Project Costs and Fiacing                            Page 1 of 2
A. Project Costs
_  twates                       Actual"'    Actual as
item 
Local        Foreig            Total           Total       FAtIwates
Exchange
**t*#*** *...*.,             US$inio1            *.
Agricultural inputs              -           97.00           97.00           95.82          99%
of which
. Pesticides                     -           60.00           60.00           51.96          86%
. Perdlizer                      -           20.00           20.00           28.37         142%
. Jute matials                   -            17.00          17.00           15.49          91%
Fuel and lubricants              -             6.00            6.00           8.98         150%
Spare parts                      -             6.50            6.50           5.05          78%
Pesticide storage                1.00          1.30            2.30           0.88          38%
and hWndiW
Institutional                   0.90           2.90            3.80           3.30          87%
strengtheing and
swdes
Contingencies                   0.10           4.30            4.40
Total                           2.00        118.00          120.00          114.03          95%
Source President's Report and AUAC.
'j199119 prevWonal; ecudes flit uiC moufts of PY 1992(9 conuspoding to 6 monfth eaensiconof credi
closing date as no dafta wer readily availale.
2'  Componds to O" catego y 6 (ivil w ) in pjct accouts (see Annex t); nowe sm   minr oost under
this componet an undr caegoy 5 (veicl  and equipment) and 7 (tchnical assistame and ttaiigl) both of
which hwave been fully all4otd to 1nstio   S b_AOg and Stud  (se  onot 3 below).
Corm (epodo to oot Sego  5 (vehidles tud cq*n) and 7 (tcbnical paia) ia                 (se
Annx 1). note: ths   bude sm  minor cost peaning to the Petice tore and Handling componet



- 17-
Table S
Page 2 of 2
B. Project F cing
Sources                Planned         Revised         Actual
IDA
1. Pesticides                    50.0           51.28           51.36
2. Jute Sacks/Baling Material    13.0            14.22           14.22
3. Fuel & Lubricants              6.0            6.05            6.05
4. Spare Parts                    6.5            7.71            5.22
S. Vehicles & Equipment           0.8             1.49           0.45
6. Civil Works                    2.0            1.05            0.81
7. Consltants Services &          2.5            3.20            2.74
Training
8. Unallocated                    4.2             0               0
Cr.118-SU a/                    0.4             0               0
Cr.l119-SUa/                    0.1             0               0
Other Donors
EEC Grant                        n.a.            n.a.           20.47
Dutch Grant                      n.a.            n.a.            7.90
Danish Grant                     n.a.            n.a.            2.98
Swiss Grant                      n.a.            n.a.            1.79
IQtal                  =4.2            n.a.             4
GOS                                 0.3            n.a.            0.04
Total                  120.0                          114.03
a/    Blue Nile and While Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Projects. No actual
disbursement was made from these credits as ARP mII had sufficient funds for the
privatization studies.



- 18 -
Table 6
Table 6. Project Results               Page 1 of 3
A. Economic Impact
Appra Estmate             PCR Estimate
Economic rate of return       Not applicable           Not applicable
B. nandcal Impad
Fancal Rates  of Return    Apprisal Estimate          PCR Estimte
Financia rate of retmr         Not applicable          Not aplicable



2|                |iEiiqF         IiI I
11~ ~    ~s ji Ils j        iji '1t 1jitF1}t W it.



-20-
Table 6
Page 3 of 3
C. Studies (contiued)
Studies               Purpos                      St                impact
EL Additional studies
a) Genewal
Land and Water      Standardizing the mothodology for    Completed   Methodology and
Commtes             detminatio and separadon of land              recommendions
and water charges; suggest recovery          implenmnted by GOS
system
Aerial spaying of    Safe handling and use of pesticides   Completd   Adoptions of
inscicides and                                                    recommendations related
environmental isss in                                             to: a) unloading ramps, b)
Oezira                                                            closed tasfer system c)
protective clothing and
mobile showers
Recycling of pesticides Safe handling, usage, storag, and    Completed   Need for hot water/steam
containes           disposal of used connrs                       drum cleaning equipment
identified; prourmet in
progre
E.valuaion and      Quantification of obsolete pesticides  Completed   Obsolet pesticides
assesmmt of obsolete  nd contminated soils; mesur  of             identified, being
and banned pesicides  disposd and conditions for stage            consolidated at single site
as interim measure
Cotton Seed Acid    Evaluation of a methodology and  Started in   In progress
Delining            efflcts of acd delindng in order to   1991
substitute chemical teatment of seeds
Feasibility of lar  Technical and finacial feasibility    Identified    Not yet implemented
scale adoption of acid  study                        Feb. 1992
delindag                                             Study being
b) under MOI
NIRP supplementary   Financial and ecomic evaluation of Complted   Rept recived
saules              NItP
Environmu  l        Policy ue rlted to water resouce Identified    Under implementtion
_tpsulntpaper       utilzton                         Feb. 1992
and enviomental impact           Study being
Roseires Heightening  Expert Review of onloSdtaet's report Completed
pallel              on heightening of Roseires Dam
c) wder MOANR
esk reviews of      Puture role of ainfed faming; impact  entified    Under implementation
various documents    of horizntal expansion of ceal  Feb. 1992
crops in the irrigation subsector  Study being
oqpcnised



-21-
Table 7. Status of Major Covenauts                        Table 7
Page 1 of 2
Coveant                 Suect                Deadlie for              S
Complian
DCA 4.01(a)           Bonower to maintain                           In compliance
-dqe records aind
accounts
DCA 4.01(b) (i)       Have its accounts audited                     in compliance
DCA 4.01 (b) (ii)     Fumi audited accounts                         In compliance. Audited
to IDA, not laer than 4                       accounts up to 1990-91
months after the end of                       were fis    to IDA
each year                                     and found acceptable
DCA 4.01 (b) (iii)    Enable IDA                                    in compliance
represetatives to
examine records
DCA 5.01 (a)          Borrower to provide IDA                       in compliance
with a financing plan for
the acqusition of
recu t inputs for
1988-89 season
DCA 5.01 (b)          Borrower to funish a list                     In compliaonc
of specific pesticides
which would be eligible
for prcuremt for
198849 seon
DCA Schedule 3.1 -    Furn  its Public        June 30, 1988         in copliance
Conditionaity for     Investment Programme
release of second     for 1989-91 for reviw
trnhe                 and comments
DCA Schedule 3.2 -    Funish a plan setig     June 30, 1988         In compliance
Conditionality for    forth the methodology for
relase of second      demining Land and
tamhe                 Water Charges
DCA Schedule 3.3 -    Employ consultanb for    June 30, 1988        In compliance
Conditionality for    assisting MOANR and
release of second     ACs to improve their
trncle                efficiency
DCA Schedule 3.4 -    Fumish wok programme  June 30, 1988           In compliance
Coditionality for     for updating and
release of second     upgrading ACs' accounts
tche
DCA Schedule 3.5 -    Fumish proposals for    June 30, 1988         In compliance
Conditionality for    restucuing the
release of second     opeaions and
tuche                 magement of Blue Nile
and White Nile shme



-22 -
Table 7
Page 2 of 2
Coven                   Subject             Deadline for             stabs
Complac
DCA Schedule 3.6(a) -  Set ctedit allocations  June 30, 1988       in compliance
Conditionality for   from BOS to ACs and
releaso of second     SCC for Fiscal 1988-89
DCA Scedule 3.6(b) -  Provide options for     June 30, 1988        in complianc
Conditioality for    reguaring outandig
rlease of second      advances fom BOS to
*-nho                 ACs and SCC
DCA Schedo 3.7 -    Furnish proposals for     June 30, 1988        In compliance
Continality for      revision of scope of
relas of second       ongoing studies and work
ttche                 p ogmme for their
complefion
DCA ScheduLe 3.8 -    Bofrower has made       June 30, 1988        in compliance
Conditionality for    progress in
release of sond       implementtion of the
tunche                IPM Pogramm



-23 -
Table 8. Use of Bank Rsources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of    1984   1985   1986   1987    1988    1989    1990    1991   1992    1993
pFk. Cycle
Pro. ,!oI                              -                   -       -I 
Preparato,     10.3   22.2    7.9
Appraisal       -              9.5            26.0      -       -       -       -        -
Negobiation                    7.1             5.5
SuMpevion                                     26.8    34.4    30.6    14.6    13.0    1.6
To_ld          10.3   22.2   24.5      0      58.3    34.4    30.6    14.6    13.0    1.6
B. Missions
Stage of Poject Mfonth   Number  Days in  SpcaiainRatns
Cycle            year       Of      Fied   ltepresented    Ava.  PrQect   De. .
Fund   MgmL   Impac   Stat
Preparaion3      04184       -
Appaisale       06-07/85     4        -            -          -        -        -       -
Post Appnaisal    12187      6         -
Supevision 1     03/88       1        10          EN          -        -        -       -
Supevisio 2    06-07/88      3        75        F,I,EN        1        3        2      3
Supevision 3     11/88       5       100     E,F,F,M,EN       1        2        2      2
Supervision 4    06189       4        48       F,IL,EN        -        -        -       -
Supervision S    09/89       1        10          EN'         -        -        -       -
Superviion 6     11/89       3        7         AIE,F         1        3        2      2
Supevision 7     04/90       3        24        AE,F          1        2        3      2
Supervision 8    0591        1        6           A           1        3        2      2
Supervision 9    02/92       2        24         AEN          1        3        2      2
v  A m AViot B - Econmist; EN EvmuitauEOlogiSt; P  Faial Anyst; I  zutnio
EnBinee, L- Lnd Use Speciaids; M = Marketin SpecaiaL
1 t m Probim fiee or minr psbian; 2 mnodoat pncms; and 3  m%jor pwblcm.
v ad prepm     caried out by aos and no detalls w avae le.
The aimbr of dy is the fidd ad s         attibuted to thi wogk not indicted piseyp, becae the
id= was handing diffeat a    sh for adher peects to.



-24-                        Annex 1
Co=ments from the Government of the Netherlands
AMBASSADE VAN HET KONINIRIJK DER NEDERLANDEN
ROYAL NETHERLANDS EMBASSY                            Date rd.  MAR 3 0 19931
Economic Division                                    DI8I0N CIflF
4200 Linnean Avenue N.W.
Washington D.C. 20008                                      otrculate ti
Tel. (202) 244-5300                                        d0splay  0
Telefax (202) 966-0737                                    d'scard  O
file    a
login   0
For Action
EA- 127363/gsb                                 March 18, 1993
World Bank
Mrs. Sushma Ganguly
Division Chief
Agriculture and Environment Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
Room JIO-053
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington DC 20433
Subject Sudan - Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, Project Completion Report.
Dear Mrs. Ganguly:
With reference to your letter of January 13, 1993 to Mr. Jurigens of the Netherlands
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I am pleased to inform you that we can agree with the draft
Project Completion Report attached to that letter.
You might, however, wish to add a list of abbreviations to the report, which would
enhance the average readers understanding of its contents.
Thank you very much for allowing us to review the draft before finalization.
Sincerely Y,
oROhl,
Second Secretary (Economic)
c.c. Ms. E. Herfkens.



DIRECrORATE-GENERAL
FOR DEVELOPMENT
VIII/E/1                  - 25 -                      Annex 2
Paa'e 1
Comlments from the European Communitv
Sublect:    Sudan - Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr.1866-SO)
- Project Completion Report.
Dear Mr Ganguly,
Thank You for your letter of 13.1.93 enclosing a draft project completion
report on the above oroject. The Commission shares the view of this World
Bank draft report on the failure of the project to stimulate economic
adjustment and the consequent need for stronger macroeconomic and sectoral
Dolicy conditionality in future. I enclose for your information a summary
of an evaluation study undertaken on behalf of the European Commission in
October 1991 on the EC financed Part of this Agricultural Rehabilitation
project. With specific reference to the EEC grant in the project financing
data in Table 58, 1 would inform you that 17,2 million ECU out of the
planned 17.8 million ECU was expended.
I Iegaard
Head of Division
Mr Sushma Ganguly
Division Chief
Agriculture and Environment Division
Eastern Africa Department
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, O.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Add'esS:            Tel                                      1ekei*k odikos:
Rde4e toLol 200     Direct in: 29B       C0MEU8 21877        COMEURUrwUSI



Summary                  - 26 -                      Annex 2
Page 2
An evaluation of three EC-funded import support programmes for the suppIy 6t
fertlizer was undertaken in September-October 1991. by a team of consultants from
the Netherlands Economic Institute together with counterparts from the Ministiy of
Finance and Economic Planning, the Advisoy Unit for Agrwultural Corporations,
the Agricultural Research Corporation, the Sudan Gezira Board and from the Suli,
Blue Nile and White Nile Corporations.
The dthee import support programmes were approved in 1982, 1983 and 1988
respectively. Implementation of the programmes was initially successfl. Fertlizer
delivery and generation of local cutrency funds under the first two programmes
proceeded according to schedule. Utilization of the countervalue funds expenenced
serious delays, however, and only minimal amounts were disbursed during the first
4 years. Under the third programme, ferdlizer delivery continued to proceed
smoothly but payment arrears of countervalue funds arose. At the tme of the
evaluation (October 1991) resulting arrears amount to .Sd.25 million. Disbursement
of countervalue funds meanwhile accelerated with the result that available funds
were disbursed by September 1991.
In tis summary the main condusions and recommendations of the three import
support programmes are presented. A distinction is made in: (i) admintation and
financial aspects, (ii) use of countervalue funds, (iin) fertilizer use, and (iv) macro-
economic aspects.
Ad-minstration and financial aspects. The evaluation concluded that the physical
aspects of the progrmes, viz. procurement, shipment, clearing, tansport,
tribution and delivery of the fertlizer to the tenant farmers, functioned well. The
financial and adninsative system, however, was not adequate, while GOS did
not respect contactual obligations with regard to ferilize shipment in 1989. Non-
payment of the countevalue of a number of shiploads resulted in serious
implementation delays of projects to be financed with the countervalue. The
perons and organisations designated in the financing agreement as having full or
"primar.y responsibility for one or more of the tasks did not possess the necessary
authority or power to implement them and were overruled in a number of cases.
Use of coutrvalue funus. The first two import support prograes (AMRP 1 and
2) were designed to generate countervalue funds to finance the local costs of multi-
donor financed projects. Since, due to reasons beyond the control of the project,
the date of effectiveness and the subsequent implementation of these projects was
much delayed, the countervalue funds could not be used in time and not for the
original purpose.
Although, in terns of usage of countervalue funds, the third programme (SIP 1)
allowed for a more flexible approach, it lacked a comprehensive strategy for quick
and effective disbursements of these funds. Delays in disbursements from the
countervalue funds, under icumstances of high inflation, substantially reduced the
purchasing value of these funds.
Nevertheless, projects which were financed from the countervalue funds generally
have had a positive impac. However, it is Important to note that the use of



-27 -                     Annex 2
Page 3
countervalue funds must be seen in the light (i the overall objectives of commodity
aid programmes. If, commodity aid is primviy seen as financial support to an
economic reform programme, the dsbursements of this aid are usualy linked to
progress in the implementation of the reforn. ThWs implies that also the funding of
specific projects with the countervalue funds, becomes dependent on the progress
of economic reform. Therefore, projects ight have to be terminated halfway
implementation if, due to insuffident economic refo, import support programmes
are discontinued. If the prime objective of coxamodity aid is to support economic
reform, it is suggested to regard the countervalue of the commodity aid as general
budget support for the government, provided that agreement on the budget policy
is part of the agreed economic reform programme.
Ferlizer use. The evaluation includes a review of issues related to soil ferity and
fertilizer use in the irrigated sector. Ferti   recomnmendations for cotton should be
upgraded to include phosphorus. Soil survey work could usefully be expanded to
include additional areas as well as more detailed information about the
characteristics of the plough-soil. Research focusing on the interactions between soil
fertility, soil characteristics, water management and fertlz   use is alsq
recommended.
Macro-economic aspects. Although in the three financng agreements references
were made to the economic drcumstances, none of the three import support
programzr.es was specifically designed to assist GOS to meet explicit macro-
economic objectives. Nevertheless, commodity aid programmes usually have a
macro-economic impact, while in htrn macro-economic policies pursued infuence
the impact of commodity aid. With regard to the latter, the suctural macro-
economic imbalances negadvely influenced the potential positive impact of the
commodity aid. For example, the application of an overvalued offical exchange rate
to convert fertilizer aid into local curecy meant an implicit subsidy to farmers,
continuation of a relatively high ferilizer demand and a relatively low level of
generated countervalue funds.
Analysis of fertlizer import data reveals that most of the fertilizer is financed with
commodity aid and that in most years Sudan was able to arrange finandng for a
reasonable level of fertlizer imports. The EC-funded fertilizer import programmes
have helped to secure the requred ferliz  imports, but has not resulted in
increased fertlizer imports.
Due to the delayed spending of countervalue funds, its purchasing power eroded
substantially. When expressed in real terms, the actual expenditures amounted to
only 36% of the value of the original countervalue receipts. This implies that during
the implementation period 64% of the purchasing power of the countervalue funds
was lost due to inflation.
In view of the nature of commodity aid, the prime objective of a commodity aid
programme should be macro-economic support for an effective economic reform
programme. If there is agreement on the concept of such an economic reform
programme and satisfaction about its implementation, there is no need to be very
specific about the use of both the foreign exchange and the countervalue in local
currency. This because both the foreig exchange and import policy and the budget
and fiscal policy will be part of the economic reform programme.



- 28 -                      Annex 2
Page 4
If there is no economic refor, it shold be questioned whether commodity aid is
an appropriate aid instrment I such a situation it is recommended to follow the
project approach and to apprase each project on its own merits.
With regard to the project approach, a number of suggestions were fornulated
which might be wortwhwiJe to be pur=ed. This induded inter alia, institutional
strengtening, support for the reform  of agrcultural input supply as well as
support for individual corpOraffons such as the Suld Agrculual Corporation,
provided, however, that guarantees fo managerial and financial autonomy and
acCess to foreign exchange would be made. Investigation of the possibilities for
increased donor support for the tradional and infamal sectors, unaffected by
exdsting import support proVaes, is also suggested.



*ir                           _e;,e     im      al      300-                   ;4- 
KIinti     *i       u        us
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION  PROJECT III
LOCATION OF IRRIGATION SCHEMES
mmMTim wtsARAB   REPU C                                     EGYPT
I  At o 4? r H E A' IVt1                ,     RfDi,-,i;,it
1                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOKA;o
CHAD r
A|  O R  T H                                                                      i R  AD
*         -      I. I   N1AL E X  '
|~I ~          8     > BF   K O  R D 0  F A  N
3~~~~~~ \  __o A  2   
-e                                 E u   Sgsou,r HAGAR A5t    o'\
*OUs'~~S
A R f U R \ K                  OR     F A N
J                N  L E          E T H I O P I A
A ZA I  \                     s
CENTRAL AFRICAN   -7 O - O EI                         U N 
REPUBLIC                                  RA
___9__ |                                                  -_e  V  ERN  ASRN
TOR A)            f U A T OR  A
k <_r- -C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tor".\ 
| - AF    AK    ^           _                   t    UREPUBLIC OF ZAIR
~~~  ~~~                              U~~GANDA                      NA



