Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4684-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 64.4 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT III
December 1, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution aad may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Sudanese Pounds (LSd) = 100 Piastre
LSd 4.51               = US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (mt)         =           1000 kg (2,205 lb)
1 feddan (fd)             =           1.04 acres
1 kantar (seed cotton)   =            143 kg
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AC         -         Agricultural Corporation
ARP        -         Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
AUAC       -         Advisory Unit for Agricultural Corporations
BOS        -         Bank of Sudan
DPEA       -         Department of Planning and Economic
Administration
EAP        -         Export Action Program
1PM        -         Integrated Pest Management
MOANR      -         Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOFEP      -         Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOI        -         Ministry of Irrigation
PPC        -         Program Procurement Committee
RP'TJ      -         Rehabilitation Project Management Unit
SCC        -         Sudan Cotton Company
SGB        -         Sudan Gezira Board



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
Credit and Project Summary ...........................................  i-ii
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background ..................................................                1
Recent Political and :  giomic Developments .........I .       ........... 2
Assessment of the Government's Program ......... .          .............. 4
Medium-Term Adjustment and Long-Term Growth ..................... 5
PART II - BANK GROUP OPEKATIONS
Assistance Strategy ....................              .fi                     5
Experience with Past Lending .................................... 7
Relationships to Other Aid Flows ................................ 7
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Overview .................................................                   8
Irrigated Subsector ............................................. 8
Strategy for Revival of Agricultural Exports .................... 9
The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program Credits ................ 10
Agenda for Action .......................... ................... 11
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Rationale ..................                                        12
Rational for Bank Involvement ..................                            12
Project Objectives ..................                                       12
Project Components ............................................. 13
Procurement and Disbursements ..................                            16
Project Coordination and Monitoring ..................                      18
PART V - CREDIT CONDITIONALITIES
General .....                                                               19
Producer Incentives .19
Efficiency Improvements .20
Demand Management .22
Long-Term Issues .23
Other Conditions .24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART VI - ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
PART VII - BENEFITS AND RISKS
PART VIII - RECOMWENDATIONS
SCHEDULES
A     Project Cost Estimates
and Financing Plan
B     Disbursements
C     Supplementary Data
D     Status of Bank Group Operations in Sudan



SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT III
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Republic of Sudan
Beneficiaries:         Sudan Gezira Board; Rahad, New Halfa, and Sukl
Agricultural Corporations; and the Ministries of
Agriculture and Natural Resources and of Irrigation
Amount:                SDR 64.4 million (US$85.0 million)
Project:               Objectives.  The project would (i) provide financial
and technical support to Government's economic
recovery "Program of Action" announced in October
1987; (ii) strengthen and supplement ongoing efforts
to address key policy and institutional issues in the
irrigated subsector; (iii) sustain irrigated crop
production during the 1988/89 season; and (iv)
expedite resolution of long-term growth issues such
as reforming production relations on irrigated
schemes, removing obstacles to the expansion of
irrigated areas, and avoiding environmental
contamination through using chemical pesticides.
Components. The project would finance (i)
pesticides, jute sacks, fuel and lubrir sits, and
spare parts; (ii) pesticide storage anu handling
facilities; (iii) technical assistance and support
services for strengthening the Ministries of
Agriculture and Irrigation and the Agricultural
Corporations; and (iv) studies on (a) privatization
of management of irrigation schemes on the Nile; (b)
preparation of a national irrigation rehabilitation
program; (c) development of the edible oil subsector,
and (d) rehabilitation of gum arabic plantations.
Benefits. The project would (i) in the short term,
sustain production in the irrigated subsector,
support Government's stabilization program and pave
the way for a more comprehensive economic recovery
program; (ii) in the medium term, improve the
financial and accounting performance of agricultural
parastatals and the operating efficiency of the
Ministries of Agriculture and Irrigation; and (iii)
in the long term, protect the environment from
contamination from chemical pesticides, and assist
with resolution of issues that prevent full
exploitation of Sudan's irrigation potential.



- ii -
Risks. The major risk is failure of Government to
sustain the implementation of the economic recovery
program. This project and the planned IDA Economic
Recovery Credit would lend support to Government's
short- and medium-term recovery programs and, in the
process, minimize this risk.
Estimated Costst
------US$ Million--------
Local     Foreign       Total
Agricultural inputs        -          97.0          97.0
Fuel and lubricants        -           6.0           6.0
Spare parts                -           6.5          6.5
Pesticide storage and
handling                  1.0         1.3          2.3
Institutional
strengthening &
studies                    0.9         2.9          3.8
Contingencies              0.1         4.3           4.4
TOTAL                      2.0       118.0        120.0
Financinr Plan
IDA
Cr. 1118-SU             0.1         0.3          0.4
Cr. 1119-SU             -           0.1          0.1
Proposed Credit         1.6       83.4          85.0
Other Donors               -          34.2         34.2
GOS                        0.3        -             0.3
2.0      118.0         120.0
Economic Rate
of Return:               Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:                None
Map:                   IBRD No.   20693



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE rRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSES CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT III
Froms The President
1        The following report on a proposed development credit to Sudan for
SDR 64.4 million (US$85.0 million equivalent) is submitted for approval.
The proposed credit will be on standard IDA terms with 40 years -turity
and help finance an Agricultural Rehabilitation Project III.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 22 million and a
per capita GNP of US$346. Much of the country is sparsely populated.
4lthough about one-third of the land is desert or semi-desert, Sudan has
considerable untapped potential for agricultural development. About two-
thirds of the land are% is suitable for crop or pastoral production. The
economy is heavily dependent on exports of cotton, livestock, groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is relatively small, and
the country's infrastructure is weak. A potentially significant
development in Sudan's prospects was the discovery of oil reserves in the
southwestern part of the country. However, in 1983, differences between
the semi-autonomous southern region tnd the central Government led to re-
emergence of civil unrest in the South, which caused oil exploration
.ctivities to shut down.  Peace negotiations and military efforts by
successive governments have so far been unsuccessful, and the unrest has
hampered economic development, particularly in the South.
3.        Sudan's poor economic performance is largely the consequence of
inadequate economic management. The authorities have routinely tried to
substitute administrative regulations and controls for markets while
ignoring the deteriorating administrative capacity of the Government.
Factors outside the authorities' economic policy decisions -- such as the
oil price hike in the 1970s, resumed fighting in the South, three
consecutive years of drought in the 1980s, and reduced foreign capital
inflows -- have nonetheless exacerbated the poor economic performance and
further contributed to Sudan's already sizable external debt.



-2-
4.        Many of the current economic problems have their origin in the
Government's attempt during the 1970s to boost the economy with a wave of
nationalizations and substantial public investments financed by foreign
capital inflows.  The investments were partly misconceived and partly
mismanaged. As a result, the projected production of exports and import
substitutes and domestic resource mobilization did not materialize.
Although public revenues dwindled, public expenditures remained high.
Public sector demand on the domestic banking *;ystem rose sharply and pushed
monetary expansion up to 36 percent per annum in the 1980s. This
expansion, in turn, boosted inflation to about 34 percent. The investment
drive also contributed to growing deficits in the current account balance
of payments, deficits enlarged by oil price increases and a serious decline
in cotton production. Although the current account deficit was reduced
somewhat after 1982183 by efforts to increase exports and reduce imports,
domestic productien was severely curtailed due to lack of imported inputs.
Gross official reserves fell to only a few days' worth of imports, and
annual debt rescheduling on favorable terms was required to close balance-
of-payments gaps. After the last rescheduling in 1984, the country started
to accumulate substantial arrears. In addition, the replacement of the
conventional taxes on incomes and profits with the Islamic Zakat tax and
the Social Equity tax in 1984 aggravated the declining trend in revenues.
By 1985186 revenues had fallen to less than _ percent of GDP.
5.       During the early 1980s, the Government tried on several occassions
to establish financial equilibrium, restore export growth, improve the
performance of the public corporations, and install an adequate system for
management of the nation's external debt. However, these efforts were 4pW"
ad hoc, incomplete and unsustained and results were disappointing. A Bank
economic mission visited Sudan in February 1986, and its findings are
contained in its report distributed to the Executive Directors. l
Recent Political and Economic Developments
6.        Following the general election in April 1986, a coalition
government was formed that set out to deal with the difficult economic
situation facing the country. The Government committed itself to prepare a
medium-term comprehensive program of economic measures immediately after it
took office. IDA supported this endeavor with a contribution from the
Special Project Preparation Facility (SPPF). This program is expected to
be ready for review by the Bank and the Fund at the end of 1987.
7.       Up to June 1987, the Government's efforts to improve economic
policies were partial and tentative. The deterioration in the economy
therefore continued. Arrears on external obligations amounted to US$3.6
billion (730 percent of the country's commodity exports), and Central
Government deficits continued to be more than 10 percent of GDP in 1986/87,
although the Government's current expenditures were within the budgeted
amount. Inflationary pressures mounted as budgetary recourse to bank
l/"Problems of Economic Adjustment%, No. 6491-SU of June 19, 1987.



-3-
credit for financing cotton production and marketing and for price &ipport
related purchases of oil seeds and sorghum amounted to about 10 percent of
GDP in 1986|87. Also, improvement in operational efficiency of parastatal
enterprises was inadequate.  Remittances through offlcial channels from
Sudanese working abroad practically dried up, and imports were reduced to a
record low, further depressing capacity utilization in various sectors.
Private sector activities in tradeable production have plummeted, as
controls and resulting distortions substantially lowered their returns
relative to those of parallel market activities. Hesitancy by the
Government to undertake a comprehensive reform may have been partly due to
the need to achieve public consensus for a broader policy program.
Furthermore, conflicts between the governing coalition parties caused a
sudden cabinet reshuffle in May 1987 and withdrawal of one of the parties
from the coalition.
8.       Undaunted by the difficult situation, the Government launched in
October 1987 "A Program of Action of the Government of Sudan" to lay the
basis for comprehensive adjustments. The key objectives of the program art.
(i) to ensure sustained growth in output sufficient to permit an increase
in per capita income and consumption levels and increase the availability
of essential commodities; (ii) to moderate the rate of monetary expansion,
which, together with improved supplies, is intended to lower the rate of
inflation; and (iii) to improve the country's balance of payments position
with a view to reducing, over time, the dependence on foreign aid. A brief
discussion of these measures follows.
9.       Exchange and Trade Policy:  A unified exchange rate has been
established at an initial rate of LSd 4.51 - US$1.00 with effect from
October 3, 1987, representing a depreciation of 44 percent against the
official rate and 29 percent aisinst a trade-weighted average rate. The
authorities are committed to pursuing a flexible exchange rate policy.
With the exception of five sensitive commodities (bread, pharmaceuticals,
gas and fuel oil, kerosene and LPG), representing some 25 percent of
projected imports during the current fiscal year there has been a full
pass-through of the exchange rate action into prices. "Own-resources"
financing has been re-introduced by permitting a wide range of agricultural
and industrial inputs and essential commodities (some 40 odd items) to be
imported.
10.      Banking Policy.  In November 1987, a Compensatory Rate system was
introduced within the Islamic banking system in existence sin e September
1984. A rate, which represents a m'd-point between the lending and deposit
rates, will be set each quarter at three percentage points above the
annualized quarterly rate of inflation (currently based on the cost-of-
living index). The initial starting rate was 25 percent, yielding a
lending rate of 27 percent and a twelve-month deposit rate of 24 percent.
The cost-of-living index understates the actual rate of inflation, so it
will be reviewed in order to improve coverage and timelines.



-4-
11.      Agricultural Producer Prices and Price Controls.  It is the
Government's policy to ensure that procurement prices for key agricultural
commodities provide adequate incentives for growers. Since 1984, cotton
and wheat prices are announced each year, after consultation with IMF and
the Bank, and studies have confirmed that growers have been adequately
remunerated. Consultations on wheat and cotton prices for 1987188 have
just been completed and price announcements are expected shortly. The
methodology for working out cotton and wheat prices is sound, but the bases
for groundnut, sorghum, sesame and gum arabic prices are not as vigorously
derived. Besides, Government has not maintained a stable price regime for
these products, with the nature of price controls changing frequently. The
Government recently announced support prices of LSd 55 per kantar for
groundnuts, LSd65 and LSd61 per kantar respectively for white and mixed
sesame ad LSd 400 per kantar for gum arabic. The price for gum arabic is
substantially higher than last year's, and the introduction of a ptemium
price for white sesame is expected to strengthen producer incentives.
Nevertheless, considerable work still needs to be carried out to establish
appropriate domestic price regimes for these products and for sorghum, the
1987/88 support price for which has not yet been announced.
12.      Fiscal and Monetary Policies.  The supply-side measures will be
supported by measures to limit the overall growth in domestic liquidity in
1987/88 to about 23 percent, compared with 34 percent in 1986/87 or from
about 8 percent of 1986/87 GDP to 5 percent of 1987/88 GDP. The main
adjustment will come from the fiscal side, where a combination of
exesnditure restraint and revenue measures will yield some 3 percent of GDP
and cause a decline in budgetary bank borrowing to 2 percent of GDP. The
measures include increases in the prices of benzene products and sugar,
higher collections from import duties, and excise taxes on cement and a
number of other products. The benefits to the budiet would have been
higher but for the decision to retain and maye explicit subsidies on five
sensitive items affected by the exchange rate change (para 9) and by the
need to protect low-income workers through an increase in the minimum wage
and transri-rtation allowances. To supplement the fiscal measures, credit
to the pa .statal sector will be contained, while ensuring that the private
sector's needs for credit for productive purposes are fully met. In
particular, the Government intends to ensure that the large credit
financing for sorghum and oilseeds in 1986187 will not be repeated in
1987/88 as carry-over stocks are sold and the private sector plays a larger
role in the marketing of these crops. Further, monetary policy will
continue to ensure more realistic returns on savings and charges on loans.
Assessment of the Government's Program
13.      The measures in the Government's program provide a good beginning
to a recovery pi;gram and represent a welcome departure from the ad hoc and
partial approaches of the recent past.  But, more needs to be done.   The
wide apparatus of quantitative and price controls is essentially in place
and implementation of the promised liberalization of trade and prices has
not yet started. In addition, public finance and the parastatal sector need



more serious reforms. But if the Government is able to implement the
measures in the program faithfully, it would substantially improve Sudan's
credtbility among donors and other financiers, including Sudanese nationals
working abroad. This is imperative if Sudan is to regularize its serious
foreign debt problem and to obtain the foreign exchange required for a
comprehensive progra1. of economic recovery. The Bank will provide
assistance as long as the Government's commitment and timely implementation
of the program continue.
Medium-Term Adjustment and Long-Term Growth
14.      Building on the foundation laid by the October 1987 launching of
"A Program of Action of the Government of Sudan" (para 8), the Government
is preparing a medium-term plan for comprenensive economic reform (para 6).
Bank missions visited £udan in recent months to discu.ss the program and to
design Bank support. The proposed Agricultural Rehabilitation Project III
will underpin initiatives already taken, and an Economic Recovery Credit is
planned in 1988/89 to support the medium-term economic program.
15.      In the medium to long term, agriculture vill continue to be the
major source of growth. Intensified production in existing areas and the
expansion of areas under Nile irrigation are potential sources of growth.
Likewise, development of technology, infrastructure and institutional
support services for the rainfed (mechanized and traditional) sectors,
together with measures to arrest degradation of natural resources, can
contribute significantly to increases in output. In addition, the
livestock and forestry sectors hcld considerable promise for growth. But
the prospects for exploiting this potential for growth in the agricultural
sector are contingent on the successful implementation of the proposed
economic recovery program.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.      World Bank Group commitments to Sudan equal US$1.1 billion.  Of
this amount, US$33.0 million are IFC commitments. There have been eight
loans (two on Third-Window terms) and 41 credits, for a total of 49
projects. Twenty-two projects are under implementation. Half of the
Bank/IDA lending has been for agricultural development; the other half
covers projects in a wide range of sectors. A summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of March 31, 1987 is shown in
Scheuule D.
Assistance Strategy
17.      The Bank Group's assistance strategy has been to encourage and
support, in conjunction with the IMF, Government efforts to undertake a
broad economic reform program to address structural imbalances in the
economy and thus lay the foundation for self-sustaining growth. The



-6-
adjustment issues that require immediate attention are the need for higher
levels of domestic resource mobilization and for an environment conducive
to private investment. Higher domestic resource mobilization, particularly
increased efforts in raising fiscal revenues and continued discipline on
the expenditure side, should be combined with changes in the price
structure to favor tradable production. Flexible prices are, therefore, a
prerequisite for successful economic adjustment. In this light, Bank
support of the Government's program announced in October 1987 is
conditioned on the seriousness of implementation and on the Government's
commitment to medium-term adjustment. The Bank also considers that
improved operational efficiency in the parastatal sector is critical for
the country's economic recovery and is thus involved in assistance for this
sector, through its ongoing lending operations.2
18.      The Barn's lending portfolio, including this credit, reflects the
position that exploiting the country's agricultural potential is the key to
sustained growth and improved export performance. Production should be
stimulated by incentive prices, improved management, and technology
generation and dissemination. The international competitiveness of the
agricultural sector should be maintained and producer prices kept at
incentive levels without resorting to inflationary financing. Bank lending
for both irrigated and rainfed agriculture, including livestock
development, has therefore been substantial. In recent years, the Bank has
directed its attention toward the rehabilitation of existing capital assets
and the removal of bottlenecks in productive sectors. In addition to
physical rehabilitation, a major focus has been improved management of
Agricultural Corporations (ACs) in the irrigated areas to promote financial
autonomy and accountability and to improve monitoring of the ACs by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MOANR). The Bank's lending
program for the future envisages investments and technical assistance
directed toward (i) improving cotton processing and marketing, (ii)
upgrading research, extension and support services to the traditional
(including livestock) and mechanized farming sub-sectors, (iii)
strengthening the Ministry of Irrigation (MOI) on both organization and
maintenance as well as project preparation and implementation, and (iv)
revamping the management of Sudan's forestry resources with a strong
emphasis on conservation.
2/Through ongoing projects, the Bank is assisting the Guneid, New Halfa,
Assalaya and Sennar Sugar Corporations; the National Electricity
Corporation; the Sudan Port Authority; the Gezira, New Halfa, Blue Nile
and White Nile Irrigation schemes; the Western Savannah Corporation; the
Agricultural Research Corporation and the Agricultural Bank of Sudan. The
Bank Board, in addition, approved in May 1987 the "Public Enterprise and
Economic Management Project.'



-7-
Experience with Past Lending
19.      The Bank's assistance strategy has beer successful. in encouraging
the Government to undertake measures that have restored cotton production
to the levels achieved in the early 1970s. This production increase was
brought about by a combination of rehabilitation projects and import
financing credits for the irrigated cotton producing schemes. However,
efforts to raise the-quality of irrigation services and improve the
financial performance of the parastatals running the irrigation schemes
have been less successful. The Bank has extended substantial support to
the Government's efforts to develop technology and build up the
institutional framework, two prerequisites for growth in the rainfed
sector. But much remains to be done in these areas. The Bank also helped
introduce a cycle of annual policy papers containing updated three-year
rolling public-investment programs. This initiative was instrumental in
keeping public investment at an appropriate level. The Bank's future
lending operations will focus on gaining further momentum in these areas
under the Government's economic recovery program.
20.      Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan
has been mixed. There have been avoidable delays in procurement of both
goods and services, and project implementation. Belated delivery of
equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects most
projects. Weak project management --due to both the drain of skilled
manpower to the Middle East oil-rich countries and the inability of
Government to attract the best available talent to manage project entities-
- has hampered progress in achieving project objectives on a number of
projects. Delays have also occurred in meeting the Bank's conditions for
credit effectiveness, hiring key staff, and in providing timely audited
accounts. Although the import-financing credits (Agricultural
Rehabilitation Programs I and II) were disbursed fairly rapidly,
disbursements under traditional projects have generally been delayed, and
closing dates have frequently been extended.
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
21.      Bank and IDA lending--including new commitments and disbursements-
- represent about 10 to 15 percent of total aid flows to Sudan. Bank and
IDA obligations represent about 6 percent of Sudan's total outstanding and
disbursed debt. Bank/IDA debt service was only about 1 percent of Sudan's
external debt service falling due in 1986/87. Although this percentage may
rise slightly in the coming years, it will remain a very small portion of
Sudan's total debt service obligations.



-8-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Overview
22.       The agricultural sector dominates the Sudanese economy.  It
provides the livelihood for 80 percent of the population and contributes
about 32 percent of GDP, 95 percent of exports, and almost 100 percent of
inputs for the country's industrial sector. There are three distinct
subsectors: irrigated, mechanized rainfed, and traditional rainfed
agriculture. A review of the sector is included in the Bank economic
report issued in February 1987 (Report No. 6491-SU). A Government study of
the rainfed subsectors financed by an IDA Special Project Preparation
Facility and a sector report on forestry were issued in 1986. These sector
reviews led to increased investments by the Government and donors in the
rainfed areas. IDA assistance includes two projects under implementation
(Western Savannah Development Project, Cr.1640-SU, and Western Sudan
Agricultural Research Project, Cr.834-SU) and three under preparation
(Southern Kordofan and South Kassala Agricultural Development Projects and
a Forestry Project). The irrigated subsector, which produces 95 percent of
all cotton exports, has been at the center of Sudan's economic recovery
efforts and the focus of Bank lending for agriculture during the past seven
years. The proposed project would concentrate on the irrigated subsector.
The Irrigated Subsector
23.       The first large-scale gravity-irrigated project in Sudan was
started in the 1920s at Gezira, initially for the cultivation of cotton as
an export crop. There are now five major Government-owned irrigation
schemes: Gezira-Managil (2 million feddans combined), New Halfa (0.4
million feddans), Rahad (0.3 million feddans), and the Blue and White Nile
Pump Schemes (0.7 million feddans combined). Cotton is still the most
important crop, but the schemes also prcduce groundnuts, sorghum, and
wheat. There are also five irrigated sugar-producing schemes.
24.       There was a sharp decline in cotton yields and production during
tL! 1970s.  Production of seed cotton was only 1.8 million kantars (kt) in
1980/81, compared with 5.0 million kt in 1970171. The area cropped fell
from 1.0 million to 0.87 million feddans (fd). The most significant
decline, however, was in yields for long-staple cotton: 2.1 kt per fd in
1980(81 compared with 3.0 kt per fd in the late 1970s and 4.3 kt per fd in
the early 1970s. As a result, other crop areas rose, even though Sudan's
comparative advantage lies in cotton. Yields of other crops, like those of
cotton, also declined.
25.       The irrigated schemes are managed by parastatal corporations,
which provide most inputs and services. The MOI is responsible for
delivering irrigation water, and the tenants supply the labor. A major
reason for the deterioration in cotton output was that the distribution of
responsibilities and revenues between the Government, the corporations, and
the tenants created serious disincentives to cotton cultivation.



-9-
Particularly, under the 'Joint Account System," a corporation deducted most
of its production costs for all the crops grown on the tenancies from its
gross revenues from cotton sales. The net revenues were then shared among
the Government, the corporation, and the tenants. The tenants' overall
share was divided by total scheme production of cotton to arrive at a price
per kantar of cotton payable to each tenant. Thus, input costs were
recovered *per kantar of cotton produced' rather than "per-feddan of area
planted." This accounting system lowered possible incentives to the more
-productive cotton growers, whose actual per-kantar cost-s were lower.
Furthermore, over the years the tenants' overall share of total revenue had
fallen from 20 percent to 10 percent. The most serious consequences of the
Joint Account System emerged in the late 1970c, when cotton yields fell
while other crops with lower returns to the economy such as sorghum,
groundnuts, and wheat expanded in area. Since crops other than cotton are
privately marketed, the corporations could recover input costs only from
cotton revenues. Cotton, bearing the burden of these other charges, became
less and less attractive to tenants, who devoted increasing attention to
other crops and off-farm activities.
26.      The deterioration in the operational efficiency of the
corporations affected both yields and production in the schemes. In part.
inefficiencies were caused by shortages of foreign exchange and the
-unavailability of scheduled budget allocations. As a result, irrigation
equipment was not maintained and critical farm inputs were not available.
Disinvestment negatively affected productivity not only of cotton but also
of other crops. Moreover, inputs were delivered late, and cultivation
techniques deteriorated, causing crop yields to fall. In addition, the
producer price of cotton was held low by the Government to maximize short-
term budgetary revenues in the face of a weak fiscal base. In conjunction
with these factors, the management systems of the corporation were
neglected, particularly finance and accounting, contributing to higher
operational costs.
27.       These problems resulted in a sharp decline in the volume of
exports of Sudan's traditional cash crops: long-staple cotton, sesame, and
groundnuts. The annual export volume of these three crops averaged only
61,000 tone (427,000 kantars), 44,500 tons, and 14,600 tons respectively
during 1984-;6-- compared with 168,000 tons (1.2 million kantars), 70,000
tons, and 99,000 tons in 1972-74. The reduction in agricultural exports
played a major part in Sudan's economic difficulties in the late 1970s.
Strategy for Revival of Agricultural Exports
28.       Recognizing the severity of the problem, the Government, with the
help of the Bank, drew up an Export Action Program (EAP) in 1980 to restore
production to the early 1970s level. The EAP contained provisions for the
following: (i) financing urgently needed spare parts, machinery, and
equipment to reverse disinvestment; (ii) allocating foreign exchange to
finance increased imports of current inputs; and (iii) introducing policy
and institutional reforms, revising the incentive systems, and taking other



-10-
actions to stimulate production. Bank support consisted of a series of
rehabilitation projects to be carried out during the 19808, principally in
the major agricultural schemes where cotton is grown.
29.       In line with the strategy embodied in the EAP, IDA is financing
projects for the rehabilitation of the New Halfa (Credit 1022-SU), Blue
Nile (Credit 118-SU),1Vhite Nile (Credit 1119-SU), and Gezira (Credit
1388-SU) schemes. A Sugar Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1201-Su) for the
four sugar units in the public sector is also under -implementation. -All
rehabilitation projects include measures to improve management capabilities
through preparation of annual work programs and provision of technical
assistance and training.
The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program Credits
30.       The first Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (ARP I) for US$76
million (IDA Credit 1000-SU of US$65 million and EEC Special Action Program
of US$11 million - April 4, 1980) financed urgently needed spare parts,
machinery and equipment and supported studies in the key areas of cotton
pricing and marketing, cost recovery, and irrigation management. This
credit was disbursed over a two-year period. The Second Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program (ARP II) for US$50 million was approved on August 9,
1983.  It financed pesticides and other inputs needed for the 1984/85
season and was disbursed rapidly. It also assisted in drawing attention to
raising production efficiency, particularly input cost-effectiveness, and
helped initiate integrated pest-management (IPM) techniques. In addition,
ARP II assisted in streamlining procedures for the procurement of
agricultural inputs and strengthened arrangements to obtain and monitor
external assistance for such imports. Although a study was carried out
under ARP II to explore ways and means of financing foreign exchange for
imports of agricultural inputs, it did not result in improving the access
of ACs to Government foreign exchange resources. Owing to the extreme
scarcity of foreign exchange and the Government's understandable desire to
retain control over it, it has not been possible to reverse the dependence
of ACs on donor financing for its inputs.
31.      The studies undet ARP I triggered significant reforms in respect
cf production incentives for cotton. In June 1980, the Government replaced
the Joint Account System (para 25) with an Individual Tenant Account
System, under which accounts are kept separately for each tenant. Debits
are raised for cash advances, inputs, services, and land and water charges
on a per-feddan basis; receipts from cotton sales are recorded on a per-
kantar oasis, rewarding tenants achieving high yields. Also in 1980 the
Government started announcing cotton producer prices before each year's
harvest and having tenants paid promptly on delivery of their seed cotton.
Further, the Government is now basing cotton prices for producers on
international market price parity, with adjustments for factors such as
average cost of production, adequate remuneration to growers, returns from
competing crops, and an element of protection against wild swings in
international prices.



-11-
32.      The improvement in incentives --matched by physical rehabilitation
of plant and equipment and some improvement in scheme management-- resulted
in a remarkable improvement in cotton production to 3.8 million kantars in
1986/87, with yields for long-staple cotton of 4.2 kantars per feddan, as
against 1.8 million kantars in 1980/81, with yields of 2.1 kantar per
feddan (para 24).                -
33.      Although the production response has been impressive, many
problems remain to be-tackled. While cotton (and wheat) prices have been
set at "incentive" levels, failures to adjust exchange rates have entailed
large uncleared overdrafts with the Bank of Sudan (BOS) by the parastatal
Sudan Cotton Company (SCC) for some years. SCC, which has monopoly over
cotton marketing, needs technical and institutional improvemeuits so that it
can operate more efficiently along commercial lines. Assistance was to
have been provided through the Cotton Marketing Project appraised by IDA in
1984, but shelved due to macroeconomic situation at that time. It is now
proposed to revive this project and to explore alternate options for cotton
marketing with an expanded role for the private sector.
34.      Because of lack of cost-effectiveness, the ACs have also
accumulated unpaid overdrafts from the BOS in the recent years.
Inadequate efforts by ACs to collect or minimize tenant debts have
compounded the problem. Other areas of weakness exhibited by ACs include
inability to record costs accurately and therefore recover them fully,
inappropriate decisions on selection of crop areas and varieties, poor
supervision over agricultural machinery operations, and lack of timeliness
(and adequacy) of input supplies. Some of the problems arise because of
weak management systems; others, because of poor access for ACs to foreign
exchange resources and the resultant dependence on external (donor) finance
for imported inputs.
35.      Other areas of concern include the deteriorating performance of
MOI in supplying adequate irrigation water at the right times, the
inability of MOANR to monitor ACs and provide policy and operational
support when ACs encounter problems, and the ),armful environment impact of
the heavy doses of chemical pesticides for the cotton crop.
Agenda for Action
36.      Given the problems described above, priorities for the medium term
include: (i) upgrading financial management of the SCC and ACs to control
money supply expansion at the national level; (ii) strengthening the
capacity of MOANR to monitor and support the ACs and handle the production
and pricing issues and crop choices; (iii) providing ACs with adequate
foreign exchange to procure imported inputs on a timely basis; and (iv)
improving the performance of MOI to assure adequate and timely irrigation
water supply. Priorities for the longer term include: (i) reducing
dependence on chemical pesticides for cotton in favor of IPM to reduce
costs and to protect the environment; (ii) reforming production systems in
the irrigated schemes by reducing the role of parastatals operations to
enable greater choice and initiative   by private individuals; and (iii)
strengthening efforts at technology generation and dissemination to
preserve Sudan's comparative advantage in irrigated crop production. A



-12-
number of ongoing IDA projects address several of the problems, but such
efforts need to be strengthened and supplemented under future Bank lending
operations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Rationale
37.      The project is designed to assist the Governmenz in addressing the
agenda for action just described (para 36). Support for this agenda is
justified by: (i) the important contribution of the irrigated sub-sector
to the medium-term Economic Recovery Program; (ii) the immediate need to
consolidate the production gains from recent Bank interventions in this
sub-sector and to reduce the financial pressures by the sub-sector on the
budgetary and monetary system; and (iii) the technical and financial
support that the Government requires to implement the Program of Action
(para 8) -- a prerequisite for the success of the medium-term economic
recovery program now under formulation.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
38.      Building on the positive results of ARP I and II, an earlier
version of the project was appraised in July 1985. Negotiations were not
completed, however, because Sudan's macroeconomic environment, particularly
the exchange rate, was not then conducive to the success of the project.
The recent agreement between the IMF and the C-overnment on a set of reforms
announced in October 1987 triggered the resumption of work on this project.
In its present form, the project strengthens and supplements efforts
already under way under several ongoing IDA projects and provides foreign
exchange urgently needed to bridge part of Sudan's external financing
needs. The project objectives are fully consistent with the Bank's
assistance strategy for Sudan (paras 17 and 18) and support the Bank's key
role in aid coordination. The project also addresses longer-term issues
that are critical for future IDA lending operations. The earlier appraisal
was updated in October 1987, and negotiations were completed in November
1987.
Project Objectives
39.      The project would:
(i)   provide immediate encouragement and support to the Government's
one year "Program of Action" (para 8) to help keep the economic
recovery effort on track;



-13-
(ii)   strengthen and supplement ongoing Government efforts to address
key policy and institutional issues in the irrigated subsector,
the resolution of which would strengthen the forthcoming medium-
term economic reform program (para 14);
(iii)   sustain production in the irrigation schemes during 1988/89 by
financing recurrent imported inputs; and
(iv)   give momentum to the task of finding solutions to longer-term
growth issues, such as reforming production relations in irrigated
schemes, expanding irrigated areas, and avoiding environmental
contamination from chemical pesticides.
40.      Specifically, the project would:
(i)   finance pesticides, jute sacks, fuel, lubricants. and spare parts
needed in the irrigated schemes during the 1988/89 crop season;
(ii)   support safer pesticide storage and handling and develop IPM
systems in the irrigated schemes;
(iii)   strengthen, the policy and project planning, implementation, and
financial management of MOANR, MOI, SCC, and the ACs;
(iv)   finance studies on (a) the privatization of management of Blue and
White Nile irrigation schemes; (b) the preparation of a national
irrigation rehabilitation program; (c) the development of the
edible oils subsecto,r, and (d) the rehabilitation of gum arabic
plantations; and
(v)   monitor progress on major ongoing work related to (a) structural
changes in irrigated schemes (under the IDA-financed Gezira
Rehabilitation Project); (b) initiation of IPM (under IDA-financed
Research and Training and Gezira Rehabilitation Projects); and (c)
the finalization of Government's Public Investment Program.
Project Components
41.      The credit would finance the following itemss
-- (US$ million) --
Agricultural inputs
- Herbicides                   8.0
- Insecticides                42.0
- Jute sacks &
baling material            13.0
Subtotal                              63.0
Fuel and lubricant                               6.0
Spare parts                                      6.5
Pesticide storage and handling                   2.1



-14-
Institutional strenathenina
and studies
- Min. of Agriculture          1.1
- Min. of Irrigation           0.3
- Agricultural Corpora-
tions                        0.4
- Studies                      1.4
Subtotal                                 3.2
Unallocated                                      4.2
TOTAL                                      85.0
42.      Agricultural Inputs (US$63.0 million). 3   These inputs comprise
insecticides and herbicides, jute sacks, and baling material during the
1988/89 crop season for the four m'4or irrigated schemes4 (Gezira, Rahad,
New Balfa, and Suki). These inputs would be supplied at cost to the ACs
for distribution to tenants on credit. The ACs would recover relevant costs
by direct deductions from the cotton proceeds due to the tenants. There
would be no subsidiary agreements or crcdit arrangements under the project
other than those normally governed by the tenancy arrangements.
43.       Fuel and Lubricants (USS6.0 million).  The project would provide
diesel fuel and lubricants for agricultural machinery operations in the
cotton areas (about 650,000 fd) for the four main schemes and for
irrigation stations serving high-lift areas in the Gezira Scheme. This
allocation would enable satisfactory mechanized land preparation and
adequate irrigation water supply at the four main schemes for the 1989/90
season.
44.       Spare Parts (US$6.5 million).  Replacement equipment and spare
parts would be provided to support the following objectives: (i) to
maintain efficient operation of agricultural equipment and ginneries at the
Rahad and Suki irrigation schemes 5 during the 1988189 season (US$2.8
million); (ii) to improve operational efficiency at the Meina pumping
station and irrigation maintenance equipment on the Rahad scheme, which is
currently experiencing serious difficulties due to rundown equipment and a
lack of spare parts (US$2.0 million); and (iii) to maintain an adequate
level of ginning operations at Gezira and New Halfa schemes for the
3/All costs are expressed in base costs.
4/Due to Government plans to reorganize the White and Blue Nile schemes, no
assistance is provided at this time for these schemes.
5/All the major irrigated schemes except Rahad and Suki are being assisted
by IDA-financed rehabilitation projects. These two schemes are
experiencing difficulties, and unless immediate support is available their
production would be jeopardized.



-15-
recently introduced shambat cotton variety (US$1.7 million), for which no
financing has been provided under the on-going rehabilitation projects.
45.       Pesticide handling and storage (US$2.1 million).  Based on the
recommendations of an ARP II study on safe pesticide storage and handling
and to augment storage capacity at Gezira, US$2.0 million would be provided
under the credit to improve storage and handling facilities. This amount
would be allocated as follows: rehabilitation of two stores at Gezira
(US$195,000); construction of new storage facilities at Gezira, New Halfa,
Suki, and Rahad (US$1.2 million); improvements at airstrips where
pesticides are handled (US$135,000); laboratory equipment (US$70,000); and
incineration of obsolete pesticides and containers (US$400,000). An
additional US$100,000 would be provided for technical assistance on
pesticide management and needs assessment.
46.       Institutional Strengthening and Studies (US$3.2 millionl.  The
project would provide US$3.2 million for technical assistance, office and
engineering equipment and office rental, and studies to achieve operational
improvements and increase cost effectiveness. Specifically, the project
would: (i) assist In the reorganization of MOANR (US$1.1 million) by
improving coordination and monitoring of technical services at
headquarters; strengthen the Advisory Unit for Agricultural Corporations
(AUAC), so that it can effectively serve as the link between the Minister
and ACs, which report directly to him, review ACs budgets and accounts and
evaluate their performance, provide technical assistance to ACs and monitor
the impact of Government policies on them; strengthen MOANR Department of
Planning and Economic Administration (DPEA) so that it can systematically
carry out price analyses of irrigated and rainfed crops; (ii) support MOI
(US$0.3 million) to implement its recently initiated reorganization plan to
arrest the recent deterioration in efficiency of irrigation services on the
major schemes and; (iii) assist in the improvement of financial management
of the ACs (US$0.4 million). Studies (technical assistance, training,
vehicles, office and enginnering equipment, and operating costs US$1.4
million) will comprise the followings (i) support MOANR to implement a
pilot program for privatization of management of irrigation schemes on the
Blue and White Nile (US$0.5 million); (ii) support MOI to prepare a
national irrigation rehabilitation program (US$0.6 million) focusing on
improving the operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes, involving
the local construction industry in its moving operations, and,
strengthening its capability in project preparation; (iii) review the
edible oils subsector and prepare a strategy for the subsector's
development focusing on exports and identifying relevant projects (US$0.25
million); and (.v) conduct a gum arabic rehabilitation study to recommend
policy reforms, particularly with respect to pricing and infrastructural
development to support production at optimum levels (US$0.15 million).6
61 Pricing issues related to sorghum (para 11) would be addressed under the
South Kassala Agricultural Project currently under preparation.



-16-
Procurement and Disbursements
47.      Procurement of agricultural inputs, fuel, and lubricants would be
centrally handled by the Sudan Gezira Board (SGB) procurement office, which
is experienced and competent in such tasks. Other procuremests would be
handled directly by the respective proiect entities with review and
approval by the Program Procurement Committee (PPC) in the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning (MOFEP). Agricultural inputs (4 bid
packages) and fuel and lubricants (1 bid package) totalling about US$70
mIllion would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures consistent with Bank guidelines (May 1985). These
guidelines allow domestic manufacturers participating in procurement under
ICB to be granted a preference. Spare parts for agricultural machinery,
ginneries and irrigation maintenance equipment, would be procured directly
from the equipment manufacturers or by quotations if there is more than one
established supplier. The procurement of civil works (pesticide storage
and handling facilities) would be in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures, with foreign firms in Sudan eligible to bid. Vehicles
and equipment would be procured under Government procedures, acceptable to
the Association. Contracts for goods and civil works of less than
US$250,000 would be procured under Government procedures acceptable to the
Association, up to an aggregate value of US$2.5 million. Goods of less
than US$20,000 would be purchased off the shelf or through quotation from a
minimum of three suppliers, up to an aggregate value of US$600,000.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in the Procurement Schedule below.
All bidding packages for works or goods estimated to cost over US$250,000,
equivalent, would be subject to prior IDA review of procurement
documentation. This review would result in a coverage of about 90 percent
of the total estimated value of the contracts. The recruitment of
technical assistants and consultants would be in accordance with Bank
guidelines (August 1981). The draft tender documents for pesticides were
reviewed during negotiations, and the bidding process would commence
shortly with the intention of awarding bids immediately after credit
effectiveness. Because bulk storage facilities fgr pesticides are
inadequate (para 45), it is proposed that a phased procurement be included
in bid packages, to facilitate staggered arrival of bulk materials at each
of the storage areas. The proposed rehabilitation of existing storage
facilities, to be completed by June 1988, would provide adequate storage
capacity for the initial pesticide materials.



-17-
Procurement Schedule
CateporvlItem              ICB         LCB     Othersa;    Total
1. Pesticides               53.0          -          -         53.0
2. Jute Sacks and
Baling Material         13.4           -          -         13.4
3. Fuel and Lubricants       6.3          -          -          6.3
4. Spare Parts               -            -          6.8a1      6.8
5. Vehicles and Equipment   -             -          o.9b1      0.9
6. Civil Works               -            1.4        0.7b/      2.1
7. Consultants' Services
and Training             -             -          2.5C/      2.5
Total                       72.7          1.4       10.9       85.0
a/ Direct from equipment manufacturers for proprietary items (US$5.0
million) or Government procedures involving suppliers' quotations
(US$1.8 million)
bJ Government procedures
c/ Following Bank guidelines
48.      Disbursements would be made against the following categories of
expenditures: on the basis of 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
agricultural recurrent inputs, fuel and lubricants, and spare parts; 100
percent of foreign expenditures, or 65 percent of local expenditures for
vehicles and equipment; 100 percent of expenditures for technical
assistance and studies; and 90 percent of total expenditures for civil
works. To facilitate timely disbursements, especially of local
expenditures and smaller payments in foreign exchange, the Government would
open a special account denominated in U.S. currency in the Bank of Sudan or
a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
The Association, at the request of the Government, would deposit in the
account an initial sum of US$250,000 from the IDA credit, which would be
used to finance eligible expenditures under the project. The account would
be replenished by the Association on the basis of relevant documentation.
For all contracts of less than US$20,000 and contracts of less than
US$50,000 for the agricultural inputs component, reimbursements would be
made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Although the
standard profile is seven and a half years, the proposed credit would be
disbursed over 21 months based on past experience with the import financing
credits (para 20).



-18-
49.      Since the total annual requirement for recurrent agricultural
inputs is about US$100 million (Schedule A), other sources of financing
will be needed in addition to the US$63.0 million provided under the
proposed credit. 7 As a condition of credit effectiveness the Government
would make available a financing plan setting forth the agricultural input
requirements and the financing obtained or being sought for the 1988189
crop year. This plan would be updated as additional information and donor
commitments become available.
50.      Disbursements against recurrent inputs would be in two tranches.
The first tranche (US$59.8 million) would include pesticides (US$53
million) and spare parts (US$6.8 million) required at the beginning of the
crop season. The second tranche (US$19.7 million) would include jute
materials (US$13.4 million) and fuel and lubricants (US$6.3 million).
Disbursement for the second tranche is conditional upon actions described
in paras 52, 54, 56, 57 and 58, 60 and 62-64.  No conditionalities are
attached to disbursements for pesticide storage and handling, institutional
strengthening, and studies (US$5.5 million). IDA would provide retroactive
financing for eypenditures incurred before credit signing for the
preparation of engineering designs and specifications for the construction
of new pesticide storage facilities (para 45), rehabilitation of existing
pesticide stores at Gezira (para 45) and for a proposed study by the
Auditor General (AG) of ACs' accounting and audit procedures (para 56).
The required amount for retroactive financing is estimated at US$150,000
and would be well within the limit of 10 percent of the IDA credit.
Proiect Coordination and Monitoring
51.      To avoid implementation delays that may be caused by the
relatively large number of agencies involved and the short project-period,
MOANR would be entrusted with overall coordination and monitoring of
project activities. However, pending strengthening of MOANR under the
project, MOANR would utilize the services and facilities of RPMU to
coordinate the project activities. The RPMU which has been successfully
coordinating and monitoring the Gezira Rehabilitation Project is fully
qualified to undertake similar responsibilities for the proposed project.
Specifically, the RPMU would maintain the project's special account, assist
project entities with procurement of goods and technical assistance,
monitor implementation of studies funded by the project, submit withdrawal
applications, and prepare quarterly progress reports and annual project
accounts. The Government would submit to the Association a report
evaluating the progress made in implementing the project since credit
approval as the basis for a review of the project scheduled for June 1988,
and the release of the Second Tranche (expected in July 1988).   The
7/In 1985/86 and 1986/87, when no IDA financing was available, inputs for
the irrigated sector were financed by the Federal Republic of Germany,
USAID, the Netherlands, Britain, Japan, and Italy. The Government of
Sudan financed less than 10 percent of the total.



-19-
Government would submit to the Association a completion report on the
implementation of the project within six months of the full disbursement of
the credit.
PART V - CREDIT CONDITIONALITIES
General
52.      The Government has laid the basis for proceeding with the proposed
project, namely the announcement in October 1987 of "A Program of Action",
with related package of policy reforms (paras 9-13). An IMF mission that
visited Sudan in October 1987 concluded that implementation of this program
is satisfactory. The Bank is planning an Econemic Recovery Credit in
1988i89 and would also review by March 1988, the draft 1989-1991 public
irvestment program. A condition of release of the second tranche of
disbursements would be the furnishing of the public investment program for
r_v_ew and comments by IDA. Several other specific conditionalities are
included in the credit which would ensure that project Implementation would
remain consistent with economic, financial, institutional, and
environmental objectives.
Producer Incentives
53.      Cotton and Wheat Prices.  A major contributor to the success of
the Export Action Program has been the maintenance of producer prices
providing adequate incentives to farmers for these two important crops.
The credit agreement for the Gezira Rehabilitation Project requires the
Government to announce the prices each year on or before December 1 after
consultation with IDA. Prices are to be set taking into account criteria
acceptable to IDA: namely, international-market price parity, adequate
renumeration for producers, and competitiveness of cotton and wheat in
relation to other crops. As a condition of negotiations, the Government
has announced cotton and wheat prices for 1987/88, which are satisfactory
to IDA.
54.      Cost Recovery on the Irrigated Schemes (Land aid Water Charges).
Tenants on the irrigated schemes pay an annual charge that is supposed to
cover full operation and maintenance costs of water delivery and the
corporations' overheads. Since 1981/82, land and water charges have been
raised in line with cotton yields and producer prices. As a condition of
negotiations, the Government has announced the land and water charges for
1987188. Scheme wise, the charges announced are a substantial increase
over last year's. Nevertheless, considerable work needs to be done to
arrive at a basis for allocating these charges against various crops. AUAC
would undertake a detailed analysis of existing land and water charges,
propose modifications and recommendations on modalities for cost recovery
from various crops. Agreement between the Government and IDA on the



-20-
from various crops. Agreement between the Government and IDA on the
recommendations of the study by AUAC to be completed by June 30, 1988 would
be a condition for second tranche disbursements.
Efficiency Improvements
55.      Ministry of ARriculture and Natural Resources (MOANR).  To address
the issues pertaining to efficiency of MOANR and of the ACs, the Government
recently decided to reorganize the Ministry with a view to improve
coordination and monitoring of technical services, planning and economic
analysis, and monitoring and evaluation of ACs by AUAC. A study in May
1987 financed under the White Nile Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1119-SU)
reviewed the MOANR reorganization plan and made the following
recommendations: (i) better coordination among MOANR departments and
strengthening of their capabilities to plan, implement, and monitor
programs at the national and regional levels; (ii) improved linkages
between research and extension; (iii) technical assistance to AUAC and
recruitment of local staff to effectively assist the office of the Minister
on AC activities; (iv) strengthening DPEA to assume responsibility for
sector planning and price analysis; and (v) improved interministerial
coordination among MOFEP, MOANR, MOI, the Ministry of Animal Resources, and
the Miinistry of Industry under the aegis of the Ministerial Committee on
Agriculture, to set rural development policy and assist in its
implementation.
56.      The project would assist MOANR with its ongoing reorganization
primarily through support to AUAC and to DPEA. Specifically, technical
assistance would be provided by recruiting internationally an Advisor to
the Minister (already in place), and an Organization and Management
Advisor. The AUAC unit would be strengthened to monitor and evaluate the
physical and financial performance of all irrigated ACs and to extend
technical assistance to ACs in improving their financial accounting and
management procedures. Technical assistance would be provided to AUAC by
recruiting internationally an agriculturist, an agricultural economist, a
financial management/accounting specialist and short-term consultants.
DPEA would be supported by an internationally recruited planning
advisor/economist and a short term consultant in the area of agricultural
pricing. Among its other responsibilities, DPEA would undertake to moin4;r
prices for Sudan's major agricultural products, taking into consideratic;i
international prices, cost of production, returns to management and
capital, and competitiveness with other relevant products. Sufficient
support services (vehicles, office equipment, and rental of AUAC office
space) would also be provided. The total cost is estimated at US$1.5
million, of which the initial (FY 1988) costs, estimated at US$0.4 million,
would be funded under the Blue Nile Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1118-SU)
and the remaining US$1.1 million from the proposed credit. MOANR would
recruit and mobilize the technical assistance team by April 30, 1988.
Ennaaement of the internationally recruited consultants for MOANR with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA would be a condition of
release of the second tranche of disbursements.



-21-
57.      Agricultural Corporations.  The efficiency of the ACs has been
reduced significantly because of inadequate financial management and
accounting systems. Most ACse accounts are more than four years in
arrears. However,-presentation of draft final accounts within four months
of the close of the financial year and completion of audits within six
months is essential to the planning process and financial decision-waking.
Although ACs have developed an adequate accounting base over the years and
the tenants' production accounts are completed promptly, the accounts
relating to the operations of ACs are delayed due to lack of skilled
professional staff at senior management level. The accounts of ACs also
require standardization to enable preparation of information to management
on standard format. To remedy this situation, the project would provide
technical assistance to recruite internationally financial advisors for the
three major ACs: Gezira, New Halfa, and Rahad. They would have technical
support from the financial management/accounting specialist to be posted in
AUAC (para 56). Also under the project, the Auditor General (AG) would
conduct and implement a study of the ACs, paying special attention to
Gezira, Rahad, and New Halfa. The study would review existing systems and
would recommend procedures for updating and upgrading the accounts, and
standardizing the accounting systems among ACs, and for revising the scope
of the audits following Bank guidelines and completing the audits within
the stipulated time. Preparation of a work program, satisfactory to IDA,
for the implementation of the recommendations of the AG's study to be
completed by March 31, 1988, and the appointment of financial advisors
would be conditions of release of the second tranche of disbursements.
58.      Two ACs, responsible for the management of the Blue and White Nile
schemes, ran into significant difficulties. They consistently failed to
meet production targets, which tcgether with serious operational
inefficiencies led to chronic financial deficits (para 60) and, in turn, to
a heavy drain on the national treasury. The study on the reorganization of
MOANR (para 55) recommended reforms in the operatio's and organization of
these two ACs. These reforms consist of curtailment of cotton production,
greater decision-making power to farmers for choice of crops, and
dissolution of the ACs. They have been temporarily replaced by an ad hoc
administrative set-up until a permanent solution is worked out. A 1987
study financed by IDA recommended the establishment of pilot cooperative
societies on the two schemes. The project would support the pilot program
by providing technical assistance, training, vehicles, equipment and
operating cost. The total cost is estimated at US$0.6 million, of which
US$0.1 million would be funded under the White Nile Rehabilitation Project
(Cr.1119-SU), US$0.1 million by the Government and the remaining US$0.4
from the proposed credit. Preparation by March 31, 1988 of the
Government's proposals, satisfactory to the Association would be a
condition of release of second tranche of disbursements.



-22-
Demand Management
59.      Agricultural Corporations.  The Bank of Sudan (BOS), within
allocations sanctioned by the Ministry of Finance, extends short-term
credit for the operations of the schemes. However, these advances have not
been settled on time, resulting in a cumulative outstanding amount of about
LSd 300 million, of which about LSd 210 million are on account of Blue and
White Nile Corporations, as of October 30. 1987. Credits to the ACs are
extended on the basis of (a) estimated administration costs, and (b)
working capital for input supply and agricultural services to the tenants.
The ACs operate on a "no profit no loss' basis, with recovery of their
outlays from proceeds of seed cotton delivered by tenants. However, non-
payment has resulted for a number of reasons: (i) land charges, except for
the last two years, not fully meeting administration costs; (ii) inadequate
management of inventory and stocks; and (iii) accumulating tenant debts
since the introduction of individual accounts. Moreover, although the
Ministry of Finance has been sanctioning the credit limits to BOS, it has
not been monitoring repayment.
60.      The Government in considering the credit allocation for FY 1988189
would require the Ministry of Finance with technical assistance from AUAC
(i) review the status of advances for previous years (ii) consider
financing tenant debts from a line of credit distinct from overall advances
to facilitate monitoring and to enhance debt recovery, and (iii) set credit
allocations based, among other things, on full operating results of the
schemes and tenants' credit requirements to supplement cash purchases.
Setting by June 30, 1988, credit allocations for FY 1988/89, based on
criteria satisfactory to IDA, and providing options for regularizing
outstanding advances, would be a condition of disbursement of the second
tranche.
61.      Sudan Cotton Company.  The BOS also extends credit for marketing
cotton. SCC is the Government agent for procuring seed cotton, for
ginning, and for sale of lint and cotton seed. SCC is compensated for its
services through commission on sale proceeds of lint and cotton seed. The
producer price for seed cotton is set by the Government, and sale prices of
lint and seed cotton are determined by market forces. Procurement and
ginning are financed through BOS; hitherto, local currency has been
overvalued, so sales proceeds have not matched the advances from BOS to
meet the procurement, ginning, and handling costs (para 33). For 1985/86
season, with only 7 percent of lint remaining unsold and estimated to
realize LSd 58 million, the outstanding amount against advances from BOS is
about LSd 465 million. The performance in 1986187 is expected to be no
better. But in 1987/88, thanks to the exchange rate adjustment, SCC is
expected to break even.
62.      Data are inadequate on ginning costs and interest charges by BOS
on working capital to SCC--costs and charges on which the Government-
administered ginning and producer prices are set. Inventory control,
particularly in relation to ginning, also needs to be substantially



-23-
improved. This would be addressed under the proposed Cotton Processing and
Marketing Project (para 18). Payment to tenants for seed eotton is based
on a standard out-turn from seed cotton to lint and seed. However, neither
is the actual out-turn available nor is it matched with the qtiantity of
lint sold by SCC. So there is no assessment of ginning efficiency, a key
factor in determining the extent of shortfall in sales proceeds toward
repayment of BOS advances. The SCC through a Government-appointed
committee comprising representatives from the ACs and with technical
assistance from AUAC would undertake a review of ginning costs and the
ginning out-turn for the last completed season (FY 86/87). The SCC would
also monitor progress on marketing of lint and agree with the Government on
a target date for completion of sales of a season's production. Setting by
June 30, 1988, 1988189 credit allocation for SCC, based on criteria
satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate ginning costs and marketing
targets, and providing options for regularizing deficits on SCC's operation
for the previous years, would be a condition for release of the second
tranche of disbursements.
Long-term Issues
63.      Production and Organization of Irrigation Systems.  Special
studies and policy analyses planned under the Gezira Rehabilitation Project
to pave the way for long-term structural changes on irrigation schemes
needs to be expedited. A studies advisor has recently been appointed under
the Gezira project to (i) assess the ongoing studies that would provide
adequate information for policy analysis and (ii) recommend additional
studies and changes, if any, to the scope of ongoing studies. A report on
the proposed review is expected by April 30, 1988. Finalization of a
report satisfactory to IDA together with a work program to complete the
studies would be a condit{on of release of the second tranche of
disbursements.
64.       Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Program.  Insecticides and
herbicides account for about one-third of the cost of producing irrigated
cotton in Sudan. This proportion has been steadily increasing as both the
quantities used and the foreign exchange value have risen. The escalating
cost of plant pLotection and the emergence of resistance to certain
chemicals and the adverse enviromental effects of pesticides make it
essential for Sudan to develop less costly, more safe and effective pest-
management methods for irrigated crops. The Government, pending
development of such effective pest-management methods, has in the recent
past by MOANR decree limited the number of pesticide applications; proposed
financing under the project is on the basis of a reduction scheme wide of
one spray compared with the scheme's original request. The ongoing IDA-
financ>$ Research, Extension and Training Project and the Gezira
Rehabilitation Project, provide funds for research and development of
integrated pest-management methods, as do bilateral donors. But progress
to date has been slow. In order to give IPM the priority it deserves, the
Government has, with IDA assistance, prepared a program including an
implementation schedule for the first stage of trials and research.



-24-
Satisfactory implementation of this program, which would be reviewed by IDA
in June 1988. would be a condition of the second tranche of disbursements.
Other Conditions
65.      Local Currency Proceeds. The Government would deposit revenue in
local currency from recurrent inputs supplied to ACs and MOI in a special
account and would use the funds only for budgeted expenditures in the
Government development program.
66.      Proiect Accounts and Audit.  RPMU would maintain the project
accounts (para 51). Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would audit the
project accounts each year. During negotiations, assurance would be
obtained that the audited accounts and the audit report would be sent to
IDA within four months of the close of the fiscal year.
PART VI. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
67.       All pesticide sprays currently used are tested through residue
analysis for compliance with prescribed specifications and registered with
the Pesticide Committee of MOA. Over the years. the authorities have
deleted most highly toxic pesticides from the approved list, and the
insecticides used on the irrigated schemes in recent years are acceptable
under the Bank's guidelines. The environmental hazards of pesticide
application are reduced in the Sudanese conditions of high temperatures and
intense ultra violet radiation. Owing to soil characteristics and
irrigation methods, there is very little flow or seepage of irrigation
water, which might contain pesticides, out of the fields. There is however
the risk of drift from aerial application. Over the longer run, the
quantities and types of pesticides currently in use will have significant
effects on the ecosystem by killing natural enemies and inducing resistance
in the pests. For this reason, the credit includes conditionality on the
development of an integrated pest-management program. To provide adequate
safety for workers handling pesticides and for the tenant population, the
project would improve pesticide storage and handling facilities (para 46).
The Government would finalize by January 1988 a list of pesticides, which
would be eligible for procurement whether financed by IDA or from other
sources.   A condition of credit effectiveness would be that this list be
acceptable to IDA.



-25-
PART VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
68.      The project would have important benefits in the short, medium,
and long terms. In the short term, the project would sustain production in
the irrigated sub-sector, support Government's stabilization program and
pave the way for the economic recovery program.
79.      In the medium term, the introduction of improved financial and
accounting systems in the ACs and, the strengthening of HOANR and MOI would
improve the operational efficiency of key institutions in the irrigated
subsector. This efficiency with the introduction and reinforcement of
producer incentives, would generate sustainable benefits, particularly in
the form of higher yields and improved cost-effectiveness.
70.      Environmental protection resulting from decreased dependence on
chemicals through the introduction of integrated pest management and
improvements in pesticide storage and handling would be important project
benefits with long-term implications. Speedier decisions on major
structural changes in the irrigated subsector in regard to production,
organization and systems which would benefit Sudan in the long term can be
a spin-off from the focus given on certain key studies as part of this
project.
71.      The major risk is the possible inability of the Government to
sustain the implementation of broad reform measures necessary for the
success of the stabilization effort and the medium-term economic recovery
program. This project and the planned IDA Economic Recovery Program in
1988189 would lend support to the Government's short- and medium-term
recovery program and, in the process, minimize this risk.
PART VIII. RECOMMENDATION
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 1, 1987



SCHEDULE A
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT III
Summarx of Proiect Cost Estimates 1 and Financing Plan
----    US$ Million-------
Component Costs                                  Local    Foreign      Total
Agricultural Inputs
Fertilizer                                 -         20.0        20.0
Insecticides                               -         50.0        50.0
Herbicides                                 -         10.0        10.0
Jute sacks and baling material             -         17.0        17.0
Sub-total                                  -         97.0        97.0
Fuel and lubricants                           -           6.0        6.0
Spare parts                                   -           6.5        6.5
Pesticide storage and handling                1.0         1.3        2.3
Institutional strengthening & studies
Ministry of Agriculture                    0.3         1.2        1.5
Ministry of Irrigation                     -           0.3        0.3
Agricultural Corporations                  0.4          -         0.4
Studies                                    0.2        1.4         1.6
Sub-total                                0.9        2.9         3.8
Contingencies                                 0.1         4.3        4.4
TOTAL                                    2.0      118.0       120.0
Financing Plan
IDA
Cr. 1118-SU                                0.1        0.3         0.4
Cr. 1119-SU                                -           0.1        0.1
Proposed Credit                            1.6       83.4        85.0
Other Donors                                  -          34.2       34.2
GOS                                           0.3          -         0.3
2.0      118.0       120.0
1/ Base cost is estimated as of September 1987. Physical contingencies
are 5Z for all cost categories except technical assistance. Price
contingencies have been provided on the basis of projected inflation
rates.



SCHEDULE B
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT III
Allocation of IDA Credit by Disbursement Categories
and Estimated Disbursements
Amount               Expenditures
Category                       Allocated                Financed
(US$ million)
1.  Pesticides                           50.0              100  of foreign
expenditures
2.  Jute sacks and baling material       13.0              100Z of foreign
expenditures
3.  Fuel and lubricants                   6.0             100? of foreign
expenditures
4.  Spare parts                           6.5             1002 of foreign
expenditures
5.  Vehicles and equipment                0.8              100? of foreign
expenditure or
65? of local
expenditure
6. Civil works                            2.0             90? of total
expenditure
7. Consultants' services                  2.5             100?
and training
8.  Unallocated                           4.2
Total                           85.0
Estimated Disbursements TJS$ million) 11
IDA FY                       88            89           90
Annual
Cumulative             51.5          33.0          0.5
1/   Planned date of effectiveness:        January 1988
Project Completion:                   December 1989
Credit Closing:                       June 1990



SCHEDULE C
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT III
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare         s      1 year
(b)  Prepared by                   :      Government
(c)  First IDA mission                    July 1984
(d)  Appraisal mission departure  :       Ju.'ly 1985 (Appraisal)
September 1987 (Appraisal update)
(e)  Negotiations                  :      Noveizber 1987
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:       January 1988
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
Prior to June 1988, or other date, the Association will review the
Government's progress in implementing the project (para 51).
Section III - Special Conditions
Release of the second tranche would be continget. upon satisfactory
progress in carrying out the following actions:
(i)    furnishing to the Association of the 1989-91 public investment
program (para 52);
(ii)   agreement with the Association on modalities for determining
land and water charges and their allocation against various
crops (para 54);
(iii) engagement of internationally recruited consultants for MOANR
and ACs (para 56);
(iv)   agreement with the Association on a work program by the AG to
update and upgrade ACs accounts and to standardize the
accounting system among the ACs (para 57);



Schedule C
Page 2 of 2
(v)    agreement with the Association on a work program for the
restructuring of operations and management of the Blue and
White Nile Schemes (para 58);
(vi)   agreement with the Association on criteria for setting
FY1988/89 credit allocations for ACs and SCC and on providing
options for regularizing outstanding advances (paras 00 & 62);
(vi:)  agreement with the Association on studies and policy analyses
planned under the Gezira Rehabilitation Project and on a work
program to complete the studies (para 63); and
(viii) satisfactory progress on the implementation of the integrated
pest management program (para 64).



SCEDILE 0
A. STATEMENT OF SANW LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(so of Septmber 30, 1987)
Amount (US1 Million)y
(Not of Canel lIotions)
Lo"/                    'iUs-
Credit No          Year      Borrower PurDOs. -ank                            MDA T . Y    SSW  v
ETght loans and tvinty-thre. credits fully disbursed             139.0         419.$
Credit   a34       1978      Zudan    Agricutturat Rearch                        16.9     1.08
Credit  1ow       19890     Sudan    Third Power                     -         CS.8      3.49
Credit  1022       1980      Sudan    New Halfo Rehabilitation                  40.0    18.75
Credit   1S11      19J1     Sudan    Blue Nile Pump r Ub.                       29.4    17.78
Creilt   1119      1881     Sudan    Whlte Nile Pump Rehab.                     39.0   27.16
Credit   1153      1981      Sudan    Seond Tech. Assistance                     6.8       .98
Credit  1201       1982      Sudan    Agrigultural Servies                       18.9    10.49
Credit  1283       1982     Sudan    Second Port                                2650       1.66
Credit  1388       1983     Sudan    Gezira Rehabilitation                      88.0    690.2
Credit  FOIl       194     Sudan    Third Education Project                    18.0      2.56
Credit  14S1       1984      Sudan    Third Education Projoct                    6.4        .# 
Credit  148        19884    Sudan    Third Highway Project                       16.9    14.e7
Creit  1S8         1984     Sudan    Sugar Rehab. Proj.                         6.8    60.12
Credit  1513       1984      Sudan    Petroleum T.A. Project                    12.8      6.C
Credit  1526       1984     Sudan    Stock Route Project                         6.6      3.81
Credit  1614       1988     Sudan    Orought Recovery                           20.0      4.66
Credit  1624       1985     Sudan    Power Rehabilitation Pro.                  39.8    26.54
Credit  1639       1988     Sudan    Agr. RoJ., Ext. A Training                 22.8    21.46
credit  1646       18n5     Sudan    Western Savannah II                        18.6      9.53
Credit  1788       1887      Sudan    Fourth Power                              88.0    88.1
Credit  1789       1988     Sudan    Pubitc Enterprise A Econ. Mgt.              9.0      9.0
Total                                         139.9        071.12   838.4$
of which repaid                              in-$         -is 
Total now outstanding                  -       8B.4        861.1
Lese amount sold (and repaid)                   6.8          9.J
Total hold by Sank & IDA                       27.6         951.6
Total undisbursed                                                    881.45
/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
& Credit No.118-SU and higher are denominated in SDRn and are shown In USS equiv;lents,
based on the exchange rate in effect at the time of negotiations.



SUDAN
Schedule 0
Peas 2 of 2
S.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of Seotember 30  198?
Fiscal                                                                (Amount in US1 million)
Year  061 lgoi                                     Loon      EfuIty    Total
1964 and           Khartoum Spinning A Weaving Co.
1972                TextIles                                         1.9      0.3        2.2
1976               Cotton Textile Mills                                8.7      1.3       10.0
1978               Sl.it Food Production Ltd.                        11.1      1.1       12.2
1978               Ceziro/Msnagil Textile Co. Ltd.                     6.7      1.4        8.1
1980               Sudan Cement Company                                 -       0.2        0.2
1882               White Nile Petrol-um Co. Ltd.                        -       0.3        0.3
Total gross commitments                           28.4       4.6       33.0
Leos ccnellations, terminations,
r-payments A sales                            13.0      1.9       14.9
Total commitments now held by IFC                 16.4       2.7       18.1
Total uncdiebursed by IFC



-2sf                                      0         0MILES °0  200     300
KILOMEE RS;. ,-    ,
O    100   2no)   300   400   5CO
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL REHABILITATION PROJECT III
LOCATION OF IRRIGATION SCHEMES
tIRRIGATION SHFm.                                   ARAB    REPUBLIC   OF  EGYPT
RIVERS, PERENNIAL'SEASONAL
DAMS
LAKES
*   RAILWAYS |
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                              Hot
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
to ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ A    0    R  7' H  F R A/\                         )       
i_.                                                   _ . I    P_________1 ^ j <  5 E   . 
CHAD                                                      ,
I                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tokor/
I  I          s'                \    f-_4,,                     . j
fdi
2 | JEREL AUt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IrFf                               NowHD^  
|  rf D   A R   F    J   R             SN  R  T  H   E  R       NA(/ 
|  0 Nyo  T  H      A                          fA
:                         '--_-    r                                  --"   !
El1 P F U        p              N R 1/5FRAN(iQ
~~~ o~~~~s..  El Fashor  /~~~~~~~~ElObid0
(       oZallngsi                /' En Nahud     EIbia)UWOO     '               Ug
I        N.,,               ~     ~ ~~~                               ~     ~     ~~~~~0 -A
.1                                                                                 N,,. KosDubi,a
'V               I~~~~~~~~~~~ 5



k,A   O  R   7' H   F  R  A/                                  '>       r          
0o     A   R   f   U    R       'BsN                        Ed  *            N(4 ,    
) GenetnrJ_>__ -_) Elhbsher        )        KO  D  O f A  /V  
r    1   ~~~ozgtFp               t  En NohNd     El Obte                     ' g--
A1 0 '~~~~~~~,            I   r   r           -_l*^S/a 
o5    U            /  U  r HS E  R  N                          ,          iS-F 
jo    s  D~~ A   R   F   U   R \f                                      oLo t
( 's----/8s @ ~~~~,"P PEf R    °         *Mobkol N  /   f Li     E T H I  O P I A
t  s~ B AHR  E Z  it,,\                   t\
-       GHA ZA f Zt'/            )     l1
CENTRAL  AFRICAN           >                 -  On         __       u  N  G  l f   
REPBLIC                                      U HE-  Y R A FoY
2         n           \    ~~~~~~~~~~WE STrE RN  f,         E A S 7 E RAN      -
E         Maid:t   A     ua   U A T        O R  A- EQUA ORI
AFR  A                                               .  Yel                    \
RE PUB L IC  OF  ZAI R E            :        °gu
B         rc_ t* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~_>~~~~p*           I ~~~~ U GA N DA                          KE N Y A
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~f mow            ~_f              _ wo OzW-"
_ .4                       2,s 4                                      _@d                                                       0



