Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 1866 SU
                                for
                the Administration of Certain Funds
                    to be made available by the
            DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
               in Conjunction with the Agricultural
                    Rehabilitation Project III
                              in the
                         REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
                        Dated April 6, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1866 SU
                             AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   April   6,   1989,   between  the  DANISH
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  AGENCY  (hereinafter  referred  to  as
DANIDA)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
referred to as the Association) to provide for the administration,
by the Association,  of  certain  funds  to  be  made available by
DANIDA to  The  Republic  of  Sudan  (hereinafter  referred  to as
Sudan).
     WHEREAS, DANIDA wishes to make  available to Sudan a grant in
an aggregate  amount  equivalent  to  four  million  United States
Dollars (US $4,000,000) (hereinafter referred  to as the Grant) to
assist Sudan in the  financing  of the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project III (hereinafter referred to as the Project);
     WHEREAS,  DANIDA  has  requested,  and  the  Association  has
agreed, to administer  the  Grant  in  conjunction with the Credit
made by the Association to  Sudan under the Agricultural Rehabili-
tation  Project  III  Development  Credit  Agreement  entered into
Page  2
between Sudan and the Association on January 25, 1988 (hereinafter
referred to as the Development Credit Agreement);
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
     Section 1.01. The Association,  as administrator on behalf of
DANIDA, shall enter into such agreements with Sudan as it may deem
appropriate but consistent with  the  terms  and conditions of the
Development Credit Agreement  (excluding  the  debt service provi-
sions thereof) for the  purpose  of  assisting in the financing of
the Project. Such agreements with Sudan shall, inter alia, provide
that the proceeds  of  the  Grant  may  be  withdrawn  by Sudan to
finance procurement in Denmark or  in Part Two member countries of
the Association of goods and  services under the Project and shall
also provide that the amounts  to  be withdrawn need not be repaid
and shall bear no interest or other charges.
     Section 1.02. The Association,  as administrator on behalf of
DANIDA, shall have the sole  responsibility for the supervision of
the Project and shall keep DANIDA  informed of the progress of the
Project. Before sending  missions  to  review  the progress of the
Project, the Association shall inform DANIDA on the timing of such
missions so as to  enable  DANIDA  to  participate and to exchange
views on the results of such missions.
     Section 1.03. The administration  and enforcement of any pro-
visions of any agreement entered  into between Sudan and the Asso-
ciation for the purposes of this Agreement shall be handled solely
by the Association, and  the Association specifically reserves the
right, at its discretion  and  without  notice to DANIDA, to exer-
cise, refrain  from  exercising  or  waive  any  rights under such
agreement or to modify  any  provision thereof, provided, however,
that before suspending  the  right  of  Sudan  to make withdrawals
shall inform DANIDA and afford DANIDA a reasonable opportunity for
consultation with the Association.
     Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in
the discharge of its  functions  under  this Agreement as it exer-
cises with respect to the administration and management of its own
affairs.
                            ARTICLE II
     Section 2.01. For the purpose of this Agreement, DANIDA shall
deposit an  aggregate  amount  equivalent  to  four million United
States Dollars (US$4,000,000) into  the  "T" (trust) account main-
tained with The Federal Reserve Bank, New York, in the name of the
Association (hereinafter referred  to  as  the Trust Account). The
funds shall be payable in  full  upon effectiveness of this Agree-
ment. The funds in the  Trust Account shall be freely exchangeable
by the Association  with  other  currencies  as may facilitate its
administration.
     Section 2.02. The Association  shall  withdraw from the Trust
Account such amounts as,  from  time  to  time, shall be needed to
meet the reasonable cost of goods  financed or to be financed pur-
suant to Section 1.01  of  this  Agreement, such withdrawals to be
effected through the normal  disbursement  procedures of the Asso-
ciation.
     Section 2.03. Subject to  Section  1.01 of this Agreement and
except as DANIDA and  the  Association shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement contracts financed from  the  proceeds of the grant shall
be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA  Credits", published by the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development in May 1985.
     Section 2.04. In order  to  assist  in  the defrayment of the
costs  of  administration  and  other  expenses  incurred  by  the
Page  3
Association under this Agreement, DANIDA shall pay the Association
an administration fee of  two  percent  (2%)  of the amount of the
Grant.
                            ARTICLE III
     Section 3.01. The Association shall:
     (a)  be allowed to commingle  the  funds received from DANIDA
with other trust fund  assets  but shall maintain separate records
and ledger accounts  in  respect  of  the  funds  disbursed by the
Association pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement;
     (b)  be permitted to invest the funds pending their disburse-
ment, and any income earned thereon shall be credited to the Trust
Account. The income may be used  to pay for the external auditor's
fee relating to the audit  and  any other incidental expenses. The
balance in the Trust  Account  relating  to the grant contribution
from DANIDA shall be returned to DANIDA upon project completion;
     (c)  cause such accounts and records to be audited and certi-
fied by the Association's  external  auditors for each fiscal year
(June 30) that funds shall remain in the Trust Account; and
     (d)  furnish the report  of  such  audit  by said auditors to
DANIDA immediately after the completion of the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
     Section 4.01. DANIDA and  the Association shall consult, from
time to time,  at  the  request  of  either  party, on all matters
arising out of  this  Agreement  and  on  other  matters of common
interest to them in the administration of the Trust Account or the
carrying out of the Project.
                             ARTICLE V
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the
date first above written  and,  subject  to the provisions of this
Article, shall continue in effect until the entire proceeds of the
grant have been withdrawn.
     Section 5.02. If at any time  it appears to either party that
the purposes of this Agreement cannot effectively or appropriately
be carried out, this Agreement may be terminated at the initiative
of such party on ninety days'  (90  days) notice in writing to the
other party.
     Section 5.03. Upon termination  of this Agreement, unless the
parties agree on another course of action, any funds including any
accrued interest on such  funds  or  other property of DANIDA held
hereunder by the Association shall  be returned to DANIDA, and the
Association's administration shall be considered terminated.
     Section 5.04. Promptly  after  termination  of the Agreement,
the Association shall  furnish  to  DANIDA  a  final  report and a
financial statement of the Trust Account, together with an opinion
of the Association's external auditors on such statement.
                            ARTICLE VI
     Section 6.01. This Agreement  may  be amended only by written
agreement of the parties hereto.
     Section 6.02. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or rapifax to  the  party  to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
Page  4
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For DANIDA:
          DANIDA
          Asiatisk Plads 2,
          1448 Kobenhavn K
          Denmark
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               ETRANGERES                     31292
               Kobenhavn
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               INDEVAS                     440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA) or
                                            64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  the  undersigned duly authorized thereto
have signed this Agreement
                   DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                   By /s/ Klaus Nyholm
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
