Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                     DANIDA GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1866 SU
             (Agricultural Rehabilitation Project III)
                              between
                       THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  as Administrator of Grant Funds
                          Provided by the
              DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                        Dated April 6, 1989
                     DANIDA GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1866 SU
                      DANIDA GRANT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 6, 1989, between THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
(the Recipient) and the  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, as
Administrator (the Administrator) of  Grant  Funds Provided by the
DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (DANIDA).
     WHEREAS (A) the Recipient has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association (the Association) and DANIDA
in the financing  of  the  Agricultural Rehabilitation Project III
(the  Project)  described  in  Schedule  2  to  Development Credit
Agreement Number  1866-SU,  dated  January  25,  1988, between the
Recipient and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement);
     (B)  the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on
the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the Development Credit
Agreement;
     (C)  DANIDA wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant
in an amount equivalent to  four million dollars ($4,000,000) (the
Page  2
DANIDA Grant) to assist the Recipient  in carrying out part of the
Project on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
     (D)  pursuant to arrangements,  dated  April 6, 1989, between
DANIDA and the Association,  DANIDA has requested the Association,
and the Association has  accepted,  to administer the DANIDA Grant
in accordance with the provisions of those arrangements; and
     (E)  the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance
extended to the Recipient under  this DANIDA Grant Agreement shall
be considered as part of the bilateral development aid extended by
DANIDA to the Recipient;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements of the  Association", dated January 1, 1985
(the General  Conditions),  constitute  an  integral  part of this
Agreement  subject,  however,   to   the  following  modifications
thereof:
     (a)  the term  "Association",  wherever  used  in the General
Conditions,  means  the   International  Development  Association,
acting as  Administrator  of  the  DANIDA  Grant,  pursuant to the
arrangements between DANIDA and the Association referred to in the
Preamble to this Agreement,  except  in  the phrase "member of the
Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
     (b)  the term "Development  Credit  Agreement", wherever used
in the General Conditions, means this Agreement;
     (c)  the term "Credit", wherever  used  in the General Condi-
tions, means the DANIDA Grant extended to the Recipient under this
Agreement;
     (d)  the term "Credit Account",  wherever used in the General
Conditions, shall be amended to read "DANIDA Grant Account";
     (e)  Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
               "Withdrawals from  the  DANIDA  Grant Account shall
         be made  in  dollars;  provided,  however,  that,  if the
         expenditures to be financed  out  of  the proceeds of the
         DANIDA Grant have  been  paid  or  are payable in another
         currency, the Administrator shall,  at the request of the
         Recipient and at the time of a withdrawal from the DANIDA
         Grant Account, purchase  such  currency with the proceeds
         of such withdrawal."
     (f)  in  Section  6.02,  the  term  "Association"  shall also
include the International  Development  Association  acting in its
own capacity;
     (g)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
               "(c) Not later  than  six  months after the Closing
          Date or  such  later  date  as  may  be  agreed for this
          purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, the
          Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Administrator
          a report,  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail as the
          Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution
          of the Project referred to in the Preamble to the DANIDA
          Grant Agreement, the  performance  by  the Recipient and
          the Administrator of  their respective obligations under
          the DANIDA Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the
          purposes of the DANIDA Grant";
     (h)  Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06,
Page  3
6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted; and
     (i)  the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Recipient.
     Section 1.02. Wherever  used  in  this  Agreement, unless the
context otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms  defined  in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble  to  this Agreement and in the
Development Credit Agreement have  the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Grant
     Section 2.01.  The  Administrator  agrees  to  extend  to the
Recipient, on the terms  and  conditions  set forth or referred to
herein, a grant in  an  amount  equivalent to four million dollars
($4,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount of the DANIDA Grant may be withdrawn
from the DANIDA Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of
the Schedule to this  Agreement,  as  such Schedule may be amended
from time to  time  by  agreement  between  the  Recipient and the
Administrator.
     Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, contracts for goods and services  to be financed out of the
proceeds of the DANIDA  Grant  shall  be procured from Denmark and
from Part II  member  countries  of  the Association in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment, which is hereby  incorporated  into  this Agreement with the
same force and effect as  if  it  were fully set forth herein. The
references to the Association in  said Schedule shall be deemed to
be references to the  Association,  acting as Administrator of the
DANIDA Grant.
     (b)  If the  Administrator  shall  have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any  item  is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in paragraph (a) above, no expendi-
tures for any such item shall  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the DANIDA Grant,  and  the  Administrator  may,  by notice to the
Recipient, without in any  way  restricting  or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of  the Administrator under this Agreement,
cancel such amount of the  DANIDA Grant as, in the Administrator's
reasonable opinion,  represents  the  amount  of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been  eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the DANIDA Grant.
     Section 2.04. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1989, or
such  later  date  as   the  Administrator  shall  establish.  The
Administrator shall promptly  notify  the  Recipient of such later
date.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. Except as  otherwise expressly provided herein,
Articles III and  IV  and  Schedules  2  and  4 of the Development
Credit Agreement are hereby  incorporated into this Agreement with
the same force and effect as  if they were fully set forth herein.
All references to the Association in said Articles shall be deemed
to be references to  the  Administrator  of the DANIDA Grant under
this Agreement,  all  references  to  the  Credit  and  the Credit
Account shall be deemed to  be  references to the DANIDA Grant and
the DANIDA Grant Account, respectively,  and all references to the
Borrower shall be deemed to be references to the Recipient.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Effectiveness; Representation;
Page  4
                Transfer of Rights and Obligations
     Section 4.01. This Agreement  shall become effective upon its
execution by the parties thereto.
     Section 4.02. The Minister  of  Finance and Economic Planning
of the Recipient shall be  the representative of the Recipient for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 4.03. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Recipient:
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box 2092
          Khartoum
          The Republic of Sudan
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               EIMAR                          22324
               Khartoum
     For the Administrator:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                              64145  (WUI)
     Section 4.04. In accordance with the arrangements referred to
in the Preamble to this  Agreement,  the rights and obligations of
the Administrator  under  this  Agreement  may  be  transferred to
DANIDA. The Recipient accepts and agrees that, upon notice to that
effect by the Administrator  to  the Recipient, DANIDA shall, ipso
facto, from the date specified  in  such notice, be substituted in
all  rights  and  obligations  of  the  Administrator  under  this
Agreement  as  if  DANIDA  had  been  an  original  party  to this
Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the
part of any party,  and,  from  such date, the Administrator shall
cease to have any  rights  or  obligations  as  a party under this
Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. This Agreement  shall  continue in effect until
the DANIDA Grant has been fully disbursed, and the parties to this
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
representatives  thereunto  duly   authorized,  have  caused  this
Agreement to be signed in  their  respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States  of  America,  as  of  the day and year
first above written.
                    THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
Page  5
                    By /s/ Omer Nour El Daim
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      as Administrator of Grant Funds
                          Provided by the
                    DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                    By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
          Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the DANIDA Grant
1.   The table  below  sets  forth  the  Category  of  items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the DANIDA Grant, the allocation
of the amounts  of  the  DANIDA  Grant  to  said  Category and the
percentage of expenditures for  items  so  to  be financed in said
Category:
                         Amount of the
                        Grant Allocated           % of
                         (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category         Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
     Base oil, fuel         4,000,000        100%
     and lubricants
                            _________
          TOTAL             4,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
