Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1866 SU
             (Agricultural Rehabilitation Project III)
                              between
                       THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated January 25, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1866 SU
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January  25,  1988,  between THE REPUBLIC OF
SUDAN (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied  itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of  the  Project  described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has  agreed,  on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "MOANR" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources;
     (b)  "MOI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Irrigation;
     (c)  "AUAC" means  the  Advisory  Unit  for  the Agricultural
Corporations established within MOANR;
     (d)  "ACs"  means  the  agricultural  corporations  under the
Minister of Agriculture and  Natural  Resources for the management
of the irrigated schemes;
     (e)  "SCC" means the Sudan  Cotton Company under the Minister
of Finance and Economic Planning;
     (f)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (g)  "Sudanese Pounds" means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixty-four million  four  hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 64,400,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account  in the Bank of
Sudan or a commercial  bank  authorized  by  the  Bank of Sudan on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1990, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate  of  one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time.  The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date  of  the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
Page  3
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  February 1 and August 1
commencing February 1, 1998, and  ending  August 1, 2027. Each in-
stallment to and including  the  installment  payable on August 1,
2007, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
MOANR with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial,  economic, agricultural and
engineering practices, and shall  provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
obligations under paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall take all
measures  necessary  to  ensure  that  any  shortfall  in  foreign
exchange funds expected to be  made available by third parties and
required for the  financing  of  the  agricultural  inputs for the
1988/89  crop  season  shall  be   made  available  from  its  own
resources.
Page  4
     Section 3.02. The  Borrower  and  the  Association shall, not
later than June 30, 1988,  exchange views on the progress achieved
in carrying  out  the  actions  specified  in  Schedule  3 to this
Agreement.
     Section  3.O3.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  shall  take all appropriate steps
to ensure that:
     (a)  the agricultural inputs, financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be  sold  to  the beneficiaries thereof; for the
purposes of this  Section,  "beneficiary"  means  any of the Sudan
Gezira Board, New Halfa Agricultural Production Corporation, Rahad
Corporation and Suki Corporation; and
     (b)  the Sudanese Pounds  generated  by  such  sales shall be
deposited into a separate  account  which  shall  be opened in the
name of the Ministry  of  Finance  and  Economic Planning with the
Bank  of  Sudan  and  used  to  finance  the  local  costs  of the
development projects included in the Borrower's budget.
     Section 3.05. Until the  acquisition  of the essential recur-
rent inputs  for  the  agricultural  sector  for  the 1988/89 crop
season shall have been completed, the Borrower shall, from time to
time,  update  the  financing  plan  for  the  acquisition thereof
referred to in Section  5.01  (a)  of  this Agreement and exchange
views with the Association thereon.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently   applied   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than four months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  5
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Borrower  has  provided   the  Association  with  a
financing  plan,  satisfactory   to   the   Association,  for  the
acquisition  of  the  recurrent   inputs   in  1988/1989  for  the
agricultural  sector,  indicating,  inter  alia,  the  sources  of
financing; and
     (b)  the Borrower has  furnished  to  the Association a list,
satisfactory to  the  Association,  of  specific  pesticides to be
eligible for procurement in the 1988/1989 crop season.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister  of  Finance and Economic Planning
of the Borrower is  designated  as  representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box 2092
          Khartoum
          The Republic of Sudan
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                EIMAR                           22324
                Khartoum
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  6
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
                          By /s/ Salah Ahmed
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Pesticides                 37,900,000 )
                                           )
(2)  Jute sacks and              9,900,000 )     100% of foreign
     baling material                       )     expenditures
                                           )
(3)  Fuel and lubricants         4,600,000 )
                                           )
(4)  Spare parts                 4,900,000 )
(5)  Vehicles and                  600,000       100% of foreign
     equipment                                   expenditures and
                                                 65% of local
                                                 expenditures
(6)  Civil works                 1,500,000       90%
(7)  Consultants'                1,900,000       100%
     services and
     training
(8)  Unallocated                 3,100,000
                               ___________
Page  7
         TOTAL                  64,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 120,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (6) and  (7)  on  account  of  payments made for expen-
ditures before that date but after November 25, 1987; and
     (b)  payments for expenditures under  Categories (2) and (3),
unless the Association shall  be  satisfied,  after an exchange of
views as described  in  Section  3.02  of  this Agreement based on
evidence  satisfactory  to   the   Association  that  the  actions
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist the Borrower
in implementing its  economic  recovery  program  as stated in its
Program of Action of October  1987; (ii) to support the Borrower's
efforts in addressing policy and institutional issues in the irri-
gated subsector; and (iii)  to  sustain  and expand irrigated crop
production during the 1988/89 season.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agricultural Inputs
     Acquisition and distribution of recurrent agricultural inputs
for the 1988/89  season  in  the  four  main  irrigated schemes at
Gezira,  Rahad,  New  Halfa   and  Suki,  including  insecticides,
herbicides, jute sacks and baling material.
Part B:   Fuel, Lubricants, Equipment and Spare Parts
     Acquisition of:
     1.   diesel  fuel   and   lubricants   for  the  agricultural
          machinery operations for  the  cotton  areas in the four
          main irrigated schemes  and  for the irrigation stations
          servicing  the  Gezira  scheme  in  preparation  of  the
          1989/90 crop season; and
     2.   replacement equipment and spare parts for: (a) the agri-
          cultural operations and ginneries  at the Rahad and Suki
          schemes; (b)  the  Meina  pumping  station  and  the MOI
          maintenance plant servicing  the  Rahad  scheme; and (c)
          the upgrading of  the  ginnery  operations at Gezira and
          New Halfa  for  the  recently  introduced shambat cotton
          variety.
Part C:   Pesticides Handling and Storage
Page  8
     Improvements of the pesticide  handling and storage capabili-
ties through:
     1.   rehabilitation of two  storage  facilities at the Gezira
          scheme;
     2.   construction of new storage facilities at the New Halfa,
          Suki and Rahad schemes;
     3.   upgrading of  facilities  at  airstrips where pesticides
          are handled;
     4.   acquisition of laboratory equipment;
     5.   incineration of obsolete pesticides and containers; and
     6.   provision of consultants' services for pesticide manage-
          ment and needs assessment.
Part D:   Institutional Support
     Strengthening of:
     1.   MOANR's capabilities to coordinate and monitor technical
          services at headquarters;
     2.   AUAC's functions as link  between MOANR and the agricul-
          tural corporations in the irrigated subsector;
     3.   MOANR's Department of  Planning and Economic Administra-
          tion  to  carry  out  price  analyses  of  irrigated and
          rainfed crops;
     4.   MOI's institutional improvement efforts; and
     5.   the financial  management  capabilities  of the agricul-
          tural corporations.
Part E:   Studies
     1.   A pilot program for the establishment of cooperatives in
          the White Nile and Blue Nile irrigated schemes.
     2.   The preparation of  a national irrigation rehabilitation
          program.
     3.   A review  of  the  edible  oils  subsector,  including a
          strategy for the further development of this subsector.
     4.   A gum arabic rehabilitation  study designed to recommend
          policy reforms with  respect  to pricing and infrastruc-
          tural developments.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1989.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The Borrower  has  furnished  to  the  Association its public
investment program for 1989-1991  for the Association's review and
comments.
2.   The  Borrower  has  furnished   to  the  Association  a  plan
satisfactory to the Association  setting forth the methodology for
determining land and  water  charges  and their allocation against
various crops.
Page  9
3.   The consultants for assisting MOANR  and ACs to improve their
efficiency have been employed.
4.   The Borrower has furnished to  the Association a work program
of the Auditor  General's  office  satisfactory to the Association
for the updating and upgrading of  the accounts of the ACs and the
standardizing of the ACs.
5.   The  Borrower  has  furnished  to  the  Association proposals
satisfactory to  the  Association  for  the  restructuring  of the
operations  and  management  of  the  Blue  Nile  and  White  Nile
irrigated schemes.
6.   The Borrower has: (a) set credit allocations from the Bank of
Sudan to the ACs  and  the  SCC  for  fiscal year 1988/89 based on
criteria satisfactory to the Association; and (b) provided options
for regularizing outstanding advances to  the ACs and the SCC from
the Bank of Sudan.
7.   The Borrower has furnished  to  the Association proposals for
the revision to the scope of the on-going studies under the Gezira
Rehabilitation Project  and  a  work  program  satisfactory to the
Association for the completion of said studies.
8.   The  Borrower  has   made   progress,   satisfactory  to  the
Association,  in  the   implementation   of  the  integrated  pest
management program.
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in bid packages.
3.   The types of  pesticides  to  be  procured  under the Project
shall be in compliance with  the  list referred to in Section 5.01
(b) of this Agreement.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in Sudan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works may be  procured  under  contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups of items  and  civil works, estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $250,000 per contract, may be procured
under local procedures  acceptable  to  the Association; provided,
however, that  the  aggregate  cost  of  such  contracts shall not
exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000.
Page  10
3.   Items estimated to cost  less  than the equivalent of $20,000
may be purchased off-the-shelf  or  on  the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Association;  provided, however, that the aggre-
gate cost of the items so acquired shall not exceed the equivalent
of $600,000.
4.   Propriatory spare parts  may  be  purchased directly from the
manufacturer or supplier of any such spare parts.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph,  the  procedures  set  forth  in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be  made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of fifteen  percent  (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers  and  by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (4),
(5), (6)  and  (7)  set  forth  in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Page  11
Parts B, C, D and E of  the  Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 200,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion  from  the  Credit  Account  under  the  respective  eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request,  showing  that  such   payment   was  made  for  eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of Article  V  of the General Condi-
               tions and paragraph  (a)  of  Section  2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to the  eligible  Categories for Parts B,
               C, D and E of the  Project, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
               Conditions with respect to Parts  B,  C, D and E of
               the Project, shall  be  equal  to the equivalent of
               twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories for Parts B, C,  D  and E of the Project shall
follow such procedures as the  Association shall specify by notice
Page  12
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that  the  Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining  on deposit in the Special Account
as of the date of such  notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  No  further deposit by the Associa-
tion into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
