Docamt of
The WYorld Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Report Yo. 5855-MLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
March 3, 1986
Urban Division
Western Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CTTPRENCY FOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                            CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                                  CFAF 385
CFAF 1 million                =          US$2,597
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:  METRIC
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FAC            French Bilateral A4;  Agencv
PPF            Project Preparation Facilitv
T'MOA          ITnion tionetaire Otest Africaine (Regional Central Bank)



FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE                                i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                            ii
I.    THE URBAN SECTOR                                                 1
A.   Urbanization and Demographic Trends                         1
B.   Urban Organization and Institutions                         2
C.   Constraints to Rational Development in Bamako               2
Institutional Capacity                                   3
Basic ROLd Network                                       4
Cartography and Cadastre                                 4
Financing for Urban Development and Maintenance          4
D.  Government Policy and Action in the Urban Sector             5
Overview                                                 5
Investment Programming Study                             5
E.   The Bank's Previous Role                                    6
EI.   THE PROJECT                                                      7
A.   Project Objective and Description                           7
Background                                               7
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement                     7
Froject Objectives                                       8
Project Components                                       8
B.   Project Cost and Financing Plan                             9
C.   Project Implementation                                     10
Implementation Schedule and Responsibilities            10
Training                                                 11
Procurement                                              11
Disbursement                                             12
Improvement in District Finances                        12
Cost Recovery and Affordability - Land Development       15
Poverry Impact                                          16
Special Accounts                                         16
Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting                     16
Status of Project Preparation                           17
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Bamako in June 1985, consisting of Messrs. B. Veuthey (mission leader),
H. Boldrick, H. Unger, and F. Amiot (WAPUR). Mr. S. Berkman (WAPED)
assisted in appraising the training elements of the project.
Mrs. A. Artaza assisted in the preparation of cost tables and annexes.
This document ha a restricted distribution and may be used by recipiects only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwie be disclowd without World Bank authorization. 



Table of Contents (Continu2d)
Page
D.   Project Benefits, Risks                                      17
Benefits                                                  17
Rate of Return                                            18
Sensitivity Analysis                                      19
Risks                                                     19
III.  RECOMMENDATION                                                    20
ANNEXES
2-1      Detailed Description of Project Elements
2-2      Summary and Detailed Cost Tables
2-3      Project Execution Calendar and Responsibilities
2-4      Implementing Institutions
2-5      Procurement Arrangements
2-6      Schedule of Disbursements and Allocation
2-7      District Finance Tables and Resource Mobilization Action
Program
2-8      Cost Recovery, Replicability, and Affordability
2-9      Economic Ev-aluation
MAPS
IBRD 19169:  Mali Population Distribution
IBRD 19184:  Bamako Project Elements
IBRD 19413:  Bamako City Center Traffic Management Plan
IBRD 19414:  Bako-Djikoroni Sites and Services
IBRD 19415:  Kalaban-Sud Sites and Services
IBRD 19416:  Bankoni Upgrading Area



- iii -
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
DOCUMENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
INFORMATION CENTER CODE: DOCUMENT # 224.962
Ref. No.                          Documents
1.        Second Projet Urbain du Mali - Etude de factibilite,
Groupe Huit, Octobre 1985.
2.        Projet Ordures Menageres a Bamako, U. Putzar, GTZ,
Aout 1985.
3.        Projet Pave, V. Guerin, ILO, Aout 1985.
4.        Etude du Developpement Urbain de Bamako,
Programmation D6cennale des Investissements,
Rapport Provisoire, Groupe Huit, Septembre 1984.
5.        Analyse Economique, Methode et Calcul, Groupe Huit,
Octobre 1985.



- iv -
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUIIAJLY
Borrower:            Government of Mali.
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Interior, District of Bamako.
Credit Amount:       SDR 25.2 million (US$28.0 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard.
Onlending Terms:    US$7.5 million from the IDA credit to be onlent to
District of Bamako for land development at an
onlent rate of 8% per annum for 25 years, in-
cluding three years grace period.
Project
Description:       The proposed project will:  (a) help remove some
of the major citywide infrastructure constraints
to the efficient functioning of Bamako; (b) facil-
itate private sector housing and construction
activities; (c) improve local resource mobiliza-
tion; and (d) strengthen the capacity of key urban
institutions, especially the District's land
development, municipal management, and tax collec-
tion functio,'s.
The project will finance: (a) road rehabilitation
and construction both in the city center and the
main access roads to the city center; (b) land
development and tenure regularization in various
locations totalling about 2,000 ha and
30,000 plots; (c) technical assictance, training,
studies, and equipment for the District of Bamako,
the Ministry of Interior, and the Project Unit for
improvement of resource mobilization, garbage
collection, and overall coordination of the
project.



-v-
Project Benefits
and Risks:        As a result of upgrading the road network in the
city center, along with better management of
traffic flows, productivity gains in urban trans-
portation are expected to take place through:
(a) cost savings in the use and maintenance of the
-oad network; and (b) lowering the time spent by
both individuals and businesses to travel between
the city center and southern areas of the city.
Urban land development benefits include incentives
for increased land and housing development due to
security of tenure, as well as improvement of
living conditions for the people in the land
development areas of the project. Other gains
would derive from better managed operations within
the District, especially in the field of urban
taxation.
The risks involved in the project are: (a) that
Bamako District may not be able to sustain suffi-
cient political backing to assess and collect the
increases in taxes and fees required to generate
enough revenue for debt service, maintenance and
investment; (b) that project implementation may
suffer due to the difficulty of attracting and
keeping qualified Malian staff; and (c) that the
Go-rernment may not be able to finance its share of
the project costs in a timely manner. The
improvement in urban infrastructure and services
should help to convince taxpayers that a commen-
surate tax increase (point (a) above) is
justified. Extensive training programs included
in the project should counterbalance some of the
risks associated with (b). Finally, to ensure the
timely provision of counterpart funds (point
(c) above), proceeds of the land development
account could be made available to the project, if
necessary. Some US$5 million equivalent is
expected to accrue to this account during the
project period, which is roughly in line with the
Government counterpart obligation.



- vi -
Summary Project Cost Estimate
Estimated Costs:
---------------                    LOCAL         FOREIGN         TOTAL
----------… USS ailli3ns)----------
Infrastructure
_ ____________
1.  Road Rehabilitation                 4.67           5.61          10.49
2.  Land Development                    0.61           41.3           8.24
3.  Cartoqraphy                         0 27           1.40           1 67
Institution Building
4.  Resource Mobili2ation               0.46           1.64           2.10
;   Solid Waste hanagement             0.0             0.49           0.67
Project Unit                       0.56            2.2B           2.85
Total Base Cost                    9.75           16.27          26.02
Phys;cal Contingencies             1.24            1.91           3.15
Price Cont'ingencies               2.12            3.22           5.34
Total Project Cost                13.11          21.41          34.51
0f which Taxes                     4.50            0.00           4.50
ota' Pr-oiect CoEt                 8.60          21.41          30.01
rnet &  Taxes                      ====
Financing Pian:
LOCAL         FOREIGN         TOTAL
----------US  millions)----------
Government                              5.76             -            5.76
;u4                                     7.29          20.71          28.00
-Oench Aia (FAC)                        0.05           0.70           0.75
!ata.                            iH3.!!         21.41          34.51
Xctcc:   NumrbJers  may  not  add  up  due  to  roundlng.



-vii -
Estimated Disbursements:
FY87     FY88      FY89     FY90      FY91    FY92    FY93
------…------------ (USS million)---------------…----
Annual         3.1       5.3        5.9      5.4       4.4     2.8      1.1
Cumulative      3.1      8.4       14.3     19.7      24.1    26.9    28.0
Economic
Rate of Return:         31% for the road rehabilitation and
traffic management elements, and 44% 'or
the land development element, representing
40% and 32% of project cost, respectively.
Maps:  IBRD 19169:        Mali Population Distribution
IBRD 19184:        Bamako Project Elements
IBRD 19413:        Bamako City Center Traffic Management Plan
IBRD 19414:        Baka-Djikoroni Sites and Services
IBRD 19415:        Kalaban-Sud Sites and Services
IBRD 19416:        Bankoni Upgrading Area
WAPUR
Mlarch 1986



MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
I. THE URBAN SECTOR
A. Urbanization and Demographic Trends
1.01      Despite the general poverty of the country (GNP per capita
was US$140 in 1984), Mali's -ities, in general, and Bamako, in partic-
ular, are vital commercial and production centers in which a large
share of the economic development process is taking place. More than
half of the total GNP is generated within urban areas, and it is
estimated that non-farm production grew at an average rate of 4.7% in
real terms during the past decade versus 2.6Z for the agricultural
sector. Confirmation of the vital economic role of Bamako can be
found in the fact that, excluding import duties, two-thirds of the
national reveuees are collected within Bamako District, including 90X
of total taxes on economic activities.
1.02      However, given the dramatic rate of growth of the urban
population (around 6.62 per year). per capita urban productivity,
measured by the ratio of non-farm production to non-farm population.
is slowly decreasing (minus 1.6Z during the past decade). The very
low level of public investments in urban aread has been a major factor
in this decline. This is particularly true for Bamako where the level
of public investment fell from US$10.5 to US$4.1 per capita between
the 1974-1978 period and the 1980-1984 period.
1.03      As a result, Mali's cities are suffering from a lack of
basic infrastructure and services. In Bamako., in particular, a real
crisis situation is indicated by the increasing gap between the supply
of, and demand for, mtnicipal services of all types: roads, water,
drainage, electricity, land development, transportation, refuse
collection, etc. Existing facilities in the older central neighbor-
hood& are overburdened and rapidly deteriorating, while nearly all the
rapidly expanding, recently settled areas on the south bank of the
Niger River lack even basic services and infrastructure. Over the
last seven years, unauthorized settlements have absorbed 45% of
Bamako's population increase.
1.04      At present, 42% of Malt's urban population is concentrated
in Banako (approximately 700,00U inhabitants). During the 1976-1985
period, Bamako grew at an average rate of 7.5% per year, absorbing 44%
of the increase in urban population. Over the next decade
(1985-1995), it is expected that Bamako's population will increase by
some 6.7% per year, thus absorbing 50% of the country's incremental
urban population, the other 50% being split among the existing 65
secondary cities and towns and some 34 emerging centers. By 1995,
Bamako's population will have more than doubled to some 1.5 million
inhabitants, thus demanding further improvements to urban infrastruc-
ture and the provinion of urban services.



B. Urban Organization and Institutions
1.05      At the national level, there are several ministries respon-
sible for urban development. The Ministry of Transport and Public
Works and the Ministry of State Enterprises (through the Water and
Electricity Company) are responsible for planning, constructing, and
maintaining the major infrastructure networks, and cartography and
topography. At the local level, the Ministry of Interior, through its
eight Governors (Mali is divided into eight regions), is responsible
for local administration. Responsibilities of the Governors were
substantially increased by a 1978 Administrative Reform which decen-
tralized and regionalized the technical ministries. The national
ministries retain their planning and programming functions, and the
regional departments, under the authority of the Governors, are
responsible for implementing projects.
1.06      Fcr Bamako, in particular, as a result of the 1978 Adminis-
trative Reform, the Governor now has both the District staff and the
regional departments under his authority. The reform also structured
the Bamako region as a district, different from other regions in that
it has a dual role:
(a) as a regional entity, the District has administrative
responsibility for the regional departments and it coordi-
nates their operations which are funded by the technical
minist.ies; and
(b) as a decentralized entity, the District performs municipal
functions and provides services that are of a municipal
nature and financed by the District budget.
1.07      The Administrative Reform Law of 1978 specifies the various
responsibilities of Bamako District: maintenance of road networks,
removal of household refuse, provision of sanitation and drainage
sources, street lighting, water supply, public transportation,
markets, collection local taxes, land management, etc.
C. Constraints to Rational Development in Bamako
1.08      Housing investment is not keeping pace with the rapid growth
of the population of Bamako because of the limited availability of
serviced land for residential development. This is causing an in-
creasing backlog of unmet housing demand, increasing population
densities in older sections of the city, and haphazard, unplanned
settlement of peripheral areas which will be difficult and expensive
to service in the future. Densities in the older sections are about
four times those in newer areas. Furthermore, existing infrastructure
(especially roads and drainage) are falling increasingly into disre-
pair.



1.09      The principal causes of this situation are the lack of
institutional capacity to develop land (including planning and land
allocation), the lack of a basic road network to support the supply of
serviced land, the lack of basic topographical and cadastral mapping,
and the lack of funds for capital investment, as well as for operatior.
and maintenance of infrastructure and urban services.
Institutional Capacity
1.10      There is a general lack of technical capacity in Government
institutions responsible for urban development, and the required
skills are not to be found in the local private sector. The First
Urban Development Project (Cr. 943-MLI, June 1979) addressed the
institutional issue through the creation of a project implementation
unit under the Ministry of the Interior. which has been effective in
administering the project. However, the Project Unit's experience has
only been partly institutionalized (with the cteation of the Regional
Department of Land Management) and coordination of the agencies
involved in land development has been insufficient. Thus, to ensure a
minimum level of infrastructure and services for Bamako, further
strengthening of the District's technical capacity for land develop-
ment is urgently required. The District is already responsible, under
the 1978 Administrative Reform, for coordinating and directing devel-
opment in Bamako. It has its own technical department and the region-
al departments of the technical ministries under its authority. What
is lacking is a strong district level operational capability to
coordinate the work of agencies responsible for maintenance of crucial
infrastructure, especially road works, and to improve the capacity to
prepare subdivision plans and control land allocation. Bamako Dis-
trict recognizes the need for a coordination unit to fill this gap
and, thus, under the proposed project, a District Technical Unit would
be established. Because of the general lack of technical capacity in
Government agencies, the unit would have competence in a fairly broad
range of skills relating to the planning and execution of civil works.
The scarcity of the needed skills in the public and private sectors in
Mali requires, in the short term, recruitment of expatriate technical
assistance. For the longer term, a strong program of training of
local counterparts, aimed at progressive technical self-sufficiency,
is required. Both of these objectives would be supported by the
proposed project.
1.11      Part of the problem of institutional capacity has been the
lack of an appropriate land tenure law. The original land tenure
legal framework, scattered through many different laws, remained in
force, largely unchanged from early colonial days, until February 4, 1983,
when a new law was enacted. However, the 1983 law was ill-conceived
and its application has been suspended by the Government because of
criticism of its overly complex procedures, ponderous management re-
quirements, exclusion of gradual land development, hindrance of
mortgage financing, and discouragement of housing investment. A
revised land tenure law which addresses these inadequacies has been
reviewed by the Bank and is expected to be enacted within the coming



-4-
months. However, equally important to the law itself will be the
decrees which define the precise details under which the law will be
implemented. The Government agreed to use its best efforts to have
the law enacted by December 31, 1986, and also agreed to review with
IDA the decrees relating to their implementation.
Basic Road Network
i.12      The institutional weakness and lack of resources discussed
above have led to an infrastructure problem that is reaching crisis
proportions. Maintenance has been neglected for so long that many
roads and drains require reconstruction or substantial rehabilitation.
The rapid growth or the city on the south bank of the Niger River has
reached the point where a basic primary road network is urgently
needed to provide a physical framework for control and direction of
lAnd development, and to avoid prohibitively expensive servicing after
uncontrolled settlement has taken place. Likewise, an urgent program
of priority infrastructure rehabilitation in the center of Bamas must
be undertaken.
Cartography and Cadastre
1.13      While some of the elements required for a cadastre now
exist, such as a register of land titles, the lack of base maps (which
are essential for sound urban planning, specific site planning,
development by the public and private sector, and preliminary design
of infrastructure extensions) renders the cadastral system inopera-
tive. The existing base maps are either badly out-of-date or com-
pletely lacking for virtually all of the Bamako area. A complete
eadastre is essential both for physical planning and land acquisition
through the identification of specific sites, and for cost recovery
through the identification of assessable properties.
Financing for Urban Development and Maintenance
1.14      Along with grad!ually expanding the city's capacity to
self-finance new investments, the ability to finance recurrent expen-
ditures (maintenance and operations) of existing and future public
assets is equally essential to Bamako District. In order to cope with
the additional expenditures ,required by new investments and to signi-
ficantly improve the existing low level of maintenance, it is estimat-
ed that the Districtrs revenues should be approximately tripled within
a decade. These increases require significant improvement both in
cost recovery (especially related to land development operations) and
in local taxation. Cost recovery could be improved by including part
of the cost of extensions of infrastructure in plot sale prices.
Local taxation could be improved through the following measures:
(a) improving the collection of existing taxes; (b) modifying and/or
expanding the tax base of the most productive taxes, such as business
licenses; and (c) tapping new sources of revenue.



1.15      Resource mobilization (successfully supported by the first
project) must be accelerated if the District is to meet its debt
service requirements and take on an expanded land development role.
The experience of the first project provides a starting point for a
more systematic program of increasing revenues through improved
assessment and collection of existing taxes, as well as identifying
new sources of revenue, improving accounting and financial management,
and updating the tax base.
D. Government Policy and Action in the Urban Sector
Overview
1.16      Facing the scarcity of resources for public investment, the
Government has taken a number of steps aimed at improving urban man-
agement, including: (a) establishing District level departments of
land management and tax assessment; (b) revising the unsatisfactory
land tenure law enacted on February 4, 1983; (c) increasing local
revenues through better management of municipal finances and better
collection rates; (d) increasing the capacity of public services to
provide legal plots (albeit minimally serviced) to the bulk of the
urban popullation; and (e) undertaking the Bamako ten-year investment
programming study (covering the period 1985-1995), the first attempt
to more efficiently allocate public investments for Bamako District.
Investment Programming Study
1.17      The goal of the study, undertaken by consultants in 1984-85
(Groupe Huit, France), was to determine the minimum level of public
investments for Bamako over the next decade that would preserve the
city's vital role as an eccaomic center for Mali. This involved
formularing a selective urban investment policy that was compatible
not only with macroeconomic constraints and priorities, but also with
local in,rituticns' ability to mobilize internal resources for public
and private investments. A target ratio of urban investments to
national investments of 11% was applied to insure that public invest-
ment allocation for other priority sectors would not be impeded.
Locational priorfties among cities were considered by shifting urban
investment allocation in a manner corresponding to rates of economic
and population growth. Furthermore, the study indicated that if the
urban investment strategy contributes to overall economic growth, as
is expected, it could stimulate additional investments at the national
level.
1.18      The study estimated Bamako's overall investment requirements
at about CFAF 72.5 billion or US$180 million (in 1984 prices). Given
the limited investment capacity of the central government and the
District (including Energie du Mali), it seems likely that some 70%,
or US$126. million of this overall requirement would have to be fi-
nanced with foreign grants or loans. (In recent years, some 87% of



overall public investments have been financed from abroad.) The
remaining 30%, US$54 million, would be financed from parastatal
agencies, the District, and the central government. These figures do
not include private investments in housing construction. Depending on
how well the Government's land development policy is implemented.
these could amount to as much as US$180 million in additional invest-
ments over a ten-year period, the bulk of which would be generated
locally. Under this scenario, domestic private investment would
finance more than half of Bamako's total investment requirements
(public investments, plus housing). However, the extent to which
local private investment will be forthcoming will depend significantly
on the successful implementation of appropriate land development and
tenure policies.
E. The Bank's Previous Role
1.19      The long-term objective of the Bank's assistance to Mali's
urban sector is to help the Government to develop appropriate policies
and institutional capacity to improve the efficiency of urban-based
activities. In keeping with this objective, and due to the economic
importance of Bamako and the magnitude of its problems, the Bank has
financed, in addition to the first urban project, a series of comple-
mentary infrastructure projects with an important impact on Bamako in
the following sectors: water supply, power, highways, and railways,
as well as Bamako components of other projects such as education and
agriculture. 1/
1.20      The First Urban Project was approved in June 1979.  Its main
objective has been to assist the Government in providing affordable
urban services, particularly shelter, water supply, garbage collec-
tion, drainage, schools and health care, to low-income residents in
Bamako. To ensure replicability and maintenance of project compo-
nents, cost recovery has been a major goal, especially for shelter and
municipal services for which cost recovery has traditionally been
inadequate in Mali. Implementation has been very satisfactory and the
project is scheduled for completion by 1986. Progress to date in-
cludes: (a) completion of civil works serving about 50,000 people;
(b) a 75% increase in Bamako District revenues since the inception of
project-financed support measures; (c) reorganization of the District
maintenance department; (d) the introduction of the leasing of public
water taps to individuals who sell water to the public at agreed
prices; and (e) initiating the revision of the land tenure law and
supporting the reorganization of land management in the District. In
1/   Since the first Bank-financed project in Mali in 1966, about
30 percent of all project investments (by value) have taken place
in Mali's 13 main cities.



addition, for the first time in Mali, the recovery of infrastructure
development costs through plot sales was instituted under the project
and has proven very successful; moreover, an embryonic "land devel-
opment fund" was created by establishing a special land development
account for the proceeds of plot sales.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
Background
2.01      The proposed project was identified in 1985. The background
study for this project, i.e., the Investment Programming Study for
Bamako (para 1.17) and the feasibility study, were financed with the
fuzds of the first urban project. The proposed second project was
appraised in June 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in
February 1986 with a Malian delegation led by H. E. Abdourahmane
Maiga, Minister of Interior.
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
2.02      Bank involvement in this project is based on several consid-
erations. First, relative to other donors, the Bank has a comparative
advantage in the sector and in contributing to the formulation of
sectorial policies and priorities. Based on our experience in the
first project, the Bank has been closely involved in the design of the
proposed second project and, in particular, in the formulation of the
policy reform package which it pursues. Specifically, those compo-
nents dealing with resource mobilization (i.e., cost recovery mea-
sures, tax reforms, cadastral surveys) and investment planning/pro-
gramming, including priority assigned to necessary maintenance activi-
ties, have been designed and incorporated into the project as a result
of our ongoing sectorial dialogue established under the first project.
Moreover, these objectives reflect, on a sectorial basis, the macro
issues which are the focus of our overall policy dialogue concerning
structural adjustment. Second, given the nature of the project and
other donors' lack of experience in the urban sector, it is unlikely
that the Government would be able to secure adequate financing else-
where.
Project Objectives
2.03      The objectives of the project are:
(a) to remove the major citywide infrastructure constraints to
the efficient functioning of Bamako by repairing and extend-
ing the road network and introducing traffic management
measures in the city center;



- 8 -
(b)  to facilitate private sector housing and construction activ-
ities through a large increase in the supply of serviced
land with security of tenure;
(c)  to improve local resource mobilization through implementa-
tion of a multipurpose cadastre together with reform of the
land tenure law, as well as measures to strengthen municipal
finances; and
(d)  as a complement to the above objectives, to strengthen the
capacity of urban institutions, especially concerning the
District's land development, municipal management and tax
collection functions, through training programs, studies,
and technical assistance, both at the district and minis-
terial levels.
Project Components
2.04      The project has five major components (two for infrastruc-
ture and land development, and three for institution building) which
are summarized below (see details in Annex 2-1):
(a) Infrastructure and Land Development
Mi) Major Road Rehabilitation and Construction. This in-
cludes civil works and technical assistance to rehabil-
itate existing streets and sidewalks, from surfacing
and patching to total reconstruction (some with paving
stones), cleaning and repairing of drains, as well as
traffic management measures in the city center includ-
ing intersection improvements, traffic lights, and
parking. This component would also include construc-
a of new asphalt and laterite roads, and the estab-
i..hment of a District Technical Unit, supported by
technical assistance;
(ii)  Land Development.  This includes basic roads, drainage,
water supply, and street lighting for about 160 ha of
sites and services (2,050 plots); 725 ha of minimally
serviced land (9,500 plots); 200 ha of upgrading
(3,300 plots); and 900 ha of land tenure regularization
(15,000 plots). It would also include off-site drain-
age, and water and power supply, as well as technical
assistance for urban planning; based on the experience
of the first project, simplified lot allocation proce-
dures will be applied for these elements; and
(iii)  Cadastral Mapping.  This includes aerial photography.
computer equipment, vehicles, technical assistance, and
training for the completion of large-scale topographi-
cal and cadastral maps of Bamako, including a plot
census, and a small pilot component to test appropriE:e



- 9 -
cadastral methodologies in heavily populated periurban
and rural areas.
(b) Institution Building
(i)  Resource Mobilization.  This includes equipment,
material, and technical assistance to introduce sound
financial management, and to improve local revenue
meaeures including business licenses, the road and
refuse collection tax, and market fees. It would also
include technical assistance to assist in the establish-
ment of a District Financial Department, and in the
implementation of the new land tenure law;
(ii)  Assistance to the District MrIntenance Department.
This includes technical assistance, logistical support,
and spare parts for solid waste management; and
(iii)  Project Coordination.  This includes, through the
Project Unit (established in the first project and
institutionalized as a permanent unit within the
Ministry of Interior), training programs and seminars,
technical assistance, and studies (including a feasibil-
ity study for a possible third project).
B. Project Cost and Financing Plan
2.05      The estimated total cost of the project is US$34.5 million
(see summary cost table and detailed cost tables in Annex 2-2). The
estimated foreign exchange component is US$21.4 million, representing
approximately 62% of total project cost. Base costs have been esti-
mated as of January 1986. The project would be financed by an IDA
credit of US$28 million covering 812 of total project costs (932 of
project costs net of taxes), cofinancing of US$0.75 million and the
Government's counterpart contribution of US$5.76 million (17% of total
project cost--5% net of taxes). IDA credit proceeds totalling
US$7.5 million would be on-lent to Bamako District for the land
development component at 8% for 25 years, including a three-year grace
period under a subsidiary loan agreement whose terms would be satis-
factory to IDA and the signing of vhich would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. The rate of interest reflects the current discount
rate for the low-income housing sector applied by the West African
Regional Central Bank (UMOA) which controls the financial sector. The
on-lent amount represents the recoverable costs of the land
development component which is a commercially-oriented operation.
Since the District can recover the costs of this operation directly
from the beneficiaries, it is logical that the operation's financing
be on-lent. This amount also represents the practical maximum debt
that the District can service from its revenues, including those
generated as a result of the project. The Government will bear the



- 10 -
foreign exchange risk. The balance of project financing, including
IDA credit proceeds of US$20.5 million, Government courterpart funds
of US$5.76 million, and cofinancing, would be passed on as budgetary
allocations to the various project-executing agencies, including
Bamako District.
C. Project Implementation
Implementation Schedule and Responsibilities
2.06      The Ministry of Interior, through the Project Unit, would
have overall responsibility for the coordination and financial manage-
ment of the project. The definition of the responsibilities for the
second project would be based on the experience of the first project,
in particular, the allocation of financial and administrative respon-
sibilities between the Ministry of Interior, Bamako District, and the
Project Unit. However, in the second project, more responsibility,
particularly in technical matters, would be given to the District
through the establishment, as a condition of credit effectiveness, of
a District Technical Unit. During negotiations it was agreed that the
Project Director, as head of the Project Unit, and the Director of the
Technical Unit would have qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Bank. The project would be executed over six years. (Annex 2-3
gives the project implementation schedule and briefly describes the
allocation of the various implementation responsibilities. Annex 2-4
gives a descriptiou and organization charts of the two principle
project executing agencies, the District of Bamako and the Project
unit.).
2.07      In addition to overall coordination, the Project Unit would
have responsibility for implementing several smaller components. The
design, implementation, and supervision of the major components would
be the responsibility of the District, either its own units or the
regional directorates of the technical ministries under the
responsibility of the Governor, with supervision provided by the new
District Technical Unit (Annex 2-3 and Annex 2-4). Consultants would
not be engaged for the supervision of civil works because technical
assistance and training would be employed to develop this on-the-job
expertise within the agencies concerned, particularly the District.
Following the good experience with the first project, a local firm
would be used for the audit of project accounts. The project-related
accounts of the District would, for auditing purposes, be consolidated
and audited along with those of the Project Unit.
Training
2.08      The primary objectives of the overall training program will
be to strengthen the institutional capabilities of the various agen-
cies and administrative units connected with the project. Because of
the diversity of job positions and work disciplines involved in the



- 11 -
project components, the upgrading of staff capabilities will be
accomplished through a variety of job-specific training programs that
will be implemented internally, at local training institutions, and at
institutions outside the country. All aspects of the training effort
are clearly defined in the terms of reference for the technical
assistance and would be monitored during the course of project
implementation. Training activities would be coordinated by the
Project Unit.  hle first consultants should be appointed by Fall 1986.
Procurement
2.09      Civil works would be procured through international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) except in cases where the size of individual
contracts would be too small to be attractive for ICB ?rocedures.
These would include: (a) the street and sidewalk rehabilitation with
paving stones which would be procured through local competitive
bidding (LCB) following IDA guidelines, for contracts ranging between
US$10,000 - 50,000, and by force account for works valued at less than
US$10,000; and tb) the drain cleaning and part of the rehabilitation
work for the land development component which would be undertaken by
force account due to the very small size of individual contracts (all
below US$10,000) and the existing capacity of District work forces.
The procurement arrangements are listed in Annex 2-5.
2.10      Equipment, where possible, would be grouped into packages
large enough to attract bids under ICB. However, contracts for furni-
ture, materials and equipment, too small to warrant ICB procedures
(i.e., those of less than US$50,000 each) and which include locally
available maintenance, would be obtained under LCB. For very small
procurement items (less than US$10,000 up to a maximum aggregate
amount of US$400,000), competitive shopping procedures would be used.
2.11      Consultant services for design, training, and technical
assistance would be procured according to IDA guidelines. Aerial
photography and cartography processing would be procured through ICB.
However, since governmental work forces are adequate for undertaking
the ground surveys relating to the cadastral component, they wiln be
carried out by force account).
2.12      For contracts awarded following ICB procurement, goods
manufactured locally would be given a preference margin of up to 15%
or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower, and local
contractors would be given a preference of 7.5% in the evaluation of
tenders for civil works.
2.13      As in the first project and under the supervision of the
Project Unit, which will have the sole authority to sign contracts,
all procurement documentation will be prepared and reviewed by the
agencies in charge of the respective project components.



- 12 -
Disbursement
2.14      The proposed IDA credit of US$28.0 million is expected to be
totally disbursed by March 30, 1993. The estimated quarterly dis-
bursement schedule follows the regionai profile for all IDA projects
(Annex 2-6). All disbursements from the IDA Credit would be fully
documented. Where reimbursement is based on certified statements of
expenditures for civil works and goods and services with a value below
US$10,000 equivalent (financed from the Special Account, para 2.23),
documentation would not be submitted to IDA, but retained by the
Project Unit for review by IDA and project auditors.
Improvement in District Finances
2.15      In contrast to many other West Aftican cities, Bamako is a
net contributor to the national treasury: cwo-thirds of internal
revenue is collected in Bamako while only about half of internal
expenditure by central government takes place within the District. As
a municipality, Bamako District is responsible for the usual municipal
services (urban roads and drainage, solid waste removal, street
lighting, markets, public standpipes, and sanitation) which it
finances from its own internal revenues (primarily market receipts,
transfer taxes, document registration, road and garbage taxes, lorry
park receipts, etc.), plus central government-collected business
license receipts realized within the District. The expenditures of
the District's six communes, whose responsibilities are limited to
maintaining public records (births and death registry, etc.) and
social welfare (care of the indigent, etc.) are likewise supported by
the District. The District also invests in capital projects (primar-
ily construction and repair of public buildings, and purchase of
vehicles and equipment) which it finances from its own funds and
borrowings. In particular, the District has benefited from the
capital expenditure undertaken through the first project.
2.16      In contrast to central government's economic and financial
crisis. Bamako District has made some progress in recent years in
mobilizing resources, but there remains significant scope for tapping
additional revenue sources. District revenue increased from approxi-
mately US$0.9 million in 1979 to about US$2.5 million in 1984.
However, when discounted for population growth and inflation, the
District revenue situation is less encouraging: while the population
of Bamako doubled during the period 1975-1984, real per capita
revenues (1984 values) declined from CFAF 2,000 (US$4.85) to CFAF
1,400 (US$3.40). Furthermore, the District operated at a deficit
averaging 13% of recurrent expenditures in 1983 and 1984. and is
expected to show a deficit of about 10% in 1985. This has hampered
the District's ability to sustain what was an already inadequate !>!vel
of services. Revenues will have to increase substantially over the



- 13 -
next ten years just to maintain the present level of services to the
rapidly expanding population, to maintain existing and planned urban
infrastructure and debt service, as well as to permit the accumulation
of the land development fund for the replication of investments made
under the first project and this proposed second project (paras 1.20
and 2.21). Expenditure control is equally important, for although
expenditures (especially maintenance expenditures) have increased
dramatically (from US$1.3 million in 1979 to US$2.6 million in i984),
they have not produced corresponding increases in services and
maintenance activities.
2.17      With project-financed assistance, total revenues are pro-
jected to increase at a nominal average of 14% per year to 1994,
rising from an estimated US$2.9 million in 1985 to an estimated
US$9.7 million in 1994. A significant part of this increase would
derive from increased coverage of the present population and from the
expected continuation of rapid population growth in Bamako. Primary
sources of increased revenue would be business licenses (from reclas-
sification of businesses into the proper tax brackets along with
expansion of business license rolls), transfer fees and permits (from
the registration of unregistered plots), road and garbage taxes (from
the establishment of a new trx base), and a portion of net proceeds
from the sale of project plots. Recurrent expenditure growth would be
limited to an annual average of 11% (through expenditure control sup-
ported by the project). These revenue increases, with expenditure
control, will move the District into a recurrent surplus position by
the end of the project implementation (end 1992 onward). This program
would permit, by 1994, a gradual expansion of urban services and
servicing of the existing debt, as well as maintenance of project-
financed infrastructure, project debt service, and an operating
surplus for other investment. (Annex 2-7 gives the District's annual
revenues and expenditures for the past few years (1982-1984), and as
estimated for the future (1985-1994) with and without project.)
2.18      The projected increases in revenues and limitations on
recurrent expenditure growth will only be possible if a number of
changes are made to the District's tax base and financial structure
and procedures. While the structure of business license fees appears
to be appropriate, as does the Government's policy (developed with IME
and USAID assistance) of not increasing the fiscal pressure on private
businesses, the classification of individual businesses has not been
reviewed in over 15 years. The proposed project would support such
reclassification, along with expansion of business license rolls,
which together should double the business license tax base by 1988,
although application of the increased base is expected to be spread
over a longer period. The road and garbage tax is currently levied on
a weak base (the rental income tax) and could become a growing source
of revenue by 1989, if based on property values to be developed under
the cartography component of the project. The feasibility of this
change will be reviewed during project implementation. The District



- 14 -
does not have a reliable accounting system (final accounts have not
been prepared for several years), and does not have the capability to
adequately prepare budgets and monitor income and expenditure. Since
the first project accorded top priority to the question of resource
mobilization, it did not deal with the issue of the District's finance
in great depth. However, the proposed project addresses both the need
for continued resource mobilization, as well as the now urgent need to
strengthen the District's financial management and budgetary
procedures. Thus, a District Finance Department, headed by a quali-
fied Malian and appropriately supported by technical assistance, is
needed to properly direct District accounting, monitor revenues,
control expenditures, and prepare budgets; this Department will be
created under the project. During negotiations, it was agreed that
the functions of the Department, as well as the qualifications and
experience of its Director, will be acceptable to the Bank, and that
the Department will be operational as a condition of credit
effectiveness.
2.19      Finally, the current cash management structure requires
changing. In keeping with the francophone financial principles of
separating authority for expenditure from that for payment and of
consolidating funds, District revenues are paid into the National
Treasury. However, the Treasury is also responsible for all govern-
ment revenues and expenditures, and a clear picture of District
transactions is not possible. The situation is further complicated by
the existence of an internal District account into which a portion of
District revenues is deposited before onward transmission to the
National Treasury. Furthermore, this account is not adequately
controlled and unauthorized expenditures (such as the District's
capital investment expenditures in 1983 and 1984) are often made. The
result is a situation unsatisfactory both to the District and the
Government. In order for the District to be able to manage its re-
sources and plan its activities, and for the Government to monitor the
District's finances, as a condition of credit effectiveness, a
District Treasurer will be appointed to be responsible solely for
District transactions. It was agreed during negotiations that he w-ill
have qualifications, experience, and functions acceptable to the Bank.
2.20      The District Finance Department and the District Treasurer
have already been established. In addition, agreement was reached on
the following program of actions to improve District finances (this
program is detailed in Annex 2-7):
(a) completion of statement of affairs of District as of
December 31, 1985 (by December 31, 1986);
(b) annual review by IDA, District, and Ministries of Interior
and Finance of District's draft budget proposal (annually,
beginning 1986);



- 15 -
(c) reorganization of District accounting/budgeting/financial
control (by December 31, 1987);
(d) reclassification of businesses for licensing purposes (by
January 1, 1988);
(e) referencing and mapping of commercial and residential
properties (by December 31, 1988);
(f) 10% annual increase in revenue from business taxes (over the
project period); and
(g) 15% annual increase in revenues from road cleaning and
garbage taxes (over the project period).
(The effects of the last tvc measures are reflected in the forecasted
District budget with project presented in Annex 2-7.)
Cost Recovery and Affordability - Land Development
2.21      The costs of land development (excluding off-site water and
drainage costs) would be recovered through the cash sale of individual
plots. With different levels of servicing and differential pricing,
this component is expected to be affordable down to the 13th percent-
ile of the income distribution. Households would be expected to
purchase their plots in four cash installments over a one-year period
(The mechanisms for lot allocation cost recovery, its replicability
and affordability are discussed in Annex 2-8).  Receipts from the sale
of plots from the first project's land development component have been
deposited into a special land development account and this arrangement
would continue under the proposed project.  In addition, under the
Droposed project, this account would be transformed into a special
District account, with a view, at a later date, to possibly
institutionalizing the account as a small public agency for further
land development activities. The process of this transformation would
be as follows:
(a) design and implementation of an overall programming, budget-
ing, and accounting system for land development activities
through the creation of a "budget annex" to the general
District budget, according to existing District regulations;
and
(b) when resources and exnerience are sufficient, examining the
feasibility of creating a small agency to be responsible for
land development activities. This agency would assume the
necessary management and accounting responsibilities now
being carried out by the District. It would be staffed with
current District employees who would be given appropriate
training, either with specialized seminars in Bamako or with
short-term training in similar agencies in other countries.



- 16 -
Poverty Impact
2.22      The relative poverty level for urban households can be esti-
mated at a monthly income of about CFAF 28,000 per household in 1984,
corresponding to the 33rd percentile of Bamako's income distribution.
For upgrading sites. approximately 45% of the expected beneficiaries
are below this poverty level. For the sites and services and
minimally-serviced plots components, 80% of the plots will be
affordable to families below the poverty level. The project would
have additional benefits for low-income households (including families
under the 13th percentile) by improving road access to existing low-
and high-density areas, as well as improving refuse collection in
these areas.
Special Accounts
2.23      A Special Account for IDA credit proceeds would be estab-
lished for the proposed project as a condition of credit effective-
ness. The Special Account, which would be CFAF 100 million, would be
replenished on the basis of Government withdrawal requests. Another
local account, the revolving fund, would be created for Government's
counterpart contribution, with an initial deposit of CFAF 100 million.
The Special Account and the revolving fund would be operated under
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
2.24      Consolidated project accounts would be maintai-aed by the
existing Project Unit under the Ministry of Interior, continuing the
satisfactory arrangements established under the first project. The
Project Unit would administer the Special Account and the revolving
fund, monitor the land development account, and process all withdrawal
applications. Bamako District and other project executing agencies
would maintain separate accounts for the project components under
their responsibility and provide the Project Unit with the necessary
accounting data for consolidation. Project and Special Accounts, the
revolving fund, and statements of expenditure would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank according to
terms of reference agreed by the Bank. Project accounts and auditors'
reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of
each Government fiscal year. Legal restrictions preclude the
Distric 's accounts from being audited by a private firm. Thus, it
was agreed that the District would submit its accounts, as approved by
the Ministry of Interior, for the Bank's review within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. The Project Unit would continue the
quarterly reporting procedure established under the first project and
would prepare a project completion report within six months of the
credit closing date.



- 17 -
Status of Project Preparation
2.25      All land necessary for the land development component
already belongs to the State and would be transferred to the District
no later than December 31, 1986. Final design and detailed
engineering and bidding documents for the road rehabilitation (first
year's works) and land development components have been prepared by
consultants. These studies have been financed under the first urban
project. Technical assistance would be in place by Fall 1986. All
critical preparation work would be completed before the scheduled
mid-1986 project start-up. During negotiations, the Government
requested a PPF in the amount of US$0.8 million to: (a) cover
technical assistance for review and modifications to the land tenure
law, in anticipation of the cadastral component; and (b) complete
detailed engineering studies, funding for which has thus far been paid
out of the first project; however funds for this purpose under the
first project are now nearly exhausted. This PPF is expected to be
finalized shortly.
D. Project Benefits, Risks
Benefits
2.26      The primary benefits to be derived from the project are:
(a) improved District finances through better management of
operations and improved collection of revenues;
(b) improved efficiency of Bamako's transportation system
through better management of traffic flows in the city
center, as well as upgrading its road network, and improving
key road segments on the south bank of the Niger;
(c)  lengthened lifetime of infrastructure investments through
improved maintenance;
(d) improved living conditions for Bamako's residents through
provision of 12,000 new plots, rehabilitation of 3,300 ex-
isting plots, and land tenure regularization of an addition-
al 15,000 plots (involving about 300,000 people); and
(e) increased incentives for investment in land development and
housing as a result of improved security of tenure.
2.27      Among these benefits, the increased efficiency of Bamako's
transportation system, due to savings in fuel and vehicle maintenance
costs, is a critical economic consideration for the whole country.



- 18 -
Indeed, 70Z of total domestic fuel consumption and most transpbrtation
equipment acquired nationally are consumed in Bamako and its environs.
These two items account for about 402 of national imports and absorb,
therefore, more than 50% of total export receipts.
Rate of Return
2.28      The project's economic evaluation is given in Annex 2-9.
Rates of return were calculated only for the components which produce
quantifiable benefits, namely, the infrastructure component (road
rehabilitation and traffic management in the city center, rehabil-
itation of main access roads to the center, and primary roads on the
Sonth Bank) and the land development component. These two components
account for CFAF 9.6 billion (US$24.9 million) or 72Z of project
cost. The overall rate of return of the two components is 36%: 31X
for the infrastructure component and 44% for the land development
component. Given the lack of data, no adjustment was made to the
investment costs to account for use of unskilled labor. The foreign
exchange compornent was shadow priced at 0.93 (average standard
conversion factor, weighted 1978-83, currently used for Bank-financed
projects in Mali).
2.29      For the infrastructure component, the approach was to calcu-
late benefits from vehicle operating cost savings under varying speed
levels and pavement conditions, and from time savings when the speed
and/or the traffic flows are improved. Value of time was established
at one-third of the minimum guaranteed hourly wage. The cost streams
included the cost of civil works, the technical assistance costs of
this component, plus an allowance for routine and periodic mainte-
nance. Under these conditions, economic rates of return (ERR) range
from 19% to 51% on the nine road sections being completed or reha-
bilitated and on the traffic management subcomponent (see Annex 2-9).
The consolidated ERR (31Z) is within the range of that for similar
projects, even though it was not possible to assess all the benefits
(in particular, time savings due to secondary improved street
intersections).
2.30      Separate calculations were done for an alternative paving
stone solution. The approach was to compare the benefits and cost
streams of such an option versus normal paving with a double surface
creatment. The rate of return of the incremental investment of the
paving stone option (about 55Z higher than normal paving), taking into
consideration savings in foreign exchange as well as vehicle operating
cost losses due to the stone surface, is 12%. Considering the
employment impact, the paving stone option appears to be a worthwhile
solution when implemented on road sections with heavy traffic flows
and/or low traffic speeds.
2.31      The rate of return of the land development subcomponent
(44%) was calculated on the basis of benefits measured by the
projected differential in rent between improved and unimproved land at



- 19 -
existing market prices. In order to avoid double counting, neither
the benefits accruing from improved health and sanitary conditions nor
the benefits due to the improved infrastructure network were included.
Those portions of technical assistance costs which are directly
related to the subcomponent were included in the economic evaluation.
Sensitivity Analysis
2.32      A sensitivity analysis was conducted to verifv to what
extent the rates of return would be affected by possible increases in
project costs and/or decreases in benefits, although these benefits
were calculated conservatively.
2.33      For the infrastructure component, the two main results are
the following: (a) if the benefit stream decreases by 10X, the
consolidated ERR would be reduced from 3i% to 21Z; and (b) if the
maintenance costs are reduced to their minimal level, leading to an
estimated 10% increase in vehicle operating costs from the third year
onward, the consolidated ERR would be reduced to 212. This last
result shows that sustained effort in routine and periodic maintenance
will be the key factor in maintaining a good return on investments.
For the land development component, the two main results are the
folloving: (a) if the land value decreases by 10%, the ERR would be
reduced from 44% to 35%; and (b) if the capital costs increase by 1OZ
and the land value decreases by 10%, the ERR would be reduced to 28%.
Risks
2.34      The risks involved in the project are:  (a) that Bamako
District might not be able to sustain s,.fficient rolitical backinp, to
assess and collect the increases in taxes and fees required to gener-
ate enough revenue for debt service, maintenance, and investment;
(b) that project implementation would suffer due to the difficulty of
attracting and keeping qualified Malian staff; and (c) that the
Government may not be able to finance its share of the project costs
in a timely manner. Concerning increased tax assessment and
collection (point (a) above), the rehabilitation of roads and the
improvement in refuse collection provided under this project should
convince taxpayers that the District can deliver a better level of
servlces, which would justify incremental taxes. The shortage of
qualified personnel is a risk affecting virtually all undertakings in
Mali. The extensive training programs included in the project should
counterbalance this risk (point (b) above). To ensure that the
Government makes funds available to finance the project, we have
proposed that, if necessary, counterpart funds could also be provided
from the land development account which receives the proceeds of plot
sales. During the project period, funds totalling some US$5 million
equivalent are expected to accrue to this account; this amount is in
line with the Government's counterpart obligation.



- 20 -
III. RECOMMENDATION
3.01      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Mali and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the District of Bamako, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided in Article V Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
3.02      During negotiations agreements were reached on:
(a) assurances concerning land tenure law and review of rules
and regulations concerning its implementation (para 1.11);
(b) detailed definition of simplified lot allocation procedures
(para 2.04);
(c) adoption of an action plan to imprs-we >'strict revenue
mobilization including the timing and details of the program
(para 2.20);
(d) maintenance of exclusive use of the project land development
account for land development activities (para 2.21);
(e)  auditing of all project accounts and annual review of
District account by IDA (para 2.24);
(f) timing for hiring of technical assistance (para 2.25);
(g)  completion of :P-.Q t.qnsfer to the District by
December 31. 1986 (para 2.25); and
(h)  qualificatic.x  and experience (satisfactory to the Bank) of
the Project Director (para 2.06). of the Director of the
District Technical Unit (para 2.07), of the District Finance
Department (para 2.18), and finally of the District
Treasurer (para 2.19).
3.03      Conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) the execution of the subsidiary loan and grant agreements
between the Government and the District (para 2.05);
(b) creation of the District Technical Unit and appointment of
its director (para 2.06);



- 21 -
(c)  appointment and putting in place of Heads of District
Finance and District Finance Treasurer (para 2.18 and 2.19);
and
td)  creation of a revolving fund for Government contribution
and deposit of an initial contribution of CFAF 100 million
(para 2.23).
3.04      Satisfactory agreements and assurances on the above having
been obtained during negotiations, the project is suitable for an IDA
credit of US$28 million equivalent on standard terms.
WAPUR
March 1986



- 22 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 1 of 12
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT ELEMENTS
I. INFRASTRUCTURE
A. Road Rehabilitation and Construction
1. Traffic Management Plan and Road Rehabilitation in the City Center
Traffic congestion in the city center is mainly caused by the
poor condition of road surfaces and sidewalks, the lack of traffic
regulation measures, and the inadequate design of intersectiuaa.  The
traffic management plan designed to improve this situation includes the
following elements:
Ca) rehabilitation of 14 km of streets and cleaning or rehabilita-
tion of 25 km of storm drains;
(b) improvement of 20 intersections, including seven with traffic
lights;
(c) rehabilitation or new construction of 10 km of sidewalks;
Cd) improvement of signing and road markings by means of some
500 road signs and 10 km of lane marking;
(e) repair of approximately 500 street lights and installation of
about 100 new ones;
(f) establishment of a pedestrian zone around the Central Market;
and
(g)  technical assistance (traffic engineer and road construction
engineer) in association with the District Technical Unit
(33 man-months in total) for all three elements of the Road
Rehabilitation and Construction component.
Approximately 2 km of new roads and 10 km of sidewalks in the
city center are proposed to be paved using paving stones under a pilot
program supported by specialized technical assistance (30 man-months).



- 23 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 2 of 12
2.   Rehabilitation of the Main Access Roads to the City Center (North
Bank)
In coordination with (and to complement) the above-mentioned
measures in the city center, the following work is proposed on the main
access roads to the city center:
(a) rehabilitation or reconstruction of 20 km of roads, including
the associated roadside drainage; the following roads will be
resurfaced over a minimum width of 6 m, and some will be
widened to 7 and 9 m respectively:
-    East of city center:  RR6 (North side) and the cross-
links of Missira and Bankoni, 44th Street, Titi Niare
Street, and a new laterite road to the industrial zone;
and
-    West of city center:  Kasse Keita and Ibrahima Diawara
Streets and their 3 cross-links, as well as Boulevard de
la Paix;
(b) improvement of 10 intersections on the above-mentioned roads
including 3 with traffic lights;
(c) erection of 160 signs and 9 km of lane marking; and
(d) installation of about 100 street lights.
3.  Infrastructure (South Bank)
The objectives of this project component are to open up the
South West area of the South Bank (Bako-Djikoroni, Sabalibougou,
Kalabankouro, Niamakoro), prepare the road network for future exten-
sions, and achieve an optimal distribution of traffic with respect to
the second Niger bridge (scheduled for completion in 1992). Two types
of interventions are proposed:
(a)  construction of 13 km of 30 m right-of-way primary roads
creating links between Badalabougou and Kalabankoro, Road RN6
(Algerian Embassy) and Kalabankoura, and between
Torokorobougou and Kalabankoura through Sabalibougou,
including two reinforced concrete box culverts over the
intermittant drainage channels which divide this area during
the rainy season;
(b) off-site infrastructure for the Bako-Djikoroni site, including
5 km of 200 mm diameter water main to supply water area; and
(c) 3 km of medium-voltage electrical transmission line to the
same area.



- 24 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 3 of 12
B. Land Development
4.        This element includes the following:
(a) 160 ha of sites and services, comprising about 2,050 lots
ranging in size from 240 m' to 375 m 2 (and about 30 residen-
tial lots of 850 m2).  Infrastructure includes 3 km of paved
roads, 7 km of laterite roads, storm drainage, water supply
through public standpipes, and street lighting on the main
roads;
(b) 725 ha of minimally serviced land at Kalaban-Sud, comprising
about 9,500 lots. Infrastructure includes grading of the main
roads, marking of the right-of-way of secondary and tertiary
street network, and some groundwater wells (boreholes) for
water supply. The primary road network mentioned above under
3(a), will provide access to this area;
(c)  200 ha of upgrading in Bankoni, comprising about 3,300 lots.
Infrastructure work will include construction of basic main
roads and drainage, and regularizing of the lots with granting
of secure tenure;
(d) 900 ha of land tenure regularization, comprising about
15,000 lots. This project component will be supported and
complemented by the cartography element of the project and the
strengthening of the Regional Department of Land Management
(IDD);
Ce)  30 km of unpaved primary roads (30 m right-of-way) to comple-
ment the paved main road grid of the South West area. Five
large culverts for drain crossings are also included; and
(f)  60 km of secondary road right-of-ways (20 m idth) will be
stripped only with the aim of structuring th. 725 ha of the
minimally serviced land.
The technical assistance for the Land Development Component
consists of a site engineer (36 man-months).
C. Multipurpose Mapping
5.        The objective of this project component is to produce, for the
city of Bamako, mapping usable for various applications. The proposed
element includes aerial photographs (scale 1:10,000) and digital mapping
with automatic restitution of plans at larger scales (1:1,000; 1:5,000).
These plans will serve the District Maintenance Department and the
national tax and land management depart-ents for the cadastral survey



- 25 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 4 of 12
and land tenure regularization components of the project. The necessary
equipment and technical assistance (cartographer for 18 man-months) will
also be provided.
II. INSTITUTION BUILDING
1.   Resource Mobilization
(a) Creation of a District Finance Department: This department is
necessary because of the financial effort required from the
District and because of the substantial budget which is
involved. The main duties of this department will be to
prepare and monitor the budget, to establish proper procedures
for committing expenditures, and to manage staff and equip-
ment;
(b) District Treasurer: The District Finance Department mentioned
above will work in close collaboration with the new District
Treasurer. It is proposed to establish a District Treasurer,
physically located in the District, who would handle solely
the District and its six communes, without any interference
with the accounts of the Central Government; and
Cc) Increase of Revenues: The objective of this project component
is to increase the District's capacities for infrastructure
maintenance and new investments, so that it can assume its
responsibilities in the development of the city and can also
service the debt incurred through this project.
Three types of actions are proposed:
'i) increasing the revenues from business licenses in con-
junction with the National Department of Tax Assessment;
(ii) acceleration of the land tenure regularization carried
out by the Regional Department of Land Management with
improved collection of the property transfer tax asso-
ciated therewith; and
(iii) improvement of the property assessments carried out by
the Regional Department of Tax Assessment to increase the
base of the street cleaning and refuse collection levies.
The technical assistance for this component comprises a
financial management advisor, a tax specialist, and a computer program-
mer who would all be attached to the District Finance Department
(61 man-months).



- 26 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 5 of 12
2.   Creation of a District Technical Unit
(a) This unit will provide the technical assistance and logistical
support necessary for the planning, administration, and
supervision of the civil works contracts of the project. A
senior technical advisor will be assigned to the unit for
36 man-months; and
(b) Logistical support includes vehicles, equipment, material,
supplies, and about 1,500 m2 of office space to relocate/house
these services.
3.   Assistance to the District Maintenance Department (cofinanced by
GTZ).
This component will comprise the following elements:
(a) Technical assistance to the District Maintenance Department
(DSTD) to improve the solid waste collection and disposal
system (engagement of private contractors for some areas,
experimental composting), and also to improve the management
of the DSTD, their drain cleaning and septic tank emptying
operations. The training and advisory services will be
provided by a solid waste management expert, a workshop
superintendent, and a composting expert (54 mau-months in
total);
(b)  Purchase of 20-7 m3 waste containers, various tools and
workshop equipment, and vehicle and equipment spare parts; and
(c) Development of disposal sites for solid waste and sewage
sludge.
4.   Project Unit
The project unit will continue to be responsible for the
overall supervision of the project activities as well as for the insti-
tution building components. It will be charged with the administrative
and financial coordination of the project, management of the special
accounts, and the preparation of disbursement requests.
The project unit will also continue to initiate, administer,
and supervise training and studies. This element includes technical
assistance and advice to the project director for 66 man-months,
vehicles and equipment, and 54 man-months for the following: feasi-
bility study for a third urban project, feasibility study for intro-
duction of property tax, and short-term technical assistance.
The table on the following page presents a summary overview of
the proposed technical assistance.



-27 -                 Ann 2-1
p         12
sICCmvUD EAl PROJECT
Technical Asiltance Overview
Componet7                  Lon/Short-         Assigned        Located
Position                    Term               to              at
(mn-mouths)
K.  UINATUUR
A. Road Rleab. &Const.
- TraffIc bngineer            24/9                             mm
- Pavitg Exarts               2416              CTD
B. Land Devlent
- Site Egneer                 36/               CYD
C. MIltImurpoue Kaulns
- Cartographer                12/6                            DlTC
II. ZnST?TUTON DUnINDlG
A. Reomrce Mobilization
- Fnancial Management
Advisor                 24/6             DNICT           DiD
- Computer Programor          12/12             CTD            DID
DD
-  Tax Expert                   17                             DiD
D. District Technical Unit
- Sr. Technical AdMsor        36/               CTD
C. DSTD (GTZ cofinanced)
- Solid Wasta Nanagemt        24/                             DSTD
Expert
- Wbrkshop Superintendent    241                              DSTD
- Compostfing Expert            6                             DSTD
D. Pro ct Ut
- Advisor to the              361               PUM
Proect Dlrector
- Training                    30/               ?UK
- Unallocated                   124             PUN
Total                        282/76 man-months (54 thereof cofinanced by CTZ)
Abbreviations:
CTD:     Ce11Y1C Technique du DiStrict (District Technical
Unit)
D:       Bureau de Transport du DiStrict (District Traffic
Managemet Unit)
DITC:    Direction Regionals de Topographie at Cartographie
(Regional Departmet of Topography and Cartography)
DRICT:   Direction  ationale de l'Interieur et des Collectivites
Territoriales (National Department of the Interior and
Local Govezrumnte)
DID:     District Financial Department
ID:      Inspectloan Dou nlale du District (Dlstrict Land
bwpctorate)
DSTD:    Direction des Services Technlques du District (District
Meaitenance Departgmen)
PDM:     Project Unit
November 1985



- 28 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 7 of 12
5.   Training
The primary objectives of the overall training program will be
to strengthen the institutional capabilities of the various agencies and
administrative units connected with the project. Because of the diver-
sity of job positions and work disciplines involved in the project
components, the upgrading of staff capabilities will be accomplished
through a variety of job-specific training programs that will be imple-
mented internally, at local training institutions, and at institutions
outside the country. The training methodology and tasks for this
component of the project are described below, in conjunction with the
flow chart and schedule attached at the end of this annex:
(a) Methodology. The methods to be used to upgrade staff will be
determined by the actual training needs of each individual and
identification of the most efficient ways to meet these needs.
This will include:
Ci)  On-the-Job-Training (OJT) to be conducted by technical
assistance experts and senior staff on a one-to-one
basis, or with small groups of trainees. This training
is to be based upon the identification and description of
each job-related task that the trainee must master in
order to be competent in his/her job position. The
training will not be considered complete until the
trainer has certified that the trainee can perform each
of the tasks in a proficient manner and without super-
vision;
Cii) Work/Study Programs to be conducted at similar institu-
tions (i.e., a Department of Finance, Urban Planning
Unit, or Public Works Department) outside the country
where staff can gain first-hand operational experience
working in a more successful environment. These programs
(stages pratiques) could also include specific study
assignments in related background subjects (i.e., munici-
pal accounting practices, municipal maintenance planning,
etc.);
(iii) Short Courses, Seminars, and Workshop to be conducted
in-house, at local institutions, and at institutions
outside the country. These programs would primarily be
directed to senior and mid-level staff on such topics as
(a) personnel policies; (b) work supervision; (c) finan-
cial planning and management, and (d) advanced technical
subjects, and would be directly related to local institu-
tional requirements;
(iv) Training at Local Institutions to be conducted primarily
for mid- and lower-level staff to develop basic skills
and job-related knowledge. This training will involve



- 29 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 8 of 12
release time from the job so that trainees can attend
courses either part-time on a daily basis.
(b)  Tasks.  The tasks necessary to establish and implement the
training program will require a variety of inputs and actions
on the part of the local administrative staff and the techni-
cal assistance experts. These tasks, as outlined below, will
need to be defined in detail during the initial phases of the
project.
(i) Definition of Training Needs will be accomplished after
institutional functions and job descriptions have been
established. Job tasks, skills, and knowledge required
for each job position will then be compared with the
skill and knowledge levels of existing staff and/or new
recruits. Identified skill and knowledge deficiencies
will then form the basis for the proposed training
program;
(ii) Identification of Training Methods will be based upon the
training needs assessment and will establish the types of
training to be utilized for each of the job positions,
i.e., OJT, short courses, work/study programs, seminars,
etc;
(iii) Identification of Training Institutions will follow the
selection of training methods. When the training cannot
be accomplished in-house, these will include local
training centers, specialized training institutes outside
the country, and similar agencies in cities of comparable
size. The training programs will be developed jointly
with the selected institutions, taking into account
entrance requirements, program content, scheduling, and
costs;
(iv) Selection of Trainees will be based upon the results of
the training needs assessment, staff development prior-
ities, staff scheduling priorities, and the availability
of training programs. Selection criteria will also
include the trainees' ability to meet the entry require-
ments of the program;
(v)  Preparation of the On-the-Job Training Program will be
based upon the functions and tasks listed in the various
job descriptions. A detailed list of tasks for each job
position will be compiled in which the trainee must
demonstrate acceptable proficiency to successfully
complete thei program. As proficiency is demonstrated for
each task, the trainee will assume full responsibility
for that task from his/her technical assistance counter-
part and/or superior;



- 30 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 9 of 12
(vi) A Train-the-Trainers Course will be required for all
senior staff and technical assistance specialists who are
involved in the OJT program and who have not had previous
training and experience in this area. The three- to
five-day course will include training objectives, method-
ology, and techniques, and will be conducted by a
training specialist in-house;
(vii) A Training Schedule will be established for all phases of
the program including in-house, local training, and
training outside the country. Considpration will be
given to trainee released time (from work), instructor
availability, and course schedules at outside training
institutions. The schedule will be defined during
project start-up and should continue beyond the end of
the project;
(viii)  Implementation of the Training Program will be accom-
plished according to the established schedule and will be
monitored periodically to determine training effective-
ness. Responsibility for the program will rest with the
Project Unit, senior administrative staff, and the
technical assistance specialists. Each quarterly project
report will include a section on training activities and
progress to assist in the monitoring and supervision of
the training component; and
(ix) Evaluation of Training will be guided by the primary
principle of job competency. Evaluation procedures will
be established to verify that the trainee is proficient
and competent in his/her job position. Favorable evalua-
tion of OJT will be followed by the turnover of job
responsibilities from the technical assistance specialist
to the trainee/employee where applicable. Other in-house
training, and training at outside institutions, will be
evaluated by measured improvements in employee perfor-
mance upon return to the job position.
(c) Costs to be Financed. Financing for the project training
component will be allocated through the following items:
(i) Technical Assistance. Although primarily utilized to
perform tasks and assignments for which local expertise
is not available, all technical assistance experts will
be required to perform training functions related to
their fields of expertise. In addition, depending upon
the technical assistance profiles, it may be necessary to
utilize a training specialist for four to six weeks at
project start-up, and for brief periods during the
remainder of the project;



- 31 -
ANNEX 2-1
Page 10 of 12
(ii)  Tuition Costs will be financed for trainees/employees
attending local institutions and institutions outside the
country;
(iii)  Travel and Per Diem Expenses will be financed for
courses, seminars, workshops, and work/study programs
outside the country; and
(iv) Training Support Materials will be required for in-house
training activities and will be financed through the
project.



MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Training Activities
Objectives                         Methodology                            Tasks                          Project Elements
1-1
DIMTIC T IKEICAL
OXDU*TICO  MT
VOWO/STUDI PROGRAMS
_t3W  UUA      0 0T81IM-D 1131(
DIMICS UlmI>     Otl-T1108 TRAINING 
M18IIS                       ST TRCCN IC  ASSISTANCE
I.-              AND SENIOR STAFF
- DCIU TRAINING NEEDS
. TRNIGTM                                                             FOE UQ UNIT
CAD*SIUAL "l
CAUPAILII                                                           - IDIWTIl  TRAINING
_   _     __                        _ _ _  _    _  _  _                  -Q           I E         K : ]T      A E   N   E
- IDlTAISU TIAININO
t         ~~INSTITMON
_   - 11  _           - ~~~VL/8STUDS PROGRM                                                    -T CSICA ASSISTACE
okCS                          U0S91DC T|1Z COUTILtN                -SU 8 T  IIIZC
-- ONTI-JOI 1t3*131K                                                    -TUITIO com
_uuau       I tS TECUNICAL ASSISTANCI_           - P         ON JOt      C     I
STRENGTREN                       AM80SATINI noGm -AD DIOB                                                       A ShIM PRn DORs
SimicT rmum             ~~~- SW"31M AoT LOA
O-STIIORS UOUU4                     - EAIN TUINT  S                     T TININO  ATERIALS
E STABLISH TRAINING
-  m/SSU Y PROGUII                      SCRZDULC
_  - O-TOS TIINAC
r        Lt ShC1 111ICAL ASSISTANCP             IIMPLSU  TININ¢
, - SL~TAIN    AT LOCAL 
asOlSTll"                           -   ALnsUN                
WAPUR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Novebr 1985



- 33 -                      ANNEX 2-1
Pa8e 12 of 12
MALI
SECOIID U11 PRJC
Scbedule of Training Activitie
87          so          89         90          91
J.J......J                         J ...........J....
A. Definition of Tralning Neds
1. Dlitrlct Technieal CoordinatLon
2. DistrLet Urban Planning Unit               .....................................
3. eat'l Regional Dlrectoratme
of Topogr.phy                            ...
4. Regonal Dlirectorates of Land
5. Nat'l Directorate of Interior
(DIICS)                                     mxxx
6. Distrlct FLnance Dept.              X..
7. DLstrlct Tecbn. Servlces Dept.      ]a=  .........
S. Project Unlt                           ..
D. Identlfication of Training Methods        .             .  .  .  .  ...... . . . . .....................
C. Identification of Trainlng Instltutions
1. Local                                .... ... x . m
2. Outslde the Country                  .... .. ..
3. Tinlning Arrangments                 .... T.=        .. .
D. Selection of Trainees.                    ....X=  ............. ........
E. Preparation of On-the-Job Trg. Progres
1. List of Tasks for Each Job
Position                           ....AX    ....       ..
2. Schedule for Transfer of
Job Responsibilities               ....XX               . .   ...........
F. Train Senlor Staff as Trainurs
1. Prepare Workshop Material.s            X ....                   .....
2. Conduct Worksbop.                    ....    .... ......                         ....
C. Establish Project Training Schedule       ........                       .... I...
H. Inpismnt Training
1. On-1he-Job                           ..........
2. At Loaal Institutions                ..........
3. At Oversaw Intltattions
a) Workshope, Se iners &
Short Courses                 ..........   . .].=..m.m .....x
b) UorkiStudy Programs             ..........                        ..............x
I. Evaluate Training Through
1. Takeover of Job Reponsibilities      ........................
2. Submission of Trtaining Reports        .R.... RL  ......LR..         .   P ...     .R            R
m . m. - Designates the tl. period during uhich the various activities will occur.
WAPUR
November 1985



- 34-
ANNEX 2-2
UENII                                                                              ftU5LI07  
vi!                                                                            P.,,  t 
_uiY RetjKt Cbts Ml
im  Cat as of J r  limp
(01 6 * CFF Ml
LUIL         TaIr        F11IE          mtOtA                        LOUL          lTani       FIIIEII        TOTl.       law  Cbt    Elccl
(CFtF dil~lm                                                               mil d
3.Er.stractur
bad NImbbtltdati
Civil We                  11.816          Sm.700i   'jM.:"         3,42                            2 026        1.472         4.644        0.91           344             .1
tini lfic W c  vi                            .112        21.47         .1t7.        21.21 J05                                  0.-74        0.571         0.04 12.91                  ss.n
hicln arlit Emuapmt                         A.21          9.124       32.3716      5.217                        0.021         0.024               *.SS **30              *.S         s5.S
Civl lr t                                  123.51       427.69      i,3U.i24    2,519.321                        2.139         1.111        DOZ           6 .72          2it.n1      5D.7t
_."timp                                    Z5.362        18.684       143.763       111                          LGI SIS I7     *           A*Ms          4.43            I.*9        76.6
no s JSis,m                         211.77n      21.106       16LO.         212.175                      0.075         0.0          0.424         0.53            2.11        76.61
= cbicrl Aniet4.e,                         1H.141        147          IIS.IIS2      147AIISZ* LOU                              LOIJI        A 114        t0.33            1.S         76.63
Vehidua at Equipment                        4.110         4.151         6.40t        25.05                       0.011         0.tl2        0.043         0.065           0.31        65.
ier7  Ltr.ah,                               11.670       IL3.I4       221.36        247.251                      0.00          0.S          0.76          0.642           2.51        P.61
fruit btri                                  33.555        2.774        34.615        49.00                       0.030         0.00?        0.0           4.IZ7           0.53        70.1
Tecimcld Ommiutau  md Traddng               15.154        7.440       ItU32         131.456                      0.01          0.ll         L233          0.34*  S.33                 112.111S
VehicLn  sA Equipmet                        29.130       12.235       174.m         z1.150                       *.076         0.032        0.454         L.56            2.21         o.nt
felteta1                               2,333.916 1UL   5.H1       47562.747    71154.6U2                       5.556         2.9"        11.3          2.402           7441         50.31
1..tltstim hildiel
Icowce WdilizAtim
hildng CstrKcti                            29.734       35.643        111.376      Z33.711                      0.077         0.393        0.437         4.607           2.3         72.0S
Technical auustonadie        Tralinin     fif26          26.730       373.712      472.269                       0.174        0.069         0.9II         3.22           4.71         008.21
Vhic«l   ld E dtpmt                         13.0140       5.749        34.70 11     101.71                       0.029         L0OTS        0.220         0.264           3.01        3.51
Timical  ositai  at  Trainml                0.0C0         0.000       145.D1 3.571                              0.000         0.000        0.371         4.373           1.1        100.01
Vicim  NWt fglpeut                          42.026        4.*0         23.371       7t.000                       0.39          0.012        0.061         A112           0.71         32.41
Civil VW&&                                  39.375        2.153        21.320        42.435                      0.050         0.0001       LOS           6.31           0.43         49.3
Wm" Udt33.435                                            IL I74       217.116      271.62                        0.100          .O          L.5           4.7             2.n         00.21
T;chicl aiitmcne  ad Tradindg              93.060       3424         5316.02       643.56                       0.2D37        0.A          1.340          .672          6.41          7.25
iclus ad Eiipmet                            24.710       10.203       145.450       30.39                        0.L064        L027         0.AS4 0.46                    3.11        11.61
utota                                    I2".1T4       36.07       1 701.455    2,163.547                      0.3           0.356         .439          64            21.6         737
TOTAL  M     T C4tI.U11                                   1 23.15       6264.23S   10,016.193                         .39         33t          It.271        2L016         I3t01          Z.
"Calc  Cutliqwcinc                         335.642      16L215        736.544     ,214.400                       0.            0.421        3.913          .154          12.13        40.71
Price Cttiepct                            M14.011      311.07      1,240.740    2,057.332                       I.319         0.732          m           L3s4           20.53       L*.SS
11114 FPIUEtT MST                             31 2.72     1.733.717    E       241.4k    13,237.93                   L.t4         4.511        ib0            .514                        62.01
_ _ i          _           _                                                   . _      .                                          e
1W7          191           391          10           199           1992
IKca! Price Iucrn                 7.a2         6.-1          6.31          7.0s         7.3S          4.1
Fuulp Prkic  1acmm                7.S          6.Z           6.3           7.0?         7.13          4.01
a/ Totals ay rot add 4p br to rou_t4l.
S cth 19U



- 35-                                  ANNEX 2-2
MALI                                                 Page  2 of 5
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Detailcd Cost Estimates - Infrastructure
(Ease Cost as of January 19961
(CFAF million)
LOCAL         TAXES        FOREIEH         TOTAL
Road Rehabilitation
Civil Norks
Site Preparation                              127.5          61.9          191.3         380.7
Roads                                         633.0         307.1          949.5       1,889.6
Drainare                                      190.2          92.3          295.4         567.9
Off-site Hater Line                            43.4          24.9           80.6         148.9
Traffic Signals I Street Lighting              93.7          80.6          291.0         455.2
Design                                           21.6          15.9          122.2         159.6
Supervision                                      17.3          12.7           97.8         127.7
Technical Assistance: Long-Terc                  U66           19.5          150.7         19.8
Technical Assistance: Short-Tere                  8.3           6.1           47.1          61.5
Equipment / Vehicles                              9.2           9.1           32.9          50.2
Land Develo ment
Civil ar ks
Site Preparation                              250.6         121.6          375.9         748.0
Roads                                         151.9          73.6          227.7         453.2
Drainage                                      249.4         120.5          372.6         741.5
Water Supply                                  127.9          73.5          237.6         439.0
Electricity                                   U4.8           38.5          134.4         217.7
Happing                                          25.4          18.6          143.9         197.7
Design                                           16.0          11.7           90.7         118.4
Supervision                                      12.8           9.4           72.4          94.6
Technical Assistance: Long-Term                  19.9          14.6          113.0         147.6
Equipment I Vehicles                              4.1           4.6           16.4          25.1
Cartograpb
Aerial Photography                               11.7          14.0          221.6         247.3
ground Control                                   11.6           2.8           34.7          49.0
Tech. Assist. and Training: Long-Term             6.3           3.3           6.9           58.4
Technical Assistance: Short-Tere m.9                            4.1           62.0          n.0
Equipsent                                        26.3          10.5          149.9         185.7
ehicles                                           2.9           1.7           25.8          30.4
TOTAL EASE COST                                 29139.0       1,152.9        4,562.7       7,954.7
333333        33333          33333
Physical Contingencies                            279.0         146.3          554.7         980.0
Price Contingencies                               480.2         259.2          947.6       1,686.0
6RAND TOTAL                                     2,998.2       1,557.4        6,065.1      10,520.7
3 3                               3
hAPUR
March 1986



ANNEX 2-2
- 36 -                         Page 3 of 5
hALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates - Institution Building
(Base Cost as of January 1986)
(CFAF million)
LOCAL          TAXES         FOREI1N         TOTAL
Resource Mobilization
Tech. Assist, and Training: Long-Term               49.6           19.9          281.1          350.6
Technical Assistance: Short-Term                    17.2            6.9           97.6          121.7
Equipment                                            6.7            4.0           60.0           70.6
Building Construction                               29.7           35.6          168.4          233.9
Vehicles                                             4.4            1.8           24.8           31.0
Solid Haste Management
Tech. Assist. and Training: Long-Term                0.0            0.0          129.4          129.4
Technical Assistance: Short-Term                     0.0            0.0           16.2            16.2
Equipment                                           36.3            4.0           14.1            54.4
Yehicles                                             5.7            0.6            9.2            15.6
Civil Harks: Dumpsites                              19.4            2.2            0.0           21.5
Horishop                               0.0            0.0           21.3           21.3
Project Unit
Studies                                             38.4           15.4          217.9          271.6
Tech. Assist. and Training: Long-Tere               45.5           18.2          257.7          321.3
Ikiallocated Tech. Assist.                          16.5            6.6           93.7          116.9
External Training                                   29.1           11.6          164.7          205.3
Equipment                                           23.1            9.2          130.7          163.0
Vehicles                                             1.6            1.0           14.8           17.4
TOTAL BASE COST                                      323.2          136.9        1,701.5        2,161.5
Physical Contingencies                                36.7           15.9           191.8         234.4
Price Contingencies                                   54.7           23.5          293.1          371.4
GRAND TOTAL                                          414.6          176.3        2,176.4        2,767.3
=C__- =                                     _=_CZ
hAPUr
March 1986



ANNX 2-2
Page 4 of 5
- 37 -
tLI
SECOND URII PROJECT
Proe$ct Cash Floe
ICFWF hillionsl
Yar         Yew 2        rr 3         You 4        Yru 5        Yar          Year 7       Vow I
Total        cr19         CI87         CVC19 Y9CY190                          C"l          C2           c£93
IDA Credit                    10,710.0       450.0        735.0      2,049.0      2,263.0      2,102.0      1,671.0      1,070.0        432.0
Cofinancing                      2911.0       299.8         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Soverneent Contribution        2,219.2        205.9        764.3       53.1         430.2         181.0        94.7          0.0          0.0
Total Somrcn                  13,297.9       944.6       1,499.3     2,55.1       2,693.2      2,290.0      1,765.7      1,079.0        432.0
APPLICATIONS
Civil Marks
Infrastructure               4,236.5         0.0       1,417.9     1,127.5        764.7        452.6        473.9          0.0          0.0
Land Devulopeent             3,199.6          0.0        769.4      1,OB9.9      1,009.4       276.7         43.3          0.0          0.D
Other                          312.6        54.1         140.4       103.2         14.6          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
Vehicles and Equipment         2,399.5       497.2       1,220.9       261.2        296.5        112.7          0.0          0.0          0.0
Consultant Services            3,161.6       692.2       1,030.5       W30.4        491.7        284.4         42.4          0.0          0.0
Total Applications            13,2M7.9      1,233.6      4,579.1     3,212.1      2,577.2      1,126.4        559.6          0.0          0.0
Surplus (Deficit) a/               .0       -299.9      -3079.9       -2. 9         116.0       1163.6       1206.1       1076.0        432.0
Cuaulative Surplus (Deficit)                -290.9      -3361.7      -3995.7      -3579.7      -2716.0      -1510.0      -432.0           .0
a/ Deficits are due to discrepancies betn   mork execution and disbursnents.
UNR
March 1905



ANNEX 2-2
Page 5 of 5
- 38 -
M"L!
SECOND tREA PROJECT
Government Cash Flow - Procurement Dasi5
(CFAF million)
1986     1987      1999     1999      1990     1991          1986-1991   1992-2036       Total
Sources of Funds
IDA Credit                             739    3,615    2,676    2,147        93B       465            10,790            0      10,790
Cofinancing Grants                     289         0        0         0         0        0               299            0          289
Taxes                                   94       524      477       375      162       101             1,734            0        1,734
District Repayment                       0        30      116       176      214       227               763        5,249       6,012
Total Sources                      1,122    4,368    3,269    2,699    1,314         793            13,565         ,,49      19,814
Applications
Project leplementation
- Infrastructure                      233    1,791    1,397        950      566       537             5,464            0       5,464
- Land Development                    243       977    1,322    1,236       391        90             4,259            0       4,259
- Cartography                         293       420       44        30       10         0               799            0         798
- Resource Mobilization               144       523      230        70       28         0               996            0         996
- Solid Haste                         106       137       70         8        0         0               320            0         320
- Project Unit                        200       359      346       356      191         0             1,450            0       1,450
Subtotal                             1,220    4,196    3,409    2,650    1,106         627            13,288            0      13,289
Maintenance Govt. Roads                  4         4        4         5        5         5                27          652         679
IDA Credit Repayment                   131       112       99        99       83        e1               594      12,976       13,569
Total Applications                 1,355    4,312    3,511    2,743    1,214         713            13,909      13,628       27,536
Balance                               (2331       56     (2421      1453      40        90              (3431      (9,379)     (9,722)
Excedent-Deficit (-3                  42333    (177)    (419)    (463)    (423)    (343)                (343)      (1,722)
hAPUR
March 1996



MALI
sROMND UR1AM PROJECT
Project Execution Calendar
1986        1987          1988          1989          199           399
Infraetructure
Road Rehabilitation                        _      __
Road Construction                         --6__
Traffic Management                        ___O
Traffle Managesent Tech. Ast.
Drainage
Tech. AsLt. (District Technical Unit)
Sites and Services level 1
Sites and Services level 2
Rehabilitation                 o
Off-Site
Land Development Tech. Aset.                        _
Institution Building
Revenue Assessment and Collection
Financial Management,
Training, Tech. Aust.
Mapping, Referencing
Mapping Tech. ALst. 
Tenure Regularization
District Naintenance Department
District Kaint. Dept. Tech. Aest.
Project Coordination Unit
Project Unit Tech. Aest. and Training
if
-----  Preparation (engineering and call for bids)                               
o      Contract award                                                                                                                 H M
Execution                                                                                                                     CI
VAPUR
December 1985



- 40 -
ANNEX 2-3
Page 2 of 2
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Project Implementation Responsibilities
Executing ot               Project
Project Elements               Supervising Agency              Cost
Infrastructure
Road rehabilitation & construc-    District Technical                  41
tion and traffic management         Unit and Regional
measures (including paving          Directorate of Public
stone roads)                        Works
Land development                    Regional Directorate               32
of Urbanism
Aerial photography                  National and Regional               2
and cartography                     Directorates of
Topography
Cadastral survey                    Regional Directorate of            3
Topography
Regional Directorate of
Land Management
Institution Building
Revenue assessment &                Regional Directorate of Tax         3
collection                          Assessment
District financial management       District Finance Department        5
National Directorate of Local
Authorities
Solid waste management              District Maintenance Department   3
Project coordination, training,    Project Unit                        11
and financial management
100
WAPUR
December 1985



- 41 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 7
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Implementing I-stitutions
A. The District of Bamako
1.        Because of its economic and political importance. Bamako
District vas given the status and functions of a region by the Adminis-
trative Reform Law of 1978. The District is thus, at the same time, a
municipality and a governorate witb the governor administering both the
operations of the city itself and the activities of the various central
govervaent ministries at the regional level. The 1978 law specifies the
following responsibilities for the District:
-    construction, repair, and maintenance of the road and drainage
network (other than roads classified as national);
-    traffic management and safety on District roads;
-    installation and maintenance of public lighting on District
roads including electricity used thereon; I/
-    installation and maintenance of public water taps including
water provided thereon; 1/
-    construction, repair, maintenance and operation of lorry
parks;
-    regulation of public transport;
-    acquisition and disposition of District lands and other
property; and
-    development, maintenance, and management of public markets.
2.        The same law gives the Governor of Bamako authority over the
regional departments of the central government ministries and the
District's six communes, as well as the District's own departments.
The organizational structure is shown in the following charts.
1/   Energie du Mali, a public utility parastatal, provides both water
and electricity to Bamako District.



- 42 -                     ANNE  2-4
Page 2 -of 7
MALI
SECOND URBA PROJECT
DISTRICT OF BAMAKO
Organization Chart
GOVERNOR                          Technical
Ministries
|lot Assistant Gvrnor               2|d Assistant Goernr    g       j
District Services                   6 Communes          Regional Departments
Maintenance Services                                    Urban Planning
Coordination of Comunes                                 Youth, Sports, Culture
Veterans Affairs and Pensions                           Land Management
Tax Collection                                          Tax Assessment
Education                                               Sanitation
Personnel                                               Social Affairs
Accounting and Budgeting                                Public Health
Economic Affairs
Water and Forestry
Customs
Cooperatives
Planning
Public Works
Veterinary Affairs
Post and Telephone
Treasury and Financial Control
Primary Schools
Transport
Education
Meteorology
Rural Development
Tope,raphy



- 43 -                     AME 2-4
Page 3 of 7
14ALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
DISTRICT OF BAMAKO
Organization Chart of District Services
lst Assistant Governorl                        2nd Assistant Governor
Maintenance Services
- Road and Drainage
. ; . T                                                MMintenance
- Equipment and Vehicle
Maintenance
- Solid Waste Management
Secretary General         Accounts Office       Personnel
- Secretariat             - Cash Management
- Veterans Affairs        - Accounting and
and Pensions              Budgeting
- Archives                - Materials and
- Coordination of             Supplies
Communes             - Commitments
- Education               - Tax Collection



- 44 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 4 of 7
3.        Bamako District is relatively vell-organized compared to otber
cities in the W-qt Africa region, possessing all the necessary techni-
cal, financial, and administrative structure to carry out its functions.
Consolidation of responsibilities for both municipal and central govern-
ment functions in a single authority - the Governor - is an important
element in this structure. The legal basis (the 1978 law) for this
structure and the various responsibilities within it is also clear and
unequivocal. However, there are a number of weaknesses and problem
areas, described below, which prevent the District from effectively
exercising its mandate and meeting the challengt of urban development in
Bamako. 2/
4.        Personnel Management. The total number of the District's own
staff is estimated at 2,000 in all the departments of which the Mainte-
nance Department accounts for about 500 - the largest single department.
Due to inadequate records and poor management, the exact number of staff
is unknown. There is no detailed staffing table against which the
manming of each department would normally be determined. Training (at
all levels) is inadequate. Absenteeism is frequent and widespread. An
organizational study comprising a complete staffing pattern, assessment
of numbers, and qualifications of existing staff, and the design of a
new training program would provide the District with the tools for
overcoming this problem. The application of short-term technical
assistance or consultant resources under the project vould be sufficient
to accomplish this task.
5.        Accounting and Budgeting.  The budgets prepared annually by
the Distrxet are not adequate for management purposes. They are too
brief and based on previous years' budgets rather than actual expendi-
tures and detailed projections of requirements. District accounts are
likewise not adequately kept. Receipt and expenditure procedures are
distorted and unnecessarily long. Accounting is strictly on a cash
basis and provides no information on costs of services or projects.
Final accounts have not been completed since 1980 (whicb necessarily
weakens the budgeting process) and reconciliation of revenue and expen-
diture accounts with the Treasury is not done. District cash receipts,
which are supposed to be deposited with the Bamako branch of the
national Treasury, are sometimes diverted without proper authorization
for District expenditures (albeit legitimate expenditures). These
weaknesses are due to inadequate management and poor procedures.
District resources are of such magnitude as to require a reorganization
of the accounting and budgeting function and a higher level of
management expertise. A major effort under the project will be
required.
2/ A detailed assessment of the staffing and activities of each
department of the District is found in Chapter 12 of the project
feasibility study which has been placed in the Project File.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 5 of 7
6.        Maintenance Services.  This department is responsible for road
and drainage maintenance, sanitation, and maintenance of street lighting
and parks and gardens. The department benefited significantly from the
first project, receiving new premises with offices, workshop and mainte-
nance equipment, as well as 20 vehicles for sanitation and solid waste
management, and technical assistance in vehicle maintenance and sanita-
tion. However, Maintenance Services suffers from inadequate management
and poor organization and procedures. Procurement procedures are not
defined. There is no programming of activities and supervision is
inadequate. Budgetary and commitment procedures are also inadequate.
These problems affect most significantly solid waste management, which
is the department's most important service (in terms of budget, person-
nel, and equipment deployment). Technical assistance will be required
to remedy these weaknesses and will be provided under the project.
7.        Regional Departments.  These are the regional establishments
of the central government ministries which are responsible for carrying
out their various mandates, both capital investment programs and the
operation of government services. Under the 1978 law, the regional
departments in Bamako District are under the administrative control of
the Governor, who has overall responsibility for the development of the
District. However, the administration and coordination of the activi-
ties of these departments at the District level have proved difficult to
achieve. The regional departments, by and large, disregard the instruc-
tions of the Governor and continue to seek their direction from and be
controlled by their ministry headquarters. While it is normal that the
regional departments continue to receive technical direction from their
parent ministries, each department pursuing its own program in isolation
causes problems of general coordination and leads to more serious
implementation problems at the operational level. The regional depart-
ments which pose the most problems for the District are those responsi-
ble for urban planning, public works, tax assessment and treasury opera-
tions becauee of their impact on the city's physical development and its
finances. The reasons for this situation are the fact that the regional
departments' programs are financed out of their parent ministries'
budgets and the fact that the Governor does not have technical staff
competent to deal with the technical ministries. The financial growth
foreseen for the District under the project would help to strengthen its
coordinating role but this would have to be accompanied by organiza-
tional changes and the addition of the appropriate staff if the District
is to have the technical strength to carry out its coordination mandate.
8.        Treasury.  The regional branch of the national treasury is
responsible for receiving all monies due to the Government within the
District and making all payments. In keeping with the francophone
administrative principles of (a) the separation of assessment authoriza-
tion and receipt payment powers and (b) the unique cash management
entity (unicite de caisse), the District's receipts and expenditures are
also made by the Treasury. As a convenience, a sub-branch of the
Treasury was established within District premises to receive revenues
from certain taxes levied by the District. Due to the lack of



- 46 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 6 of 7
District/Treasury account reconciliat.jns, the District regional depart-
ments' coordination problem, and the mingling of national and District
receipts and payments within the Treasury, the District does not have an
accurate picture of its fin4ces and feels that the Treasury is not
crediting all receipts due to the District. In retaliation, the Dis-
trict at times diverts revenues received by the sub-branch treasury to
payments without passing through the Treasury. This is not legal, but
is condoned by the Government. This situation is undesirable to both
the District and the Treasury. Improving the District's own financial
management capability, as noted above, will remove part of the problem
but the treasury also requires improved management and improved organi-
zation. The appropriate changes will be made as part of the project.
9.        Actions to be taken under the Project.  The project would
address the District's institutional problems noted above through the
creation of two new departments, the strengthening of Maintenance
Services, and the restructuring of the regional treasury:
(a) The District Finance Department would be responsible for the
preparation and monitoring of the budget, the keeping of the
District accounts including the preparation of annual final
accounts, account reconciliation with the Treasury, tax
analysis (potential, assessment, collection, effectiveness),
analysis of administrative and financial management, and the
definition and implementation of accounting, budgeting, and
personnel management procedures. The Finance Department would
also oversee the organization study and training program
formulation described in para 4 above. It would be headed by
a qualified Malian director selected from within the Ministry
of Finance. The director would be assisted by a municipal
finance expert and short-term assistance, as necessary. The
project would also provide vehicles and micro-computers and
appropriate software for accounting, inventory control, and
personnel management.
(b) The District Technical Unit would report directly to the
Governor of Bamako. Its role would be to plan, supervise, and
monitor the technical aspects of the project, as well as to
coordinate the District's own and regional resources involved
in the project. This unit would be headed by a Malian
engineer, and would include local administrative staff and two
Malian municipal engineers. Its director would be assisted by
a senior technical advisor (engineer) who would supervise the
other technical assistants provided to the District under the
project. The project would also provide vehicles and equip-
ment. This unit would provide the Governor with the technical
capability necessary to coordinate the activities of the most
important regional departments and will enable the District to
develop its land servicing capability.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 7 of 7
(c) The Maintenance Services Department would be strengthened
through technical assistance and equipment specifically
directed to improving sanitation and solid waste management
services. This assistance would also address the general
organizational and managerial weaknesses of the departments.
(d) A District Treasurer, responsible solely for District transac-
tions, would be appointed, taking on these responsibilities
from the regional branch of the national treasury. The
District Treasurer would continue to be part of the national
structure but would limit himself to the District's receipts
and payments. He would be a qualified Malian selected from
within the Ministry of Finance. The creation of the post of
District Treasurer would address the balance of the financial
coordination problems, as well as generally assist in
improving the management of the District's finances.
B. The Project Unit
10.       As in the first urban project, the Project Unit will report
directly to the Minister of In-erior. Its Director will be the present
Director of the first project. Should another person be nominated, his
qualification and experience should be acceptable to the Bank. In
addition to local administrative staff consisting of two engineers, two
accountants, and two secretaries, the Director will be assisted by a
project management advisor. The task of the Project Unit will be to
assist the District departments and regional departments responsible for
project execution. Specifically, the Project Unit will: (a) coordinate
and supervise project implementation carried out by the District
services; (b) manage the legal and financial aspects of the project
(contracts, requests for disbursements); and (c) monitor the overall
project execution. In addition, the Project Unit will be responsible
for coordinating training activities foreseen under the project for all
components.
WAPUR
December 1985



ANM  2-5
Page  1 of 1
8- 48-
Prcrat  brngeat
(IN  owe is Prathsm)
Prceeot l)d
_r.        frucl  I                                                                                 Tcblo
of                                                      Fwci c        Lcl                       Yalw of
____t C_t________                              Pa cc                                          Lt.  Ia CE  *II  I-PT"t                    th.     Procurement
Civil lark.
1.frMtrKtu' - ha  CV-4trutiu                     S        DW,CTD            911in         1,100           770                                    11, 40
II, 3693        (Ml5            we)3                                  (V,2521
Lead heslpeau
liten and servceswugading                      4          Cl               6262         1,159           497                                     I'm2
ly,0351         (oil         (3711                                    (6,294)
dilld mte  fcilitin                            I          117                             130                                                     130
office bulldiq                                 1           D                               12                                                     6
Equipmnt
Traffic sipuls                                 I          CnI             3,350                                                                 3U,3l
Uuagteeuagsunt            z          mm              (~~~~~~ ~~~~2,411                                                     (2,4610
Iblid asto  _mpt                               I          am                 11            se                                       173           3le
(45           I373                                     11291         42321
District teculcal meit                         I          CII               333                                        34                        m32
42543                                      1243                       4279
Cartoap                                        I          NC                107                                                                   37
Kstrict Fiauc       ataset                            CerM M's Office                     314                         11n                         4
(2361                       (1334(72
.-oect bit                                     I          PIf                             551                         313                         349
(4131                       4239)                       (5)
wmltat hrevics
kDesg  I spervision                            2          CII1,11                                                                               i
(1,11111     (1I,f
District Tecical Unit                          I          CTII                                                                    1,067         1 067
(1,0673       11,04)
Tech. eagt. -Cartwoaph         r &   r         I          Dllr              2                           374 a,                                    65
(233)                       (374)                                    (1573
Too.  sdst. -Catre                             I          DMT                                                                       244           246
(246)         (2463
istrict Finc  Inprtenst                        I    Ioveruwr's ofice                                                              1,314          1,314
(1,314)      (1,3143
Tdhilcel adstucs - buliud mute                 I          Dm                                                                        410           410
4410)         (4103
roject Uhit S treinig                       ENerY         PN                                                                      2,632         2,632
(2,4323       (2,623
Total rocuremest vale                                                        20 422         3 917         1,442           534         7,730        34,514
(IF,574)       (3,0103      11,330           (4001       (7,61161     (23,000)
fhrevistius:
Cll   Calluls TeMi*w do District (District Tcnical Coordination Unit)
IIIC: UrKctim lati dle d a T1r.apie et Cartograpic
O1TP   Drectio  Paimale ds Travus Plics
MM   Directio  dus rArvicu  Tehiqe  b  Hitrict
PI'L   frojet Orbuin de  ali
a/    kemi suey
lurch 1934



- 49 -
ARU 26
kbidele,of                                   1of 
SECSU     S 13AM EVEDPET PUIC
bScdIm af Shbuimmts
CWJLATIlE DISBURSENENTS
USS NILLION
APPRAISlL      DISD. a/
FY  ITR.   STIMTE        PROFILE
97   1         0.3          0.3
2        1.1          1.1                  24
3        2.0          2.0
4        3.1          3.1                  2, 
Be   1         4.2          4.2                     
2        5.o          5. 6                    -
3'       7.0          7.0
4        8.4          9.4
89                                            1
I        9.9          9.9            S 
2       11.3         11.3            )     16
3       12.9         12.9
4       14.3         14.3
90   1        15.7         15.7            z    14 
2       17.1         17.1            hI
3       189.5        189.5
4  19.7         19.7             a    1
91   1        21.0        21.0                   10-
2       22.1         22.1 I
3       23.2         23.2            °
4       74.1         24.1            0      S                      /
92            24.9        24.9             >
25.6        25.6             E-    6 
3       26.3         26.3            5
4       26.9         26.9      
93   1        27.4        27.4
2       27.7         27.7 7                 2 -
3       29.0         29.0
4
94   1
2                                             86                             90              92              34
a/  MALI - IDA - All Loans.                                        APPR. EST             +  PRF
Source:  PPD Report of Narch 9, 1984
Assumed date of Credit Effectiveness:  July 1986
WAPUR
March 1986



- 50 -
ANNEX 2-6
Page 2 of 2
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Z of Total
Estimated Cost
Amount       to be Disbursed
Item                   (US$ million)    from IDA Credit
Civil works (road rehabilitation)           7.8               75
Civil works (land development)              6.0               75
Equipment and vehicles                      3.9               75
Technical assistance, training,
consultant services, studies              7.2              100
Unallocated                                 3.1
Total                                 28.0
WAPU1R
February 1986



ANX  2-7
Page 1 of 5
51 -
tAlK
SECKON WJET DE WIPPEIEIIT UWAIN
lIstrict de hicko: Rac.ttn at hpuus 1932-1994 (misc prajetl
(Nill2s de f CFI0
1912     1913      1934     I195      2996      1917     19U       1939      90       1992     1992    9IM         1994
ECETIES minim
EIBCE    NTEIERIEUI                           4       156         0        a         0       41        27       120       51         0        9       101       121
IiTEIITEI                                   514       470       656      555       594      635       711      911       917      1036     1171      1323      149
NARII                                         Pa       73        94      101       116       124      132       142      151       142      173       134       19
TUBE9   EIUIEATOIIRE                          _9       26       166      234       305      332       461      544        29       718      71        964      947
TAME9 VUIRI                                    0        0        16       le        19        21       22        24       27        31       36        41       43
LUE                                           96       66        68       61g       63        68       te        49       61        63       69        U1        be
TUIBEIU T                                    101       73       83       101       113      119       125       131      139       145      152       lo0      161
DIVERS                                       135       20        42       15        19       20        21        22       23        24       25        27       2a
7etel Hcsttn  Ordiocir.s             1010      814      1125      1112     1234      1360      1574     1893      2005     2165      2422     2769      30n
EMETTE  UINIIRE hWELE                         972      72B      1125     1111      1234      1318     1548      172      1954      2195     2413      26t1     2952
NEPU1E  01111ARES
OFICIT INTERIEU                                0        0                299        90         0        0        0         0         0        0         0        0
lU3YES                                      I00       300       t00        0         0        0         0        a         0         0        0         0        0
SAIIUIE§                                     130      150       173      200       220      242       271      304       340      391       419       461      507
UIHIIISlMTIE                                  97       74        76       *5         9        94       9        103      110       117      127       139       152
IOIRIE                                      267       309      234       24        263      294       307      332       35        397      419       451      497
EAU E82 ICITE,WUMS SIENIIERES                76        60       49        63        69       76        94       92       101       112      123       135      14
*I1S                                         51       119       91        *3         7       92        96      101       106       I1I      117       123      129
SERVICE  E ULEA     E - PIJN  W B              0       25       222      226       226      226       201      201       201       201      201       201      201
SWICE         LE U    DEllE- #CODIII           0        0         0        0         0       30       116       176      214       227      230       230      230
CIA1    REWIIEONEN    - M111 PUIIH             0        0         0        0        30       56        14       129      169       214      239       440      449
TOTAL DoomES INIRES                    21      1036     1273      1201     1074      2099      122      1436      1599     1750    172       2178      2303
EPNIlE mIlIRE AWJELLE                        621       736      145       902        15     109       1259     1436      15"       1750     1972      2178     2303
BCEOEIITIIIEFICITI-)                         197     -152     -153       -90       159      261       317      427       406      435       549       591      770
- .       a                  so ...                      sm        u                  ME       am        ws.
NAME   mIMII    E   IELLE                    351        -9       290      209       249      219       290      306       355       434      541       49       649
RTIO MUIEL AELUETTE 0K                                   31       20S      201       UiS       19!      201      221       211       201      IIIS      1a        15
ECETIES EITRAWNINAIRES
EICEmnT mRmIIUE                              197        0         0        0       159      261       317      427       406       435      549       591      770
CIEIT IN                                      0         0         0        0       217      746       532      640       237        57        0         0        0
C DFEIACEIT                                    0        0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0
CINTEUTIE MLIEIIE                             0         0         0        0        65      170       199      150        65        13        0         0        0
IAMEU  PETS,1IDN                              0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0
TOTIAL ECETTES EITRIIUINIRES          197         0        0         0      512      1177     1339      1237      759       505       549      591       770
IIWIIUES EITRIIOUIHIE
IUSIN IEIIEIITS I7111LIEIIS                   8         0        10        0        19       21        22       24        26       27        29        30       32
011111 _       5ANEM S                        13       25        69        0        77       SS        90       97       105       110      115       121      127
EOIP     VEIOIILE1                           20       156       66         0        22      130        94      255       275      299       30        319      335
IEP9IE0iWOET                                  0         0         0        0       352      912      1022      810       352        70        0         0        0
ATNDE ES                                      O -    0           0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0
TOTAL IEPEIISES EIMTRODIN:IRE1         41       191      146         0      470      1150     1218      1186      759       497       449      470       494
TUTUL EICEDENT/AEFICITI-                    1M       -3S3     -2         -90        41       27       120       51         0         5      101       121      276
*-m      mum       mu.       mm        mu       -   *0m            mu        -      O          muo  _n



ANlNE   2-7
Page 2 of 5
- 52 -
H"PlNESE  SIHULUTIUN
(avic projet)
RECETTES IRPIHAIRES          1985   I166   1997    1998    1999    190  19I  I9M  I993  1994
PATENTES                   S5     7.0?    7.01   13.0?   13.01   13.0? 13.0Z 13.0? 13.01 13.0?
EDIT FIIE                 347     7.0?    7.0Z   13.0Z   13.0?   13.01 13.01 13.0Z 13.0? 13.0?
ROIT PIWORTIIENEL         206     7.0?    7.0?   13.0Z   13.0?   13.0? 13.0? 13.0? 13.0Z 13.0?
NARCHES                    109     7.0?    7.0?    7.0?    7.0?    7.0?  7.0Z  7.0?  7.0?  7.0Z
TAXES REINIIERATRIES       236
LETTRE D'ATTRID.           43    27.9?    9.5?    9.5?    8.5?    9.5  9.5? !0.0? 10.0? 10.0?
AUTRES FRAIS               35    29.6?    4.5?    4.5?    4.5?    4.5?  4.5?  5.5S  5.5?  5.5?
REGULARISATIUN            159    29.5?   10.0?   10.OZ   10.0?   10.0? 10.0? 10.0? 10.0? 10.OZ
TAXES VOIRIE                19     7.0?    7.0?    7.0?   1O.OZ   12.0? 1S.0? 15.0? 15.0? 15.0?
LOTERS                      6      O.OZ    0.01    0.0?    0.0?    0.0?  0.0?  O.0?  0.01  0.0?
TAXES TRUMSPORT            100     5.0?    5.0?    5.0S    5.0?    5.0?  5.0?  5.0?  5.0?  5.O0
DIVERS                      19     5.0?    5.0?    5.0?    5.0?    5.0?  5.0?  5.0?, 5.0   5.0?
DEPEIISES ORD;ANARES
1985    1996    1991    198 9 19      19 199   1991   992  1993  19"4
SALAIRES                   200    10.0?   10.0?   12.OZ   12.0?   12.0? 12.0? 10.0? 10.0? 10.0?
ANINISTRATIE                85     5.02    5.OZ   5.0?    5.0      6.OZ  7.01  9.0?  9.0Z 10.0?
VUIRIE                     245     7.5?    8.0?    9.0?    8.0?    8.0?  8.0?  9 O.    8.0Z  6.0?
EAU ELECTRICITE,GRDUKS    63    10.02   10.0?   10.OZ ? 10.0    10.0. 10.OZ 10.0? 10.0Z 10.0?
DiVmRS                      83     5.0?    5.0?    5.0?    5.0?    5.0?  5.0?  5.OZ  5.0?  5.01
SERVICE DETTE IIPM          0       0      30      116     176     214   227   230   230   230
CARSES RECIRR. IIIPUN        0      30      56       84     129     169   214   239   440   449
I-ASTRUCTURE                0       0      22       49      99     127   169   192   390   397
DIRECTION FINANCIERE        0      30      34       36      39      42    45    47    50    52
NYPOTHESES-DETTE IIIPUN                 1        2       3       4       5      6     7     8      9
1996    1997    199     1989    19O  199l  1992  I993  1994
TOTAL TRAVAUX             3523
CREDIT IDA                2970
TAUI                      9.00?
DMREE PRET    (ans)         25
DIFFERE       (ans)          3
ECHEIC.-DEP. (ins)           6      101     261      m       23?     10?    21
DUREE REINOUR. (n(J         22
ENSM       TS                         297     746       32     660     267    57      0     0     0
DEES CMEES                            297    1033    1966    2526    2913  2970       0     0      0
TBOMISEMM  INITUETS                    11      30      116     176     214   227   230   230   230
INTIETS C         ESt11                        30      127     205     341   433   571   662   800
CAPITAL A RENBORSER                   297    1033    1866    2526    2913  270  2970  2870  2070
RENRSEIENTICAPITAL                      0        0       0       0        0     0     0     0      0
RENDOIiR.lCAPITAL CUIINULE              0        0       0       0       0      0     0     0     0
ANINUITE RENIIUSEN            281       0        0       0       0       0      0     0     0     0
1985    1986   1997    1988    1989    1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
TAXES RENIRATUTOIRES       236     305     332      461     544     629   71    79   864   947
LETTRE 'ATTRIB.            43      55      60       65      70      76    83    91   100   110
AUTRES FRAIS               35      45      47       49      51      54    56    59    62    66
REGULARISATION            158     205     225      249     2f      300   330   362   399   439
COITR1D. FUNDS D'AIIE.      0       0       0      100     150     200   250   275   303   333
NAPUR
Ibrch 1986



-53-                                                     AIX 2-7
rap Jot 5
ALI
SE   MUE? BE KWrWPEi UMDII
Sntract l t Iumabu: Rcttn  ot    en uuu   1412-1294 isms  relet'
lPillmns do F clii
112      1993      114       i95       191       2917     199       129       3090      2I9       1992     199       1904
fflE77ES  6ISIIIIIIES
ECE3i   TOSIElR                              44       I5         0 o                 0 e      3        54        45        26        0         4         0         0
9A4231                                       514       474       44       5m        5u        n35       iso       m         no       05        pi        954      202
l2EA                                       40        73        94      In       l22        524       132       142       151     122        ill       IS        199
TAIES R    111114E5                           78        24       1M       Z2        250       245       261       296       316       335      355       31P       39
IAEB v1I1E                                     0         0 *                II        29       21        22        24        a        27        29        32        33
LCIEIS                                        %         44        t         a        *3        U8        46        be        41       *6        i         H0        is
tAIES IU SIR                                 101        73        63      2lo       123      129        125       I33      13       1         152 If    24        240i
32va5                                        :35        7e        42        11        19       20        21        22        23       24        25        27        26
Total lacttus Ordinagre               1016      I4       3225      l2lt      1179      1275      23       2457      1525      1594      lb"4      IM      1294
.'cattye odmuair  mnouel                      972       121      I235      31ll     1179      1252      1329      1412      15"      159       1494      100       1914
MauM i minim
XWICI2TNPIEINR                                 0         '       m         29         90        0         0         0         0        0         0        2        3ra
INATES                                       2o0       3eo       In          I        o         o         o         o         a        o         o         a         3
suiAs                                        130       154       273       200      220       242       27        304       30       321       419       4         507
AiIIIISTUTIU                                  97        74        74        05        94       303      113       124       137      51M      1i         ia        260
VOIRIE                                       247       se0       234       245      262       324       373       429       493      57        452       749       S62
EA2.&EEC7RICITE.133E 1 1E5                    71        hO        49        43        49       76        04        92       ION       112      123       I3        149
3365                                          51       I3         91        63       91 9      00       110       122       134      141       1*2       373       39
SERVICEK LA ETTE-PA,M TS                       0        25       m         224      224       224       201       201       221      201       202       202       202
59NImE     A U 1EflE - siE     FM              0         0         0         4 O0               0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
m   ENaES - smi   ra                           o              0         0              0        4         a         0         0        0         c t                 G
Total  hpaeo Ordinb iros               622     1331      127       1201      1071      iOU      1152      1271      1405      15S7     3723      I3        2247
.Amom     wdinirfe .311                       421        n 73      45      902       99       3671      1152      2273      1405     1537      1723      290       2114
EEIB    AIEFIC1TI-I                          IS7      -5s       -153       -90       UB       204       231       15B       120        14      -27      -133      -33
.b,low saruLra aulle                         351        -0       260      209       2W        III       177       141       94        3        -2       -104     -2N0
.ratie mal d  ula   tt                          0S       3n        20        20?      19        261       155       141       131      13?       12n       It        lo0
SUER EIJUU3DES
E0E253   MEN=                                197         0         a         0       160      204       231       21          0       34         0         0         0
MIIT 1S                                        0         0         3         0        4         0         0         u.        0        0         0         0         0
W1M7ee                                         o   *               0         6        0         0         0         0        0         a         0         0         0
OITRn     IE HLISEE                            0                   0         0        4         0         0         0         0        0         6         0 *
mS   PmP      sms                              0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        6         0         0         a
Total  bretts Extrawdaamura            197         0        6         a       1oo        4       231       lb t,       .        J         * Jo                a
mesE EflRItIE
I1ESTISS       ISM  UIEI55                     6         0        10         0        0        12        35         0        0         a         0         0         0
was rsEE1                                      13       25   *               4        0        41        50         0         S   o              0         0 e
13210TI U VOIO                                20       15         4          0       ars       97       120      131        120       34         0         0         0
M99M Pam                          ~~~~0      0         6         0         0        0   *0              0         0        0         0         0         0
iMuS m                                         0         *         @ 0       0        *         0         0         *         0        0         *         0         0
Tot       _ psi E ztraort   iras        41       III      146         0        R5       550       164      145       120       35          0        0          S
T7Te. E BnEU1C1ti5-I                         154      -33       -299      -94        23        54        45        2e         0        0       -27      -233      -333
Sete  90



-54-                                   AN= 2-7
Page 4 o07 5
NYPOESES SINULATION
Isans projet)
RECETTES ORDINAIRES         1985    1986    1997    919E     1989    1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
.droit fixe              347     7.01    7.01    7.02    7.0Z    7.01  7.0Z  7.01  7.02  7.0Z
.droit proprotionnel     208     7.01    7.01    7.02    7.02    7.0l 7.0X  7.01  7.01  7.01
PATENTES                 555      7.02    7.02    7.01    7.02    7.01  7.02  1.01  7.01  7.02
MARCHES                   108     7.01    7.02    7.02    7.0Z    7.01  7.02  7.02  7.02  7.01
TAXES REIUNERPTOIRES     236     6.02    6.02    6.02    6.02    6.02  L.02  b.01  6.02  6.02
TAKES VOIRIE               IE     7.02    7.01    7.02    7.02    7.0X  7.02  7.01  7.01  7.01
LOVERS                    69      0.02    0.02    0.02    0.0    0.01  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.02
TAXES TRANSPORT           101    5.02    5.02    5.02    5.02    5.02  5.02  5.0l 5.02  5.02
DIVERS                     le    5.02    5.02    5.02    5.02    5.02  5.02  5.02  5.0Z  5.02
DEPENSES ORDINAIRES
…-  - ----------    9I95    1qi6      1997    19EE    1997    1990  1IY9   1992  1993   94
SALAIRES                 200    10.02   10.02   12.02   12.01   12.0I 12.02 10.02 10.02 10.02
ADNINISTRATION            E5    10.02   10.02   10.02   10.02   I0.02 I0.02 10.02 10.02 20.02
VOIRIE                   245    15.01   15.01   15.0X   15.02   15.02 15.02 15.01 15.02 15.02
EAU,ELECTRICITE,ORDURE    63    10.02   10.02   10.02   IO.02   10.02 I20.0  10.02 10.02 10.02
DIVERS                    83    10.02   10.02   10.01   10.02   10.01 10.02 20.02 10.02 10.02
SERVICE DETTE  2/PUf        0       0       0       0       0        0     0     0     0     0
CH4RSES RECURR. 2/Pum      0        0       0       0       0        0     0     0     0     0
(.Voirie)                  0       0        0       0)              0     0      0     0     0
(.Eau,EIec.,Orduresi       0       0        i       0       0       0     0      0     0     0
HYPOTSES-DETTE-21PUIIN                 0               2       5        4     5     6     7     8
I986    1987    !988    1999    1990  199I  1992  199   193 4
total travaur              0
credit IDA                 0
taux                    9.00%
durer  pret    (ans)      25
dt differe    (ansi        3
echeanc.-dep. !ans)        4               251     252     252      '57.
duree rembour. faIs?      22
DEPENSES                                       d       0       0        O     0     0     a     0
depenses cuuulees                              O       Q       0        0     0     0     0     0
RENBIOURSENENT INTERETS                        O       0                0     0     El    0     0
Interets cuaules                               O               0        0     0     0     c o
Capital a rembourser                           G       O0      0        0                 A ,    0
RENBOUM.SERENT CAPITAL                         n       0                0     0     0     0 n
Rembour./capital cuaule                        ?          n    p        0           o     Q 
AY!l!TE RENBIOURSEE.ENT       Q' 0                         0              0      0  D 0   0
h4PUE
Septeabre 19es



allwana ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ aw   Ib1uafe~.n~
mm, ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ s..?m
mom
ba Ito          - I                      ------------------u
roods 1.wl                 mm.            3
I       ti  PU             manian,                           Y3
Nome.
VImi  w t mid               Wul                                  6131.           V31           6130    3131        3133         3133        313          31       W
mom
~I tI~Ud fud=o                                                    8131.            /383                     1383                      1383                     1
bm  VMUU wtf                aw-W3
b139  ft     cim fInU                                                     23
ft*   q ci pwout1m                                                                      11No/233
13   m l~   £nuin    fabt~                                                                -            -            -31
14ptiubsr urns



- 56 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 1 of 3
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Cost Recovery, Replicability, and Affordability
Cost Recovery
1.        Project costs would be recovered through direct or indirect
cost recovery mechanisms. About 38% of the total cost would be recov-
ered directly from property sales and user charges, while the balance
would be recovered indirectly through (a) local taxes collected by
Bamako District (25%) and (b) general taxes collected by Central Govern-
ment (37Z) (see table on page 2).
2.        The amount of general and local taxes has been determined
according to the following principles: (a) all primary or citywide
investments which are normally financed by the State would be recovered
through general taxes; (b) all costs pertaining to the project unit
(e.g., technical assistance, training, studies) would also be recovered
through general taxes; and (c) all costs vhich are normally financed by
Bamako District (in particular, rehabilitation of existing infra-
structure and recurrent costs) would be recovered through local taxes.
3.        The direct cost recovery mechanism would only be concerned
with the land development component; about 95% of this component wo'lld
be directly recovered through plot sales, the remaining 52 through user
charges. A plot sale policy would be implemented in such a way as to
recover not only the entire physical cost of the plots and the road grid
on the south bank of the Niger, but also the financial charges of the
relevant loan which is to be repaid by the District during the project
period.
Replicability
4.        The above direct cost recovery mechanism is expected to
generate about US$8.7 million total during implementation of the land
development component. In order to fully replicate this component, plot
sale proceeds representing base costs and overall contingencies will be
deposited in the account established under the First Urban Development
Project (see para 2.23), whereas plot sale proceeds covering financial
charges will be paid to the District. This would permit a real 1002
cost recovery of land development expenditures, inclu.ing all financial
charges.
5.        Given the increasing importance of the land development
account, assurances would be obtained at negotiations that it would be
better managed, in order to optimally fulfill its replicability
function. This improved management would be guaranteed mainly by



- 57 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 2 of 3
transforming the existing account into a District Infrastructure Fund
(DIF) with specific rules regarding disbursement procedures. It should
be noted, however, that the DIF's capability for replication could be
reduced if its resources were also used for payment of the Government's
counterpart contribution, as was done during the first project.
Cost Recovery Mechanisms
Project Components                                 Means of Recovery
1. Infrastructure
1.1 Road-rehabilitation & traffic
management plan                                    Local taxes
1.2 Main access roads to the center                     General taxes
1.3  Paved roads on the south bank of Niger             General taxes
2.   Land Development
2.1 Off-site infrastructure
(a)  water supply, electricity                     User charges
(b)  street grid on the south bank                 Plot sales
2.2 On-site infrastructure
(a)  sites and services                            Plot sales
(b)  upgrading areas                               Plot sales
3.  Mapping                                             General taxes
4.   Local Revenue Assessment/Collection                Local taxes
5.   Project Unit
5.1  Technical assistance                               General taxes
5.2  Studies                                            General taxes
5.3  Training                                           General taxes
6.   Other elements                                     Local taxes



- 58 -
ANNEX 2-8
Page 3 of 3
Affordability of New Plots
6.        During the six years of the project period, about two-thirds of
the demand for new plots would be met by the project. The target group
would mainly comprise families between the 13th and the 70th percentile of
the income distribution (97Z of plots supplied by the project would be
affordable to these families; see table below).
Plot Affordability - Sites and Services
Income percentile     Level of monthly income       Minimum Z of supply
(up to and             at this percentile         affordable to this
including)                                             percentile
10                        15,000                         -
13                        16,600                         82
20                        21,000                         82
30                        26,000                         82
40                        33,000                         82
50                        40,000                         93
70                        66,000                         97
90                       125,000                        100
7.        For purposes of assessing the affordability of plots, it is
assumed that (a) households would be willing to pay up to 20% of their
monthly income for a standard loan (10 years repayment term at 10%
interest), including dwelling construction costs, plus a cash down payment
of 30Z; and (b) the average construction cost of a standard dwelling will
be 2.0 times the plot cost.
8.        Given the weakness of the banking system in Mali, it is more
likely that beneficiairies would rely on other sources of funds, such as
savings, family support, mutual aid, clubs, etc. Following current local
practices, plots will be sold in cash (the down payment corresponding to
the cost of a plot). However, to help the poorest families and take into
account the experience of the first project, it has been decided to allow
quarterly payments during the first year. The repayment scheme will be
monitored and managed by the existing housing unit of the District.
Upgrading Sites
9.        In the case of upgrading sites, the equivalent monthly mortgage
payment to recover the average cost per plot would amount to 6% of the
monthly income of a household at the 10th percentile or 4% of median
monthly income of a family living in illegal settlements.
WAPUR
November 1985



- 59 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 1 of 5
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A. Road Rehabilitation and Traffic Component
1.        The objective of the transport component would be to remove
citywide infrastructure constraints to the efficient functioning of
Bamako by repairing and extending the road network and introducing
traffic management measures in the city center. It would comprise three
items: the repair and rehabilitation of street sections and the intro-
duction of traffic management schemes in the city center, including
intersection improvements, traffic lights and parking; the upgrading of
about 9 km of access roads, and the construction of some 13 km of new
asphalt and laterite roads on the South Bank.
2.        Traffic volumes range from 3,000 to about 11,000 vehicles
per day (excluding two-wheel vehicles) in the city center, 10,000-
13,000 vehicles per day on the access roads, and average about
1,500 vehicles per day on the South Bank road sections. Traffic
forecasts are based upon an analysis of general factors such as
projected overall economic growth, the projected demographic develop-
ment of Bamako and the likely evolution of the vehicle fleet, and a
simplified traffic assignment model taking into account the improvements
to the various road sections included under the project. Forecast
traffic growth rates vary between 3.5% and 6% for the 1985-95 period.
3.        Cost estimates include the costs of civil works, supervision
and technical assistance and maintenance, without taxes and duties but
including physical contingencies.
4.        Benefits consist of savings in vehicle operating costs due to
improved road surfaces and characteristics and a reduction in the
frequency of stops at intersections in the city center, and time savings
for passengers travelling for work-related purposes. With respect to
the value of time, one-third of average incomes has been used. Due to
the lack of sufficiently precise data, benefits due to reduced conges-
tion in the city center have been quantified only for th.e main street
intersections.
5.        Cost and benefit streams have been discounted over a period of
12 years, the estimated average economic life of investments. The
results of the computations are summarized in the following table. It
shows an overall economic rate of return (ERR) on the component of 30.62
with ERRs for individual items ranging between 19.1% and about 51.3%.
Two risks have been considered in the sensitivity analysis. One is that
maintenance of the project roads would not be adequate. Asdming a
decrease in maintenance costs by 10% would decrease savings in vehicle



- 60 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 2 of 5
operating costs by 10% and time saving by  OZ, the ERR for the component
would drop to 21.3Z, with ERRs for the throe main subcomponents ranging
between 14.1% and 34.4%. Should estimated benefits be 10% less than
anticipated, the effect on the ERR would be less than on inadequate
maintenance (26.6%).
Results of Economic Evaluation
Road Rehabilitation and Traffic Compon:ant
A. Base Case
Present        Present        Net    Benefit/ Economic
Value of    Value of Ben-  Present    Cost       Rate
Cost at 10%  e-its at 10    Value    Ratio   of Return
City Center            1,066.4      2,003.1        936.7      1.9     33.4%
Access Roads           1,076.4      2,693.9      1,617.5      2.5     51.3Z
South Bank Roads       1,080.0      1,801.4        721.3      1.7     19.1%
Total              3,___.8 48.             _ 32.;         2.0     30.6Z
B. Sensitivity Analysis
BI - Decrease in maintenance costs by 10% and decrease in vehicle
operating cost and time saving by 1OZ.
Present        Present        Net    Benefit/ Economic
Value of    Value of Ben-  Present    Cost       Rate
Cost at 10%  efits at 10%    Value    Ratio   of Return
City Center            1,048.4      1,546.0        497.6      1.5     21.9%
Access Roads           1,055.6      2,047.3        991.8      1.9     34.4Z
South Bank Roads       1070.2        369.0        298.9      1.3     14.1%
Total              3 .17_,      4.962.3      1788.3       1.6     21.3%
B2 - Decrease in benefits by 10%.
Present        Present        Net    Benefit/ Economic
Value of    Value of Ben-  Present    Cost       Rate
Cost at 10%  efits at 10%    Value    Ratio   of Return
City Center            1,066.4      1,802.8        736.4      1.7     28.22
Access Roads           1,076.4      2,424.5      1,348.1      2.3     43.9%
South Bank Roads       1,080.0      1,621.2        541.2      1.5     17.0%
Total              3.222.       5,.848.5    23625.7       1.8     26.6%



- 61 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 3 of 5
B.  Land Development Component
6.        The objective of the land development component would be to
Improve living conditions of Bamako's residents and enhance investment
in land development and housing by increasing the supply of new plots
and continuing a program of upgrading of existing residential areas.
During the next six years, around 11,500 new plots, representing about
45% of the total demand, would be supplied for the bulk of the popula-
tion, whereas 200 ha of existing plots would be rehabilitated out of a
total of 15,000 ha of existing spontaneous areas. At the end of the
project, the share of spontaneous housing areas would decrease from the
current 44Z to a more acceptable 282.
7.        The land development component would comprise four main items:
(a) 155 ha of sites and services (2,050 plots) with basic street
network, drainage, water supply, and street lighting; (b) 725 ha of
minimally serviced land (9,500 plots) with a minimum of network
secondary streets (graded only) and well-based water supply system;
(c) 200 ha of upgrading (3,300 plots); and (d) a basic network of
32.6 km of graded primary roads, aiming at structuring the new expanding
areas (including the above 725 ha and the upgrading area) south of the
city. This component would also include technical assistance to the
District Operational Urban Planning Unit, as well as a regularization
program for 15,000 existing plots (involving the legalization of
occupancy rights).
8.        For purposes of calculating economic rates of return for this
component, only the physical components (items (a) to (d) above), with
the related technical ass!stance, have been computed. Cost estimates
include the cost of civil works, supervision, and maintenance, without
taxes and duties, but including physical contingencies and foreign
currency valorization.
9.        Benefits with and without the project were based on:  (a) an
analysis of development patterns in similarly situated areas relative to
the proximity of the city center; and (b) a survey of land values in
these areas and in the project areas.  All the benefits of .he component
derive from the incremental value of the land (on a square meter basis),
along with the increase in value of the residential area per gross ha,
due to the improved design of the project sites. However, to avoid
double counting with the infrastructure component, part of the benefiti
(30Z), due to the construction of 13 km of nev asphalt roads on the
South Bank, has been discounted.
10.       Other basic assumptions for the calculation of the economic
rate of return (ERR) were the following:
-    price level:  June 1985;
-    standard conversion factor for the foreign exchange component:
0.93;



- 62 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 4 of 5
-    horizon:  five years for the calculation of direct costs and
benefits, and 12 years for the net cost and benefit stream;
and
-    the 725 ha subcomponent has been aggregated with the road grid
of the south-west area given their interactions on the benefit
stream side.
11.       The results are summarized in the following table.  It shows
an ERR on the component of 43.5Z. Two risks have been considered in the
sensitivity analysis: (a)-one is a decrease of the assessed incremental
land value of 10%. In this case, the ERR would drop to 35.3%; (b) the
second is a decrease in land value by 10% with an increase in capital
costs by 10%. In this case, the ERR would drop to 28.2%.
Results of Economic Evaluation
Land Development Component
A. Base Case
Present        Present        Net    Benefit/ Economic
Value of    Value of Ben-  Present    Cost       Rate
Cost at 10%  efits at 10%    Value    Ratio   of Return
725 ha + Grid road    1,086.5       2,118.4      1,031.9     2.7     56.82
Bako-Djikoroni         1,104.3      1,516.4        412.1     1.4      31.8%
Baconi                   402.4        582.1        179.7     1.4      33.4Z
Total            2L593.2       4,216-9      1.623.7     1.6     43.5%
B. Sensitivity Analysis
Bl - Decrease in land value by 10%.
Present        Present        Net    Benefit/ Economic
Value of    Value of Ben-  Present    Cost       Rate
Cost at 10%  efits at 10%    Value    Ratio   of Return
725 ha + Grid road    1,086.5       1,906.6        820.1     2.4     48.32
Bako-Djikoroni         1,104.3      1,364.7        260.4     1.2      23.9%
Baconi                   402.4        523.9        121.5     1.3      26.1%
Total            2923.2        3.795.2      1A202-0     1.5     35.3%



- 63 -
ANNEX 2-9
Page 5 of 5
B2 - Decrease in land value by 10% and increase in capital costs
by 10%.
Present        Present        Net    Benefit/ Economic
Value of    Value of Ben-  Present    Cost       Rate
Cost at 10%  efits at 10%    Value    Ratio   of Return
725 ha + Grid road    1,203.2       1,906.6        703.4     2.2     40.8%
Bako-Djikoroni         1,224.3      1,364.7        140.4     1.1      16.9Z
Baconi                   445.7        523.9         78.1     1.2      19.6%
Total            2.873.2       a 795.2        921.9     1.3     28.2Z
WAPTUR
December 1985



-~~~~~~~~~~~                                             -- 
NN
N.
I ~~~~~~~~~~~A L G E R I A
M A L I~~~~~~                                                      AGEI
MALI                                                                    N 
POPULATION DISTRIBUTION                             I                                         "
I                                  ~~~~~~~.\
0lamucknniN
PAVED MAJOR ROADS                                                                             N
- - --- - EARTH ROADS                                                                                     N.
TRACKS                                  I
- RAILWAY
AREA SUBJECT ro INUNDAT ION
RIVERS
*    REGION CAPITALS
-  REGION BOUNDARIES                         I
JPr_ -   - INTERNATIONALUOUNDARIES
al  50  log  IIID                                                             Arsa ua
CILOFlTERS
-/ \
M A U R I T A N1 I A                                                                    ---- L  -v__-E 
1..                 ,<  "'Tombouctou
i         %_ , y¶  -.v '{ 
1 o_ _ t s4li  o   s   / >S 
| ° ^ ; ; t g B U  IF                                       SEI N 
; ; * - _ / / , t { ~~~~~~~~~~uREAN CENTERS OF MCOR
,12-                                                                                               25J >)  t;,00_0r ¢   ,ccz ESTIMATE D POP>ULAT
'--1,!~~~                              -                 A
>Xougounl ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                     ~UBA  CENER  OF MO
½/' G U I                                                                       /              2500  ESTIMATED POPULAT 



IBRD 19169
__         I_J\s                      ^       tH
I--.-'             ?~     ~~ LtUYA
a"FI   --. L aGE t. IA
MAURITANIA                 -                  -
MALI          NIGER Ft
ALGERIA  B8NBOA~a~.--. --                     .'CHAD
l G  E R I A               rt                       _
%   rURiKI NA(a-<           )
*                      F     <     <    { r t@Ia }  NIGERIA           % 4.
*N,
:   .  .   ... .. ........
: \ ~~~~~~S                         '_ .*                .      -
N   ~~~ iG    
'Ndi   -----eg
'a--
BURKINA ~ ~ ~ Tmli
)        
- OF                 In TebezT
= --       \X                                 Menaki               i
_'    w           \     "            o.kS               , ,a a.
BU RKINA  
_.wOF MORE THAN
__ POPULATION  71985     0             RURAL TOTAL DENSITIES
__ _    _ _   -    700.000  Ipvpulation I km21
0.5 2nl
100 000
Z0 5.0
_  75a.                       5.0- 10.0
25000                          i..0.
25(_000               ,        I  5 -0SPTME  1985
ea                        ~~~~~SEPTEMBER 1985



_                                   IBRD 19184
MALI i      E'a 
SECOND URBAN PROJECT C:t:  !   ' 7
Bamakco Project Elements
l_,#                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
12'40'~~~~~~~~~'41
w..
A-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
*  :.~~~~~~--         B~~~AMAK
t i                                   ' -  :g    ..   . . Ž
-.  1 -      v< 21  l   4 !, _
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  



',rM*.lt/> ', ;* ' t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j t1      v it/;  1' '
;_j-*   ;#   >'  ,z'F9}                     /       ';   £                        #'\   9   ;                  '            #S-''''-3      L'      sq_  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
i'35'  t  s   ^    <                                                    ^                                                  *     \      |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-3'
.  E   Z             !s     a§$                                - S     8    ; '     jR PR O ECT ELEMENT'S* 
Aspholled ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ z- Roads                        .J .t\                         
0   0      /        ,,  I               Asph~~~~Gaded Roads                           .L                           ,\ / 
g    >  w S - sw j w   /  '  *                  5,;85~Site and Services Areanj>\t                                                   
;} tse . t6l ~~~~~~~Upgraded Are                                      o        *         z) j'ak  N-    g   
L" ZDV     A'-*.P~W     {       t           ',              New Urbonized Areas'                                       -              '        --             \.,,                    *    >
NOVEMBER 19115



K]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
qt  -.  0-                                                                                0   \
i ~~~                                                                                                 I      
-N~~~~~~jC
-~~ ~ *J                        2 *(5                                                          -'S/'\      
'.   ;NH- 
' *.s _-. >2S   K"ToZs  K         
,,_,,~~~~~ ~ ,,,/;>                                            
_              ''       \ ',                               .,  ;.
V~~~~~
.-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --        -      N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!M
- ~~~~ a                     -'                N~~~~~~Q
'ZZ, ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     NN                                       -



IBRD 19413
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I t-   111
C:7
\Lj.                                     2i%3%%SEC      URB  NPRO   C
C3  0 ~       3
is"~~~~~~~~~t
5~~~~~u                        R.uUqe 6s   BAMAK
Di*J                                     Ca
~~~~~~~~~A I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                           I
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
CITY CENTER ROAD REHABILITATION
AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT ELEMENTS
\* \,             .~~~~~~~  INDICATES DIRECTION OF ROAD
-                 -    ~~~~~~~PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS
0 100 200 300
Meters
NOVEMBER 1985



o-6F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E -.SPORTS0
, I t9~~~umber          N .4mbe   LV \...... \,ef/w j    
A    *       1265          a          0\                       '-; .X 
B             685        445    . ........425 ....  :e.sx.  _ 
C   o    ~~100        115        195-               >         , <i. 
TOTAi         2050         560        60:..                              .       ; ;W*  - 



IBRD 13414
.~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;                                                ,    
MALI
*1-;                 :                   ' .-; .       :SECOND URBAN PROJECT
SITES AND SERVICESAREA
_!;~~~~ _ .. *_-'..-, .                                                                                                  :^-
g        <                                    ;      *s-  ;<L<-'-                   - -   .    .~~~~~~.r   :   -...-  .
,-  b.              ...- ,---e6 ~  s. 
-,  MCT.'  _-'__ -i -t  a,,-  ,                                     . -   e  . J
i- *   *  _                          - _v  ;-}w'
a    It    2 ~      ZOE 
-I.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~-t
-'-7~, -:;__ ' r - _; ~* s     ¢ I-.-_,   ' _ .- - ;. _   , . I , ., -                        ,,_- ;  ,^ -u t-l,^n_;_,,,_,
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~lt=^C ja



IBRD 19415
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
KALABAN SUD
SITES AND SERVICES AREA
,,,l-,:.,~ ~* 'js



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
PI i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
4 -J 
l :;;'t~  ~  r



1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ij
j - d



SECON
UP(
I V~ ~ ''
: ;. l ;{! ~ ~ ~     n     I
~~-,-;          ::/               



_IBRF 194 W
MAL. I
SECOND URBAN PROJEC-T
BANKONI
UPGRADING AREA
(I  .  . 
!  . 1  :  d;     1'1!811'{)';l ~~~~~~~~1) IMiAI) INI'lst}V  I M  i N   1.,
It   *: - , . .
.LJIii ?   '  .  .    i
.7~~~~~~~~~~7
X:Ji                           -
500e 7 -Zf <-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 1.;..






