Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4196-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMXENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 25.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR THE
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
March 3, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onl in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 =          CFA Franc (CFAF)
us$X.0o                                  CFAF 385
CFAF 1 million                          US$2,597
SDR                           =         US$1.1115
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FAC            French Bilateral Aid Agency
PPF            Project Preparation Facility



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
SECOND URBAIN PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of Mali.
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Interior, District of Bamako.
Credit Amount:      SDR 25.2 million (US$28.0 million equivalent).
Terms:              Standard.
Onlending Terms:    US$7.5 million from the IDA credit to be onlent to
District of Bamako for land development at an
onlent rate of 8% per annum for 25 years, in-
cluding three years grace period.
Project
Description:      The proposed project will:  (a) help remove some
of the major citywide infrastructure constraints
to the efficient functioning of Bamako; (b) facil-
itate private sector housing and construction
activities; (c) improve local resource mobiliza-
tion; and (d) strengthen the capacity of key urban
institutions, especially the District's land
development, municipal management, and tax collec-
tion functions.
The project will finance: (a) road rehabilitation
and construction both in the city center and the
main access roads to the city center; (b) land
development and tenure regularization in various
locations totalling about 2.000 ha and
30,000 plots; (c) technical assistance, training,
studies, and equipment for the District of Bauako,
the Ministry of Interior, and the Project Unit for
improvement of resource mobilization, garbage
collection, and overall coordination of the
project.
Thi document has estcted distnbution und may be usd by ripients only in the pefonmnce
of their offici dutel Its contents may not otherwise be diosed without World Bank authoriution.



- ii -
Project Benefits
and Risks:        As a result of upgrading the road network in the
city center, along with better management of
traffic flows, productivity gains in urban trans-
portation are expected to take place through:
(a) cost savings in the use and maintenance of the
road network; and (b) lowering the time spent by
both individuals and basinesses to travel between
the city center and southern areas of the city.
Urban land development benefits include incentives
for increased land and housing development due to
security of tenure, as well as improvement of
living conditions for the people in the land
development areas of the project. Other gains
would derive from better managed operations within
the District, especially in the field of urban
taxation.
The risks involved in the project are: (a) that
Bamako District may not be able to sustain suffi-
cient political backing to assess and collect the
increases in taxes and fees required to generate
enough revenue for debt service, maintenance and
investment; (b) that project implementation may
suffer due to the difficulty of attracting and
keeping qualified Malian staff; and (c) that the
Government may not be able to finance its share of
the project costs in a timely manner. The
imnrovement in urban infrastructure and services
should help to convince taxpayers that a commen-
surate tax increase (point (a) above) is
justified. Extensive training programs included
in the project should counterbalance some of the
risks associated with (b).  Finally, to ensure the
timely provision of counterpart funds (point
(c) above), proceeds of the land development
account could be made available to the project, if
necessary. Some US$5 million equivalent is
expected to accrue to this account during the
project period, which is roughly in line with the
Government counterpart obligation.



- iii -
Summry Project Cost Estimate
Estimated Costs:
LOCAL       FOREI6N         TOTAL
(USs millions)
Infrastructure
1. Road Rehabilitation               4.67          5.81         10.49
2.  Land Development                 3.61          4.63          0.24
3. Cartography                       0.27          1.40          1.67
Institution Building
4. Resource Mobilization             0.46          1.64          2.10
S. Solid Haste Nmnagesent            0.19          0.49          0.67
6. Project Unit                      0.56          2.29          2.95
Total Base Cost                  9.75         16.27         26.02
Physical Contingencies           1.24          1.91          3.15
Price Contingencies              2.12          3.22          5.34
Total Project Cost              13.11         21.41         34.51
Z=2 mug
Of which Taxes                   4.50          0.00          4.50
Total Project Cost               9.60         21.41         30.01
net of Taxes                                                 -
Financing Plan:
LOCAL       FOREIGN        TOTAL
--fUSS miions)--
government                           5.76           -            5.76
IDA                                  7.29        20.71         28.00
French Aid (FAC)                     0.05          0.70          0.75
Total                          13.11         21.41         34.51
Note: Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



- iv -
Estimated Disbursements:
FY87     FY88     FY89     FY90    FY91   FY92    FY93
(US$ million)
Annual         3.1      5.3       5.9       5.4      4.4     2.8     1.1
Cumulative     3.1      8.4      14.3      19.7     24.1    26.9    28.0
Economic
Rate of Return:        31X for the road rehabilitation and
traffic mangement elements, and 44% for
the land development element, representing
40% and 32% of project cost, respectively.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5855-MLI dated March 3, 1986.
M^p8:  IBRD 19169:       Mali Population Distribution
IBRD 19184:       Bamako Project Elements
IBRD 19413:       Bamako City Center Traffic Management Plan
IBRD 19414:       Bako-Djikoroni Sites and Services
IB-RD 19415:      Kalaban-Sud Sites and Services
IBRD 19416:       Bankoni Upgrading Area



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI FOR THE
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
1.        I subm-it the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit of SDR 25.2 million (US$28.0 million) on
standard IDA terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance the pro-
posed Second Urban Project. The Project will be cofinanced by a grant
of about US$750,000 equivalent from the French Bilateral Aid Agency
(FAC).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Two reports, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Mali"
(3200-MLI) and "Mali-Special Economic Study-Planning Institutions
and the 1974-78 Plan" (3333-14LI), were distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 30, 1981. The following paragraphs are based on
these reports and the findings of recent World Bank and IMF economic
missions. Annex I gives country data.
A. Background
3.        Landlocked in Africa's Sahelian belt, most of Mali's
1.2 million square kilometers are desert; only one-fourth are arable,
and even this area is subject to the climatic vagaries of the
semi-arid tropics. Over the last 15 years, average rainfall and
length of growing season have significantly diminished.  Soils are
shallow, lateritic, poor in phosphates, and easily eroded.
Agricultural technology is rudimentary, with low crop yields and
livestock offtake. Thus, Mal's 7 million inhabitants are among the
poorest in the world, with 1984 per capita income of only US$140 and
life expectancy at birth of only 45 years. Overall, the country's
potential for loug-term growth is severely limited by harsh resource
constraints.
B. Developments in the 1960s and 1970s
4.        The first post-colonial Government (1960-68) Intervened
extensively in the economy in an attempt to promote growth and allevi-
ate poverty. It established numerous public enterprises and insti-
tuted widespread price and trade controls. Relatively favorable
1/  Parts I and II are substantially the same as those which appeared
in the President's Report for the Second Forestry Project (Report
No. P-4208-MLI), which was approved by the Executive Directors on
January 23, 1986.



-2-
climatic conditions allowed a modest growth in GDP per capita during
the 1960s, but fiscal and external account deficits increased sharply.
5.        The present Government, which came to power in 1968, gradu-
ally began to introduce a series of modest economic reforms aimed at
restoring financial and economic equilibrium through liberalizing
trade, restructuring public enterprises and promoting agriculture.
These efforts were frustrated in the early 1970s by severe drought
conditions and the oil price increases. Conditions improved somewhat
in the late 1970s. Good ranss and newly built irrigation networks
raised grain output by 50 percent from 1972/73 to 1978/79. Cotton
cultivation expanded by approximately 80 percent over the same period.
Moreover, both consumption and investment were sustained by inflows of
official development assistance which quintupled between 1972 and
1980. The combined impact of these factors resulted in a 1.7 percent
annmal increase in GDP per capita between 1970 and 1980.
6.        Despite these improved conditions, Government's budgetary
position continued to deteriorate through the late 1970s. Restric-
tions on civil service recruitment were relaxed, and the roster of
public employees increased by almost 50 percent between 1975 and 1980.
Between 1976 and 1980, scholarship payments for higher education
doubled. A number of costly public investment projects with dubious
justification and several equally questionable new public enterprises
were launched. Public enterprises were forced to operate with low or
negative profit margins in an effort to insulate the population from
inflation. As a result, the sector's deficits rose significantly.
The combined effect of these policies was reflected in dramatic
increases in the consolidated budgetary deficit, and, in turn, in
foreign indebtedness. By 1980, total med'ium- and long-term external
public debt equalled 75 percent of GDP.
C. Progress Since the Early 1980s
7.        Since the early 1980s, the Government has undertaken a
program of gradual structural reform to counteract the mounting
disequilibria arising from excess consumption and uneconomic invest-
ments. A number of measures have been introduced aimed at reducing
budgetary deficits, operating losses of public enterprises, and public
sector arrears (both foreign and domestic). In addition, reforms have
been introduced to improve resource allocation. These include market
liberalization, improved price incentives, greater emphasis on reha-
bilitation and maintenance, and more efficient public investments.
The Government's progress in these policy areas has occurred despite
the adverse effects of recent drought conditions on productior and
incomes.
8.        Mali's commitment to structural reform has been met with
commensurate support from the donor community. Mali has successfully
implemented two IMF Standby Arrangements and a third Standby was



approved by the Fund in November 1985. In close cooperation with the
IMF, IDA has also actively supt.)rted Mali's restructuring efforts. In
1982. IDA approved the Economic Management and Training project which
provides technical assistance and training to improve Mali's economic
management and policy formulation capabilities. This has provided a
basis for subsequent policy reforms addressing cotton pricing and
revenues, educational expenditures, cereals marketing, public enter-
prises, and cost recovery for roads maintenance. Many of these
sectorial reforms are being supported by IDA lending operations. An
informal consortium of food aid donors has been assisting a Cereals
Marketing Reform Project since 1981. It has supported various reform
measures with the provision of some 250,000 tons of grain over the
past five years. Finally, Mali's entry into the West African Monetary
Union in June 1984, included substantial financial aid and debt
consolidation from France.
9.        In spite of the policy improvements and the significant
level of donor assistance in recent years, many macroeconomic indica-
tors have remained depressed since 1980. Average annual GDP growth in
constant prices has been stagnant. Consecutive years of severe
drought from 1982-84 led to a 25 percent decline in cereals produc-
tion. As a result, total cereal imports in 1984 reached a record
320,000 tons or almost 50 kilograms per capita. Moreover, significant
livestock losses and destocking occurred in 1984. Despite buoyant
cotton export revenues in 1984. resulting from unusually high inter-
national cotton prices, rising imports of foodstuffs. necessitated by
the drought, caused the 1984 current account deficit to remain at some
19 percent of GDP (6.2 percent of GDP including grants). Moreover, in
1985, cereal imports have remained at their 1984 levels, while export
revenues have declined due to a marked decline in international cotton
prices. GDP is estimated to have grown by 1.1 percent in 1985.
D. Economic and Financial Policy Issues
10.       If the Government is to achieve its financial and economic
stabilization objectives, policy reforms must be broadened and deep-
ened in three priority areas: public finances, economic regulation
and incentives, and the efficient allocation of investment resources.
Public Finances
11.       Although the budgetary situation in Mali has improved
considerably in recent years, largely in the context of three succes-
sive IMF standbys, there remains considerable scope for improvement.
Public finances remain weak and recurrent expenditures must still be
supported by external budgetary assistance. To safeguard the progress
already achieved, Government needs to make a concerted effort to
continue to cut subsidies and excessive personnel outlays. Cost
recovery measures need to be instituted to finance operation and
maintenance costs wherever beneficiaries can be clearly identified.



- 4 -
The management of public debt also needs to be .mproved.  In addition
to containing future expenditures, efforts to inL.rease revenues will
also have to be intensified.
Regulation and Incentives
12.       As indicated above, the Government has recently begun to
reduce its intervention in economic affairs, especially in the areas
of price controls and trade restrictions. Perhaps most notably, full
liberalization of paddy marketing is planned for the 1986/87 growing
season. This process has been assisted by the recent Mopti Area
Development Project and will also be supported by the forthcoming
Office du Niger Project. However, in the agricultural sector, addi-
tional measures are necessary to allow private traders a greater role
in the delivery of agricultural services and inputs at market-
determined prices.  In the public enterprise sector, the Government is
committed to a major reform program that will reduce the overall size
of the sector, while permitting individual enterprises a greater
degree of autonomy in managing their internal operations. Import
monopolies have already been eliminated for all but four of the prod-
ucts handled by the state trading company. IDA is supporting this
effort through the preparation of a Public Enterprise Reform Project.
The project focuses on policy and institutional reforms, physical and
financial rehabilitation, and possible privatization of viable enter-
prises and technical support for liquidating nonviable ones. This
program has been closely coordinated with the third IMF Standby,
especially with respect to eliminating the financial losses of Air
Mali and continuing the reduction in the size and scope of the state
trading corporation (SOMIEX).
Efficient Allocation of Investment Resources
13.       Promoting more efficient use of investment resources, both
foreign and domestic, and public and private, is among the most
important issues to be addressed. As in much of sub-Saharan Africa,
investment as a proportion of GDP has been high (over 15 percent of
GDP during the 1970s, the bulk of which was public investment), but it
has not yielded commensurate growth in output. Public resources have
not been used optimally and excessive regulation has encouraged
inefficient allocation of private investments.  Together, these have
contributed to recurrent financial disequilibria, including levels of
debt servicing and Government subsidies which the economy is incapable
of sustaining. Remedial measures are urgently required. Investment
resources need to be channelled toward rehabilitating and maintaining
existing facilities before undertaking new investments. More strin-
gent economic and financial criteria for project selection need to be
devised and applied rigorously. As part of its economic and sector
work, the Bank is planning to undertake, with UNDP assistance, a
public expenditure review in 1986, which is intended to help the
Government in addressing both investment and recurrent cost issues
(para 11 above).



-5-
E. Issues Affecting Long-term Growth
14.       Even with substantial improvements in resource reallocation
and financial policy reforms, concerted action will be required to
redress the long-term resource constraints facing the economy. Three
areas of high priority are: (a) human resource development;
(b) agricultural development; and (c) consolidation of economic
infrastructure.
Human B^source Development
15.       Population growth is the overriding issue in the area of
human resource development.  Unless it can be slowed from its esti-
mated rate of 2.8 percent per year, population growth will negate even
the most substantial development efforts. Population growth is
already weighing heavily on the country's scarce resources. Popula-
tion pressure has contributed to the degradation of soils caused by
shorter fallow periods, deforestation to supply increased demand for
fuelwood, and overgrazing by larger cattle herds. Moreover, the rate
of population growth will be a major factor in improving the provision
of basic needs, including primary health care, clean water, and
primary education. The Government needs to focus on the interrela-
tionship of population with its overall objectives for econowic growth
and development and should begin to formulate a population strategv.
Second, education policy needs to be redefined to provide broader
access to better quality primary education, to lower unit costs, and
to promote greater participant ffnancing. Literacy and primary school
enrollment are presently far too low to provide an adequate foundation
for strengthening human capital, Mali's primary resource. Third,
primary health services, including rural water supplies, must be
improved. Otherwise, low life expectancies and high child mortality
will continue to sap the productive capacity of the population, while
fueling the demand for more children. Donor assistance will be
required to expand public health programs, but these must be based on
affordable, replicable project designs, improved cost recovery, and
greater involvement by beneficiaries.
Agricultural Development
16.      Agriculture is the country's dominant sector, accounting for
over 40 percent of GDP. Cotton and livestock alone account for
75 percent of exports. With no significant mineral deposits, overall
future growth will depend primarily on raising agricultural produc-
tion and, relatedly, on improved agricultural practices and technolo-
gy. Although there is some scope to expand the area under cultiva-
tion, the greater potential lies in increased yields which, in turn,
are most likely where rainfall is highest or where irrigation facili-
ties exist. Equally important to the sector's future development will
be: (a) better delivery of agricultural services. especially exte:Qion
and inputs; (b) adequate maintenance of irrigation structures and
access roads; and (c) address the twin problems of deforestation and
soil erosion degradation which are posing an increasing threat to



-6-
many areas of Mali. In addition to consolidating agricultural infra-
structure and strengthening essential public institutions, measures
are required to increase cost recovery, expand beneficiary participa-
tion in operation and maintenance, improve producer 'incentives, and
liberalize input and output markets. At the same time, more resources
should be channelled into agricultural research to: (i) improve crop
varieties, with a particular focus on the needs of rainfed agriculture
on which the bulk of the population depends; (ii) develop new export
crops; and (iii) further integrate livestock with crop cultivation.
Consolidation of Economic Infrastructure
17.       Mali needs to devote greater attention to better utilization
of existing economic infrastructure. Given a scarcity of investment
resources, macro and sectorial priorities need to emphasize efficient
operation and improved maintenance of existing facilities before
undertaking new investments. Decisions regarding transport sector
investments must be taken with particular care, given Mali's vast
internal distances and its low population density. Although roads in
the -western part of the country are poor, priority must first be given
to rehabilitating and maintaining existing roads in the productive
central and southern areas of the country. Similarly, in the irriga-
tion sector, existing capacity is often idle or deteriorating. The
rehabilitation of such facilities should be given priority in the
allocation of investment funds. In addition, local resource mobiliza-
tion and cost recovery need to be improved to enable adequate mainte-
nance.
Foreign Assistance and Its Implications for External Debt
18.       In recent years, Mali has benefitted from considerable
foreign assistance, which has, in fact, financed virtually all devel-
opment investments. Following the 1972-73 drought, there was a rapid
increase in foreign assistance, mostly grants and highly concessional
loans. However, even with a high degree of concessionality, a dramat-
ic increase in debt service obligations is now coming due on past
borrowings which will have a major impact on public finances. The
debt service ratio, 2/ which was some 13 percent in 1984 (9.8 percent
excluding IMF repurchases), increased sharply to 20 percent in 1985
(12.6 percent excluding IMF repurchases) and will increase further in
1986. The rise in external debt service obligations has several
implications.  Most fundamentally, it points to the need to exercise
great caution in contracting future public debt. Recourse to
non-concessional borrowing will have to be avoided. Public sector
investments will have to be strictly controlled to ensure that scarce
investment resources are used solely for priority projects which meet
2/   Excluding loans due to the U.S.S.R and China, and after debt
relief.



-7-
rigorous selection standards based on stringent economic criteria.
With external debt charges already at a level which strains the
country's servicing capability, Mali will need to make every effort to
mobilize additional domestic resources. With this in mind, elec-
tricity tariffs, petroleum taxes, and road user fees have recently
been raised to help service the sizeable foreign loans of these
sectors. Despite these actions, external debt rescheduling may be
necessary in 1986.
19.       In the future, Mali will continue to require substantial
donor assistance to maintain a minimum level of output during the
implementation of its program of economic reform adjustment. In
particular, donor support is required for: (a) significantly higher
levels of grant or IDA-type concessional financing to improve the
structure of the external debt in the medium and long term;
(b) financing a major portion of local costs of projects, including
both investment and operation and maintenance, to reduce budgetary
pressures; and tc) increased levels of non-project lending in order to
refinance existing debt and reduce current, unmanageable debt service
payments.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERTIONS IN MALI
20.       The proposed credit would be the Association's thirty-sixth
credit extended to Mali (including two supplementary credits), which
would bring total commitments of IDA funds to US$423.6 million equiva-
lent (including IDA Special Funds totalling US$11.2 million equiva-
lent). Of the thirty-five operations already approved, thirteen have
been for agriculture and related activities; nine for transport; three
for education; two for telecommunications; two for energy; and one
each for small-scale industries, urban development, power and water
supply, technical assistance, rural water supply, and health. Agri-
culture and transportation represent the largest share of past commit-
ments, accounting for 33 percent and 32 percent, respectively. In
addition, the International Finance Corporation has made two invest-
ments, totalling US$3.2 million, one for a bleach and plastic products
factory and the other for a shea nut processing plant. Annex II gives
a snmmary statement of these credits as of September 30, 1985.
21.       The average level of IDA commitments to Mali has risen
significantly in recent years. The annual average for FY84-85 was
US$45 million, compared to an annual average for FY82-83 of
US$27 million. During FY86, two credits, totalling US$55.1 million,
have already been approved for a Fifth Highways Project and a Second
Forestry Project; both operations included notable policy reform
components. The proposed project would assist Bamako District in
significantly improving both its resource mobilization and its finan-
cial management in addition to the provision of facilities and equip-
ment. As noted during FY86, we also intend to submit for Board
approval a Public Enterprise Reform Project which will assist Mali in
a major effort to rationalize and rehabilitate this sector.



-8-
Project implementation in Mali has been generally satisfactory.
Despite difficulties and delays caused by inadequate Goverument
counterpart financing, the rate of IDA's disbursements to Mali through
1985 was roughly the same as for other West African countries. More
importantly, project performance appears to have improved, pari passU,
in line with Government's attempts to solve its financial problems and
strengthen its economic management.
22.       IDA's lending strategy in Mali has two objectives:  (a) to
nurture and support structural adjustment and (b) to lay the founda-
tion for sound long-term growth. In support of needed policy reforms,
the Association has financed a technical assistance project (Economic
Management and Training Project, Cr. 1307-NLI), designed in close
collaboration with the lIF, to strengthen management of the Malian
economy by improving financial and economic policies and public
institutions and by providing training to Malian civil servants. This
has been followed by a series of sectorial adjustment projects which
are addressing important reforms in specific sectors. For example.
the Second Mali-Sud Rural Development Project (Cr. 1415-MLI) is
supporting a comprehensive reform of the cotton sector, while the
Third Education Project (Cr. 1442-MLI/SF10) and the recently approved
Fifth Highway Project are designed to improve planning and resource
mobilization and allocation in their respective sectors.
23.       Building on these reforms, there is, over the next few
years, a solid project pipeline for Mali which will continue to
address structural issues. Moreover, in recognition of its commitment
to a program of macro policy reform. Mali is eligible for assistance
under the Special African Facility. Among the operations currently
under preparation, three projects, each with important policy reform
components, are provisionally progranmed for such assistance. The
first of these, the Public Enterprise Reform Project, is designed to
introduce an appropriate policy framework for the public enterprise
sector and to put it on a sound financial footing. Second, the Office
du Niger Rehabilitation Project will consolidate the pricing and
marketing reform in the rice subsector initiated under the recently
approved Mopti Area Development Project (Cr. 1597-MLI) and will also
address the financial restructuring of this important irrigation
authority.  The third project, a Power Sector operation, would address
fundamental institutional issues in the sector. It would reorganize
sectoral institutions with a view to improving planning and opera-
tional coordination. It would also design and implement a program to
restructure the sector's finances which, at present, are in an
extremely poor condition. This reflects, inter alia, the artificially
low tariff levels which have been imposed on the sector until
recently, and which, in turn, contributed to'substantial arrears of
external debt. Once policy reforms in these three sectors are under
way, IDA will begin discussions aimed at formulatiug a medium-term
structural adjustment program to address  sacroeconomic issues of an
intersectorial nature which cannot be resolved in the context of
sectorial operations.



-9-
24.       Assuming the successful outcome of these reform programs
over the medium-term, Mali's long-term growth prospects will depend on
the full realization of its natural and human potential. The
Association has accordingly financed a wide range of projects designed
to exploit and augment that potential. Most projects in the agricul-
ture and rural development sector include research components aimed at
developing appropriate farming/cropping systems. The Second Forestry
Project is designed to combat the urgent problem of deforestation with
a combination of (a) fiscal and pricing measures appropriate for urban
areas and (b) pilot schemes for managing rural forest resources.
Future infrastructure projects, to be chosen on a very selective
basis, will attempt to ensure that the benefits of past investments
are fully realized and that Mali's future growth is not constrained by
inadequate capacity in its transport, telecommunications or energy
sectors. To maximize IDA's impact whenever possible, these projects
will reflect a sectorial orientation in order to better focus on the
issues of investment strategy and institutional development.
25.       Previous operations in the health, water supply, shelter,
and education sectors have been designed to develop Mali's human
resources by expanding the population's access to basic education and
by improving their health and productivity. Future operations in each
of these sectors are planned. Finally, the Association will attempt
to oroaden its dialogue with Government concerning the relation
between Mali's presently high population growth rate, deterioration of
its fragile resource base and budgetary constraints which hinder the
provision of basic needs. In addition to highlighting family planning
efforts in the ongoing health project, this dialogue will be pursued
if economic and sector work with a view to developing a future
health/population project.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
A. Urbanization and Demographic Trends
26.       Desrite the general poverty of the country (GNP per capita
was US$140 in 1984), Mali's cities, in general, and Bamako, in partic-
ular, are vital commercial and production centers in which a large
share of the economic development process is taking place. More than
half of the total GNP is generated within urban areas, and it is
estimated that non-farm production grew at an average rate of 4.7 per-
cent in real terms during the past decade versus 2.6 percent for the
agricultural sector. Confirmation of the vital economic role of
Bamako can be found in the fact that, excluding import duties,
two-thirds of the national revenues are collected within Bamako
District, including 90 percent of total taxes on economic activities.
27.       However, given the dramatic rate of growth of the urban
population (around 6.6 percent per year), per capita urban



- 10 -
productivity, measured by the ratio of non-farm production to non-farm
population, is slowly decreasing (minus 1.6 percent during the past
decade). The very low level of public investments in urban areas has
been a major factor in this decline. This is particularly true for
Bamako where the level of public investment fell from US$10.5 to
US$4.1 per capita between the 1974-1978 period and the 1980-1984
period.
28.       As a result, Mali's cities are suffering from a lack of
basic infrastructure and services.  In Bamako, in particular, a real
crisis situation is indicated by the increasing gap between the supply
of, and demand for, municipal services of all types:  roads, water,
drainage, electricity, land development, transportation, refuse
collection, etc. Existing facilities in the older central neighbor-
hoods are overburdened and rapidly deteriorating, while nearly all the
rapidly expanding, recently settled areas on the south bank of the
Niger River lack even basic services and infrastructure. Over the
last seven years. unauthorized settlements have absorbed 45 percent of
Bamiako's population increase.
29.       At present, 42 percent of Mali's urban population is
concentrated in Bamako (approximately 700,000 inhabitants). During
the 1976-1985 period, Bamako grew at an average rate of 7.5 percent
per year, absorbing 44 percent of the increase in urban population.
Over the next decade (1985-1995), it is expected that Bamako's popula-
tion will increase by some 6.7 percent per year, thus absorbing
50 percent of the country's incremental urban population, the other
50 percent being split among the existing 65 secondary cities and
towns and some 34 emerging centers.  By 1995, Bamako's population will
have more than doubled to some 1.5 million inhabitants, thus demanding
further improvements to urban infrastructure and the provision of
urban services.
B. Urban Organization and Institutions
30.      At the national level, there are several ministries respon-
sible for urban development. The Ministry of Transport and Public
Works and the Ministry of State Enterprises (through the Water and
Electricity Company) are responsible for planning , constructing, and
maintaining the major infrastructure networks, and cartography and
topography. At the local level, the Ministry of Interior, through its
eight Governors (Mali is divided into eight regions), is responsible
for local administration. Responsibilities of the Governors were
substantially increased by a 1978 Administrative Reform which decen-
tralized and regionalized the technical ministries. The national
ministries retain their planning and programming functions, and the
regional departments, under the authority of the Governors, are
responsible for implementing projects.



- 11 -
31.       For Bamako, in particular, as a result of the 1978 Adminis-
trative Reform, the Governor now has both the District staff and the
regional departments under his authority. The reform also structured
the Bamako region as a district, different from other regions in that
it has a dual role:
(a) as a regional entity, the District has administrative
responsibility for the regional departments and it coordi-
nates their operations which are funded by the technical
ministries; and
(b) as a decentralized entity, the District performs muntcipal
functions and provides services that are of a municipal
nature and financed by the District budget.
32.       The Administrative Reform Law of 1978 specifies the various
responsibilities of Bamako District: maintenance of road networks,
removal of household refuse, provision of sanitation and drainage
services, street lighting, water supply, public transportation,
markets, collection of local taxes, land management, etc.
C. Constraints to Rational Development in Bamako
33.       Housing investment is not keeping pace with the rapid growth
of the population of Bamako because of the limited availability of
serviced land for residential development,. This is causing an in-
creasing backlog of unmet housing demand, increasing population
densities in older sections of the city, and haphazard, unplanned
settlement of peripheral areas which will be difficult and expensive
to service in the future. Densities in the older sections are about
four times those in newer areas. Furthermore, existing infrastructure
(especially roads and drainage) are falling increasingly into disre-
pair.
34.       The principal causes of this situation are the lack of
institutional capacity to develop land (including planning and land
allocation), the lack of a basic road network to support the supply of
serviced land, the lack of basic topographical and cadastral mapping,
and the lack of funds for capital investment, as well as for operation
and maintenance of infrastructure and urban services.
Institutional Capacity
35.       There is a general lack of technical capacity in Government
institutions responsible for urban development, and the required
skills are not to be found in the local private sector. The First
Urban Development Project (Cr. 943-MLI, June 1979) addressed the
institutional issue through the creation of a project implementation
unit under the Ministry of the Interior, which has been effective in
administering the project. However, the Project Unit's experience has



- 12 -
only been partly institutionalized (with the creation of the Regional
Department of Land Management) and coordination of the agencies
involved in land development has been insufficient. Thus, to ensure a
minimum level of infrastructure and services for Bamako, further
strengthening of the District's technical capacity for land develop-
ment is urgently required. The District is already responsible, under
the 1978 Administrative Reform, for coordinating and directing devel-
opment in Bamako. It has its own technical department and the region-
al departments of the technical ministries under its authority. What
is lacking is a strong district level operational capability to
coordinate the work of agencies responsible for maintenance of crucial
infrastructure, especially road works, and to improve the capacity to
prepare subdivision plans and control land allocation. Bamako Dis-
trict recognizes the need for a coordination unit to fill this gap and
thus under the proposed project, a District Technical Unit would be
established. Because of the general lack of technical capacity in
Government agencies, the unit would have competence in a fairly broad
range of skills relating to the planning and execution of civil works.
The scarcity of the needed skills in the public and private sectors in
Mali requires, in the short term, recruitment of expatriate technical
assistance. For the longer term, a strong program of training of
local counterparts, aimed at progressive technical self-sufficiency,
is required. Both of these objectives would be supported by the
proposed project.
36.       Part of the problem of institutional capacity has been the
lack of an appropriate land tenure law. The original land tenure
legal framework, scattered through many different laws, remained in
force, largely unchanged from early colonial days, until February 4, 1983,
when a new law was enacted. However, the 1983 law was ill-conceived
and its application has been suspended by the Government because of
criticism of its overly complex procedures, ponderous management re-
quirements, exclusion of gradual land development, hindrance of
mortgage financing, and discouragement of housing investment. A
revised land tenure law which addresses these inadequacies has been
reviewed by the Bank and is expected to be enacted within the coming
months. However, equally important to the law itself will be the
decrees which define the precise details under which the law will be
implemented. The Government agreed to use its best efforts to have
the law enacted by December 31, 1986, and also agreed to review with
IDA the decrees relating to their implementation.
Basic Road Network
37.       The institutional weakness and lack of resources discussed
above have led to an infrastructure problem that is reaching crisis
proportions. Maintenance has been neglected for so long that many
roads and drains require reconstruction or substantial rehabilitation.
The rapid growth of the city on the south bank of the Niger River has
reached the point where a basic primary road network is urgently
needed to provide a physical framework for control and direction of
land development, and to avoid prohibitively expensive servicing after



- 13 -
uncontrolled settlement has taken place. Likewise, an urgent program
of priority infrastructure rehabilitation in the center of Bamako must
be undertaken.
Cartography and Cadastre
38.       While some of the elements required for a cadastre now
exist, such as a register of land titles, the lack of base maps (which
are essential for sound urban planning, specific site planning,
development by the public and private sector, and preliminary design
of infrastructure extensions) renders the cadastral system inopera-
tive. The existing base maps are either badly out-of-date or com-
pletely lacking for virtually all of the Bamako area. A complete
cadastre is essential both for physical planning and land acquisition
through the identification of specific sites, and for cost recovery
through the identification of assessable properties.
Financing for Urban Development and Maintenance
39.       Along with gradually expanding the city's capacity to
self-finance new investments, the ability to finance recurrent expen-
ditures (maintenance and operations) ef existing and future public
assets is equally essential to Bamako District. In order to cope with
the additional expenditures required by new investments and to signi-
ficantly improve the existing low level of maintenance, it is estimat-
ed that the District's revenues should be approximately tripled within
a decade. These increases require significant improvement both in
cost recovery (especially related to land development operations) and
in local taxation. Cost recovery could be Improved by including part
of the cost of extensions of infrastructure in plot sale prices.
Local taxation could be improved through the following measures:
(a) improving the collection of existing taxes; (b) modifying and/or
expanding the tax base of the most productive taxes, such as business
licenses; and (c) tapping new sources of revenue.
40.       Resource mobilization (successfully supported by the first
project) must be accelerated if the District is to meet its debt
service requirements and take on an expanded land development role.
The experience of the first project provides a starting point for a
more systematic program of increasing revenues through improved
assessment and collection of existing taxes, as well as identifying
new sources of revenue, improving accounting and financial management,
and updating the tax base.
D. Government Policy and Action in the Urban Sector
Overview
41.       Facing the scarcity of resources for public investment, the
Government has taken a number of steps aimed at improving urban



- 14 -
management, including: (a) establishing District level departments of
land management and tax assessment; (b) revising the unsatisfactory
land tenure law enacted on February 4, 1983; (c) increasing local
revenues through better management of municipal finances and better
collection rates; (d) increasing the capacity of public services to
provide legal plots (albeit minimally serviced) to the bulk of the
urban population; and (e) undertaking the Bamako ten-year investment
programming study (covering the period 1985-1995), the first attempt
to more efficiently allocate public investments for Bamako District.
Investment Programming Study
42.       The goal of the study, undertaken by consultants in 1984-85
(Groupe Huit, France), was to determine the minimum level of public
investments for Bamako over the next decade that would preserve the
city's vital role as an economic center for Mali. This involved
formulating a selective urban investment policy that was compatible
not only with macroeconomic constraints and priorities, but also with
local institutions' ability to mobilize internal resources for public
and private investments. A target ratio of urban investments to
national investments of 11 percent was applied to insure that public
investment allocation for other priority sectors would not be impeded.
Locational priorities among cities were considered by shifting urban
investment allocation in a manner corresponding to rates of economic
and population growth. Furthermore, the study indicated that if the
urban investmeut strategy contributes to overall economic growth, as
is expected, it could stimulate additional investments at the national
level.
43.       The study estimated Bamako's overall investment requirements
at about CFAF 72.5 billion or US$180 million (in 1984 prices). Given
the limited investment capacity of the central government and the
District (including Energie du Mali), it seems likely that some
70 percent, or US$126 million, of this overall requirement would have
to be financed with foreign grants or loans. (In recent years. some
87 percent of overall public investments have been financed from
abroad.) The remaining 30 percent, US$54 million, would be financed
from parastatal agencies, the District, and the central government.
These figures do not include private investments in housing construc-
tion. Depending on how well the Government's land development policy
is implemented, these could amount to as much as US$180 million in
additional investments over a ten-year period, the bulk of which would
be generated locally. Under this scenario, domestic private invest-
ment would finance more than half of Bamako's total investment re-
quirements (public investments, plus housing). However, the extent to
which local private investment will be forthcoming will depend signif-
icantly on the successful implementation of appropriate land develop-
ment and tenure policies.



- 15 -
E. The Bank's Previous Role
44.       The long-term objective of the Bank's assistance to Mali's
urban sector is to help the Government to develop appropriate policies
and institutional capacity to improve the efficiency of urban-based
activities. In keeping with this objective, and due to the economic
importance of Bamako and the magnitude of its problems, the Bank has
financed, in addition to the first urban project, a series of comple-
mentary infrastruLcture projects with an important impact on Bamako in
the following sectors: water supply, power, highways, and railways,
as well as Bamako components of other projects such as education and
agriculture. 3/
45.       The First Urban Project was approved in June 1979.  Its main
objective has been to assist the Government in providing affordable
urban services, particularly shelter, water supply, garbage collec-
tion, drainage, schools and health care, to low-income residents in
Bamako. To ensure replicability and maintenance of project compo-
nents, cost recovery has been a major goal, especially for shelter and
municipal services for which cost recovery has traditionally been
inadequate in Mali. Implementation has been very satisfactory and the
project is scheduled for completion by 1986. Progress to date in-
cludes: (a) completion of civil works serving about 50,000 people;
(b) a 75 percent increase in Bamako District revenues since the
inception of project-financed support measures; (c) reorganization of
the District maintenance department; (d) the introduction of the
leasing of public water taps to individuals who sell water to the
public at agreed prices; and (e) initiating the revision of the land
tenure law and supporting the reorganization of land management in the
District. In addition, for the first time in WMli, the recovery of
infrastructure development costs through plot sales was instituted
under the project and has proven very successful; moreover, an embry-
onic "land development fund" was created by establishing a special
land development account for the proceeds of plot sales.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
Background
46.       The proposed project was identified in 1985.  The background
study for this project, i.e., the Investment Programming Study for
3/ Since the first Bank-financed project in Mali in 1966. about
30 percent of all project investments (by value) have taken place
in Mali's 13 main cities.



- 16 -
Bamako (para 42) and the feasibility study, were financed with the
funds of the first urban project. The proposed second project was
appraised in June 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington in
February 1986 with a Malian delegation led by H. E. Abdourahmane
Maiga, Minister of Interior. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 5855-MLI,
dated March 3, 1986, contains a detailed description of the project.
A supplementary data sheet is presented in Annex III.
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
47.       Bank involvement in this project is based on several consid-
erations. First, relative to other donors, the Bank has a comparative
advantage in the sector and in contributing to the formulation of
sectorial policies and priorities. Based on our experience in the
first project, the Bank has been closely involved in the design of the
proposed second project and, in particular, in the formulation of the
policy reform package which it pursues. Specifically, those compo-
nents dealing with resource mobilization (i.e., cost recovery mea-
sures, tax reforms, cadastral surveys) and investment planning/pro-
gramming, including priority assigned to necessary maintenance activi-
ties, have been designed and incorporated into the project as a result
of our ongoing sectorial dialogue established under the first project.
Moreover, these objectives reflect, on a sectoral basis, the macro
issues which are the focus of our overall policy dialogue concerning
structural adjustment. Second, given the nature of the project and
other donors' lack of experience in the urban sector, it is unlikely
that the Government would be able to secure adequate financing else-
where.
Project Objectives
48.       The objectives of the project are:
(a) to remove the major, citywide infrastructure constraints to
the efficient functioning of Bamako by repairing and extend-
ing the road network and introducing traffic management
measures in the city center;
(b) to facilitate private sector housing and construction activ-
ities through a large increase in the supply of serviced
land with security of tenure;
(c)  to improve local resource mobilization through implementa-
tion of a multipurpose cadastre together with reform of the
land tenure law, as well as a_sures to strengthen municipal
finances; and
(d) as a complement to the above objectives, to strengthen the
capacity of urban institutions, especially concerning the
District's land development, municipal management and tax
collection functions, through training programs, studies,
and tecbhical assistance, both at the district and minis-
terial levels.



- 17 -
Project Components
49.       The project has five major components (two for infrastruc-
ture and land development, and three for institution building) which
are summarized below:
(a) Infrastructure and Land Development
(i) MaJor Road Rehabilitation and Construction. This in-
cludes civil works and technical assistance to rehabil-
itate existing streets and sidewalks, from surfacing
and patching to total reconstruction (some with paving
stones), cleaning and repairing of drains, as well as
traffic management measures in the city center includ-
ing intersection improvements, traffic lights, and
parking. This component would also include construc-
tion of new asphalt and laterite roads, and the estab-
lishment of a District Technical Unit, supported by
technical assistance;
(ii)  Land Development.  This includes basic roads, drainage,
water supply, and street lighting for about 160 ha of
sites and services (2,050 plots); 725 ha of minimally
serviced land (9,500 plots); 200 ha of upgrading
(3,300 plots); and 900 ha of land tenure regularization
(15,000 plots). It would also include off-site drain-
age, an. water and power supply, as well as technical
assistance for urban planning; based on the experience
of the first project, simplified lot allocation proce-
dures will be applied for these elements; and
Ciii)  Cadastral Mapping.  This includes aerial photography,
computer equipment, vehicles, technical assistance, and
training for the completion of large-scale topographi-
cal and cadastral maps of Bamako, including a plot
census, and a small pilot component to test appropriate
cadastral methodologies in heavily populated periurban
and rural areas.
tb) Institution Building
(i) Resource Mobilization. This includes equipment, mate-
rial, and technical assistance to introduce sound
financial management, and to improve local revenue
measures inclnxding busines3 licenses, the road and
refuse collection tax, and market fees. It would also
include technical assistance to assist in the
establishment of a District Financial Department, and
in the implementation of the new land tenure law;
(ii) Assistance to the District Maintenance Department.
This includes technical assistance, logistical support,
and spare parts for solid waste management; and



-18-
(iii)  Project Coordination.  This includes, through the
Project Unit (established in the first project and
institutionalized as a permanent unit within the
Ministry of Interior), training programs and seminars,
technical assistance, and studies (including a feasibil-
ity study for a possible third project).
B. Project Cost and Financing Plan
50.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$34.5 million.
The estimated foreign exchange component is US$21.4 million, repre-
senting approximately 62 percent of total project cost. Base costs
have been estimated as of January 1986. The project would be financed
by an IDA credit of US$28 million covering 81 percent of total project
costs (93 percent of project costs net of taxes), cofinancing of
US$0.75 million and the Government's counterpart contribution of
US$5.76 million (17 percent of total project cost--5 percent net of
taxes). IDA credit proceeds totalling US$7.5 million would be on-lent
to Bamako District for the land development component at 8 percent for
25 years, including a three-year grace period under a subsidiary loan
agreement whose terms would be satisfactory to IDA and the signing of
which would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The rate of
interest reflects the discount rate for the low-income housing sector
applied by the West African Regional Central Bank (UMOA) which
regulates the financial sector. The on-lent amount represtets the
recoverable costs of the land development component which is a
commercially-oriented operation. Since the District can recover the
costs of this operation directly from the beneficiaries, it is logical
that the operation's financing be on-lent. This amount also
represents the practical maximum debt that the District can service
from its revenues, including those generated as a result of the
project. The Government will bear the foreign exchange risk. The
balance of project financing, including IDA credit proceeds of
US$20.5 million, Government counterpart funds of US$5.76 million, and
cofinanc4ng, would be passed on as budgetary allocations to the
various project-executing agencies, including Bamako District.
C. Project Implementation
Implementation Schedule and Responsibilities
51.       The Ministry of interior, through the Project Unit, would
have overall responsibility for the coordination and financial manage-
ment of the project. The definition of the responsibilities for the
second project would be based on the experience of the first project,
in particular, the allocation of financial and administrative respon-
sibilities between the Ministry of Interior, Bamako District, and the
Project Unit. However, in the second project, more responsibility,
partic,ularly in technical matters, would be given to the District



- 19 -
through the establishment, as a condition of credit effectiveness, of
a District Technical Unit. During negotiations it was agreed that the
Project Director, as head of the Project Unit, and the Director of the
Technical Unit would have qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Bank. The project would be executed over six years.
52.       In addition to overall coordination, the Project Unit would
have responsibility for implementing several smaller components. The
design, implementation, and supervision of the major components would
be the responsibility of the District, either its own units or the
regional directorates of the technical ministries under the
responsibility of the Governor, with supervision provided by the new
District Technical Unit. Consultants would not be engaged for the
supervision of civil works because technical assistance and training
would be employed to develop this on-the-job expertise within the
agencies concerned, particularly the District. Following the good
experience with the first project, a local firm would be used for the
audit of project accounts. The project-related accounts of the
District would, for auditing purposes, be consolidated and audited
along with those of the Project Unit.
Training
53.       The primarv objectives of the overall training program will
be to strengthen the institutional capabilities of the various agen-
cies and administrative units connected with the project. Because of
the diversity of job positions and work disciplines involved in the
project components, the upgrading of staff capabilities will be
accomplished through a variety of job-specific training programs that
will be implemented internally, at local training institutions, and at
institutions outside the country. All aspects of the training effort
are clearly defined in the terms of reference for the technical
assistance and would be monitored during the course of project
implementation. Training activities would be coordinated by the
Project Unit. The first consultants should be appointed by Fall 1986.
Procurement
54.       Civil works would be procured through international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) except in cases where the size of individual
contracts would be too small to be attractive for ICB procedures.
These would include: (a) the street and sidewalk rehabilitation with
paving stones which would be procured through local competitive
bidding (LCB) following IDA guidelines, for works ranging between
US$10,000 - 50,000, and by force account for contracts valued at less
than US$10,000; and (b) the drain cleaning and part of the rehabil-
itation work for the land development component which would be under-
taken by force account due to the very small size of individual
contracts (all below US$10,000) and the existing capacity of District
work forces.



- 20 -
55.       Equipment, where possible, would be grouped into packages
large enough to attract bids under ICB. However, contracts for furni-
ture, materials and equipment, too small to warrant ICB pro- cedure,
(i.e., those of less than US$50,000 each) and which include locally
available maintenance, would be obtained under LCB. For very small
procurement items (less than US$10,000, up to a maximum aggre- gate
amount of US$400,000), competitive shopping procedures would be used.
56.       Consultant services for design, training, and technical
assistance would be procured according to IDA guidelines. Aerial
photography and cartography processing would be procured through ICB.
However, zince governmental work forces are adequate for undertaking
the ground surveys relating to the cadastral component, they will be
carried out by force account.
57.       For contracts awarded following ICB procurement, goods
manufactured locally would be given a preference margin of up to
15 percent or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower, and
local contractors would be given a preference of 7.5 percent in the
evaluation of tenders for civil works. Procurement arrangements are
summarized in the following table:
Procurement Methods a/
Total
Value of
Procure-
Froject Category           ICB       LCB       Others         ment
Civil Works               15,757    3,072      1,267          20,096
(11,884)  (2,323)    (955)          (15,162)
Equipment                  4,582      915        707           6,204
(3,407)    (687)     (530)          (4,624)
Consultant Services          283      -        7,931           8,214
(283)     -      (7,931)          (8,214)
Total Procurement
Values            20,622   (3,987)    9,905           (34,514)
(15,574)  (3,010)   (9,416)         (28,000)
a/ IDA share in parentheses, US$'000
58.       As in the first project, and under the supervision of the
Project Unit, which will have the sole authority to sign contracts,



- 21 -
all procurement documentation will be prepared and reviewed by the
agencies in charge of the respectiveproject components.
Disbursement
59.       The proposed IDA credit of US$28.0 million is expected to be
totally disbursed by March 30, 1993. The estimated quarterly dis-
bursement schedule follows the regional profile for all IDA projects.
All disbursements from the IDA Credit would be fully documented.
Where reimbursement is based on certified statements of expenditures
for civil works and goods and services with a value below US$10,000
equivalent (financed from the Special Account, para 68), documentation
would not be submitted to IDA, but retained by the Project Unit for
review by IDA and project auditors.
Improvement in District Finances
60.       In contrast to many other West African cities, Bamako is a
net contributor to the national treasury: two-thirds of internal
revenue is collected in Bamako while only about half of internal
expenditure by central government takes place within the District. As
a municipality, Bamako District is responsible for the usual municipal
services (urban roads and drainage, solid waste removal, street
lighting, markets, public standpipes, and sanitation) which it financ-
es from its own internal revenues (primarily market receipts, transfer
taxes, document registration, road and garbage taxes, lorry park
receipts, etc.), plus central government-collected business license
receipts realized within the District. The expenditures of the
District's six coumunes, whose responsibilities are limited to main-
tainlng public records (births and death registry, etc.) and social
welfars (care of the indigent, etc.) are likewise supported by the
District. The District also invests in capital projects (primarily
construction and repair of public buildings, and purchase of vehicles
and equipment) which it finances from its own funds and borrowings.
In particular, the District has benefited from the capital expenditure
undertaken through the first project.
61.      In contrast to central government's economic and financial
crisis, Bamako District has made some progress in recent years in
mobilizing resources, but there remains significant scope for tapping
additional revenue sources. District revenue increased from approxi-
mately US$0.9 million in 1979 to about US$2.5 million in 1984.
However, when discounted for population growth and inflation, the
District revenue situation is less encouraging: while the population
of Bamako doubled during the period 1975-1984, real per capita reve-
nues (1984 values) declined from CFAF 2,000 (US$4.85) to CFAF 1,400
(US$3.40). Furthermore, the District operated at a deficit averaging
13 percent of recurrent expenditures in 1983 and 1984, and is expected
to show a deficit of about 10 percent in 1985. This has hampered the
District's ability to sustain what was an already inadequate level of
services. Revenues will have to increase substantially over the next
ten years just to maintain the present level of services to the



- 22 -
rapidly expand'ng population, to maintain existing and planned urban
infrastructure and debt service, as weil as to permit the accumulation
of the land development fund for the replication of investments made
under the first project and this proposed second project (paras 45 and
66). Expenditure control is equally important, for although expendi-
tures (especially maintenance expenditures) have increased dramatical-
ly (from US$1.3 million in 1979 to US$2.6 million in 1984), they have
not produced corresponding increases in services and maintenance
activities.
62.      With project-financed assistance, total revenues are pro-
jected to increase at a nominal average of 14 percent per year to
1994, rising from an estimated US$2.9 million in 1985 to an estimated
US$9.7 million in 1994. A significant part of this increase would
derive from increased coverage of the present population and from the
expected continuation of rapid population growth in Bamako. Primary
sources of increased revenue would be business licenses (from reclas-
sification of businesses into the proper tax brackets along with
expansion of business license rolls), transfer fees and permits (from
the registration of unregistered plots), road and garbage taxes (from
the establishment of a new tax base), and a portion of net proceeds
from the sale of project plots. Recurrent expenditure growth would be
limited to an annual average of 11 percent (through expenditure
control supported by the project). These revenue increases, with
expenditure control, will move the District into a recurrent surplus
pcsition by the end of the project implementation (end-1992 onward).
This program would permit, by 1994, a gradual. expansion of urban
services and servicing of the existing debt, as well as maintenance of
project-financed infrastructure, project debt service, and al operat-
ing surplus for other investment.
63.      The projected increases in revenues and limitations on
recurrent expenditure growth will only be possible if a number of
changes are made to the District's tax base and financial structure
and procedures. While the structure of business license fees appears
to be appropriate, as doeE the Government's policy (developed with IMF
and USAID assistance) of not increasing the fiscal presence on private
businesses, the classification of individual businesses has not been
reviewed in over 15 years. The proposed project would support such
reclassification, along with expansion of business license rolls,
which together should double the business license tax base by 1988,
although application of the increased base is expected to be spread
over a longer period. The road and garbage tax is currently levied on
a weak base (the rental income tax) and could become a growing source
of revenue by 1989, if based on property values to be developed under
the cartography component of the project. The feasibility of this
change will be reviewed during project implementation. The District
does not have a reliable accounting system (final accounts have not
been prepared for several years), and does not have the capability to
adequately prepare budgets and monitor income and expenditure. Since
the first project accorded top priority to the question of resource
mobilization, it did not deal with the issue of the District's finance



- 23 -
in great depth. However, the proposed project addresses both the need
for continued resource mobilization, as well as the now urgent need to
strengthen the District's financial management and budgetary proce-
dures. Thus, a District Finance Department, headed by a qualified
Malian and appropriately supported by technical assistance, is needed
to properly direct District accounting, monitor revenues, control
expenditures, and prepare budgets; this Department will be created
under the project. During negotiations, it was agreed that the
functions of the Department, as well as the qualifications and experi-
ence of its Director, will be acceptable to the Bank, and that the
Department will be operational as a condition of credit effectiveness.
64.       Finally, the current cash management structure requires
changing. In keeping with the francophone financial principles of
separating authority for expenditure from that for payment and of
consolidating funds, District revenues are paid into the Nationsl
Treasury. However, the Treasury is also responsible for all govern-
ment revenues and expenditures, and a clear picture of District
transactions is not possible.  The situation is further complicated by
the existence of an internal District account into which a portion of
District revenues is deposited before onward transmission to the
National Treasury. Furthermore, this account is not adequately
controlled and unauthorized expenditures (such as the District's
capital investment expenditures in 1983 and 1984) are often made. The
result is a situation unsatisfactory both to the District and the
Government. In order for the District to be able to manage its re-
sources and plan its activities, and for the Government to monitor the
District's finances, as a condition of credit effectiveness, a Dis-
trict Treasurer will be appointed to be responsible solely for
District transactions. It was agreed during negotiations that he will
have qualifications, experience, and functions acceptable to the Bank.
65.       The District Finance Department and the District Treasurer
have already been established. Tn addition, agreement was reached on
the following program of actions to improve District finances:
(a) completion of statement of affairs of District as of Decem-
ber 31, 1985 (by December 31, 1986);
(b)  annual review by IDA, District, and Ministries of Interior
and Finance of District's draft budget proposal (annually,
beginning 1986);
(c) reorganization of District accounting/budgeting/financil
control (by December 31, 1987);
(d) reclassification of businesses for licensing purposes (by
January 1, 1988);
(e) referencing and mapping of properties within the District of
Bamako (by December 31, 1988);



- 24 -
(f) 10 percent annual increase in revenues from business taxes
(over the project period); and
(g) 15 percent annual increase in revenues from road cleanmng
and garbage taxes (over the project period).
Cost Recovery and Affordability - Land Development
66.       The costs of land development (excluding off-site water and
drainage costs) would be recovered through the cash sale of individual
plots. With different levels of servicing and differential pricing,
this component is expected to be affordable down to the 13th percen-
tile of the income distribution. Households would be expected to
purchase their plots in four cash installments over a one-year period.
Receipts from the sale of plots from the first project's land develop-
ment component have been deposited into a special land development
account and this arrangement would continue under the proposed
project. In addition, under the proposed project, this account would
be transformed into a special District account, with a view, at a
later date, to possibly institutionalizing the account as a small
public agency for further land development activities. The process of
this transformation would be as follows:
(a)  design and implementation of an overall programning, budget-
ing, and accounting system for land development activities
through the creation of a "budget annex" to the general
District budget, according to existing District regulations;
and
(b) when resources and experience are sufficient, examining the
feasibility of creating a small agency to be responsible for
land development activities. Tnis agency would assume the
necessary management and accounting responsibilities now
being carried out by the District. It would be staffed with
current District employees who would be given appropriate
training, either with specialized seminars in Bamako or with
short-term training in similar agencies in other countries.
Poverty Impact
67.       The relative poverty level for urban households can be esti-
mated at a monthly income of about CFAF 28,000 per household in 1984,
corresponding to the 33rd percentile of Bamako's income distribution.
For upgrading sites, approximately 45 percent of the expected benefi-
ciaries are below this poverty level. For the sites and services and
minimally-serviced plots components, 80 percent of the plots will be
affordable to families below the poverty level. The project would
have additional benefits for low-income households (including families
under the 13th percentile) by improving road access to existing low-
and high-density areas. as well as improving refuse collection in
these areas.



- 25 -
Special Accounts
68.       A Special Account for IDA credit proceeds vould be estab-
lished for the proposed project. The Special Account, which would be
CFAF 100 million, which would be replenished on the basis of
Government withdrawal requests. Another local account, the revolving
fund, would be created as a condition of credit effectiveness and used
for Government's counterpart contribution, with an initial deposit of
CFAF 100 million. The Special Account and the revolving fund would be
operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
69.       Consolidated project accounts would be maintained by the
existing Project Unit under the Ministry of Interior, continuing the
satisfactory arrangements established under the first project. The
Project Unit would administer the Special Account and the revolving
fund, monitor the land development account, and process all withdrawal
applications. Bamako District and other project executing agencies
would maintain separate accounts for the project components under
their responsibility and provide the Project Unit with the necessary
accounting data for consolidation. Project and Special Accounts, the
revolving fund, and statements of expenditure would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank according to
terms of reference agreed by the Bank. Project accounts and auditors'
reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of
each Government fiscal year. Legal restrictions preclude the
District's accounts from being audited by a private firm. Thus, it
was agreed that the District would submit its accounts, as approved by
the Ministry of Interior for the Bank's review within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. The Project Unit would continue the
quarterly reporting procedure established under the first project and
would prepare a project completion report within six months of the
credit closing date.
Status of Project Preparation
70.       All land necessary for the land development component
already belongs to the State and would be transferred to the District
no later than December 31, 1986. Final design and detailed
engineering and bidding documents for the road rehabilitation (first
year's works) and land development components have been prepared by
consultants. These studies have been financed under the first urban
project. Technical assistance would be in place by FAll 1986. All
critical preparation work would be completed before the scheduled
mid-1986 project start-up. During negotiations, the Government
requested a PPF in the amount of US$0.8 million to: (a) cover
technical assistance for review and modifications to the land tenure
law, in anticipation of the cadastral component; and (b) complete
detailed engineering studies, funding for which has thus far been paid
out of the first project; however funds for this purpose under the
first project are now nearly exhausted. This PPF is expected to be
finalized shortly.



- 26 -
D. Project Benefits, Risks
Benefits
71.       The primary benefits to be derived from the project are:
(a) improved District finances through better management of
operations and improved collection of revenues;
(b) improved efficiency of Bamako's transportation system
through better management of traffic flows in the city
center, as well as upgrading its road network, and improving
key road segments on the south bank of the Niger;
(c) lengthened lifetime of infrastructure investments through
improved maintenance;
(d) improved living conditions for Bamako's residents through
provision of 12,000 new plots, rehabilitation of 3,300 ex-
isting plots, and land tenure regularization of an addition-
al 15,000 plots (involving about 300,000 people); and
(e) increased incentives for investment in land development and
housing as a result of improved security of tenure.
72.       Among these benefits, the increased efficiency of Bamako's
transportation system, due to savings in fuel and vehicle maintenance
costs, is a critical economic consideration for the whole country.
Indeed, 70 percent of total domestic fuel consumption and most trans-
portation equipment acquired nationally are consumed in Bamako and its
environs.  These two items account for about 40 percent of national
imports and absorb, therefore, more than 50 percent of total export
receipts.
Rate of Return
73.       Rates of return were calculated only for the components
which produce quantifiable benefits, namely, the infrastructure
component (road rehabilitation and traffic management in the city
center, rehabilitation of main access roads to the center, and primary
roads on the South Bank) and the land development component. These
two components account for CFAF 9.6 billion (US$24.9 million) or
72 percent of project cost. The overall rate of return of the two
components is 36 percent: 31 percent for the infrastructure component
and 41 percent for the land development component. Given the lack of
data, no adjustment was made to the investment costs to account for
use of unskilled labor. The foreign exchange component was shadow
priced at 0.93 (average standard conversion factor, weighted 1978-83,
currently used for Bank-financed projects in Mali).



- 27 -
74.       For the infrastructure component, the approach was to calcu-
late benefits from vehicle operating cost savings under varying speed
levels and pavement conditions, and from time savings when the speed
and/or the traffic flows are improved. Value of time was established
at one-third of the minimum guaranteed hourly wage. The cost streams
included the cost of civil works, the technical assistance costs of
this component, plus an allowance for routine and periodic mainte-
nance. Under these conditions, economic rates of return (ERR) range
from 19 percent to 51 percent on the nine road sections being complet-
ed or rehabilitated and on the traffic management suucomponent. The
consolidated ERR (31 percent) is within the range of that for similar
projects, even though it was not possible to assess all the benefits
(in particular, time savings due to secondary improved street inter-
sections).
75.       Separate calculations were done for an alternative paving
stone solution. The approach was to compare the benefits and cost
streams of such an option versus normal paving with a double surface
treatment. The rate of return of the incremental investment of the
paving stone option (about 55 percent higher than normal paving),
taking into consideration savings in foreign exchange as well as
vehicle operating cost losses due to the stone surface, is 12 percent.
Considering the employment impact, the paving stone option appears to
be a worthwhile solution when implemented on road sections with heavy
traffic flows and/or low traffic speeds.
76.       The rate of return of the land development subcomponent
(44 percent) was calculated on the basis of benefits measured by the
projected differential in rent between improved and unimproved land at
existing market prices. In order to avoid double counting, neither
the benefits accruing from improved health and sanitary conditions nor
the benefits due to the improved infrastructure network were included.
Those portions of tecbnical assistance costs which are directly
related to the subcomponent were included in the economic evaluation.
Sensitivity Analysis
77.       A sensitivity analysis was conducted to verify to what
extent the rates of return would be affected by possible increases in
project costs and/or decreases in benefits, although these benefits
were calculated conservatively.
78.       For the infrastructure component, the two main results are
the following: (a) if the benefit stream decreases by 10 percent, the
consolidated ERR would be reduced from 31 percent to 27 percent; and
(b) if the maintenance costs are reduced to their minimal level,
leading to an estimated 10 percent increase in vehicle operating costs
from the third year onward, the consolidated ERR would be reduced to
21 percent. This last result shows that sustained effort in routine
and periodic maintenance will be the key factor in maintaining a good
return on investments. For the land development component, the two



- 28 -
main results are the following: (a) if the land value decreases by
10 percent, the ERR would be reduced from 44 percent to 35 percent;
and (b) if the capital costs increase by 10 percent and the land value
decreases by 10 percent, the ERR would be reduced to 28 percent.
Risks
79.       The risks involved in the project are:  (a) that Bamako
District might not be able to sustain sufficient political backing to
assess and collect the increases in taxes and fees required to gener-
ate enough revenue for debt service, maintenance, and investment;
(b) that project implementation would suffer due to the difficulty of
attracting and keeping qualified Malian staff; and (c) that the
Government may not be able to finance its share of the project costs
in a timely manner. Concerning increased tax assessment and collec-
tion (point (a) above), the rehabilitation of roads and the improve-
ment in refuse collection provided under this project should convince
taxpayers that the District can deliver a better level of services,
which would justify incremental taxes. The shortage of qualified
personnel is a risk affecting virtually all undertakings in Mali. The
ezxtensive training programs included in the project should counterbal-
ance this risk (point (b) above). To ensure that the Government makes
funds available to finance the project, we have proposed that, if
necessary, counterpart funds could also be provided from the land
development account which receives the proceeds o C plot sales. During
the project period, funds totalling some US$5 million equivalent are
expected to accrue to this account; this amount is in line with the
Government's counterpart obligation.
PART V - RECONMENDATION
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with
the Arti^les of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 3, 1986



- 29-                                              ANNEX I
T A  L    3L                                           Page  1 of 4
MALI                   -  OC[AL INDICAMUES DATA NINET
AL1                                           GROUPS N(UGTED AVRAGES) /
LDST                     (OS?T J CIT ESTDIATE) lb
IgWLk         0   K53%W   b       LOW L112 1CIL            MDDLE 11101CO3
X90!!1970t  In    5t0021 SOUH of 4*           AFRICA S. OF SARARA
~AR cwuumM NQ. MO
TOTAL                             1240.0     1240.0      1240.0
AOUCILTURAL                       316.3       317.5       320.6
GM   : CAQIr  C)                        ..         ..        160.0             23a.8                   1063.
SHE    COMMT     ltCt
(CILORAINS 0O OIL RQUIVALENT)      10.0        16.0        21.0              62.3                    581.5
IUWAT -M YmL SrASTICS
POPULATCV,MZ0-TSAR (TROISAJ)   4040.0        5162.0      7175.0
IICUI POPULATION CZ 0 TOTAL)       11.0        14.9        19.1              20.1                     32.0
POPULATION PRnCTInONS
pO70TION ID TM  2000 (KILL)                              .2                  *
SrATIO    109LATION (KILL)                              37.0
P?rIATtON IoEENT                                          1.9
POPULATION 0121
PER SQ. 33.                       3.3         4.2         5.6              33.2                     65.1
PER SQ. IN. AJIU. LAWD            12.8       16.3        21.9             112.8                    124.8
POAIgON AGE STnuctU  CZ)
0-14 Ys                         43.7        44.7        46.6              46.0                     45.6
15-6  US                         53.6        52.5        50.8              50.8                     51.5
65 AND AOVIM                      2.6         2.6         3.5               2.9                      2.7
POULATIO  GROWTH LRa  CZ)
TOTAL                             2.1         2.5         2.5               2.6                      2.9
gab"                              5.2         5.4         4.8               6.4                      5.1
CRUDE uIRTH RAU (Cm TROsS)         50.5        50.0        40.1              47.2                     47.0
CRIME DE    mAu (PER SWS)          28.6        25.0        21.0              178                      15.0
ROS ESPRODUCTXON RAtE               3.2         3.2         3.2               3.3                      3.2
PAHU. PL.4151M
ACCPTRS. AII3AL (tll0S)            ..
usUs (Z Or NAREED VNR)            ..          ..          ;.O               3.3                      6.4
FOOD A061T
rNE  or  o0 Po. PzR CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     103.0       100.0       J1.0               83.3                     82.9
PE CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIS (Z or REQUIRINES)        92.0        93.0        77.0              67.7                     98.5
PTINS (GUMS P  DAT)              61.0        61.0        55.0              51.9                     55.4
OF WHICI ANDIAL AND PULSI       16.0        17.0        14.0 Ic           18.7                     16.5
CHIL  (AGES 1-A) DEATR RATI        51.4        42.6        31.0              23.1                     16.6
aRALTE
LnPz 1r sCr. AT rXRTH (tEARS)      35.7        40.2       44.9               47.8                     52.0
InANT HURT. RATE (PCR II0W)       194.5       174.5       148.0             119.5                    10S.8
AZSS TO SAFE MAZER (PO)
TAL                               ..          ..         6.0 /d            27.1                     42.4
UAN                               ..         29.0        37.0 7i           63.5                     67.5
RUIAL                             ..          ..          ..               19.3                     35.8
AccESS T0 xCRRrA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPOLATXO
TOTAL                             ,.          8.0        13.0 /d           26.5                     28.9
M0l3                              ..         63.0        79.0 7d-          65.4                     57.7
RURAL                             ..          ..         0.1 7i            20.B                     20.7
POPULATIO  PER PUTSICLAN        64130.0    42660.0    22130.0 2-          27901.7                  11791.7
POP. PZR NRING PERSON            4710.0 /f.  2740.0     2380.0  W          3306.4                   2459.8
POP. MIR NOSP7IAL BID
TOTAL                           1390.0 /h  1&20.0 th  1760.0 he i        1273.6                    91. I
URBA                            350.0 7Th 1260.0 7i   570.0               428.2                    368.8
RUL                            2520:0      1540.0 7WE     .              3292.5                   4371.9
ADIYSSIONS PU HOSPTALS              ..         27.3       30.5 /e             ..                      27.2
AVERAGE SIZ= Ot NWSIIOLD
TOTAL                             ..          ..         4.8 /
n3*                               ..          .....                                    
URAL                              ..          ..N
AVERAGE NO. o0 PELSONSIROOK
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URUN                              ..          ..
WRUm                               ..         ..          .                  ..
PERCERITAM OP VIJLLnOS 411TH 12W.1.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
Ru                                 ..         ..M
mSL                                ..         ..          .                  ..



30 -ANNEX I
T A i L Y 3A                                 Page  2 of 4
MALI                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS ATA SREET
MALI                                RIPEMENCE GCOUPS (WE0I1TED AVERAGES) /a
etlST                   (CH0T sECENT fSTINATE) /b
RECUET         LOW INCOI AAIFICA        MIDDLE INCOME
1960_k    19701b ESTIZATC!          SOMI  OV SAIARA      AItICA S. Ut SAHARA
ADJUSTE ENRILMENT RtATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  10.0       23.0        27.0 1            67.8                     95.7
HALe                   14.0       30.0        35.0 J            77.6                    100.0
FEMALE                 6.0        16.0        20.0 ff           54.9                     83.2
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  1.0        5.0         9.0 le           13.5                     17.3
MALE                    1.0        8.0        13.0o             17.9                     25.0
FEMALE                 0.3         2.0         5.0 7e           9.1                     14.8
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)        14.6        9.8         ..               13.2                      5.9
PUPIL-TEACHE RATIO
PRH^RY                           45.0       40.0        41.0 11           ".9                      41.1
SECONAR                          17.0       15.0         ..               27.4                     25.5
PASSENCER CILRS/THOUSAND POP        0.6        1.7         ..                3.8                     20.b
RADIO RECEIzERSIM/OlWSA  POP        2.0       11.6        16.6              55.8                    107.8
TV ECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            ..          ..         ..                2.b                     20.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENEAL
INTERST") CIROLATION
PER TNOUSAND POPUIATION            0.2        0.6 hk      0.6               5.0                     18.4
CINEMA ANNDAL ATTENDANMI/CAPITA     1.9        0.5         ..                0.5                      0.4
TOMAL LAOR PORM (TROOS)          2324.0      2853.0     3725.0
FEMALE (PERCENr)                 48.1       47.9        49.5              34.2                     36.2
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)            94.0       91.0        72.6 Id           77.5                     54.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                3.0        4.0        11.7 7d            9.7                     18.3
PARTICIPATiON RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            57.5        55.3       51.2              39.3                     36.8
MALE                             60.6        58.6       53.9              50.9                     47.1
FEMALE                           54.5       52.0        69.4              28.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO           0.8        0.9         1.0               1.3                      1.3
PERCeNr OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECZIVED SI
RIGHEST YE OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 OIP HOUSEHOLDS         ..          ..
LOEST 20Z OF HOUSENOLDS           ..          ..
LOWLEST 40 O HwseHoLD5            ..          .....
U    -
ESTIIMAD ABSOLUTE POVERW  ICOIK
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UN                                ..          ..        9B.0 c           165.5                    590.7
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..               95.0                    275.3
ESTIHATED RElATIE POVERTY DKOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..        61.0 Ic          113.1                    545.6
RURAL                             ..          ..        37.0 7            67.6                    201.1
ESTrIMTED POP. B ELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTI INCOME LEVEL CR)
URBAN                             ..         ..          ..               36.6
RURAL                             ..          ..         ..               61.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOr APPLICABLE
N OT E S
la  The gpoup averages for each indicator are populactonoweighted aritumtlc  eae.c  Coverage of Coutrie
amog the Indicators depends an evailability of date end in not unitorm.
/b  Unles otherwiAe noted. 'Date for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; end data for "Mot Recent Zatleete  between 1981 and 1983.
lc  1977; Id 1980; /e 1978; /f 1962;  g Govarnuent personnel; /h Geoermnet  oapittl eatabliah_ut
only; /i 1976; 11 1979; /k 1972.
JunE. 1985



- 31 -
ANNEX I
DD1NMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Noter Aftdough thedaia ami drawn from souwsgenerally judped the most authontativeand ratible, it should lao bc noted thba they may not be internutior ly
comprabe bause of tdc lack of satndardized dcmnitiona and concepts utd by dilfercn countrice in collecting the data The data fre. noncheak. uwful to
cribc rd  of mgnitude idicate tnd and chractre cerain major differences between counies
The refkcrne groups are () the sawm country group of the subject country and (2) a country group with somnewhsi higher svermgc income thfn the country
group of the subjct country (capt for - Higb Incom  Oil Exportenrs group when 'Middk Income Nortb Africa nd Middle EatC" is chosen because or stron
socio-cultural aIllrities. In the refrence group data the avange at population wcighted arithmtc4 mc for each indicator and shown only when msjority
ofda countries in s group has data For thas indicator. Since the coverage ofcountnris anong the indicaton deprnds on the availuaatily ofd^ab and is not uniform.
cautin must beswicd in relating averags ofonc indicator to another Thesc averagn are only useful an companng the value ofone indicator at a tamc among
the country and refeicnc groups.
AREA ( housand sq.km.)                                             Crude Birth Rate (per nhouandj - Number t'f live births in the year
Total-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Crude Deatk Rare (per tho_ad) --Number of deaths in the year
Agrienhsral-tEstimate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently ror crops pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reproduto  Rate- -Average number or daughiers a woman
lie fallow. 1960.1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates. usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)---GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World       Fmily Plnsg-Accep:rrs, Anna (rhousmndsl  Annual num-
Bank Atris (1961483 basis); 1983 data.                            berofacceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices ofnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA--Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.        Family Plannin-LVsers (percent ofmarred snasemj- - The peren-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women ofchild-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage as measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
Tordlp3atapo,Mid-Yewr:houandsj--AsofJuly 1; 1960. 1970.           FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
IndexofFoodProdwctio Per Capita (1969-71 = 100J  Index of per
Urban Popuation (percent of rotal) --Ratio of urban to total      capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 3983 data.       include primary commoditics (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Populatin Projectios                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popukltion in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.    excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each ecor.my separately. Starting with information on     vegetables, fruits. nuts. sujarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggrega-e production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters    on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                Per Capita Supply of Calries (percent afrequirenenusj --Comput-
Stationarv population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while agc-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  lion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirenents were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs fo. nornal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 pcrcent for
rate to replcement level,                                         waste at household level. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supply of roteir (grams per day) --Proletn content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-levdl fertilitv has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supplv of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and puise protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. Thcse standards.are lower than those of
ment leve from year r onward. 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Populaio  Density                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-      Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data                   Per Capita Protein Suppiy From Animal and Poae- Protein supply
Per rq.km. agriultural land-Computed as above for agricultural    of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Populion Age Strucre (perceetj-Children (0-14 years). work-       Child(ees -4) DeathRate (perthousand)- -Number of dcathsof
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data,                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (percent-rtotal-Annual growth rates of     from life tables. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Populido  Growth Rate (percent-urran---Annual growth rates        Life Erpectancy at Birth (years)---Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data,       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 32-                                                    ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
at the dme of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its lifre;  PupHl-teacher Ratio - primary. and secondary-Tolal students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
lmn Mwraht  Ra  (per shmstaudj-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
bore reaching one year of ae per thouund live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPIlON
Acces to S*  Waer (pwneS of pep u u)-t,                          pegr Cu  (per thosad papuluden,l-Ptsenger cars com-
rWI-Number of peopl (total urban, and rural) with reasonble    prise motor cars sedag Ims than eight persons; excludes ambul-
aeness to safe water supply (includes tated surface waters or  ances, bearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Radio Receivrs (per thusd popustimn)-AII types of receivers
boreholes,  qnp and  unitary wells) as pcentage. of their respec-  for radio broadcats to general public per thousand of population;
tive popuationL In an urban ar  a public fountain or standpoet  excudes un-licensed recivers in countries and in yea  when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  mgistration Of mdio sets waB in effect. data for recent years may
as being within reasonable asss of that house. In mral areas   not be compadbio sinet most countries abolirhed licensingm
reasonable aes would imply thai the housewife or members of the  nT becomparable sincmostconTe a edrivensing.
household do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TYRcerevs (ptmpoJ -TV  receivers for broadcast
in fetching the famiy's watcr needs                            to general public per thousand pepulation; excludes unlicensed TV
Xcec   the faemily's  S  "oemxt ef wep)_e d,    ,     receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Accesn to Excete Disposa (percent of populaifion)--s09al, warm,  nefd
and rual--Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  in e
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  erwspae C lrcaison (per rhoundppopltdiou)-Shows the aver-
Exceta disposal may include the colletion and disposal, with or  age circulation of "daily general intermst newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of hunman excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primurily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Pop.lwio  per Physidse-Population divided by number of prac-   Cena Aal Attenance per Caia per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university Level,  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Pep.laioa per Nusing Person-Population divided by number of    drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurss and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORCE
ftp.nou per Hosdital Bed-totd, whet, and rurl-4Population      Total Labor Frce (thoasandsj-Economically active persons, in-
(totaL urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed rorces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
bospital beds available in pubic and private. gencral and  s raihed students, etc., covering population of  all ages. Def initions in
hospital bed aviabin pic ad        spitals a  establnshments   various countries are not comparabk; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  m     (pereO F-eakl labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not induded. Rural hospitals,    force
however. include health and medical eenters not permanently staffed  Agricabr (pemenrf-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse, midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percntage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 19R0
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Indastry (percent)-Labor force in mining. construction, manu-
Admnios per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P- 'aiio. Rate (percent )  ijota mak, sdfmarii-Parucipation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female labor force
A-v e Size of Houeol (pos  r p        uAehoU)I-toeal, wham.    as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
aSdrSI-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structur of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Pess per Reoom-otal, when, and rural-        Economi Dependency Rato--Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dwuefi 8s with Electrkity-toral, when, and Iwat-  Prcentage of Total Drpoahi Income (boh h i cas and kindJ-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total urban, and rural dwellings respectively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Aost  Enrollbrnt Ratios                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Ptnan school - rotal. male and femal-Gross total. male and     levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution
fanale enrollment of al ages at the primary level as percentages of  Esimated Absolute Povry Income Lel (S per capia)-urhn
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and raraL-Absolute povertv income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For sone countries with universal  Esaxed Relattie Poverty Inceme Led (USS per capisa)-Jarb
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since sorne  and rura-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  avcrage per capita personal incomc of the country. LUrban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment ror higher cost of
Secondary school - total. male andfemale---Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estaated Population Below Absolte Pov    Income Levl (per-
mary instruction; provides general, vocatonal. or teacher training  cen ---bar and rual- Percent or population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils csually of 12 to 17 vears of age: correspond-  who are 'absolute poor.
ence courses are generally exduded
Vocafilana Erolneni (percent of condarv)- -Vocational institu-           Comparauve Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondar; institutions.                              June 1985



-33-
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as of Sertember 30, 1985
Borrower: Republic of Mali
Credit  IDA Fiscal                                         Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Year             Purpose                         IDA      Undisbursed
US$ million-
Seventeen Credits fully disbursed                            125.14
669-MLI    1977    Mali-Sud Agricultural                     15.5        0.44
753-MLI    1978    Mopti Rice II                            15.0         0.06
943-MLI    1979    Urban Development                         12.0        1.04
986-MLI    1980    Industrial Sector Development             8.01        4.04
1104-MLI    1981    Road Maintenance                          17.0-'      1.52
1134-NLI    1981    Petroleum Exploration Promotion           3.7         0.94
1174-NLI    1982    ODIPAC Technical Assistance               6.5         1.61
1200-MLI    1982    Second Telecommunications                13.5         9.36
1282-MLI    1983    Water/Power                              24.0        12.99
1307-MLI    1983    Economic Management and Training         10.4         6.32
1403-IMLI    1984    Biomass Alcohol and Energy Efficiency    7.6         6.23
1415-MLI    1984    2nd Mali-Sud Rural Development           25.9        21.16
1422-MLI    1984    Health Development                       16.7        12.96
1431-MLI    1984    Rural Water Supply                        4.6         3.55
1442-NLI 21 1984    Third Education                           4.6         3.72
1597-MLI '  1985    Mopti Area Development                   19.5        19.50
1629-MLI -' 1985    Fifth Highway                            48.6        48.60
F007-MLI    1984    Rural Water Supply                         6.3        5.10
F010-MLI    1984    Third Education                           4.9         4.44
Total    389.44     163.58
of which has been repaid       2.84
386.60
Total now held by IDA    386.60
Total undisbursed                    163.58
1/   Beginning with Credit 1104-MLI, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalents as of March 31, 1985, for the undisbursed amounts.
2/   Not yet effective.



-34-
h  IT
Pa.a 2 of 2
B. Statenmt of InC Iuvestints as at September 30, 1985
Number   Year   Borer                     Purpose         of IDmoa     ty    Wisursed
403-LL   1978   Soc1itei Mmum             Bleaih and       0.6                  0.0
Sada Dial-l et P1ls       ]aStlC
Prodnets
612-NL   1982   Soci&ti Industr*fle       Shemnt butter   1.8       .45         0.0
de Karite du Mali, S.A.   for export



- 35 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
Supplementary ProJect Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(A)  Date of Project Preparation:                 January to
October 1985
(B) Prepared by:
Government of Mali
Ministry of Interior
Urban Project Unit with assistance
of consultant (Groupe Huit, France)
(C)  Project Preparation Missions:                November 1984
December 1984
April 1985
*D)  Appraisal Mission:                           June 1985
CE) Date of Negotiations:                         February 1986
(F) Date of Board Presentation:                   March 1986
(G)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:               July 1986
Section II: Special IDA Irwlementation Action
None
Sectiou III:  Special Conditions
(a) During negotiations, agreements were reached on:
(i) assurances concerning land tenure law and review of
rules and regulations concerning its implementation
(para 36);
(ii) detailed definition of simplified lot allocation proce-
dures (para 49);
liii) adoption of an action plan to improve District revenue
mobilization including the timing and details of the
program (para 65);
(iv) maintenance and exclusive use of the project land
development account for land development activities
(para 66);
(v)  auditing of all project accounts and annual review of
District accounts by IDA (para 69);



- 36 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(vi) timing for hiring of technical assistance (para 70);
(vii) completion of land transfer to the District by
December 31, 1986 (para 70); and
(viii) qualification and experience (satisfactory to the Bank)
of the Project Director (para 51), of the Director of
the District Technical Unit (para 52), of the District
Finance Department (para 63)> and finally of the
District Treasurer (para 64);
(b)  conditions of effectiveness are:
(i) the execution of the subsidiary loetn agreements between
the Government and the District (para 50);
(ii) creation of the District Technical Unit and appointment
of its Director (para 51);
(iii) appointment and putting in place of Heads of District
Finance and District Treasurer (paras 63 and 64); and
(iv) creation of a revolving fund for Government
contribution and deposit of an initial contribution of
CFAF 100 million (para 68).



MED 191m
r-ALI                                                                                  ;,A[GERIi  N ALrER IA
M A UL I T A N                                                                  I A               >                 l 
PUARliONDSTRIBTION                                    "                                                             _____
_   NVCAS     |                                                                         )~~~~~N 
-     ~i                                               I                                      T 
r~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o-
C--~C
----------                                                                                            -11A~~~~-7- .  
...X                                     1-
GU NE   A.                                                                                                            ES R                   A- -/     // =C\
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.n En-mo



MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
omolo Project Elements   
f~~~~T   I~~I
-.~~~~~~~~~~--
,_~ ~      ~~~ 4       ,                   1,.   
r , '''' 9,i 3' J_L ~~~~" . E C   " ; '   S' -T,,
1 i  -  A'..0 , ,   ,  ,
>~~~~~~~~~~~
A     ,      _. t'b</ > iT-        ,-#LS:w
,,,~~ ~     ~~~ ," S ~   ~      T \>  A2   4 .   g  zTI.\          181'3
s%,.                    ,. I  .           8   ..   s  1,........ X;
'0 /         pRJC  eEMIATO       ,>!/a  s-'/             X i    ';
t    -   / 7 9      Ci-t--I Upoded A8 IO d     r       . l_ c      \ *  2    
f--i -.- g 0 ,~, 2  NM bS OORRe d A,e 5,,PMT.aR S  'AMTES  0,-   . 0 0  *io - 8 . <
t_   t 3 i                 E           l., l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



0       LI L-10
%'<4~~I  O~ Ua                               ci    *      -   ~  ~  ~  ~     W O04   I0
0  (7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVME ~



MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
BAKO DJIKORONI
SITES AND SERtVICES AREA
-q--



MALI
SECOND URBAN PRaJECT
KALABAN SUD
SITES AND SERVICES AREA
NOVE'Efl MB..



8RD 19416
MALI
SECOND URBAN PROJECT
BAN KON I
UPGRADING AREA
PO    ROA X
704  :   ,,#                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVME18



