CREDIT NUMBER 1677 MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Urban Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 1           , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1677 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           L                  , 1986, between
REPUBLIC OF MALI (the Borr ooer) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) Parts C, D (1) (b), D (5), D (6), D (7) and E of the
Project will be carried out by the Borrower; Parts A, B, D (1)
(a), D (2), D (3) and D (4) will be carried out by the District
of Bamako (the District) with the Borrower's assistance    and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
District certain part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided
in this Agreement;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the French
Republic through the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) a Grant
(the FAC Grant) in an aggregate amount equivalent to seven
hundred fifty thousand dollars to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the FAC
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and FAC;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the District of Bamako;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the


﻿-2-
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the District of Bamako of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agree-
ment;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the District pursuant to
Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from tiire to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "DSTD" means Direction des Services Techniques du
District, a directorate responsible for the technical services of
the District;
(e) "CFA franc" means the currency of the Borrower;
(f) "Revolving Fund" means the account referred to in
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement and "Initial Deposit" means
the initial amount to be deposited into said account;
(g) "Land Development Account" means the account opened
in the Banque de Developpement du Mali under No. 267-129E to
receive the proceeds of plots developed and sold under the Urban
Development Project (Credit No. 943-MLI);
(h) "Project Unit" means the Project Unit established under
the Urban Development Project (Credit No. 943-MLI);
(i) "DNICT" means Direction Nationale de l'Interieur des
Collectivites  Territoriales,   a  directorate   responsible  for
supervising the operations of the Borrower's municipalities;
(j) "DNI"   means   Direction   Nationale  des   Imports,  a
directorate of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower responsi-
ble, inter alia, for supervising all activities relating to land
tenure; and


﻿-3-
(k)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 22, 1986 and May 28,
1986 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-five million two hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 25,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFA Francs a special account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Prepartion Advance shall thereuk n be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2


﻿-4-
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time.   The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges 13hall
be payable semiannually on March I and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March I
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1996, and ending March 1,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on March 1, 2006 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment     to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2        to
this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts C, D (1)
(b), D (5), D (6), D (7) and E of the Project through the Project
Unit under the overall responsibility of the Ministry of Interior


﻿-5-
with  due   diligence  and  efficiency  and  in   conformity  with
appropriate   administrative,  financial   and  urban  management
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause the District to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the District
therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the District to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon the gene-
rality of the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above with
regard to the provision of funds, the Borrower shall: (i) open
and thereafter maintain in the Borrower's currency an account
(the Revolving Fund) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association; (ii) deposit into the Revolving
Fund an initial deposit of one hundred million CFA Francs; and
thereafter deposit into the Revolving Fund on the first day of
every calendar quarter an amount equivalent to the financial
requirements of the Project for that quarter not financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Credit which may from time to time be allocated to Category
(1) (b) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
..m            this Agreement to the District under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and the District, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association and which shall include interest at a rate of 8% per
annum and a twenty-five year repayment period including a grace
period of three years; the Borrower shall bear the foreign
exchange risk on the proceeds of the Credit so onlent.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A, B, D (1) (a), D (2), D (3) and D (4) of the
Project shall be carried out by the District pursuant to Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain the Project
Unit with staff and facilities in adequate numbers and with
responsibility for carrying out the day-to-day management of the
Project in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
(b) maintain within the District: (i) a Directorate of
Finance with qualified and experienced staff and facilities in
adequate numbers to discharge all functions and responsibilities
entrusted to said Directorate by Arr t No. 1345 MI/CAB dated
March 3, 1986; and (ii) a District Treasury, with qualified and
experienced staff and facilities in adequate numbers to discharge
all functions and responsibilities entrusted to said Treasury by
Arr t No. 6344 MFC/DNTP dated March 3, 1986;
(c) appoint and thereafter maintain as: (i) head of the
Project Unit; (ii. District Treasurer; and (iii) head of the
Directorate of Finance; Malian Nationals whose technical qualifi-
cations and professional experience shall be satisfactory to the
Association; and
(d) (i) maintain the Land Development Account; (ii) cause
the District to deposit the proceeds of all sales of plots devel-
oped under the Project into the said account; and (iii) ensure
that amounts deposited in the Land Development Account shall be
used only for the purposes of carrying out further land develop-
ment activities in the District except as shall be otherwise
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1986
review with the Association draft instruments aimed at completing


﻿-7-
or implementing the new land tenure law (Code Domanial et
Foncier) with a view to incorporating into such instruments any
improvement which appears necessary to further the purposes of
the Project; and (b) no later than December 31, 1986, transfer to
the District all land required for Part B of the Project.
Section 3.07. Before approving any request for practical
training abroad under Part E (1) of the Project, the Borrower
shall submit to the Association for its approval the names and
qualifications of candidates for such training and the program of
activities to be undertaken by them.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall review periodically with
the Association the progress made in the carrying out of the
Action Plan set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section, including the Special Account, for
each fiscal year, audited in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and the audit thereof and
said records as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.


﻿- 8 -
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(1i) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures were used for the purposes for
which they were provided.
ARTIGLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) The District shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that
the District will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c) Ordinance No. 77-44/CMLN dated July 12, 1977 of the
Borrower (the Administrative Reform Law) as amended- to date;


﻿-9-
Ordinance No. 78-32/CMLN dated August 18, 1978 of the Borrower
(Statut of the District of Bamako) and Arretes No. 1345/MI/CAB
dated March 3, 1986 and No. 1344/MFC/DNTP dated March 3, 1986, of
the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of the District to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the District or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall  have   been  suspended, cancelled   or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor; or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction
of the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
any of its obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e)(i)(B)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur subject to the
proviso of paragaph (e)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the District;
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of, or
initial disbursement under the FAC Grant Agreement have been
fulfilled except for the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(c) the Head of the Directorate of Finance of the District
and the District Treasurer referred to in Section 3.05 (c) have
been appointed in accordance with the provisions of said Section
3.05 (c) and have taken up their positions;
(d) the District Technical Unit referred to in Section 3.04
of the Project Agreement has been established and its Director
has been appointed in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph (b) of said Section 3.04; and
(e) the Revolving Fund referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement has been opened and the initial deposit made in
accordance with the provisions of said Section 3.01 (c).
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the District, and is legally binding upon the
District in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the District and is


﻿- 11 -
Iegally binding upon the Borrower and the District in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et du Commerce
Bamako
Republic of Mali
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINIFINANCES                        972559
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By /< ,/I&c&
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                 k. i,V         4   /
SC4Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) under Part A        7,000,000          75%
and D of the
Project
(b) under Part B        5,400,000         75%
of the Project
(2) Equipment, vehi-         3,360,000         75%
cles and spare
parts, fuel and
supplies
(3) Technical                5,940,000          100%
Assistance and
Training
(4) Refunding of               730,000         Amount due under
Project Preparation                        Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                    of this Agreement
(5) Unallocated              2,770,000
TOTAL             25,200,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
expanding urban services in the District of Bamako through im-
proved management and through strengthening of municipal institu-
tions, inter alia, in the fields of road maintenance and repairs,
solid waste management, assessment and collection of municipal
taxes, land development and distribution of new plots, and
regularization of land tenure titles.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Infrastructure Improvement
1.   Reconstruction or rehabilitation of about 35 km of streets,
about 10 km of sidewalk and clearing and repairing of about 25 km
of storm drains.
2.   Construction of about 15 km of primary paved road including
two reinforced concrete box culverts.
3.   Improvement of about 30 street intersections including about
10 with traffic lights; installation of about 700 traffic signs;
marking of about 20 km of traffic lane; and installation or
repair of about 700 street lights.
4.   Paving of about 10 km of sidewalks and 2 km of streets.
5.   Construction of an off-site water main (about 5 km) and a
medium-voltage electrical transmission line (about 3 km) to
supply water and electricity to the Bako-Djikoroni area.
6.   Rehabilitation of three market squares in the District.
Part B:   Land Development
1.   Development of sites of about 160 ha in Bako-Djikoroni, and
about 725 ha in Kalaban-Sud; supply of water to these sites
through ground wells; and upgrading and restructuring of a site
of about 200 ha in Bankoni with regularization of tenure through
granting of land-titles.


﻿- 15 -
2.   A program to regularize land tenure on various sites of
about 900 ha in Bamako through granting of land titles.
3.   Construction of about 30 km of unpaved primary roads in
Bamako.
Part C:   Cadastral Mapping
1.   Carrying out of aerial photography and ground surveys.
2.   Production   of  large  scale   multipurpose  maps  for   the
District.
Part D:   Institution Building
1.   Strengthening of the District's financial management through
establishment of: (a) a directorate of finance for the
District; and (b) a position of District Treasurer.
2.   Establishment of a computerized index of land titles; and
acquisition of equipment, vehicles, spare parts and supplies
needed to strengthen the operations of the District.
3.   Construction and equipping of a new District building;
establishment and equipping of a District Technical Unit and
refurbishing of offices for the District Treasurer.
4.   Improvement of DSTD's management in the fields of solid
waste management and workshop maintenance through provision
of experts' services, equipment and studies for development
of sites for solid waste and sludge disposal.
5.   Acquisition of equipment and vehicles for the Project Unit.
6.   Strengthening  of DNICT   through provision   of equipment,
vehicles and consultants' services.
7.   Strengthening of DNI through provision of experts' services
and acquisition of materials and supplies required to: (a)
carry out priority activities necessary to implement the new
land tenure law (Code Domanial et Foncier); and (b) define
institutional and cadastral methods necessary to ensure a
successful implementation of said law.


﻿- 16 -
Part E:   Training and Technical Assistance
1.   Training including on-the-job training and short-term prac-
tical training abroad and seminars for staff, at any level,
responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
2.   Technical assistance and consultants' services including
audit services, services for the carrying out of a municipal
taxation study, and services for the preparation of a
follow-up project, and for other studies to be determined
during Project implementation by mutual agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1992.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive BiddinE
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works   shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Services for Part C of the Project shall be procured as
provided for in paragraph 1 above and bidders for such services
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.
3.   To the extent practicable, contracts for equipment shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Mali
may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower and the District
may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a) Works for cadastral surveys under Part C of the Proj-
ect, works for drainage cleaning and works for the rehabilitation


﻿- 18 -
of streets and sidewalks with paving stones estimated to cost
less than $10,000 equivalent may be carried out by force account;
and (b) works for the rehabilitation of streets and sidewalks
with paving stones estimated to cost more than $10,000 equivalent
and furniture and equipment estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent for each contract may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equiva-
lent of $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Ap?endix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-


﻿- 19 -
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower and the District in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower and the District shall employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Bor-
rowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the   term  "Authorized  Allocation"   means  an  amount
of one hundred million CFA Francs to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account    and deposited in    the  Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible


﻿- 21 -
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount Of the Credit allocated to the eli-
gible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice have
been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 22 -
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refind.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
The Project Unit
The Project Unit will report directly to the Minister of the
Borrower responsible for the Interior. It will be headed by a
Director assisted by a project management advisor, two engineers,
two accountants, and two secretaries. The Director of the Project
will have the rank of National Director. The tasks of the Project
Unit will be to assist the Borrower, the District services and
the regional governmental services responsible for carrying out
the Project. Specifically, the Project Unit will: (a) plan,
coordinate and supervise the carrying out of the Project; (b)
manage the legal and financial aspects of the Project (contracts,
requests for disbursements, Special Account); (c) monitor the
carrying out of the Project; and (d) maintain all records and
accounts related to the Project.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Program
Pursuant to Section 3.08 of the Credit Agreement, the Bor-
rower will complete the following tasks by the dates set forth
hereafter:
1.   By December 31, 1987, reorganize the procedures for budget-
ing, accounting and controlling the finances of the District with
a view to improving the collection of all District taxes and
other revenues.
2.   No later than November 30 of each fiscal year, review the
proposed budget of the District in consultation with the Associa-
tion with a view to taking all measures necessary to enable the
District to perform its obligations under the Project.
3.   Submit to the Association, no later than December 31, 1986,
a statement showing the financial condition of the District as of
December 31, 1985.
4.   Complete the reform of business licenses and declare such
reform effective by January 1, 1988.
5.   Complete by December 31, 1988 ground surveys for all proper-
ties located within the District with a view to establish the
computerized index referred to under Part D (2) of the Project.
6.   Expand enrollment and collection of business licences and
road cleaning and refuse collection taxes in order to achieve,
through the Project implementation period, an overall increase of
revenues deriving therefrom by a rate of 10% per annum in respect
of business licenses and 15% per annum in respect of road clean-
ing and refuse collection taxes.
7.   By October 31, 1986, submit to the Association, for its
review and comments, the draft guidelines to be followed for
allocating plots developed under the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


