---GREDIT NUMBER 1677 MLI
Project Agreement
(Second Urban Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DISTRICT OF BAMAKO
Dated                               , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1677 MLI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      Y                       , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMEN    A  OCIATION  (the  Association)  and
DISTRICT OF BAMAKO (the District).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Mali (the Borrower) and the Associa-
tion, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
five million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 25,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
District agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the District, a portion of the proceeds
of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to the District on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the District, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agree-
ment;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The District declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out


﻿- 2 -
Parts A, B, D (1) (a), D (2), D (3) and D (4) of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering    and  urban  management
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. The District shall carry out the obligAtions
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement and Parts A, B, D (1) (a), D (2), D (3) and D (4) of
the Project.
Section 2.04. The District shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the District shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) The District shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The District shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by the District of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the District
Section 3.01. The District shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,


﻿- 3-
financial, and urban management practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The District shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and urban management practices.
Section 3.03. The District shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. The District shall: (a) establish within its
services: (i) a Directorate of Finance, and (ii) a Technical
Unit; (b) entrust each of them with specific functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association and provide them
with necessary staff and facilities in adequate numbers to carry
out their responsibilities; and (c) propose for appointment as:
(i) head of the Directorate of Finance, and (ii) head of the
Technical Unit, Malian nationals whose technical qualifications
and professional experience shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.05. The District shall make available to the
Project Unit all documents required by said Unit to consolidate
the accounts of the Project referred to in Section 4.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.06. The District shall establish a Budget Annex
for programming, budgeting and accounting of all revenues and
expenditures in respect of land development activities financed,
inter alia, out of the proceeds of the Land Development Account.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The District shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-4-
(b) The District shall:
(i) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year, copies of its
accounts for such year as approved by the Ministry
of Tutelle; and
(ii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the District thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 25 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If   the  Development  Credit Agreement   terminates  in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the District of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-5-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the District:
District de Bamako
Avenue de la Liberte
Bamako
Republique du Mali
Cable address:
District de Bamako
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the District, or by the District on behalf
of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be
taken or executed by the Governor of the District or such other
person or persons as the Governor shall designate in writing, and
the District shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /4/ TX
AeAt74Regional Vice President
6'          Western Africa
DISTRICT OF BAMAKO
By  /R/epresentativ
Authorized Representative


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE 1
Tasks and Responsibilities of the District's
Directorate of Finance, and the Technical Unit
1.   District Directorate of Finance (DDF)
DDF will be headed by a Director assisted by an expert in
municipal finances. Consultants' services will be provided when
and as needed.
DDF will have primary responsibility for:
(a) preparing the District's Budget including the Budget
Annex and monitoring their execution;
(b) maintaining the District's accounts (except for cash
management accounts which shall be maintained by the District
Treasurer) and preparing annual statements;
(c) monitoring and updating procedures for accounting,
budgeting and payroll management;
(d) participating in the execution of a study to define
policies for management of District personnel; and
(e) coordinating    the  use   of  municipal   and  regional
resources available to the District for carrying out the Project.
2.   District Technical Unit (DTU)
DTU will be headed by a Director, reporting directly to the
Governor and assisted by a senior technical advisor directly
responsible for supervising all consultants' services provided to
the District under the Project. DTU's responsibility will also
include planning, supervising and monitoring the technical execu-
tion of the Parts of the Project to be carried out by the Dis-
trict. To this effect, DTU shall cooperate with the other tech-
nical services of the District in accordance with the provisions
of the District administrative rules and regulations.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


