RESTRICTED
Report No.   PA-64a
Thds report b for offidil use only by the lank Gioup and specifafly authotized orpnizations
or penonL t nmay not be pubiished, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept teaponsibRity for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCI1ON AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A WHEAT STORAGE PROJE
INDIA
June 15, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY B2UIVALENTS
US$ 1.00          -   Rupees (Rs) 7.50
Rs1               =   US$ 0.13
Rs 1 million      =   US$ 133,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 m ton           =   1000 kg
1 kg              =   2.20 lb
1 meter           =    3.28 ft
ABBREVIATIONS
GOI               =   Government of India
FCI               =    Food Corporation of India



INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............................-i
I.  INTRODUCTION .................. .                  ........                 1 ......   1
II.  BACKGROUND ............................................                      1
A. Foodgrain Production Trends   .                     ..                   1
B. Public Distribution of Foodgrains   .                   .                4
C. All-India Public Storage Requirements.                                   5
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                             6
IV. THE PROJECT.                                                                  7
A.  Project Description .           . ...................... ..             7
B. Technical Features    ....    8
Site Selection....                                                  8
Flat Storage (Godowns)....                                          8
Silos....   8
Technical Training....                                              9
All-India Grain Storage and Distribution Study                      9
C. Construction Schedule....                                                9
D. Cost Estimates               ...                                        10
E. Proposed Financing                     ....11
F. Procurement                      ....11
G. Disbursement                       . ...12
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ..12
A.  Operations of the Food Corporation of India                            12
B. Cost Control ...                                                        13
C. Accounts and Audit .14
VI.  STORAGE, OPERATION AND DISTRIBUTION COSTS    .                 .14
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .15
A. Choice of Location    ..15
B.  Choice of Storage Method - Godown Versus Silo                          16
C. Economic Rate of Return .16
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission in March/April 1970,
composed of Messrs. L. Helmers, S. Reutlinger and Miss J. Noel (IDA); Messrs.
R. Crofts and H. Heckman (IDA consultants); and L. Werin (Swedish Government
consultant).



-2-
Page No.
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................        18
ANNEXES
1.  Gross Production of Foodgrains
2.  Net Production, Imports, Stock Changes and Consumption of Foodgrains
3.  Graph of Net Production and Consumption of Foodgrains
4.  Wholesale Price Index Numbers - Foodgrains and Manufactures
5.  Public Distribution of Foodgrains
Table 1 - Public Distribution, Local Procurement and Imports
Table 2 - Total Public Procurement and Public Distribution by
State and Main Foodgrains
6.  Total Public Storage Capacity and Stocks
7.  Analysis of Operational Storage Requirements
Table 1 - Storage Capacity Required for Operating Public Distri-
bution System
8.  Technical Specifications for Godowns and Silos
Figure 1 - Example of Godown Design
Figure 2 - Example of Silo Design
9.  Tentative Location of Godowns and Silos
10. Site Selection Criteria
11. All-India Grain Storage and Distribution Study
12. Time Schedule, Godown and Silo Construction
13. Construction Costs of Godowns and Silos
14. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
15. The Food Corporation of India
Table 1 - Storage Capacity, Foodgrain Stocks and Sales of the
Food Corporation of India
Table 2 - Balance Sheets of the Food Corporation of India
Table 3 - Profit and Loss Statements of the Food Corporation of
India
Figure 1 - Organization Chart of the Food Corporation of India
16. Storage and Distribution Cost
17. Analysis of Godown Storage Versus Silo Storage
18. Grain Storage Losses
19.  Incremental Return Analysis of Godown Storage Versus Silo Storage
20. Economic Rate of Return of Proposed Facilities
21. Economic Rate of Return of Facilities Used for Contingency Stock Opera-
tions
Table 1 - Benefits of Domestic Sales
Table 2 - Import Price Savings
MAP - Location of Proposed Storage Facilities



INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report contains the appraisal of a wheat storage project which
would be the first Bank Group project for grain storage facilities in India.
The total project cost is US$15.9 million. The Swedish Government has
offered to contribute US$5.0 million and the proposed IDA credit would also
be for US$5.0 million. Although IDA and the Swedish Government would finance
different components, the Association would supervise the execution of the
entire project.
ii.       Total foodgrain production in India is at present about 94 million
tons, of which about 35 million tons is marketed. Publicly owned storage
capacity (owned by Central and State Governments) total 5.0 million tons.
Privately owned storage capacity is not known. Estimates of grain losses
range between 7% and 12% of total production. However, as production in-
creases, particularly of wheat, losses on the incremental production will be
much greater unless storage capacity expands equivalently.
iii.      The project would help meet urgent storage needs resulting from
recent sharp increases in wheat production in North-west India and provide
the basis for developing a more effective system for grain storage and dis-
tribution throughout India. The project consists of (a) planning, designing,
constructing, and equipping 10 silos of 20,000 tons each and 10 flat storage
units of 10,000 tons each, providing a total capacity of 300,000 tons; (b)
training silo personnel; and (c) conducting a study of India's foodgrain
storage and distribution.
iv.       The proposed project storage facilities would be managed by the
Food Corporation of India (FCI), which at present owns about 2.8 million tons
of storage capacity. Consultants would help FCI prepare the silo designs
(FCI has acceptable designs for the flat storage units) and the tender docu-
ments and wouldi supervise construction. The FCI, a public corporation, was
established in 1965 to operate storage facilities in connection with the Gov-
ernment's support price program and to undertake the interstate public dis-
tribution of foodgrains. The Government is also considering having a 5-mil-
lion-ton contingency stock operation in anticipation of the time when India
becomes self-sufficient in foodgrains. This stock would be used to meet
shortfalls in marketable production during bad harvest years and would be
operated by FCI.
v.        The IDA credit would help finance the construction of godowns,
electrical and mechanical. equipment and the costs of consultants, training
and the All India Grain Storage Study.  The SIDA credit would help finance
the construction of silos. Electrical and mechanical eqtuipment would be
procured under international competitive bidding and constitute the major
foreign exchange component of the project, about US$3.0 million allowing
for contingencies, representing about 19% of total project cost and 60%
of the IDA credit.



- ii -
vi.       As a result of the proJect, wheat losses during storage for oper-
ational purposes would be reduced equivalent to a net saving in foreign
exchange of about  JS$3.0 million per annum.  The economic rate of return of
the project is estimated at 25%.
vii.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit and a Swedish Govern-
ment credit, each in the amount of US$5 million, on standard terms. The
credits, totaling US$10 million, would cover the foreign exchange compon-
ent of project costs and about 50% of local costs. The borrower would be
the Government of India. The IDA and Swedish Government credits would be
onlent to FCI for 19 years, including 4 years' grace, at 7% interest. These
are the normal terms for lending to state enterprises in India.



INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested IDA and Swedish Gov-
ment financing for the establishment of modern grain storage and handling
facilities to meet India's rapidly increasing storage requirements. The
project would help meet the most urgent needs in North-west India brought
about by the increase in wheat production. Ten flat storage units of
10,000-ton capacity each and 10 silos of 20,000-ton capacity each would be
constructed, and there would be provision for training silo operators.
A study would also be conducted to investigate ways of further improving
and expanding India's storage and handling facilities.
1.02      The total estimated cost of the project is US$15.9 million
equivalent. The proposed IDA credit would be for US$5 million. The Swed-
ish Government would also contribute US$5 million on the same terms and
conditions as IDA. GOT would supplement the IDA and SIDA funds with US$5.9
million of its own funds and lend a total of US$15.9 million to the Food
Corporation of India, a public body charged with the interstate public dis-
tribution of foodgrain, which would operate the facilities.
1.03      In June 1969, a Bank identification mission visited India to
discuss preparation of the project. FCI prepared the project and submitted
its report to IDA in August 1969. This report is based on the findings of
an IDA appraisal mission in March/April 1970, composed of Messrs. L.
Helmers, S. Reutlinger and Miss J. Noel (IDA); Messrs. R. Crofts and
H. Heckman (IDA consultants); and L. Werin (Swedish Government consultant).
1.04      The total of past Bank Group lending for India's agriculture
is nearly US$310 million as of June 30, 1971. Until 1969, most Bank Group
lending was for irrigation projects and the Bank Group is continuing to
finance such projects. Emphasis is now also being given to direct on-farm
investments and ancillary services. In the past financial year, there have
been four Agricultural projects, three of which were for agricultural credit
(Andra Pradesh, US$24.4 million, 226-IN; Haryana, US$25.0 million, 249-IN;
Tamil Nadu, US$35.0 million, 250-IN). The other was for agricultural aviation
(US$6.0 million, 230-IN).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Foodgrain Production Trends
2.01      The population of India, currently estimated at 550 million, has
been growing at an annual rate of about 2.5% during the last decade. The



- 2 -
growth of gross national product (GNP) over this period was about 3.5% per
annum, or only about 1% per capita annually. This disappointing perform--
ance was due mainly to the low average growth of agriculture, the largest
sector, which grew at only 3% per annum. Agriculture produces nearly
half of GNP, employs about 70%.1 of the labor force and generates over half
the foreign exchange earnings from the export of goods. Within the agri-
cultural sector, the growth rate of foodgrains (75%U of the total cropped
area) was especially poor; at just under 2.5%, the rate of increase was
hardly equal to the rate of population growth during most of the last
decade.
2.02      Foodgrain production and consumption statistics for the period
1950 to 1969 are presented in Annexes 1 and 2 and a graphical presentation
is in Annex 3. Net production 1/ of foodgrains grew from about 53 million
tons in 1950 to about 82 million tons in 1969, while net consumption of
foodgrains grew from about 56 million tons to about 86 million tons during
the same period. From 1950 to 1963, the average annual growth for foodgrain
prices (especially those of wheat) lagged behind those of manufactured goods.
It was not until 1964/65 that the price index for foodgrains rose above that
for manufactures. Annex 4, showing the wholesale price indexes for food-
grains and manufacture for the past 20 years, presents this price develop-
ment. The policy of low agricultural prices weakened incentives to agricul-
tural producers.
2.03      A new agricultural strategy was adopted in 1966 based on the
concentration of development efforts in priority areas. New high-yielding
varieties of wheat and rice were imported; research was concentrated on
cross-breeding between the imported and indigenous stock; and a major effort
was made to increase the availability and encourage the use of inputs, notably
water and fertilizer, along with improved seeds. The bad crop years of 1966
and 1967 increased foodgrain prices relative to manufactured goods. The
Government had also instituted in 1965 a price support program that kept food-
grain prices at the new higher level. The program's exact effect on food-
grain production cannot be ascertained, but since its introduction, foodgrain
production growth has increased from 2.3% to 2.9% per annum nationally and,
in the North-west zone, wheat production has increased from just under 4% to
about 15% per annum.
2.04      India's net wheat production increased dramatically from 10.8
million tons in 1965 to 16.4 million tons in 1969. This increase was not
due solely to good weather. Hligh producer prices (Annex 4) and the suc-
cessful adaptation to Indian conditions of the high-yielding seed varieties
imported from Mexico provided the requisite economic inducements. Farmers
in the wheat belt (especially in Punjab and Haryana) responded to the new
1/   According to GOT statistics, net production differs from gross produc-
tion by the amount provided for feed, seed requirements and wastage,
which is estimated at about 12.5% of the gross production of all food-
grains. In 1969, gross production was about 94 million tons.



- 3 -
opportunities by using more fertilizer and by utilizing credit and their
own savings for on-farm investment, especially in tubewells and mechaniza-
tion.
2.05      The increase in wheat production in North-west India has resulted
in a substantial relaxation in zoning restrictions. Up to 1967, each
state was considered a single zone from which foodgrains could not be ex-
ported through private trade to other zones. The objective of this system
was to facilitate the procurement of foodgrains by Government in the surplus
states and permit their resale in deficit states at controlled prices. Free
trade of wheat is now allowed in all of India, except in Bombay and Calcutta,
and price differentials of wheat between zones have returned to normal. With
the exception of seven states, zonal restrictions still apply to rice.
2.06      No comparable breakthrough has yet been achieved in rice produc-
tion. Net production of rice in 1969 was about 37 million tons (Annex 2).
Some new strains have proved susceptible to virus and bacterial disease,
while others have encountered consumer resistance because of differing
palatability. In many rice growing areas, the small size of holdings,
coupled with tenancy and credit difficulties and the lack of irrigation and
drainage, have retarded the spread of new varieties.
2.07      For the last 20 years, India has had to import substantial quan-
tities of foodgrains. During the period 1950-59, foodgrain imports amounted
to an average of 2.6 million tons per annum, which increased to an average
of 5.0 million tons for the period 1960-65. The successive drought years,
1966 and 1967, showed imports of more than 10 million tons and 8 million
tons, respectively. Because of the increase in wheat production, the food-
grain consumption-production gap decreased to about 3.5 million tons for
each of the years, 1969 and 1970. The Government expected that India would
be self-sufficient in foodgrains in 1971 and the Fourth Five-Year Plan
(1969-74) calls for halting food imports on concessional terms in 1971 and
for an increase in net production of total foodgrains from 82 million tons
in 1969 to 110 million tons by 1974. This overall target of a 5-1/2% growth
rate over the next 5 years appears optimistic.
2.08      Progress towards the wheat target (21 million tons net prodluction
by 1974 as against 16.4 million tons in 1969) appears reasonable. Although
yields on present varieties show signs of leveling off, there i.8 still
room for continued improvement of irrigation facilities and the introduc-
tion of newer, more fertilizer-responsive and disease-resistant varieties.
Nothing so encouraging, however, can be perceived for the other foodgrains.
The difficulties with rice (target, 46 million tons as against 36.8 million
tons in 1969) have been discussed (para 2.06), and, although newer, better
varieties are becoming available, their rate of spread is likely to remain
slow for some time. Finally, for other foodgrains (target, 43 million tons
as against 29.1 million tons in 1969), although some progress has been made
in the production of hybrid seed, the limited market for coarse grains and
pulses and their susceptibility to pests are likely to restrict their pro-
duction.



- 4 -
2.09      It is difficult to predict when India will become self-sufficient
in foodgrains because this depends on the attainment of targets for the ex-
pansion of the irrigated areas and the success of rice research currently
underway. As it is not possible to predict what the results of this research
will be, projections concerning the actual date of self-sufficiency are
subject to a high margin of error. It is, however, quite clear that storage
requirements will increase because domestic supplies procured during peak
periods will continue to replace imports distributed evenly over the year.
B. Public Distribution of Foodgrains
2.10      India's agriculture has always been subject to the vagaries of
the weather, and large year-to-year fluctuations in foodgrain production
are common. There have been six distinct periods of famine since 1900.
Under such conditions, the need for public distribution during periods of
shortfall is obvious. Since World War II and up to 1965, the responsibil-
ity for public foodgrains procurement and distribution was shared between
the Food Department of the GOI, which was responsible for imports and
their distribution to the states, and State Government agencies, which
were handling local procurement and distribution within their respective
states. Public distribution of foodgrains varied from as much as 1.6
million tons in 1955 to 14 million tons in 1966. The background of the
present situation in public distribution is outlined in Annex 5.
2.11      The new agricultural policy that evolved in the mid-1960's, with
its emphasis on incentive and support prices to producers and the operation
of a contingency stock (para 2.15) of foodgrains, necessitated the creation
of a new, all-India executive agency. The Food Corporation of India (FCI)
was therefore set up and began operations on January 1, 1965. FCI has
now taken over all public distribution work of the Food Department and is
responsible for all interstate foodgrain movements. While the Food Depart-
ment's task was mainly to take care of public distribution during periods
of serious shortfall, the FCI undertakes public distribution during normal
years as well. The function of the FCI is the procurement and storage of
foodgrains and transport to its sales centers that supply the fair price
shops.
2.12      The fair price shops are owned by licensed private retailers.
They were set up to provide foodgrains to the population during periods of
famine, but they now also provide the lower quality foodgrains at controlled
prices during normal years. In 1968, there were about 135,000 fair price
shops in India. Because the higher income consumers prefer to buy the
better foodgrains on the open market, the system caters, during normal
years especially, to the lower income consumers. The total public distri-
bution of foodgrains during normal years is now about 9.7 million tons.
The rest of the marketable surplus (excess of net production over on-farm
consumption) in foodgrains, estimated at about 30% of total net production,
or about 25 million tons, is distributed through private merchants.
2.13      While FCI's distribution price for rice covers the purchase price
and the direct storage and transport costs, such is not the case for wheat.



- 5 -
The difference between the price of domestically procured wheat and the
common issue price at which FCI must sell does not allow sufficient margin
to show a profit or even break even (para 5.02). The deficit on locally
procured wheat was covered in the past by the profits on imports, which were
bought at a lower price but sold at the same issue price. Now, however, the
proportion of domestic purchases to imports is increasing, and, as a result,
FCI incurred a deficit of Rs 230 million (US$30 million) in 1969/70, which
was covered by the Government.
2.14      Government intends to pursue the public distribution policy
until it is no longer necessary. It is willing to subsidize such distri-
bution because the high support prices promote an expansion of wheat pro-
duction and because it considers the provision of low priced wheat to the
low income consumers essential. The program as it is now operating through
the FCI and the fair price shops is relatively efficient and entails less
administrative work than a system of direct rationing or money grants.
2.15      India has at present about 2 million tons of foodgrain contingency
stocks that would be used when marked falls in foodgrain production occur
during a bad harvest year (para 2.16). Although grain production has in-
creased in the past few years, imports were available on concessionary
terms and most of the present contingency stocks have been built up from
imports. These stocks are at present stored mainly with the State Govern-
ments. The Central Government has indicated that it intends to increase
the stock to about 5 million tons by the time India becomes self-sufficient
and that FCI should then manage the operation.
C. All-India Public Storage Requirements
2.16      India's public storage requirements consist of facilities for
operational stocks and contingency stocks. Operational public stocks are
those that are stored following harvest (or import) and used to smooth
public distribution of grains to consumers throughout the year. Contin-
gency or emergency stocks are those that are placed in storage following
a surplus harvest (or import) and used to meet grain shortfalls in bad
harvest years, which may be 3 or 4 years later. Whereas foodgrains can
be stored in silos up to 3 years, foodgrains stored in flatstores must be
replaced every year or they deteriorate too much in quality. Thus, it is
not likely that the same foodgrains would remain stored for the entire con-
tingency waiting period, making it impossible to earmark a certain physi-
cal quantity of foodgrains as being contingency stocks. Operational stocks
and contingency stocks are interchangeable, but it is the combined total
of the two that determines a country's storage requirement. Storage fa-
cilities containing contingency stocks at harvest time cannot be used to
store operational stocks at that time.
2.17      India has at present about 5.0 million tons of publicly owned
storage facilities (Annex 6). The country's operational public storage
reqtuirements are estimated to be about 3.9 million (Annex 7) and it has
a contingency stock of about 2.0 million tons. Its total public storage
requirement is therefore 5.9 million tons.



- 6 -
2.18      The deficit between available public facilities (5.0 million
tons) and reqtuired Public facilities (5.9 million tons) is covered by
hiring storage capacity from the private sector. This, however, is also
in short supply. Furthermore, a substantial part of the facilities (public
and private) appears to be located in the wrong areas and is of poor qual-
ity, causing grain losses. Unfortunately, no exact data exist on the
obsolescence of the existing facilities and no study has been made to
determine whether, in fact, the facilities are of the right type and lo-
cated in the right areas (a study on this matter is proposed, as described
in para 4.11).
2.19      The UNDP/SF is at present investigating the best methods for
on-farm storage. The project will end in 1972 and its findings should be
valuable in launching a national program for the improvement of on-farm
storage and handling procedures at a later stage.
2.20      When India becomes self-sufficient, the public distribution
program may well be partly abolished. Probably at least as much storage
capacity would, however, still be necessary for the private trade. The
storage capacity that would become available if public distribution were
abolished could be transferred to the private trade or the Central Ware-
housing Corporation, a public organization whose main functions are to
provide improved storage facilities to the private trade and to issue
negotiable warehouse receipts. In the event that facilities financed by
IDA were transferred, consultations with IDA would be required.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project would be located in the states of Punjab, Haryana,
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, which together constitute India's wheat belt.
About 75% of India's wheat is produced in the area and nearly all public
procurement takes place there. Such procurement in the area has grown
from 400,000 tons in 1965, out of a net production of 8.3 million tons, to
2.4 million tons in 1969, out of a net production of 14.0 million tons.
Public procurement was expected to reach about 3.7 million tons in 1970.
3.02      Since farms have no adequate on-farm storage, the wheat has to
be delivered to the market, and about 85% of total wheat marketings take
place during the post-harvest months of April to June. In 1969, there
were 1.2 million tons of public storage facilities in the project area
where 1.6 million tons were required (Annex 7).
3.03      To accommodate the public procurement (para 3.01), additional
facilities were hired from the private sector. These too, however, were
in short supply, making it necessary to use buildings such as schools for
storage places. Some wheat was merely placed in heaps on the ground.
3.04      Losses during storage in these make-shift facilities were great;
wheat stored in such manner was especially susceptible to substantial damage
in the event of early monsoons. As a first-stage project, the Government
has asked IDA to finance 300,000 tons of storage facilities.



-7-
3.05      The proposed project storage facilities would lessen the strain
on rail transport during the post-harvest period; minimize the need for
any later cross-hauling; provide tangible assurances to farmers of the
Government's ability to sustain support price buying operations, itself
a significant factor in the maintenance of increased production; and take
advantage of the favorable climatic conditions that exist in the area,
which would minimize storage losses.
3.06      Most estimates regarding the storage losses per annum for the
country as a whole range between 7% and 12%. However, these estimates relate
to the average losses and include grain stored in both the best storage
facilities and in the worst. Obviously, the proposed facilities would not
substitute for the best or even the average of existing facilities but would
be located in areas where, under current practice, grain is kept under the
worst possible conditions and where the greatest losses occur. Estimates of
losses incurred in such marginal facilities (including storage in holes and
in the open) range to 50% and higher. A conservative estimate is that about
25% of the incremental wheat marketings in North-west India in 1969 were lost.
The study referred to in paragraph 4.11 would include investigation of actual
foodgrain losses, since no such survey has so far been made in India.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description
4.01      The proposed project forms part of an ongoing program of food-
grain storage facility construction for both operational and contingency
stock purposes.  The project would consist of (a) planning, designing,
constructing and equipping 10 silos of 20,000 tons each and 10 godowns
(flatetores) of 10,000 tons each in North-west India (i.e., the states of
Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh); (b) training silo personnel;
and (c) conducting a study on India's foodgrain storage and distribution.
The proposed facilities would be used for wheat storage and would be
constructed in about 3 years.
4.02      FCI has prepared outline designs for the godowns and would engage
local consultants for the detailed design of the silos. Technical speci-
fications and preliminary designs are shown in Annex 8. The local consult-
ants would also prepare necessary tender documents and assist FCI's
engineering department in supervising construction of silos and godowns
(para 5.05). A well qualified consultant firm with substantial experience
in the slipform method of silo construction would be contracted by the local
consultants to help in the designing of the silos if the local firm could
not show evidence of such experience. Provision would also be made for tech-
nical training of silo operators (para 4.10).
4.03      The silo part of the project is intended to serve as a model for
further construction of 8ilo8 but has been limited to 200,000 tons because
that is the maximum that FCI believes it can handle efficiently in the next



three years. Since there is an acute shortage of storage facilities, an
additional 100,000 tons of godowns, which also have a satisfactory rate of
return (para 7.07), have been included in the project.
B. Technical Features
Site Selection
4.04      Locations for the project storage facilities are shown in Annex 9.
The facilities would be built only on sites having road and rail access, and,
in the case of silos, located in areas capable of receiving grain in bulk.
Based on consideration of the factors outlined in Annex 10, FCI has presented
a detailed justification for the selection of specific sites and agreement
on sites has been reached during negotiations.
4.05      Nearly all of the selected sites are owned by FCI.  Acquisition
of the remaining sites would not take longer than about 3 months because the
sites are single-owner holdings and are located in rural areas. It would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA and Swedish Government
credits that all the sites had been acquired by PCI.
Flat Storage (Godowns)
4.06      Standard designs would be used for the flat storage units, which
would be of conventional brick construction. Internal dimensions of a
sub-unit would be approximately 22 m by 130 m. Each would provide 5,000 tons
capacity and be divided into four compartments. Sub-units would be placed
either end to end or side by side, depending on the configuration of the plot
and road and rail access requirements, to provide 10,000-ton capacity per
site.
4.07      Godowns would be designed to receive grain in bags.  Under cur-
rent FCI operational practice, no mechanical equipment would be required.
However, since there has been some difficulty in getting laborers to
stack to the height necessary to make full utilization of the stores, a
contingency provision has been made in the project for bag stackers.
Silos
4.08      Project silos would be designed to receive grain in bulk.  Grain
would be sampled and weighed before being emptied into receiving pits to
facilitate purchase at the silo. Provision would be made for bagging
before dispatch from silos, since this is likely to continue for some
time as the main method of wheat delivery.
4.09      Project silos would be made up of 12 round bins, each having an
inside diameter of about 8 m and a height of 40 m. Interstice spaces between
the bins would also be used for storage. Provision has been made for founda-
tion piling at all silo sites, and bins would be built of reinforced concrete
by the slipform method. The slipform method is the best and most economical
method of silo construction because less construction material and foundation



- 9 -
work is needed and greater strength of the silos is obtained. Mechanical
equipment would be installed for cleaning the grain, for distributing it
into and between bins, and for aerating stored grain. In addition, equipment
for fumigation, temperature indicators and baggers would have to be obtained
from abroad.
Technical Training
4.10      To provide the necessary level of technical superintendence of
silos, 15 trainees (the required number for 10 silos) would be sent abroad
for a period of 6 months to study grain handling in theory and practice in
appropriate centers in either Europe or North America. In addition, the
foremen and shift supervisors, as well as shift operators, mechanics and
electricians, would be given training in India. This personnel would assist
during the installation and test runs of the equipment. Consultants (para
4.02) would make the training arrangements abroad and would be responsible
for the placement of overseas trainees and for the training program. Overseas
trainees would sign a contract obligating them to stay 2 years with the FCI.
Consultants would also be responsible for the local training arrangements.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that all training arrangements
would be mutually satisfactory to the Government and IDA.
All-India Grain Storage and Distribution Study
4.11      A nrovision has been made in the project for an All-India Grain
Storage and Distribution Study. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that within six months of the date of the proposed credit agreements, India,
Sweden and IDA would enter into discussions on the proposed study. Tentative
terms of reference (Annex 11), which will be discussed, cover the costs and
benefits of public distribution and contingency stock operations, a survey
of storage and rice processing facilities and grain losses, and the drawing
up of programs for improvement of existing practices, rehabilitation of
existing facilities and construction of new facilities. Government has
already started carrying out several parts of the study which will be taken
into account during the discussions. It was also agreed during negotiations
that the consultants who may be required to complete the study and their
terms of reference would be acceptable to IDA.
C. Construction Schedule
4.12      FCI already has considerable experience in the construction of
godowns and there are many local contractors capable of undertaking this
work. All godowns could probably be constructed in less than 1 year from
the date of site selection. On the other hand, FCI has had little experi-
ence with silo construction and there is, additionally, a lack of qualified
contractors and specialized building equipment. Silo construction would
take about 3 years. Annex 12 shows detailed construction time schedules.



- 10 -
D. Cost Estimates
4.13      Total cost of the project is estimated at Rs 119.3 million
(US$15.9 million). The foreign exchange component of Rs 22.1 million
(US$3.0 million) represents about 19% of total costs and includes special
silo equipment, the cost of foreign consultants, the training of key
silo operators abroad and the foreign exchange costs of the materials
produced in India and used for project construction. The following table
presents a summary of the estimates (see Annex 13 for details).
Rs (thousands)          US$ (thousands)       Foreign
Item               Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Land                  1,610       -    1,610      214     -       214      -
Railway Sidings       3,910      690   4,600      522     92      614      15
Buildings            14,490   4,830  19,320   1,932    644   2,576          25
Mechanical Equipment   590       100     690       78     14       92       15
20,600   5,620  26,220   2,746    750   3,496         21
Silos
Land                    644       -      644       86     -        86      -
Railway Sidings       3,910      690   4,600      522     92      614      15
Buildings            39,431   3,432  42,863   5,258    456   5,714          8
Mechanical Equipment 8,611   4,637  13,248   1,148    618   1,766           35
Electrical Equipment 2,834   1,214   4,048        378    162      540      30
55,430   9,973  65,403   7,392  1,328   8,720         15
Consultants and
Supervision Costs
Consultants             350      350     700       47     47       94      50
Supervision of
Contractors           400       -      400       53     -        53      -
750     350   1,100      100      47     147       32
Training                   75      425     500       10     57       67       85
Storage Study             900   1,350   2,250       120    180      300      60
Sub-total         77,755  17,718  95,473  10,368  2,362  12,730         19
,.ontingencies, 25%
Physical (15%)       11,664   2,657  14,321   1,555    354   1,910
Price (10%)           7,775   1,772   9,547   1,037    236   1,273          19
Total Project Cost    97,194  22,147 119,341  12,960  2,952  15,912           19
4.14      The 25% contingency includes a provision for price escalation over
the 3-year construction period of about 10% of total cost; the remainder rep-
resents a contingency against unforeseen equipment requirements, construction
difficulties, and acts of nature. Estimates for imported equipment items are



- 11 -
based on current manufacturers' prices, while costs of land, railway sidings,
buildings and locally produced equipment have been based on figures supplied
by FCI and verified during appraisal.
E. Proposed Financing
4.15      The following table represents the proposed financing of project
costs:
Rs '000      US$'000         X
IDA Funds                        37,500        5,000        31.4
Swedish Government Funds         37,500        5,000         31.4
GOI Funds                        44,341        5,912        37.2
119,341      15,912        100.0
4.16      The Swedish Government and IDA would together provide a total
credit of US$10 million, representing about 63X of project cost. GOI
would supplement Swedish Government and IDA funds with its own funds and
onlend the total to FCI. Because of the small proportion of foreign cost
of the project, the IDA credit would finance local cost expenditure. The
credits would cover the foreign exchange component of project costs and
about 50% of local costs. The borrower would be GOI and the onlending to
FCI would be for 19 years, including 4 years' grace, to be repaid at 7%
interest. These are the normal terms for lending to state enterprises.
P. Procurement
4.17      Contracts for the civil works for the silos would be financed
by the Swedish Government and would be let by FCI, assisted by the engineer-
ing consultants, on the basis of local competitive bidding. The civil works
for the godowns would be financed by IDA. Since the godowna are scattered
over a wide area, contracts would not be suitable for international bidding
and would be let on the basis of local tender. Experience in godown construc-
tion is widespread throughout India and local construction cost is low. Pre-
qualification of prospective bidders for both the silos and the godowns would
be made to ensure that the works would be carried out by capable contractors.
These would be divided into two categories - one for the construction of the
silos and the other for the construction of the godowns. In the case of the
construction of the silos, contractors would have to show evidence of experi-
ence in the slipform method of construction or their association with firms
that had done such work. Bidding for the silos as well as the godowns would
be by individual site, and bids might be made for any number. Separate bids
would be invited for the mechanical and electrical works and the civil works.
Mechanical and electrical equipment, to be financed by IDA, would be procured
under international bidding and, for purposes of bid evaluation, a 15% pref-
erence or the import duty, whichever is less, would be allowed in favor of
domestic equipment supplies.



- 12 -
4.18      Tenders would be evaluated by the technical staff of FCI, assisted
by the consultant to determine conformity with tender invitations. Success-
ful tenders would be subject to IDA approval. During negotiations, assuran-
ces were obtained that procedures outlined in paragraph 4.17 and in this
paragraph would be followed.
G. Disbursement
4.19      The Swedish Government credit would be disbursed against the cost
of civil works for the construction of silos, covering up to 80% of these
costs, making full allowance for contingencies. In the event that the total
amount of the Swedish credit is not required for this work, it would be dis-
bursed against other components. The IDA credit would be disbursed against:
(a) 100% of the cost of mechanical and electrical equipment;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for engineering and other
consulting services acquired outside India and of the
cost of training outside India;
(c) 50% of local expenditures for consulting services in
India and the cost of training in India; and
(d) 37% of the total cost of civil works for the construction
of godowns.
4.20      Disbursements would take place when FCI presents evidence of
payment. A detailed disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 14.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Operations of the Food Corporation of India
5.01      The project would be managed entirely by the FCI.  The Corporation's
operations are discussed in detail in Annex 15, which also presents FCI's
balance sheets, its profits and loss statements and its organization chart.
The FCI distributed about 6.6 million tons of foodgrains in 1969 (4.0 million
procured locally and 2.6 million imported), which represents nearly 70% of
all foodgrain distributed publicly (9.7 million tons). The states account
for the remaining 30%. FCI employs some 25,000 people and owns storage fa-
cilities w-ith a capacity of about 2.8 million tons. Its net profits in
1968/69 were negligible, 0.3% of sales.
5.02      The main reason for FCI's low profits is that, under the Govern-
s,ent's price support policy, it must buy domestically produced wheat at
Rs 760 per ton and sell it at Rs 780 per ton. The margin of Rs 20 per ton is
not sufficient to cover storage and distribution costs, which are about



- 13 -
Rs 200 per ton (para 6.01) for domestically procured wheat. FCI makes a
profit on imported wheat and locally procured rice and other foodgrains
(para 2.13).
5.03      FCI is financed by 4-year GOI loans (Rs 2.2 billion as of March
1969) at an interest rate of 5.75%; bank overdrafts (Rs 1.2 billion as of
March 1969), guaranteed by the GOI at an interest rate of 7%; and equity
capital held entirely by GOI (Rs 285 million as of March 1969). Any deficits
in FCI's operations are covered by the Government (para 2.13). The Govern-
ment has opted for this financing plan instead of making the funds available
at a zero interest rate because it wants FCI to operate eventually as an un-
subsidized corporation.
5.04      The management of the FCI is good and, on the whole, it is a rea-
sonably well-run operation. An inventory of all stocks is made available to
headquarters on a semi-monthly basis within 2 weeks after the date that in-
ventories have been taken. Pest and insect control can be improved. The
study proposed in paragraph 4.11 would investigate ways and means to improve
quality control.
5.05      Because FCI's engineering department lacks experience, especially
in silo design and construction, local engineering consultants would be en-
gaged to assist it. These consultants would have to show evidence of experi-
ence in the slipform method of silo construction or their association with
firms that had done such work. Proposals for consultancy services (including
evidence of association with firms with adequate qualifications) would be ob-
tained from the local firms and appointments made on the basis of evidence of
previous pertinent training and experience, with the approval of IDA. The
appointment of the engineering consultants would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed credit.
B. Cost Control
5.06      FCI operates under the limitations set by the buying and selling
prices fixed annually by Government, and its performance cannot, therefore,
be judged on the basis of its profit record. FCI has constantly attempted
to explore the possibilities of effecting cost reductions, but the major
factors in costing are not susceptible to unilateral reductions on its part.
Taxes, market charges, railway freight, bag prices, administration charges of
State Governments and interest charges on capital invested represent these
items, which are fixed by other bodies. FCI's efforts at economy can, there-
fore, be directed only internally at control of purchase, storage and hand-
ling charges; storage and transit losses; and transport charges by ensuring
more efficient methods. FCI has a Planning and Research Department but the
position of Head of the Department is vacant. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that within six months of the signing of the proposed credit, a
Head with satisfactory experience and qualification would be appointed.
5.07      There is also a Cost Control Unit in PCI that reviews, on the basis
of the accounting data, the various cost categories. The Unit is directly



- 14 -
responsible to the Managing Director. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that it would be headed at all times by a person with satisfactory
experience and qualifications.
C. Accounts and Audit
5.08      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that FCI would set up
separate project accounts reflecting investment costs, wheat flow, and oper-
ating costs of the proposed project facilities. Assurances were also ob-
tained that FCI would record the costs of its normal public distribution
operation and of its contingency stock operation so that the financial results
of each can be analyzed separately.
5.09      The financial year of FCI ends on March 31, but in the past it
iUas caken about a year before audited statements became available. Because
timely information is essential, this time gap should be shortened. The
auditors of FCI are chartered accountants appointed from a list of auditors
approved by the Central Government. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that an audited financial statement would be presented to IDA
within 6 months of the close of FCI's financial year.
VI. STORAGE, OPERATION AND DISTRIBUTION COSTS
6.01      Annex 16 presents a detailed estimate of the operation and main-
tenance costs of the proposed godown and silos and of the wheat distribution
costs. Total storage and distribution costs per year, from purchase to
distribution through the foodgrain sales centers, are about Rs 200 per ton,
as shown in the following table:
Storage Cost
Godowns               Silos
Rs per ton per year Rs per ton per year
Fixed Storage Costs
Depreciation                               25.90                34.44
Overhead                                   14.00                15.95
Other Storage Costs                              11.20                1.70
Total Storage Costs                        51.10                52.09
Distribution Cost
Mandi Cost and Transport to Storage              64.30               60.90
Bagging on Mandis or Out of Silos                29.70               29.70
Handling and Freight up to Foodgrain
Sales Centers                              53.10                53.10
Total Distribution Costs                  147.10               143.70
Total Storage and Distribution Costs    198.20                 195.79



- 15 -
6.02      Except for the silos, these costs are based on FCI records.  They
include the actual out-of-pocket expenses and depreciation charges incurred
by FCI, but not the grain losses, since FCI sells the grain per bag, in-
cluding the moisture uptake, which compensates for the loss in nutritional
value during the storage period. Silo costs are estimated to be about the
same as those for the godowns but would be lower in the future (para 7.05).
6.03      The total cost (excluding distribution costs) incurred by FCI for
the storage of about 300,000 tons of wheat for a year amounts to about Rs
15 million, or about Rs 4.30 per ton per month. Going rates for private
storage are about Rs 5 to Rs 6 per ton per month, but, even at that price,
there is not sufficient space available for rent. Since FCI's total
storage and distribution costs are only partly covered by its margin on
sales, the financing of these costs would be provided through regular
budgetary allocations from the Central Government.
6.04      The proposed project would enable FCI to procure, store and dis-
tribute an additional 300,000 tons of domestic wheat. Under present procure-
ment and issue prices (para 5.02), FCI would incur a deficit of about RS 180
per ton, or about Rs 54 million (US$7.2 million), on this wheat. Since such
prices are fixed by Central Government after discussion with the State Gov-
ernments, it is impossible to predict FCI's future deficits. The Central
Government has confirmed that the cost of the subsidy would be borne by the
budget of the Government of India.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Choice of Location
7.01      Location of the proposed facilities in North-west India has defi-
nite advantages over location in the main consuming areas. These include
climatological factors and the avoidance of railroad bottlenecks (85% of the
wheat is procured in the 3 months following the harvest). The better climate
in North-west India keeps foodgrain losses there lower than in the main
consuming centers such as Bombay, Madras or Calcutta. The railroad bottle-
necks occur in the broad-gauge system, which handles the bulk of the wheat
belt's production and which connects this area with the rest of India except
the western part. The latter is served by a meter-gauge system that has
some unused capacity. Location in the wheat belt or along the meter-gauge
would help reduce the bottlenecks in the broad-gauge system.
7.02      Establishing production-oriented storage facilities has therefore
a definite advantage over placing them in the main consuming areas. Eighteen
of the facilities would be located in the wheat belt; the remaining two would
be near consuming centers in the districts of Udaipur and AJmer in the state
of Haryana, which are served by the meter-gauge railroad. The location of
the facilities is such that all would help reduce foodgrain losses and trans-
port bottlenecks.



- 16 -
B. Choice of Storage Method - Godown Versus Silo
7.03      Godown construction cost, including contingencies, is about Rs 330
per ton capacity while silo construction cost is about Rs 410 (Annex 16).
On the other hand, operating costs are higher for godowns than for the silos,
making the total fixed (including the capital recovery cost) and operating
costs about the same. However, the main advantage of silos is that grain
losses are reduced substantially. A reduction in losses is, of course, a
benefit to the economy. A detailed estimate of distributing and operating
costs and losses for storage in godowns and silos for periods of up to 3
years (the maximum period that the grain can be stored in silos without
deterioration) is presented in Annex 17.
7.04      The losses in North-west India under present conditions on the in-
cremental marketed production, w!thout the project, are estimated to be at
lca6c 25%. For tne wneat stored in the proposed project facilities, losses
are estimated to be about 8% for the godowns and 4% for the silos (assuming
one turnover per annum). The losses under the project would be lower than
those suffered in comparable facilities elsewhere in the world (for example,
East Pakistan) because of the favorable climate for storage. Annex 18
discusses grain storage losses in India.
7.05      Annex 19 analyzes the comparative advantages of silos and godowns.
The incremental investment in a silo compared to a godown is compensated by
the silo's savings in operating costs and storage losses. The rate of return
on the incremental investment is about 12.5%. This rate of return computa-
tion is based upon liberal cost estimates for the silos. Because the pro-
posed method of silo construction (slipform construction) is new to India,
it is expected that subsequent silos can be constructed at lower cost. In
addition, further cost savings from handling grain in bulk, which is ex-
pected to develop later but which has not been taken into account in the
calculation, can be realized from the silos. Thus, the rate of return on
the incremental inveistment quoted above should be considered a conservative
estimate. Silos are, therefore, the more economical storage facility.
7.06      As mentioned in paragraph 4.03, the silo program would be limited
to 200,000 tons. An additional 100,000 tons of godown storage has been
included in the proposed project to help meet the increasing need for space.
The rate of return Is lower for the godowns than for the silos, but is
nevertheless satisfactory (para. 7.07).
C. Economic Rate of Return
7.07      As wheat output continues to increase and the shortage of storage
mounts, losses incurred on the incremental marketable production will become
greater. A conservative estimate of such losses per annum, based on past ex-
perience, is 25%. The main benefit of the proposed project is that these
losses would be reduced, as mentioned in paragraph 7.04. Annex 20 presents
a differential analysis of storage costs (including grain losses) with the



- 17 -
project versus the costs without the project. The overall rate of return
under the project would be about 25%. The rate of return for the godowns
is 20% and for the silos 28%.
7.08      A sensitivity analysis has also been made.  If without-the-project
storage losses were 15% per annum instead of 25% per annum (which is un-
realistically low under the circumstances), the rate of return on the project
facilities would be 15%. At a loss rate of 35% per annum, the rate of return
on the facilities would be about 40%.
7.09      The proposed storage facilities would be used to store operational
stocks. However, since the proposed project forms part of India's storage
construction program, which includes facilities for contingency stocks, an
attempt has been made in Annex 21 to evaluate the benefits of a 5-million-ton
contingency stock operation (para 2.15). The direct benefits of such an
operation are two-fold. First, they derive from the fact that a ton of grain
can be bought cheaply when supply is abundant and sold at a higher price when
supply is scarce. This is the financial return that FCI would make and that
has been calculated to be about 2%. Second, without a contingency stock
operation, India would have to procure wheat in world markets if it wanted to
provide consumers with the same level of foodgrain consumption as would pre-
vail under the contingency stock operation. This additional demand would
raise world market prices to a level that would be subst,antially higher than
the price level under the contingency stock operation. Because of the con-
tingency stock operation, the Indian Government would, consequently, not have
to procure wheat at the higher world market prices. The rate of return on
the investment, based upon these two direct benefits and assuming that all of
the facilities would be used for contingency storage, is between 5% and 10%,
which is marginal.
7.10      In addition to the two direct benefits, there are indirect bene-
fits from contingency stock operations. First, a substantial part of
the contingency stock may be used to meet emergencies (e.g., floods may
isolate areas or transportation breakdowns may occur). The benefit of a
stock used for this purpose is difficult to evaluate. Second, without
the contingency stock operation, it may sometimes not be possible to obtain
wheat on world markets, especially when there would be a substantial Indian
demand. Third, because of the contingency stock operation, farmer prices
would be stabilized and such stabilization tends to increase farmers' pro-
duction. Since these indirect benefits cannot be evaluated, it is there-
fore not possible to state whether the contingency stock operation is justi-
fied. The analysis presented here, therefore, should not be considered
a definitive comment on India's contingency program. The all-India storage
study (para 4.11) would provide data necessary for a complete evaluation,
analyze cost and benefits and recommend the most economical level of the
contingency stock operations.
7.11      As has been mentioned, the proposed facilities would be used for
operational purposes and, as such, would have a rate of return of at least
25% (para 7.07). The proposed project would also result in substantial for-
eign exchange savings. If the reduction in foodgrain losses is evaluated



- 18 -
at a world market price of US$65 per ton, the foreign exchange savings (after
debt service) would be about US$3.0 million per annum.
7.12      The proposed project has high priority.  It would serve an area in
India where the progress of foodgrain production has been most impressive
and where an absolute shortage of adequate storage facilities exists. Pro-
vision of such facilities is urgently needed, not only to prevent losses but
also to help India in her efforts to become self-sufficient in the shortest
possible time.
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
.u- r.cipal point6:
(a)  suitable training arrangements, mutually satisfactory
to the Government and IDA, would be made for silo
personnel (para 4.10); and
(b)  audited financial statements would be presented to IDA
within 6 months of the close of FCI's financial year
(para 5.09).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be that:
(a)  FCI had acquired all the sites for the storage facilities
(para 4.05); and
(b)  well-qualified engineering consultants had been appointed
to assist the engineering department of FCI (para 5.05).
8.03      The Project is suitable for an IDA credit and a Swedish Government
credit, each in the amount of US$5 million.
June 25, 1971



ANNEX 1
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Gross Production of Foodgrains
('000 tons)
Rice     Wheat    Other Cereals    Pulses    Total Foodgrains
1949/50   25,108    6,755        18,769        10,021          60,653
1950/51   22,070    6,829        16,841         9,182          514,922
1951/52   22,622    6,343        17,436         9,107          55,508
1952/53   24,305    7,613        19,933         9,822          61,673
1953/54   29,778    8,106        23,193        11,109         72,186
1954/55   26,564    9,146        23,2614       11,632          70,606
1955/56   28,674    8,869        19,986        11,687          69,216
1956/57   30,230    9,504        20,469        12,134          72,337
1957/58   26,539    8,oo5        21,864        10,096          66,5014
1958/59   32,038    9,957        23,1490'      13,202          78,687
1959/60   31,687   10,322        22,872        11,818          76,699
1960/61   34,574   10,997        23,743        12,704         82,018
1961/62   35,663   12,072        23,216        11,755          82,706
1962/63   33,217   10,776        214,630       11,528          80,151
1963/64   36,998    9,853        23,718        10,073          80,642
1964/65   39,034   12,290        25,234        12,438          88,996
1965/66   30,655   10,424        21,151         9,800          72,030
1966/67   30,438   11,393        24,053        -8,347          74,231
1967/68   37,610   16,540        28,800        12,100          95,050
1968/69   39,760   18,650        25,180        10,420          9h,010
Source:- Mir.istry of Food, Agriculture, Community Development and
Cooperation - Directorate of Economics and Statistics;
Estimates of Area.and Production of Principa.l Crops in
India. (1968-1969), New Delhi, 1969.
- Ihid: Bulletin on Food Statistics, New Delhi, 1969.
- Government of India:  Economic Survey - 1969-1?70, New Delhi, 1970.
October 5, 1970






INDIA
C+                                                                     WWHET STORAGE PROJECT
0
Net Production, Imports, Stock Changes and Consumption of Foodgrains
Net Production                   Net Imports                       Net Stock Changes                 Total Net Consumption
Xjheat  Rice   2/2                                                                 2/                                   2/
o                  Wheat   Rice   Other-  Total  'Wheat  Rice  Other-/   Total    Wheat   Rice   Other-    Total    Wheat   Rice   Other-   Total
----------------------------------------------------------------000 Ton-------------------------------------------------------
1950           5,938  23,200  23,933  53,071   1,429   359         371   2,159     -220    _354       -291    -865    7,587  23,913  24,595  56,095
1951          6,003  20,393  21,661  48,057   3,063   761          977   4,801     +356      +70      +163    +589    8,710  21,084  22,475  52,269
1952          5,575  20,903  22,092  48,570   2,551   734         641   3,926      +348    +218        +52    +618    7,778  21,419  22,681  51,878
1953          6,692  22,458  24,814  53,964   1,711   178         146   2,035      -168    -113       -202    -483    8,571  22,749  25,162  56,482
1954           7,125  27,515  28,522  63,163      198   628          6     832     -778  +1,034        -54    +202    8,101  27,109  28,582  63,793
1955           8,039  24,545  29,196  61,780      440   165        -92     513     +184    -868        -62    -746    8,295  25,578  29,166  63,039
1956           7,796  26,495  26,273  60,564   1,104   287         -19   1,372      -50    -540        -12    -602    8,950  27,322  26,266  62,538
1957           8,354  27,933  27,008  63,295   2,879   747          -6   3,620     +643    +145        +68    +856   10,590  28,535  26,934  66,059
1958          7,036  24,522  26,633  58,191   2,709   396         105   3,210      -307       +8       +30    -269   10,052  24,910  26,708  61,670
1959          8,752  29,603  30,496  68,851   3,543   295          13   3,851      +171    +380        -59    +492   12,124  29,518  30,568  72,210
1960           9,073  29,279  28,760  67,112   4,376   699          43   5,119   +1,057    +351         -5  +1,403   12,392  29,627  28,809  70,828
1961           9,666  31,946  30,154  71,766   3,090   384          12   3,486      -20    -121        -24    -165   12,776  32,451  30,190  75,417
1962         10,611  32,953  28,804  72,368   3,249   390          -10   3,629      -42    -303        -10    -355   13,902  33,646  28,804  76,352
1963           9,472  30,693  29,967  70,132   4,071   480         -15   4,536     +179    -201         -      -22   13,364  31,374  29,952  74,690
1964          8,661  34,186  27,715  70,562   5,621   642          -11   6,252   -1,297      +47        +7   1,243   15,579  34,781  27,697  78,o57
1965         10,803  36,067  31,001  77,872   6,572   780           87   7,439     +858      +89      +116  +1,063   16,517  36,758  30,972  84,241
1966           9,163  28,325  25,538  63,026   7,827   776    1,708  10,311        -214    -107       +458    +137   17,204  29,208  26,788  73,200
1967         10,014  28,125  26,814  64,952   6,400   448    1,810   8,659         -237    +201       -246    -282   16,651  28,372  28,870  73,893
1968         14,562  34,981  34,097  83,640   4,766   443          467   5,676   +1,240    +518       +236  +1,994   18,088  34,906  34,328  87,322
1969(est.)   16,394  36,739  29,128  82,261   3,090   476          270   3,836     +144    +565       -242    +467   19,340  36,650  29,640  85,630
1/   According to GOI statistics, net production u-iffers from gross produaction (Annex 1) by the
esmount provided for feed, seed requtreme-ts and \rastage,which i estimated at 12.5t- of the gross
production of all foodgrains.
2/   Other = other cereals and pulses.
Source:  Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Community Developrent and Cooperation, Directorate
of Economics and Statistics Bulletin of Import Statistics - New Delhi, 1969.






INDIA: WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT                                                     ANNEX 3
NET PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION OF FOODGRAINS
(MILLIONS OF TONS)
120                          1    1  1    1  1    1    1          1           1 I    120
FOURTH PLAN'S
NET PRODUCTION TARGET /
100                                                                                   100
80                                                                                  80
TOTAL CCONSUMP T10IO\N
TOTAL NET PRODUCTION
60                                                             6~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
IFOURTH PLAN 'S 
NETr PRODUCTION TARGET_v
40           19516016                                       16                940
FOURTH PLA5NRS
_.  ..                                ~~~~~~~~~~ET PRODUCTION TARGET--,,_
20  *fi20
D W _/ASWF I~~~W EAT (PRODUCTION)
O 0                                                        t  I                  -J ll O
1950            1955             1960             1965         1969             1974
IBoRD-5000(2R)






ANNEX 4
I N D IA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Wholesale Price Index Nuibers - Foodgrains and  annufactures
1953 = 100
Calendar Year
Average         Rice     Wheat      All Cereals      Pulses     All Foodgrains      Manufactures
1950            91        94           93             86           91.5
1951           lob        96          102            103          102.3               1Q3,7
1952           100        97           99             98           99.1               119.9
1953           102        96          100             98           99.6               100.5
195h            86        79           84             66           80.8                99.3
1955            76        70           73             56           69.7               101.1
1956            93        86           92            78            89.8               100.2
192'7          lo,        90          102             85           98.6               106.8
1958           108        96          105             9b          102.8               108.6
1959           102      102           10l            100          103.5               108.8
1960           109        91          105             93          103.0               112.1
1961           105        89          102             91           99.7               124.5
1962           109        92          106            lob          105.3               127.2
1t963          122        91          112           109           111.0               129.4
196h           133      123           134           153           137.5               131.7
1965           135      140           145           167           148.8               137.9
1966           166      146           165            178          167.4               149.9
1967           201      198           207            271          218.9               163.7
1968           211      188           205            218          217.4               166.4
1969           204      188             .            211                              175.3
Source:  Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Community Development and Cooperation, Directorate
of Economics and Statistics, Bulletin on Food Statistics, New Delhi, 1969.
October 5, 1970






INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Public Distribution of Foodgrains
1.        Rationing and various methods of control over foodgrain distribution
continued after World War II until 1954. For the next 11 years, Government
procurement was on a much reduced scale (annual average, 750,000 tons) but
imports rose steadily from 1 to 6 million tons. Table 1 shows the total public
distribution, imports and local procurement figures. To meet the increasing
needs for public distribution, fair price shops were established in the main
urban areas where consumers could buy foodgrains at controlled (low) prices.
2.        Under this system, it is left to the consumer to decide whether to
buy the variety of his choice in the market or to take that available at fair
price shops at the controlled price. This ensures that supplies are always
available at reasonable prices for the low-income groups, while, if market
prices rise unduly, the fair price shop can provide other consumers with an
alternative source of supply.
3.        At the onset of the famine years of 1965/66 and 1966/67, India's
foodgrain reserves were barely sufficient for operational purposes. As the
shortages became apparent, curbs on consuimption were introduced, the scope of
rationing was extended (the number of fair price shops rose from 60,000 in
1963 to 135,000 in 1968), anti-hoarding measures were introduced and bank
credit for trader stockholding;was severely curtailed. At the same time,
in addition to massive imports exceeding 10 million tonsin 1966, public procure-
ment, reTnforced by zonal restrictions on foodgrain movements and market price
controls, was pushed up to oxer 4 million tons. These crisis measures increased
public distribution to 14 million  tons, representing approximately 40% of total
foodgrain sold.  But because of production shortfalls, the per capita avail-_
ability of foodgrains fell by 15%.
4.        There followed three good harvests (1967/68 - 1969/70), in which
rice output returned to prefamine-year levels and wheat production dramatically
increased. Controls were slowly relaxed. While public procurement remained
steady at 4.0 million tonq Gcvernment wheat purchases developed into a support
buying operation and rose from 800,000 tow in 1967 to 2.4 million tons in
1969.   With the increasing availabil-ity and lower price of foodgrains, ration-
ing was relaxed and public distribution fell below 10 million tons in 1969.
Imports were reduced to less than 4 million tons and end-year reserve stocks
began to exceed minimum operational level requirements.
5.        The creation and operation of foodgrain buffer stocks was an integral
part of the 'now strategy" for agriculture evolved in 1965 and, as such, is
incorporated in the Fourth Five-Year Plan.   In 1965, as part of this new
policy, the Agricultural Prices Commission was established to advise the GOI
"with a view to evolving a balanced and integrated price policy in the perspective
of the overall needs of the economy and with regard to the interest of the
producer and the consumer."



AI]NFX 5
Page 2
6.        However, the effect of the famine years was to force producer prices
well above the all-India support price levels. This applied particularly to
wheat, which was purchased by Government agencies under right of pre-emption
at autions at regulated markets, whereas in the case of rice, procurement was
frequently by levy on producers and millers at fixed prices. The fact that
wheat is still largely bought by consumers in grain form ruled out the possibility
of procurement by levy on millers.
7.        Although the Agricultural Prices Commission in its reports has advo-
cated a gradual reduction in wheat procurement prices, this recommendation has
not been adopted, for political reasons. "Public procurement" in India involves
both State and Union Governments. During the scarcity period, each state with
a surplus, through its own procurement agency, gave first priority to obtain-
ing supplies to satisfy the needs of its own consumers. There was little
enthusiasm for obtaining supplies at controlled prices on Government of India (GOI)
account for distribution in deficit areas outside the state. With the easing
of the supply position, the main aim of a surplus state has been to maintain
the price received by its producers, especially when the cost is borne by the
Union Government.
8.        Previously, the effect of this policy on consumer prices was marked,
as the GOI pooled supplies and costs of (expensive) domestic wheat and (cheap)
imported wheat. This permitted the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to buy
domestic wheat at Rs 76 per quintal and sell it at a common issue price of Rs 78
per quintal; FCI's handling costs of at least Rs 20 per quintal was covered by
the cheaper cost of imports. Now, however, the proportion of domestic purchases
to imports is increasing, and, as a result, a subsidy of Rs 230 million
(US$30 million) had to be provided in FY 1969/70.
9.        FCI has now not only taken over all executive functions previously
carried out by the Food Department but also increased its share of public food-
grain operations in many states. It can now be said to be operating as the
Government wholesaler in the public distribution system.
10.       In the surplus wheat producing areas, State agencies procure quanti-
ties of wheat sufficient to meet the public distribution needs within each
state, while the "exportable" balance is purchased by FCI, either direct and/or
through State agencies acting in its behalf. In Punjab, which accounts for over
75% of all public wheat procurement (Table 2), the shares of these agencies in
total public purchases were as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 3
1969/70                   1968/69
Purchases    Percentage    Purchases    Percentage
to End       of Total      to End        of Total
July       Purchases       July        Purchases
'OOOT                      'OOOT '
Procurement Agency
Punjab Civil Supplies
Department
(purchases for distribution
within Punjab only)             307           17.o          309           24.0
FCI Interstate Distribution
Own purchases                  734           40.0         498            38.5
Purchases +through agency
of Punjab Cooperative
Supply and Marketing
Federation                     783           43.0         488            37.5
1,824          100.0        1,295          100.0
Purchases by the Punjab Civil Supplies Department remained at about the
same level, so that the residual purchase by or on behalf,of FRI increased with
the growth of the marketed surpluses.
11.       Public sector buying agencies operate through the markets (mandis),
using the traditional channels of buying and selling agents and public auction.
The absence of standardized grading leads to visual assessment of each lot  for
price differentials of only Rs 0.2r up or down on the basic purchase price of
Rs 76 per quintal.
12.       Harvesting of wheat in the surplus producing areas of North-west India
(mainly Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh) takes place between mid-April
and early July. Marketed surpluses have increased at an even faster rate than
production, as evidenced by the public procurement figures given below:



ANTNE X 5
Page 4
Wheat                                   1.268/69     1967/68      1966 6
_________________-    '000 tons)-----------
Production                     20,000       18,650       16,567       11,528
Public procurement              3,700        2,386       2,262           815
Public procurement in
percentage of production        18.5        12.8         13.7          7.1
IEstimates.
At the same tine, the proportion of w1-eat marketings during the post-harvest
months of April/June to annual marketings rose from about 65% to over 85%.
This new marketing pattern was due to such factors as producers' fears that
Government agencies would not be able to sustain prices under pressure of
larger crops; doubts as to the storage capacity of the new varieties; the
spread of mechanical threshers and irrigation, making possible increased
cropping intensity; and the shortage of on-farm storage.
October 5, 1970



ANNEX 5
Table 1, Page 1
I' DIA
WHEAT STOiRAGE PROJECT
Public Distribution, Local Procurement and Imports
Op  J  Local               Total     Issues from  Clos-
Year     Grain      Openlng   Procure-  Imports   avail-    Govt            ing
Stock     ment                 ability   Godown         Stocks
--------------------imillion tons------------------------
1948      Rice        0.3       2.4        0.9       3.6        3.0           o.6
Wlh.a      0.2        Neg.      1,3        1.5        1,3          0,2
Others     0.2        0.3       0.7        1.2       0.9           0.3
Thtal     07         2.7       2.9        6.3       5.2           1.1
1949      Rice        o.6       3.0        0.8       4.4        3.7           0.7
heat       0.2        CO6       2.2        3.0       2.5           0.5
Others     0.3        1.0       0.7        2.0        1.6          004
Total      1.1       Lt6       3.7        9.4        7.8          1.6
1950      Rice        0.7       2.8        0.3       3.8        3.5           0.3
Wheat      0,5        1.1       1.5        3.1        2.8          0.3
Others     0.4       0.8        0.3        1.5        1.4          0.1
Total      1.6        4.7       2.1        8.4       7.7           0.7
1951     Rtice        0.3       244        08        365        3.1           0.4
Wheat      0.3        0O8       3.0        4.1        3.5          o.6
Others     0.l        oO6       1.0        1.7        144          0.3
Total      0.7        3.8       4.8        9.3       8.o           1.3
1952      Rice        0.4       2.0        0.7       3,1        2,5           o.6
Wheat      o.6        0,8        2.6       4.0        3,0          1.0
Oth-t-r7   0.3       0O7        0,6        1.6        1,3          0.3
Total      t          3a5       3,9 9,7              6.5           1.9
1953      Rice        0.6       1.7        0.2       2.5        2.0           0.5
I*aeat     1.0        0.2       1.7        2.9        2.1          0.8
Others     0.3        0.2       0.2        0,7       065           0,2
Total      1,9        2.i       2,1        6.1       4.6           1.5
1954      Rice        -.        1,4        0.7       2.6        1.0           1,6
Wheat       , 6        -        0.2        1.0       1.0           Neg.
others     ?.2        Neg.      Neg.       0,2      0O1            01
Total      114                  0.9        3.5       2,1           1.7
1955      Rice        1.6       Neg.       0.3       109        1.2           0.7
lWheat     Neg.       0.1       0.4        0.5       0.3           0.2
Othars     0.1 1      Neg.       -         001      01            Neg,
Total      1I.7       0,1       0.7        2,5       1.6           0.9
1956      R3ao                  N,g.       0.3       1.0        0.9           0.1
Whlleat    0.2         -         1.1       1.3        1.1          0.2
(Oters     Neg.                  -         Neg.      Neg.           -
Total      0.9        Neg.      1.4        2,3        2,0          0.3
October 5, 1970



ANNiX 5
_e 1, Page 2
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Puolic Distribution, Local 'rocurement and Imports (Continued)
Local                Total      Issues from  Clos-
Year     Grain      Spockg   Procure-  Imports   avail-    Govt              ing
Stack     ment                  ability   Codown         Stocks
-nmillion tons---------------------
1957      Rice        0.1        0.2        0.8        1.1       0.8           0.3
Wheat      0.2         -         2.8        3.0        2.2           0.8
Others       -        0.1         -         0.1        Neg.         0.1
Total      0.3        0.3        3.6        4.2        3.0          1T2
1958      ?ice        0.3        0.5        0.4        1.2       0.9           0.3
Waheat     0.8         -         2.7        3,5       3.0           0.5
Others     0.1        Neg.       0.1        0.2       0.1           0.1
Total      1.2        0.5        3.2       t49        4.0           009
1959      Rice        0.3        1.5        0,3       2.1        1.4           0.7
Wheat      0.5        0.3        3.5        4.3       3.6           0.7
Others     0.1        Neg.      Neg.        0.1       0.1            Neg.
Total     0o9         1-,        3.7        6.5        5.1
1960      Rice        0.7        o.8       0.7        2.2        1.2           1.0
Wheat      0.7        0.4        4,3        5.4        3.7           1.7
Others     Neg.       Ne*     _  0.1        0.1        0.1           Neg.
Total      1.'-       1.,'       5.-1       7.7       5.0            2.7
1961      Rice        1.0        0.5       0.4        1.9        1.0           0.9
-Wheat     1.7        Neg.       3.0        4,7        3.0           1.7
Others     Neag.      Neg.       Neg.       Neg.      Neg.           Neg.
Total      2,7        0L5        3,4        6,6       4.0            2.6
1962      Rice        o.9        0.5        0.4       1,8        1.2           o.6
Wheat       1.7       Neg.       3.2        4.9        3.2           1.7
Others     Ney.       Neg.        -         Neg.      Neg.          Neg,
Total      2.6        005        3,6        6.7        4,4           2,3
1963      Rice        o,6        0,7        0.5        1.8       1.4           0.4
Wheat       1.7       Neg.       4.0        5.7        3.8           1.l
Others     Neg. aeg,                        Neg.       Neg.          Neg.
Total      2,3        0.7                    o_ 7  5 5.2             2,3
1964      Rice        0.4        1,3        o.6        2,3       1.9           0,4
Wheat      10        Neg.       5.6        7.5        6.9           o.6
Others     Neg.       Neg.        -         Neg.       Neg.          Neg.
Total        T        103                   9.5       Mo.            1.0
1965      Rica        0.4        2.9        0.8       4,1        3,5           o.6
,dheat     01'        0. 4       6.6        7.6        6,2           1.4
Others     Ngeu.      007        0,1        oO8        0.7           0.1
Tota       1 o                   75        1225 10.L           ;    2-1
October 5, 1970



ANNEX5
Table 1, Page _
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Public iDistribution, Local R>rocurement and Imports (Continued)
Local                Total      Issues from  Clos-
Year     Grain      Opening   Procure-  Imports   avail-    Govt.            ing
Stock     ment                  ability   Godown        Stocks
---n-illion tons----------------------
1966      Rice        o.6        3.1       0.8        4.5        4.1           0.4
Wheat       1.4       0.2        7.8        9.4        8.2           1.2
Others     0.1        0.7        1.8        2.6       2.0           o.6
Total      2.1        4.0       10.4      16,5       143           2.2
1967      Rice        0.4        2.8       0.5        3.7        3.1           o.6
WJheat     1.2        0.8        6.4        8.4        7.4          1.0
Others     o.6        0.9        1.8        3,3       3.0           0.3
Total      2.2        4,5        807      15.4       13.5           1.9
1968      Rice        o.6        3.4       0.4        4.4        3.2           1.2
Wheat       1.0       2.3        4.7        8.0        5.8           2.2
Others     0.3        1.0        0.5        1.8       1.2           o.6
Total      1.9        6.7        5.6       14.2      10.2           4.0
1969      Rice        1.2        35       0.5        5.2        3.4           1o8
Wlheat     2.2        2.4        3.O        7.6       5.3           203
Others     o.6       04         0.3        1,3       1.0           0.3
Total      4.0        6.3        3.8      14.1        ).7           474
October 5, 1970



AN  'T f:  
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
otal Public Procurement and Public Distribution
by State and Main Foodgrains
Public Procurement                      Public Distribution
Wheat    _ice    Other    To Dal      Wheat    Rice    Other    Total
---------------   ---------- '000 ton------------------------------
North Zone
Jammu and Kashmir            4      47      --          51        75       65      --        140
Punjab                   1,882     370       73      2,325      154        10      --        164
Haryana                    271     212      Neg.       483        78       11      __        89
Rajasthan                  __      --        --             --         --      -  _           --
Uttar Pradesh              201     217        3        421      314        74      33       421
Delhi                        1     --       --           1      264        20       1        285
Others                       2     --       --           2        18        1      --         19
TOTAL                   2,361      846       76     3,283       903       181      34     1,118
West Zone
Madhya Pradesh              32     319       30        381       96        15      35        146
Gujarat                    --       18      --          18      193        64    118         375
Maharashtra                --      186      248        434    1,026       455    427      1,908
Others                     --        1      --          -1        21       19    Neg.         40
TOTAL                       32     524      278        834    1,336       553    580      2,469
East Zone
Assam                     Neg.    136       --         136       130       63      --        193
Bihar                       10      66      --          76      461        16       8        485
West Bengal                Neg.    447      --         447    1,132       610      43     1,785
Orissa                     --      277      __         277       99        24      --        123
Others                      10       3        6         19      315       154    137         606
TOTAL                       20     929        6        955    2,137       867    188      3,192
South Zone
Andhra Pradesh             --      356                 356      115       225      22       362
Kerala                              94      --          94      150       850      --     1,000
Tamil Nadu                __       632      __        632       359       789       1     1,149
Yiysore                  Neg.       71      20          91       173       50      52        275
Others                     __       13      --          13         2       16      --         18
TOTAL                    Neg    1,166       20      1,136       799    1,930       75     2,804
Total Procurement          2,413   3,465    380        6,258
Inports                    3,090     487    29$        3,872
Stock Changes           (J)328  (J+)21 -)202         Lt54?.
Total Public
Distribution - 1969       5,175   3,531    877        9,583    5, 175    3,531    877      9,583
Sonrce: Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Community Development ana Cooperation.
October 5, 1970



va
5                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Total Public Storage Ca02r4tcandS;oeks (as of March 31, 1970)
TDTaD STORAGE CAPACITY                                 Total                      STORAGE CAPACITY WITT  FCI
Foodgrainc               Hired      Hired                                   Total       Total
Total with   Total sith             FGI                                Stocks                   from        from      Hired    Hired    Total    Capacity   Stocks
PCI     State Govt       CWC 1/   Total    Hired frb,,         Total-            ith All       FCI       Private    State    from        from     Hired    with          with
Nc.                     Stats/Zone                                             OGaed      Osmed          Omrea    Owned    Private Sector   CaPacity            Aguncies      Owned    Sector        Govt      SWC 2/  CNO         b CI   FCI           FCI
(2)   727(T5)  (7)    -79-    7--7)   -MT) (11) 77   TT37'  $F   7(177   T
!NORTH ZONS
1.                      Pomjab                                                  261         32            11        3Q4           144            448               377          261        144        18         1        10         173      434        218
2.                      Haryana                                                  70         35            13         118           14            132                69           70         14         -         -         -          14       84         48
3.                      Rajacsthac                                               69         30           41         140             -            140               127           69          -         -       38        19          57       126         85
4.                      Uttar Pradesh                                           034         46            15         495          135            630               293          434        135        32        25        14         206      640         235
5.                      Delhi                                                   119                       30         149            -            149                 75         119          -                             C -  90    20      139          72
Total                                       953        143          110       1,206          293          1,499                941          953       293        50        64        63         470    1,423         658
WEST ZONE
6.                      Madhya Pradesh                                           81         82            17         180           58            238                113          81         58        33        29         7         127       208        106
7.                      Gujarat                                                  49        138            13        200            90            290               229           49         90        33         6        34         163      212         147
8.                      Mrhsrashtrr                                             680        426            24      1,130           275          1,405             1,003          680        275        96         -         3         374    1,054         797
Total                                       810        646           54       1,510          423          1,933              1.345          810        423       162        35        44        664    1 ,474      1 050
EAST ZONE
9.                      Asesm                                                    40         16            18          74           90            164                132          bo         90         6        12         6         114       154        104
10.                      Bihar                                                   165          17            -         182           13            195                150         165         13         9         -         -          22       187        100
11.                     West BRngal                                              2G2        293             -         555          262            817                490         262        262       274        63       219         818    1,079         409
12.                      Orissa                                                   125        41             5         61             4             65                1 3          15          4         3         8         14         19        34         16
Total                                       482        367            23        872          369           1,241                935         482        369       292        63       229         973   '1,454         629
SOTh ZONE
13.                     Andhra Pradech                                           130         88           322        540            12            552                280         130         12        12        41       34         369       498        283
14.E.Yeralo                                                                      138         39             9         185           58            243                243         138         58        29         7        10         104       243        200
15.                      Tamil NHd,                                              198         22           214        434            18            452                319         198         18         1         3       133         155       353        206
6.                      Yysore                                                   60          53           20         133            -            133                146          60         _          -         _         6          14        74         43
octal                                       526        202          565       1,292            88           ,380                988         526         88        50        51       453         642    1,167         732
17.                      Union                                                      -         89            -          89            -             89                109            _          -         -        -         --
Territories                                             _
Grand Total                               2,771      1,447           252      4,969         1,173          6,142             4,31P        2,771      1,173      5514       333       _9        2,749    5,520       3,069
Year
March 1970                                              2,771      1,447          751       4,969        1,171          6,142              4,318       2,771      1,173       555       233       789       2,719    5,520       3,069
March 1969                                             2,4 25      1,447          657       4,529        1,451          5,980              4,516       2,125      ----- 1,451----       316       717       2,484    4,909       3,253
March 1968                                             1,243      1,447           652            3 .cg3/   461          4,919              2,031       1,243        461  Incl. in       I-cl.in  272          733    1,976       1,471
March 1967                                              1,052     1582 52                    15'7r 3       454          14811              2,064       1,052        454  001.1C"        Ccl 10   148          602    1,654         680
March 1966                                                569      1,447          416       4,156 !/        49          4,205              3,274         569          49         "         I'       70         119      688        543
4/ Central Wrrehonsing Corporation.
2/ State Warehousing Corporation.
3/  Includirg CentraL Food Departeerc  or.ed.






INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Analysis of Operational Storage Requirements
1.        Operational public foodgrain stocks are defined to consist of grain
held in storage as a prerequisite for operating India's normal public distri-
bution system of foodgrain. The amount of grain handled by the public distribu-
tion system can be regarded as a deliberate policy decision, which is independ-
ent of year-to-year fluctuations in grain production. These latter fluctuations
are off set by varying imports or contingency stocks (Annex 21). Therefore, in add-
tion to the overall magnitude of the public distribution system, the monthly
procurements and issues and the extent to which storage facilities can be used
to meet requirements are the major determinants of storage capacity required
for operational purposes.
2.        Public distribution was about 9.7 million tons in 1969.  This year can
be regarded as a normal year during which additional distribution, because of
shortfalls in production, did not take place. Normal public distribution is
assumed, therefore, to consist of about 9.7 million tons, evenly distributed
throughout the year. About 30% of the foodgrain publicly distributed was
imported, while the remainder was procured domestically. Domestic procurement
is distributed unevenly throughout the year. For instance, nearly 85% of the total
wheat requirements is procured from May to July; consequently, more storage
capacity is needed than if the wheat were imported.
3.        Table 1 presents an analysis of operational stock requirements for
cases in which:
(a) 70% of all foodgrain is procured domestically; and
(b) 100% of all foodgrain is procured domestically.
4.        Assumptions for the calculations are as follows:
(a)  annual sales must equal annual purchases, thus abstracting
completely from contingency stocks;
(b) month-end stocks amount-to 1 month's sales. In reality,
such stocks are higher, thus leading to a higher storage
capacity; and
(c) imports are distributed evenly throughout the year, thus
abstracting from varying imports. This is a reasonable assump-
tion, because it takes many months before imports arrive and a
more or less regular flow of imports must therefore be maintained.
5.        The analysis in Table 1 shows that a storage capacity of about 3.9
million tons is needed if only 70% of the foodgrain distributed is procured
domestically and that about 5.7 uiillion tons capacity is needed if the public
distribution system depends 100% on domestic procurement.
October 9, 1970






INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Storage Capacity Required for Operating Public Distribution System
A. Assuming 70% Domestic Procurement
Total
1/              Domestic              Total               Stocks End of Month
WheaT  Rice Other Procurement Imports Purc,hases       Wheat  Rice  Other Imports  Total
-------------------------------------1000 tons---------------------------------------
May                  1,000    130  65       1,195      250      1,445        1,000  1,382  373    250    3,005
June                   780      90  25       895       250      1,145        1,580  1,179  331    250    3,340
July                   220      60  -         280      250        530        1,600    945  265    250    3,060
August                  80      40  -         120      250        370        1,480    691  199    250    2,620
September               60      50  -        110       250        360        1,340    447  133    250    2,170
October                 60    140  -          200      250        l,50       1,200    293   67    250    1,810
November                50    520 190         760      250      1,010        1,050    520  190    250    2,010
December                30    540 130         700      250        950          880    767  253    250    2,150
January                 20    690 120         830      250      1,080          700  1,161  306    250    2,420
February                10    560 100        670       250        920          510  1,h131  339    250    2,530
March                   30    500  85         615      250        865          340  1,636  357    250    2,585
April                   60    200  85         345      250        595          200  1,545  375    250    2,370
Total domestic
procurement(70%)  2,400  3,520 800       6,720
Imports(30%)         2,800    200  -                 3,000
Total public
distribution       5,200  3,720 UOO                           9,720
Required storage
capacity
(million tons)                                                              1.6    1.6   o.4    0.3       3.9
B. Assuming 100% Domestic Procurement
May                  2,168    138  65       2,371        -      2,371        2,168  1,457  373       -     3,998
June                 1,691      96  25      1,812        -      1,812        3,4126  1,243  331      -     5,000
July                   476      64  -         540        -        540        3,469    997  265       -     1,731
August                 173      42  -         215        -        215        3,209    729  199       -     1,137
September              130      53  -         183       -         183        2,906    172  133       -     3,511
October                130    148  -          278       -         278        2,603    310   67       -     2,98O
November               108    549 190         847        -        847        2,278    519  190       -     3,017
December                65    570 130         765       -         765        1,910    809  253       -     2,972
January                 43    729 120         892       -         892        1,520  1,228  306       -     3,054
February                21    592 100         713        -        713        1,106  1,510  339       -     2,955
March                   65    528  85         678        -        678          737  1,778  357       -     2,872
April                  130    211  85         126        -        126          131  1,629  375       -     2,438
Total domestic
procurement        5,2^o  3,720 800      9,720        -       9,720
Required storage
capacity
(million tons)                                                              3.5    1.8   0.4              5.7                  ID
/ All procured in North-west India.
October 5, 1970






.rNX 8
fage 1
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Technical Specifications for Godowns and Silos
A. General
1.        The technical specifications outlined in this annex serve only to
provide basic requirements. It would be essential to ensure that detailed
designs and specifications be drawn up for each site for tender documents.
Since FCI has limited experience in silo construction, consultants of
proven capacity in this field would be appointed to assist FCI's Technical
Engineering Department.
2.        Tentative site locations are shown in Annex 9  and on the attached
map but these would be confirmed in the light of more detailed studies of
likely wheat flows.  As soon as specific sites are selected and title to
them acquired, complete surveys would be made to delineate exact boundaries
and topographical features.
3.        After site surveys have been completed, general soil conditions at
each site would be investigated by a competent soils engineer to determine
the best foundation design. Preliminary indications are that piles would be
required at all silo locations. If th3 soil investigation for any particular
site indicates unusual conditions or an undue lack of uniformity, additional
surveys would be made of the areas within the site boundaries on which the
structure9 would be built.
Before inviting tenders, it would be necessary to draw up separate
prequalifications for prospective bidders for godown and silo construction.
Tender documents would be prepared by consultants in cooperation with the
Technical Engineering Department of the FCI; tenders would define in detail
the work to be executed and would serve as a basis for the preparation of work-
ing drawings by the successful tenderer.
5.        Tenders received from prequalified contractors would be evaluated by
the technical staff of the FCI, with the assistance of the consultant, to
determine the conformity with tender invitations. Selection of successful
tejderers would be in accordance with standard procedures. Successful
tenderers would be awarded construction contracts in conformity with FCI standard
procedures.
6.        Supervision of construction and equipment installation of all units
to assure conformity with all tender requirements would be provided by the
consultant, who would be responsible to the technical department of FCT.



ANNEX _
Page 2
B. Godowns
General
7.        Godown construction and site layout would be based on the receipt
of grain in bags by any means of conveyance - bullock cart, tractor trailer,
and truok. Site development cost estimates include the cost of provision of
access roads, railway sidings, an office and a weighbridge, although actual
needs can only be determined when specific sites are acquired.
8.        No provision is made for mechanical equipment, although consideration
may have to be given at a later stage to the use of mechanical bag stackers
in godowns if laborers resist stacking bags to the desired height.
9.        It is assumed that operating supplies will be drawn from normal FCI
sources, and that no utility connections would be required other than water,
electricity and sanitary facilities for the office building.
Construction
10.       Standard design of flat stores, measuring approximately 21.6 meters
by 129.5 meters internally, divided into four compartments and rated at 5,000
tons capacity for wheat storage, would constitute the basic unit. Placed
either end to end or side by side, according to the configuration of the
plot and road and rail access needs, two such units would make up a 10,000_ton
store (Figure 1).
11.       Foundations would be of reinforced concrete construction, with
floors of plain concrete poured on well compacted fill to prevent settlement
under load. The top layer of fill would be of a granular material to prevent
the migration of moisture to the slab by capillary action.
12.       Platforms along each side of the godowns would nominally be 3 meters
wide on rail side and 2.5 meters wide on road side, of plain concrete, poured
on compacted fill with a granular layer immediately below the slab.   Plat-
form slabs would be sloped to provide drainage.  Platforms would be approximately
1 meter above ground level to prevent rodents from entering the godowns, with
no permanent stairs to platform level and with wooden buffers at road access
points.
13.       Columns and beams in the main building frames would be of reinforced
concrete, wall panels between the columns and beams being of conventional brick
construction, covered inside and outside with cement plaster and with both
sides protected with suitable masonry paint.



Page 3
14.       Roofs of the godowns and platform covers would be of either
corrugated asbestos or galvanised corrugated steel sheets, depending
on availability and price. They would be supported by fabricated steel
trusses to give a clear height fram floor to bottom chord of roof trusses
of approximately 6 meters. It would be necessary to make adequate provision
for ventilation, with all openings screened to keep out birds and rodents.
15.       Manually operated doors of the rolling shutter type, with reinforced
concrete lintels and space for the rolling shutter cage, would be provided.
All doors would be fitted with a lightweight, steel framed, screen panel in
Which would be mounted a swinging, screened access door; panels would be
fabricated so as to be readily removable, but capable of preventing the entry
of birds and rodents when they are in place.
16.       Platform covers would have continuous gatters along their outside
edgqs, discharging into downspouts connected to a drainage system to lead the
iwater away from the godown and into natural drainage channels. Gutters and
downspouts would be of metal or asbestos, depending on availability and price.
C. Silos
General
17.       For silo design,it is assumed that grain would be received in bulk
by bullock cart, tractor trailer and truck, and that, in the future, FCI
would effect purchases direct from producers at silos, thu- bypassing the
traditional market and reducing handling costs. In view of the consumer
preference for grain, it must, however, be expected that dispatches will
be in bags, although some growth in bulk movements between silos in producing
and consuming areas is possible.
Construction of Silo and Headhouse
18.       Silos would be constructed in 20,000-ton units, made up of 12 round
bins, each of approximately 8 meters inside diameter and 40 meters high,
separated by approximately 1 meters to provide space for the reclaim conveyor.
Interstice spaces would be util.zed for storage by constructing an overhead
bin bottom slab (Figure 2). The reclaim conveyor would be located in a trench buil
below the level of the top of the main foundation slab.   The 20,000-ton
capacity is based on wheat weighing 750 kg per cubic meter, with an allowance
for sloping hoppering at the bottom to the discharge openings at the side of the
cell adjacent to the reclaim conveyor, an allowance at the top for the natural
angle of repose of the grain from the point of filling, and a factor for the
packing effect of the grain in the bins. This packing factor is assumed to be
5% in the round bins and 2% in interstice spaces. Should it be decided to
eliminate the sloping hopper fill in favor of flat bottom bins, the storage
capacity would be increased by approximately 100 tons for each of the round
bins. It would be possible to install the hopper fill at a later date if it
is excluded from the original construction. The interstice spaces would be
hoppered in the original ph-se as the amount of fill required is quite small
and the effect on total cat. i1ty is not appreciable.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
19.       Silos would be designed to be built of reinforced concrete
and by the slip form method. The time schedule in Annex 12 is based
on the assumption that the 12 round bins would be divided into two groups of
6 eachJfor construction purposes. Should it be necessary, because of
construction equipment limitations, to divide the total of 12 into three
groups of 4 each, the time schedule would be extended about 2 months.
20.       Cost estimates have been based on the assumption that the silo
foundation would be a slab supported on piles. It would be the respon-
sibility of the consultant to determine the most economical arrangement,
based on the site investigations.
21.       The silo roof would be of reinforced concrete adequately supported
to carry the loads imposed by the equipment located within the gallery,
together with an allowance for live load such as could be created by spillage
of grain.
22.       The silo gallery would be a lightweight, steel-framed structure
covered with corrugated asbestos or galvanized corrugated steel siding and
roofing, with windows for light and ventilation.
23.       The headhouse would be approximately 7.5 x 10 meters and 50 meters
tall, with the top of its foundation slab at an elevation sufficiently below
the storage foundation slab to permit the reclaim conveyor to discharge into
the main elevator boots by gravity. The foundation slab would be of reinforced
concrete supported on piles; the foundation walls to the ground floor level
would also be of reinforced concrete and would be waterproofed to eliminate
seepage caused by high groundwater levels. The headhouse above the foundation
walla would have a reinforced column frame and brick panels, plastered and
painted. Floors and roof will be of reinforced concrete. A stair from the
top of the foundation slab to the top floor in the headhouse, together with
access doors and adequate windows to provide light and ventilation, would be
installed.
Other Civil Engineering
24.       Pits for receiving grain from trucks and tractor trailers would have
a capacity of approximately 7 tons, and pits for receiving grain from bullock
carts would have a capacity of approximately 2 tons, both measured on a water-
level full basis. AUl pits would have grating tops, and those for bullock carts
would have grating covers to allow the bullocks to travel over them.   All pits,
as well as the tunnels connecting them to the headhouse,would be of reinforced
concrete construction and waterproofed against groundwater leakage.
25.       Bagging platforms would be provided on both sides of the silos and
headhouse, of appropriate height to serve trucks on the road side of the silos
and to serve railroad wagons on the rail side. They would be constructed with
brick retaining walls and plain concrete slab on compacted fill. The exact
arrangement of these platforms would be determined in the detailed engineering
phase by the consultant to suit the requirements of each specific site. A total
of 2,000 m2 of platform has been included in the cost estimates.



ANNEX 8
Page 5
26.       It would be necessary to provide sheds over the receiving pits and
a roof over the bagging platforms. These would have structural steel franes
and either corrugated asbestos or galvanized, corrugated steel covering.
27.       Miscellaneous structures such as office buildings, storehouses,
workshops, lavatory blocks, watchman's quarters, fence and gatehouse
would be included as required for each specific site. Their construction
would be in accordance with conventional designs and would be of materials usually
utilized for similar structures.
Mechanical Equipment
28.       Weighbridges with 3-meter-x-9-meter platforms and a capacity of
20 tons, would be installed, complete with indicating dial and ticket printer.
29.       Truck lifts would be of the cradle type, with a lifting capacity
of 5 tons. The lifting mechanism would be mounted on a frame, equipped with
wheels, 80 that it could be moved on rails to accommodate vehicles of different
lengths.   Supports for the rails would be provided in the framing of the sheds
that cover the pits. Lifts would have electric motor and drive.
30.       Conveyors would be either belts or drags, with a capacity of 100 tons
per hour, with the final determination of the type of anveyor to be used depend-
ing on conditions prevailing at the time the detailed engineering is completed.
All conveyors would have electric motors and drives, and, if belt conveyors
were used, movable trippers would be supplied for the distributing conveyors.
31.       Bucket elevators, with a capacity of 100 tons per hour, would be of
steel and designed to discharge fully at recommended operating speeds. They
would  be fastened to rubber-covered belting of the proper number of piles, with
belting ends jointed by mechanical fasteners. Pulleys, shafts, bearings and
takeups would be supplied as part of the bucket elevator assembly, together
with motors and drives.
32.       Grain cleaners would be the oscillating screen type,with a capacity
of 50 tons per hour. Cleaners would be designed to remove materials, both
coarser and finer than the grain itself, and be equipped with aspiration
connections at both the feed and discharge ends to remove particles that
float above the grain mass.
33.       Bagging machines would be of the portable type and capable of making
four weighings of 100 kg per minute when fed by a continous stream of grain.
Each bagging machine would be complete with its own sewing conveyor and bag
stitching machine, all of which would be electrically operated.
34.       Equipment would be needed to funigate grain stored in the silo
in the event of insect infestation. This could be either liquid or pelleted
fumigant, as recommended by the consultant.
35.       In the round bins, aeration equipment of the pull-through type to
enhance the effectiveness of the fumigation process and with a capacity of 1/10
cfm per bushel would be installed.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
36.       Temperature-indicating cables would be instua_ Ltid 'u all bins, with
sensing points spaced at 3-meter intervals.  Cables would be suspended from
the silo roof slab and be connected to lead wires that terminate in a manually
operated reading instrument located at an appropriate point in the headhouse.
37.       Dust collection equipment would be installed as required, with
deductions at every point where dust is generated by a moving stream of
grain, except at the receiving pits.
38.       Miscellaneous mechanical work would include the iiecessary spouting,
supports and all other items required to create a fully operational installation.
Electrical Installations
39.       Electrical work would begin at the point where thb connection was
made to the high tension transmission line of the State Electricity Board.
It is estimated that the size of the primary feeder would be approximately
150 kw.
40        A main switch of approximately Ii kw would be supplied ahead of the
transformer bank to reduce the primary voltage to secondary level of 400/216,
together with main distribution switches and wiring.
41.       Adequate lighting of all operating areas would be provided, includ-
ing general lighting and aircraft obstruction lights, and grounding and light-
ningprotection as required.
42.       There would be straight line, sequenice interlocking of electrically
driven components, and provision would be made for a flow panel to be located
in an appropriate spot in the headhouse. This panel would indicate only the
position or operating condition of any piece of equipment in the silo; it would
not provide remote control of any item.
43.       The estimates include the furnishing and installing oif a two-man
passenger lift in the headhouse, together with a machinery hoist of 1-ton
capacity and all miscellaneous electrical items required to create a fully
operable electrical system.
D. Time Schedules
Godowns
44.       Since adequate drawings of godowns are already available, the time
needed for the preparation of tender documents is short. Moreover, as this
type of civil engineering construction is within the capacity of local contractors,
work on all 10 godowns could proceed simultaneously, and, as shown by the
time schedule in Annex la all godowns could be ready within 1 year of site
selection.
Silos
45.       As will be seen from the time schedule, it is considered that,
because of the nature of the preparatory work (selecting and checking sites,



ANNEX 8
Page 7
land and soil surveys, preparation of tender documents and bidding procedures),
construction viU  comence some 15 months after the date of site selection.
46.       A further constraint wiU  be the availability of specialized equip-
ment, especially for slip form construction of the concrete bins. If one
contractor uses the same equipment for two silos, they can both be in operation
34 months after site selection.
October 5, 1970






ANNEX 8
Figure I
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
,X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
X  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SE r  TROOFING1 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
EXAMPLE OF 600WN! DESIGN/
l1   1=  LT I Xrl ii    1    1 l . l  1=     1 I I    1= 1   1= 1 II   1= 1  l
I  IIIII llll lllllllll llhllllllllIE llllllIIIIIIIlIIIIUI[II II  1IIIl1IB 11111 Bll  _____  ___________ullllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
F                       os~b FEF rK               __
5,000-TON SECT/ON OF /0,000-TON GODOWW
1 3RD-5034(2R)






ANNEX 8
INDIA                                     Figure 2
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
20,000-TON SILO
I  /0.0 MeIersI
EXAMPLE OF SILO DES/GN
l  l                [:]    C]      E       z      CZ      z I~~~~~~~~~~~~~El F-
m_I






ANE1X 9
I N D I A
WHEAT SrORAGE FROJECT
Tentative Location of Godowns and Silos
Storage Proposed         Market
State              District       Location of          (in metric tons)         Arrivals
Site             Silo       Conventional   (in metric tons)
I.  Punjab               Ferozepur      Moga              20,000         -            64,000
Ferozepur      Ajitwal            -          10,000          20,000 2.
Ludhiana       Jagraon          20,000          -            71,000
Bhatinda       Bhatinda         20,000          -            40,000 2.
Bhatinda       Faridkot         20,000          -            35,000 1/
Patiala        Gobindgarh       20,000          -            50,000 2/
Jullundur      Bhogpur            -         10,000           20,000 2'
Amritsar       Mehta               -         10,000          16,000
Ludhiana      Sultanpur           -          10,000          16,000
Total                          100,000       40,000
II.  Haryana              Rohtak         Gohana              -         10,000          12,000
Total                             -          10,000
I- Rajasthan               Ajmer          Ajiser            20,000        -            100,000
Jaipur         Jaipur           20,000        -              40,000
Ganganagar     Hanumangarh        -          10,000          75,000
Udaipur       lUaipur             -         10,000          66,000
Total                           40,000       20,000
IV. Uttar Pradesh         Lucknow        Lucknaw           20,000        -              75,000
Bulandshahr   Khurja            20,000         -             50,000
Bulandshahr   Ghaziabad         20,000                       35,000
Bulandshahr   Bulandshahr         -          10,000          20,000
Moradabad      Moradabad          -          10,000          50,000
Mathura        Kosikalan          -          10,000          25, 000
Total                           60,000       30,000
Grand Total                    200,000      100,000
2/ Irmluding overflow of nearby mandis.
October 5, 1970



ANNEX 10
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Site Selection Criteria
1.        The Food Corporation of India has tentatively selected 20 sites for
the construction of 300,000 tonsof grain storage facilities in India's wheat belt
(North-west India), 10 of which are intended for flat storage (10,000 tons each)
and 10 for silos (20,000 tons each). The following factors have been taken
into account in the evaluation of possible sites:
(a) existing storage facilities of the FCI in the
proposed procurement area;
(b) location of the wheat markets in the proposed
area;
(c) market arrivals;
(d) expected procurement by FCI in the proposed
area;
(e) whether bag or bulk delivery would be possible;
silos should be located only in areas where
grain can be delivered in bulk;
(f) estimated transportation cost from market to
proposed site;
(g) the proposed destination of the stored wheat
(consumer area);
(h)  presence of good access- roads and railroad
connections;
(i) utility connections; each site would be so
located that a connection to commercial power
lines could be made, that a water supply could
be connected and that sanitary sewerage disposal
would be possible; and
(j) the estimated cost of acquisition for each site
and the estimated soil improvement cost.
June 8, 1971



ANNEX 11
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
All-India Grain Storage and Distribution Study
A. Summary Terms of Reference
1.        The Food Department would hire consultants to undertake an All-
India Grain Storage and Distribution Study, which would consist of four
parts, as described in the following paragraphs.
Public Distribution of Foodgrains
2.        Consultants would make demand and supply projections for foodgrains
for the next 10 years and describe the Governmentts objectives. The flow of
marketed grains would be analyzed under varying assumptions on:
(a) Domestic production;
(b) Imports;and
(c) Private versus public marketing of grains.
Minimum storage requirements by 1975 and 1980 would be analyzed under different
assumptions on the year-to-year fluctuations in production, imports and the
seasonal fluctuation in the grain flow.
3.        Within the framework of alternative policy objectives, consultants
would present a study of the costs and benefits of the public distribution of
foodgrains. The study in particular would make estimates of the deficits FCI
would incur because of the fixed procurement and issue prices of foodgrains
and would make estimates, based on alternative policy objectives, of FCI's
financial positions.
4.        With regard to FCI's existing operations, consultants would determine:
(a) alternative purchasing channels under support
buying operations (deliveries directly by farm
to storage sites instead of through mandis);
(b) the effectiveness of marketing operations to
counteract undue rises in prices;
(c) possible ways and means of encouraging sale in
bulk; and
(d) ways and means of ensuring that publicly procured
grains would be cleaned after storage and before sale.



ANNEX 11
Page   2
5.        Consultants would also make a study of FCI's proposed contingency
stock operation and make recommendations regarding the following points:
(a) cost and benefits of contingency stocks,
compared to fluctuating imports;
(b) total level of contingency stocks;
(c) the presently available facilities that
could be used to store contingency stocks; and
(d) type and location of new facilities for con-
tingency stock storage.
Survey of Existing Storage Facilities and Grain Storage Losses
6.        A survey would be made of existing public storage facilities (FCIts
and State Government's) to determine:
(a) the total available storage capacity;
(b) the degree of obsolescence of the avail-
able facilities;
(c) the location of the facilities;
(d) the type of facilities (godown, silo, port
silo, bins, etc); and
(e) the total required storage capacity for
operational purposes.
7.        A study would be made to determine the total grain losses during
storage and handling of public foodgrains. Data would be acquired on the
following points:
(a) amount of total losses (dry weight losses) and
quality deterioration (loss in nutritional value)
in each type of facility (silo, godown, bin, etc.)
attributable to rodents, insects, birds, water
damage, and the like; losses would be related to
length of storage and would be analyzed for each
stage of the procurement, storage, transport and
distribution process; and
(b) measures underway to control these losses.
8.        Consultants would also survey private storage facilities (represent-
ative sample) and grain losses incurred by the pri-vate trade. A comparative
analysis would be made between public and private operations. This study would
take into consideration the preliminary results of the FAO on-farm storage study
currently underway and would draw up recommendations for an investment program
in on-farm storage.



ANNEX 11
Page   3
Recommendations to Improve Storage Operations
9.        Consultants would make recommendations for improving the effective
utilization of existing storage. In particular, attention would be paid to:
(a) inventory control;
(b) pest and insect control;
(c) quality control; and
(d) handling practices.
10.       Consultants would make recommendations with regard to the improvement
of the available storage capacity and the extent and type of the new facilities
to be constructed. These recommendations would include:
(a) the degree and type of rehabilitation
required in the existing facilities; and
(b) amount of replacement of existing facilities.
11.       Consultants would draw up a rehabilitation program and make recommen-
dations regarding the location and type of the new facilities. These recommen-
dations would be based upon a detailed investigation of investment and operating
costs and storage losses of the different types of facilities.
12.       Consultants would draw up an investment program for the public and
private sector covering the next 10 years, including rehabilitation costs
(specifying degree and type of rehabilitation), construction costs of projected
new facilities (specifying types and locations of proposed facilities) and costs
of improving existing practices (specifying costs of improving inventory control,
pest and insect control etc.).
Survey of Rice Processing Facilities
13.       Consultants would survey existing public rice processing facilities.
Specifically, the following factors would be taken into account:
(a) the degree of utilization of existing mills;
(b) investment cost and operating cost of the mills; and
(c) milling capacity in relation to storage capacity.
1h.       Consultants would advise as to the adequacy of existing facilities,
whether they should be improved and what type of new facilities should be
constructed.
15.       Consultants would also survey ( a representative sample) the private
processing industry and make recommendations to improve operations. Consultants
would present examples based on throughput, location and markets of typical
operations. Based on these examples, consultants would draw up models of



ANNEX 11
Page   4
efficient operations.  In particular, consultants would determine which type
of mill and what capacity would be the most efficient for each situation.
B. Personnel Requirements
16.       The study would take about  1  year to complete.  It would be under-
taken by consultants. Specialists in the following fields would be required:
(a) storage engineers;
(b) milling engineers;
(c) quality control experts;
(d) marketing experts;
(e) financial analysts; and
(f) economists.
The number of man-months required is estimated at 72, of which 36 would be for
foreign consultants. The total costs are as follows:
36 man-months @ Rs  15,000        Rs  540,000        US$  72,000
36 man-months @ US$  5,000                       -       180,000
US$ 252,0O0
Overheads, miscellaneous and travel costs                 48,000
Us$ 300,C)O0
Contingency, 25%                                          75,000
US$ 375,100
October 9, 1970



I NDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
TIME SCHEDULE, GODOWN AND SILO CONSTRUCTION
GODOWNS (10 GODOWNS OF 10,000 TONS CAPACITY EACH)                                                      MONTH
1  2   3  4   5   6   7  8   9  10  11  12
1   SELECTING SITES
2   CHECKING SITES
3 PREP. OF TENDER DOC.
4   BIDDING
5   EXAM. OF TENDERS
6   CONTRACT SIGN.
7   CIV. ENG. WORKS
SILOS (FIRST 5 SILOS OF 20,000 TONS CAPACITY EACH)
1   2   3   4  5  6   7  8   9  10  11  12 13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20 21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29 | 30  31 132  33  34  35  36
I   SELECTING SITES
2   CHECKING SITES
3   LAND SURVEYING
4   SOIL INVESTIGATIONS
5   PREP. OF TENDER DOC.- -                              -       -
6   BIDDING
7   EXAMINATION OF TENDERS                                                    _                       - i
8   CONTRACT SIGN,
9   PREP. FOR CIV. WORKS
10 PILING
1 1 FOUNDATION SLAB
12   SILO BINS
13   HEADHOUSE
14 GALLERY
1 5 MACHIN. PROD.
16 ELECTR. PROD.
17   MACHIN. INST.
18   ELECTR. INST.
19   RUNNING IN
SILOS (REMAINING 5 SILOS OF 20,000 TONS CAPACITY EACH)
1  20- 39 4ILING TO  617NING  8N  9  10  11  12  13  14  15  l  S |6  17 | 18  19  2 Z0 |~   22  Z | Z3  2 Z4  25 2S |Z6 | 27   8 23 | Z9 | 30 | 31 |3   33  34 |35  36 |
10o- 19  PILING TO RUNNING IN                                                                                              ......... 11 .........I                              5
IBRD - 5004(2R)   ;~






ANNEX 13
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Construction Costs of Godowns and Silos
10,000-ton Godown
1.         Based on the specifications outlined in Annex 8, the estimated
construction costs for a lC,000-ton godown are as follows:
Local   Foreign    Total       Local   Foreign    Total
Exchange                       Exchange
- - - - Rs '000-    -    -    - - - -US$ t0ooo -
Land (5 acres)               161        -        161       21.4       -         21.4
Railway siding               391        69       460       52.2      9.2        61.L
Buildings
Site development           13e       h6        1FL       1P.3      6.1        2h.4
Fence                       2h         F        32        3.2      1.1         4.3
Building costs          1,276       425      1,701      170.3    56.7        227.0
Office buildings            10         4        14        I.4      0.5         1.9
1,1049     ;E       1,932      193.2        4       257.6
Equipment
Weighbridge                 59        10        69        7.;      1.4         9.2
2,060   m    2        6        27        75.0      _3_9.
20,CO-ton Silo
2.         Detailed costings for the construction and equipment of a 20,0CC-ton
silo are set out below under civil engineering, mechanical equipment and
electrical installations to correspond to the arrangement of such material in
the detailed specifications in Annex 8.



ANNEX 13
Page   2
Civil Engineering
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
Exchange                  Exchan
- - -  -    ' -000 ---
Land (2 ac)                               64       -       64       8.6       -      8.6
Railway siding (lump sum)                391       69     460      52.2      9.2    61.4
Roads, drainage and fencing               85        7      92      11.2      1.0    12.2
Office building, gunny store
mechanical store and wrkshops
(300 m2 at Rs 250 per m2)              63         6      69      8.5       0.7     9.2
Weighbridge, office and watch-
man's unit (lump sum)                    L        1        5      0.6      0.1     0.7
Lavatory block (lump sum)                  8        1        9      1.1      0.1     1.2
Watchman's quarters (4 at Rs 6,250)       21        2       23      2.8      0.3     3.1
Piling (35,000 ton at Rs 12 per ton)    355        31     386      47.4      4.1    51.5
Silo storage (including gallery)
(20,000 tons at Rs 150 per ton +
480 m2 at Rs 300 per m2)             2,661      231   2,893    354.8    30.8   385.6
Headhouse (3,750 m3 at Rs 40 per n3)    127        11     138      16.9      1.5    18.4
Receiving tunnel (lump sum)               42        4      46       5.7      0.5     6.2
Sheds over receiving pits2
(250 m2 at Rs 200 per m)               42         4      46      5.7       0.5     6.2
Bagging platforms and sheds
(2,000 m2 at Rs 300 per m2)           508        44     552      67.7      5.9    73.6
Miscellaneous structural work             26        2       28       3.4     0.3      3-7
4,397      413   4,u11     586.6    55.o   641.6



ANNEX 13
Page   3
Mechanical Equipment
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign    Total
Exchange                  Exchange
- - -  Rs t3 -    -     - - -  US$ 7000 - - - -
Weighbridge                                41       23       64      5.6      2.9       8.5
Receiving hoppers (2 for
trucks, 3 for bullbck carts)             21      11        32     2.9       1.5      4.4
Truck lifts (2)                            18        9       27     2.4       1.3       3.7
Intake conveyor ( 1 at 100 tons
per hour capacity)                       45      24        69     6.0       3.2       9.2
Stub elevator (1 at 100 tons
per hour capacity)                       24      13        37      3.1      1.7       4.8
Cleaners (2 at 50 tons per
hour capacity)                           60      32        92      7.9      4.3     12.2
Main elevators (2 at 100 tons
per hour capacity)                      167      91       258    22.4      12.1      314.5
Distributing conveyors (2 at
100 tons per hour capacity)             144      77       221    19.1      10.3     29.4
Reclaim conveyor (1 at 100 tons
per hour capacity)                       66       35      101      8.8      4.7     13.5
Aerating system                            36       19       55      4.8      2.6       7.4
Fumigation system (pellet dispenser)        6        4       10     0.8       o.4       1.2
Temperature indicatlng system              45       24       69     6.o       3.2       9.2
Baggers (6)                               144       77      221    19.0      10.4      29.4
Dust collection                            45       24       69      6.o      3.2       9.2
862     463    1,325   114.8       61.8    176.6



ANNEX 13
Page   h
Electrical Installations
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total
Exchange                  Exchange
- - Rs '000 - --       -       US  '000 -  - - 
Service connection                     32      14      46       4.3       1.8     6.1
Primary switch, transformer
and secondary panel and wiring     129       55     184      17.2       7.4    24.6
Central panel and wiring               19       8      27       2.6       1.1     3.7
General lighting                       64      28      92       8.6       3.7    12.3
Passenger elevator                     32      lk      46       4.3       1.8     6.1
Machinery                               6       3       9       o.8       0.4     1.2
282     122     h04      37.8      16.2    5h.0
r  - -  Rs '000  ---    - - -Us$  000--- _ 
Civil engineering                   4,397     413  4,811      586.6      55.o  641.6
Mechanical equipment                  862     h63   1,325     114.8      61.8   176.6
Electrical installations              282     122     W40       37.8    16.2    54.o
Total                        5,541      998   6,540     739.2   133.0   872.2



ANNEX 13
Page 5
Consultancy and Supervision Costs
3.        It has been assumed that, to provide the required standardsof services
in investigation and preparation of specifications and drawings for tender documents
and analysis of tenders for silos, the services of an overseas expert would be
required for 8 months.   This would be in addition to the cost of local consultants.
For supervision, it is estimated that 1 man-months per silo would be needed over
a period of 1 year and could be provided by local consultants.
4.        On this basis, consultancy and supervision costs for silos would be
as follows:
Local Foreign  Total   Local  Foreizn  Total
Exchange                Exchange
As _UU _  KSlW       - - - - US$ | 000---
Consultancy
Local consultant (lump sum)               350       -     350     46.7        -    46.7
Overseaa consultant (8 months'fee
at US$5,ooo per month)                    -    300      300      -       40.0   40.0
Travel                                      -     50       50      -        6.7    6.7
3.5    3       700      46.7 7            X
Supervision
Salary - Rs2,000 per month at
1 x 10 x 12                             360      _      360     48.o             4 48.0
Travel and contingencies                            -.4.0  _           5.3          5.3.
400      _     400 _  X



ANNEX 1 3
Page   6
Costs of All-India Grain Storage Stud
5.        To assure the most efficient use of the existing and proposed facil-
ities a study of foodgrain storage and distribution in India would be made.
The estimated cost o. the study is detailed bel:w
Local consultants -
3S manimonths  -is 15,000       =    Rs 5ho,ooo   =  US$72,00D
Foreign consultants -
36 man-months    us USE5,000                       =    180,000
US$232, 000
Overhead, miscellaneous and travel costs                    40,030
USzv3DO, 000
Contingency (233)                                  =        75,000
US$373, 000



ANNEX Xi
Page 7
Training Costs
6.        To provide the necessary level of technical superintendence at silos,
it has been assumed that 15 trainees should be sent abroad for a period of 6
months to study grain handling in theory and practice in appropriate cenuers
in either Europe or North America. Estimates of the costs of providing such
training are set out below
Local  Forei7n     Total    Local  Foreig      Total
ExchanZe                    Exchange
s--   as  -000----    -----  US$1000 -----
Traini'ng
Salaries of trainees
15 x 6 months x
Rs 800 per month          75        -         75     10.0       _       10.0
Travel costs                -       189       18C9      -     25.2       25.2
Living allowances
15 x 6 x US$350 per month  -       236       236       -     31.5       31 .5
75      425       500     10.0   56.7        66.7
l>3rnaaE
7.        Total project investment costs are summarized below
Local  Forei f     1 Total    Local  boreign    Total
ExchanL                     ExchngLe
-----Rs'000 -----___    ------- USX 000---
Godowns                  20,600   5,620      26,220   2,746       75o   3,496
Silos                    55,, 430   9,973    65,403   7,392    1,328   8,720
Consultants                 750      350      1,100     100        47     147
Training                     75      425        500      10        57      67
Study                       900   1,350       2,250     120      160     300
77,755  17,725     95,473  10,368    2,362  12,730
Contingencies            19,439   4,431      23,868   2,592      5z    3,162
97,194  22,147    119,341  12,960    2,952  15,912






INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Board Presentation      - July 1971
Effectiveness of Credit - September 1971
Civil Works            Equipment          Foreign Consultant       Local Consultant             Total         Amount Un-disbursed
Services and Train-     Services and Train-      Disbursements      at End of Quarter
Quarter        Silos       Godowns      Silos    Godowns      ing Outside India       ing in India             SIDA       IDA     SIDA             IDA
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - _   -  -  -  -   -  - - us$   tooo  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -
1971-4           - 4  _                                                  -                                      -           -    5,000           5,000
1972 -1          -             75         -         -                 30                      15                 -         120   5,000           4,88o
2         -           150          -         -                 4o                     20                 -          210   5,000          4,670
3         -           525         -          -                50                      30                 -          6p5   5,ooo          4,o65
4         -           525          -         6o               60                      45                 -          690   5,000          3,375
1973 - 1         -           225          -         6o                30                       5                 -         320   5,000           3,055
2         -            -           -                           20                      5                 -           25   5,000          3,030
3        250           -           -         -                20                       5                250          25   4,750          3,005
4        750           -           -         -                20                       5                750          25   4,ooo          2,980
1974 - 1      1,250            -          -         -                 20                       8             1,250          28   2,750           2,952
2      1,250           -          576        -                 20                      8              1,250         604   1,500          2,348
3      1,000           -       1,152         -                20                       4              1,000      1,176      500          1,172
4        500           -        1,152        -                 20                      -                500       1,172      -               _
5,000        1,500      2,880        120               350                    150              5,000      5,000
To be disbursed by SIDA.






ANNEX 15
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
The Food Corporation of India
A. Constitution
1.        The Food Corporation of India (FCI) was constituted under an Act of
Parliament on December 11, 1964 (the Food Corporation Act).  The primary func-
tion of the FCI is the purchase, storage, movement, transport, distribution and
sale of grains and other foodstuffs. The FCI may also, with the approval of the
Central Government:
(a)  promote, as it sees fit, the production of foodgrains
and other foodstuffs;
(b) set up, or assist in the setting up of, rice mills,
flour mills and other undertakings for the processing
of foodgrains and other foodstuffs; and
(c) discharge such other functions as may be prescribed
or as are supplemental, incidental or consequential
to any of the functions conferred on it under the
Act.
2.        The Food Corporation Act also provides for the establishment by the
Central Government of State Food Corporations, public bodies with their own
capital working along the lines of the FCI, that would be allowed to perform
many of the functions the FCI may delegate to them. Up to now, no State Corpora-
tion has been set up. During the famine years, 1965/66 and 1966/67, the states
preferred to operate through their own agencies. In subsequent periods, the
Government of India preferred to work through the FCI, which
obviously has operational advantages. To ensure close participation of State
Governments, the Central Government may also establish a Board of Management
for a state or two or more contiguous states, if no State Corporation is func-
tioning in such state or states. A Board of Management was constituted in
1966/67 for Andhra Pradesh and Orissa. It is composed of a Chairman, the most
senior executive officer of the FCI, and 10 other members appointed, as
is the Chairman, by the Board of Directors of the FCI.  The Board of Management
advises the FCI and performs such other functions as the FCI may delegate to it.
It would be dissolved in the case of the establishment of a State Corporation.
3.        The general direction and management of the Food Corporation of India
is vested in a Board of Directors, consisting of a Chairman; three directors
representing the Ministries dealing with Food, Finance and Cooperation; the
Managing Director of the Central Warehousing Corporation; the Managing Director
of FCI; and six other directors. All the directors, other than the Director of
the Central Warehousing Corporation, are appointed by the Central Government.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
4.        The Executive Committee, constituted by the Board of Directors and
subject to its general control, is qualified to deal with any matter within
the competence of the FCI. The Executive Committee consists of the Chairman
of the Board, the Managing Director and three other directors of the FCI.
5.        The Central Government may, in consultation with the FCI, constitute
committees that advise the Central Government or the FCI. Three advisory
committees were established in 1965:
(a) a committee to study FCI's organization;
(b) a committee on storage to determine locations, type
and capacity of FCIT's storage requirements in differ-
ent states; and
(c) a committee on rice milling to determine the standard
rice outturns of different varieties of paddy and
suggest methods for improving the efficiency of rice
milling and other related matters.
6.        The Managing Director is responsible for the day-to-day operations
of the FCI and for the control and the administration of its staff under powers
delegated to him by the Board of Directors and its Executive Committee. The
present Managing Director was previously Director General of the Food Department
of the Ministry.
7.        It should be stressed that India's food policy is determined by the
Government of India and the states, and that FCI is essentially the main executive
agency for the implementation of their policies.
B. Activities
Growth
8.        After 1965, FCI took over by stages the work of the Directorate
General of Food of the Government of India. It is now engaged in (a) procuring,
storing, moving and distributing foodgrains throughout the country; (b) carrying
out the Government's price control policies by procuring grain at floor prices
and releasing it, as necessary, to counter undue market price rises; and (c) acting
as the principal executive agency to implement the Government's policy to attain
self-sufficiency and to stabilize the prices by building up a contingency of
5 million tons of foodgrains.
9.        The FCI, which started operations in some southern states, is now
operating in almost all of the states in the country as Government's whole-
saler in the public distribution system. Consistent with its fast growth, the
Corporation's purchases, sales, assets and personnel have registered similar
expansion. The foodgrain stocks of the FCI increased from 0.5 million ton to
3.3 million tons between March 1966 and March 1969. Its total storage capacity
has grown in the same period from 0.6 million ton to 4.9 million tons (Table 1)
The storage capacity held by the Food Department of the GOI has been completely



ANNEX 15
Page 3
transferred to FCI. The programs of construction to be completed during
1969-74 would add 3.0 million tons new capacity, for which a provision is
made in the Fourth Plan of Rs 450 million.
10.       The conditions under which FCI has operated since 1965 have changed.
The strict rationing of the famine years, 1965-66/1966-67, has been followed by
an informal rationing, in which the consumer is free to buy his grain in the
market or to take that available at the fair price shops at the controlled
price. With the increasing availability of foodgrains in the last three
harvests, support buying operations have been added to FCI's public procure-
ment function.
Domestic Procurement, Imports and Distribution
11.       In states where regulated markets (mandi) have been established,
FCI purchases from the growers, mostly through market agents or cooperatives.
In the other states, FCI purchases foodgrains under a levy imposed by the
Central or the State Governments on millers or growers. The FCI imports at
prices fixed by the Central Government and issues at rates fixed by the Central
or the State Governments. FCI has purchasing offices in Washington and Bangkok.
FCI's sales are either to the State Government or directly to the millers,
the trade wholesalers or the retail dealers (fair price shops).
12.       FCI has explored the possibility of reducing its distribution costs,
but some of these are not susceptible to unilateral reduction on the part of the
Corporation (taxes, mandi charges, railway freight, bay prices, and interest
on bank loans). The FCI's efforts at cost saving in distribution can, there-
fore, be directed only toward handling charges, storage and transit losses and
transport charges. With the aim of minimizing the costs of purchasing, FCI
has decided to buy as often as possible directly from the farmers to avoid
marketing charges.
C. Balance Sheets and Profit and Loss Statements
13.       FCI is required under its law to keep its accounts and submit annual
balance sheets, and profit and loss statements in accordance with commercial
accounting practices and standards. The auditors of the Corporation are appointed
from a list of auditors approved by the Central Government on the advice of the
Comptroller and Auditor General of India. The accounts end on March 31. See
Tables 2 and 3.
14.       FCI is financed mainly by 4-year GOI loans (Rs 2.2 billion as of
March 1969) at an interest rate of 5-3/4%, and Bank overdrafts (Rs 1.2 billion
as of March 1969) guaranteed by the GOI, at an interest rate of 7%. The equity
capital of FCI held entirely by GOI amounts to only Rs 285 million.
15.       Although the term, "profits," is used in the FCI's accounts, it is
clear that this does not have the same meaning as in the context of a commercial
company. Rather, it represents whatever margin is realized by the Corporation
under the limitations imposed by the buying and selling prices fixed by the
Government. This should be kept in mind when considering the evolution of
FCI's profit as shown below:



ANNEX 15
Page 4
Profit Earned - Es '000       % of Sales
1965/66                     2,260                    0.17
1966/67                    30,470                    1.21
1967/68                    39,110                    1.01
1968/69                    16,220                    0.29
D. Organization
16.       The Corporation has a head office in New Delhi, 4 zonal offices,
14 regional offices, 124 district offices, and more than 1,000 operating
points throughout the country for its purchase and distributing operations.
The main functions carried out by the head office are as follows: (a)
arranging the import of foodgrains as per the instructions of the Government
of India; (b) purchasing foodgrains within the country; (c) constructing and
hiring suitable storage; (d) operating contingency stock; and (e) clearing,
storing and distributing foodgrains imported or procured domestically.
17.       The head office, which employs 670 persons, consists of nine divisions
operating under the overall control of the Managing Director. The zonal, region-
al and district offices; the storage depots; and the port clearance offices
altogether employ about 25,500 people. The zonal and regional offices are
responsible for the control and supervision of all district offices and the
depots within the area of their jurisdiction. The district offices are in
charge of purchase operations and the movement of foodgrains to the storage
depots. Storage depots are defined as places where foodgrains of the FCI are
stored in properly built godowns. The staff of the depot has to maintain
quality control over the stocks, issue the stocks wherever they are required,
and maintain proper accounts of the receipt and issue of the foodgrains. The
port clearance offices make the arrangements at the port of discharge for
efficient clearance of the cargo. An organization chart appears in Figure 1.
Manpower
18.       FCT's manpower grew from 2,150 to the 25,500 workers presently em-
ployed between 1965 and 1969. The takeover of all the field functions of the
Union Food Department has resulted in the absorption of about 15,400 persons,
of which 5,700 persons are on secondment.
19.       The top management of FCI is of high calibre, but here, too, many
officers are at present on secondment from Government Departments. GOI intends
to require such staff to opt either to transfer to FCI or to return to parent
organizations.
Engineering Department
20.       Hitherto, the Engineering Department of FCI has relied extensively on
the Central Public Works Department of GOI for technical assistance. This
arrangement had undoubted advantages during FCI's early years when its building



ANNEX 15
Page 5
program was largely made up of flat storage. Now, however, because FCI's
storage expansion will include an increasing proportion of silos, for which
only a limited amount of expertise is available, the Engineering Department
needs to be strengthened. It is essential that FCI should eventually have
its own staff capable of drawing up detailed plans and specifications for
silos and related equipment to acceptable international standards. Pending
this reinforcement of the Engineering Department, FCI needs the services of
consultants.
Planning and Research
21.       With the changing pattern of FCI's activities, there is a growing
need for more planning and research, as well as economic evaluation of procedures
and projects. This need is recognized by FCI and it has recently awarded a con-
tract for an economic study on movement and storage policies to a consultant.
The study is being undertaken by the National Council of Applied Economic
Research (NCAER) - a Government-sponsored research organization.
22.       Other fields that call for detailed study and appraisal are:
(a)  alternative purchasing channels under support buying
operations;
(b) storage location studies in the light of new patterns
of public procurement and distribution, as well as
contingency stock requirements;
(cW the adaptability to Indian conditions of cold air
aeraJion storage techniques presently being developed
in other countries, together with technical and
economic appraisal of such systems;
(d) the effectiveness of wheat marketing operations  to
counteract undue rises in market prices; and
(e) possible ways and means of encouraging roller flour
millers to install bulk handling and storage facilities
in areas where their offtake could be from FCI silos.
So that the present Planning and Research Unit of FCI can cope with its in-
creasing work load, its technical staff should be increased. An experienced
economist is to be appointed as its head.  Furthermore, the Corporation's
operating costs should be kept under continuous scrutiny.
1/ FCI recently conducted a study of marketing operations in Bihar.
June 8, 1971






INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Storage Capacity, Foodgrain Stocks and Sales of the
o                                                         Food Corporation of India
March 1969       March 1968      March 1967      March 1966       March 1965
0
Storage Capacity (1,000 metric tony)
Owned                                          2,425          1,176.9         1,016.9              569
Hired                                          2 484            460.5           454.2               49
Total                                                      1,637           1,471.1 M7
Under construction                               200            338.7           182.5               70
Stocks on Hand ( 1,000 metric tons)
Imported Wheat                                   947            374             318                157
Rice                                    56               2              -                 _
Other                                   31            103               -                              _
Local    Wheat                                   530             40              -                  50
Rice                                 1,318            616              248               325            _
Other                                  371            336              114                11           -
Total                                       3,253
Sales (1,000 metric tons)
Imported Wheat                                 2,161          2,281           1,618                772           _
Rice                                   322               3               3                28            -
Other                                  159              78              67                 _            _
Local    Wheat                                 1,850            386               84                _            _
Rice                                 1,794          1,769            1,665             1,237            -
Other                                  307             427             156              _  19
Total                                       6,593          4,797           3,593              2,056
No. of People Employed                        19,713         15,228          11,353              3,904           -
1H



ANNEX 15
Table 2
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Balance Sheets of the
Food Corporation of India
March 1969       March 1968     March 1967      March 1966     March 1965
-_____________________________  Rs tooo    _______      --      --____
ASSETS
Cash and bank                              217,195           127,550       53,296          56,012         119,249
Stocks of foodgrains                      2,747,045        1,267,459      474,711         373,102            -
Stores and  other stocks                    116,115           18,757        9,701               2
Receivables                               1,401,005          623,214      293,556          62,105
Less provision for doubtful receivables      32 569           11,976        3,17 -'
Net receivables                           1,36c,436          611,238      290,379          62,105              -
Advances for foodgrains                     133,171           89,618       32,128          25,436          30,000
Other advances (including tax payments)      79,718           59,711        7,402           4,074             110
Total Current Assets                   41,8             2,1714,333     867,61          520,731         149,359
Land                                          8,511            4,552        6,6644          1,095            -
Roads                                         4,128              770          -              -               -
Warehouses, godowns, railway sidings        220,088          145,394      107,796          61,855            -
Plant and machinery                          44,179            8,974        1,002             517            -
Other buildings                               4,612            1,012           76              62            -
Other fixtures and vehicles                  21,712            9,756        6,921           2,340             490
Total Fixed Assets                       303,230          170,458      122,439          65,869             490
Less Depreciation- Warehouses                20,940           12,375        6,109           2,610
Plant and machinery       2,900               652          114             27
Other                     4 649             2 548        1,118            330               28
Nst 7ixed Assets                        274,741           154,883      115,098          62,902             462
Total Assets                             4,936,422         2,329,216      982,715         583,633         149,821
LIABILITES and EQUITY
Creditors                                 1,141,850          633,018      452,909         150,278             336
Other payables (including taxes)             59,806          254,372       96,981          43,046             183
Bank loans                                1,207,300          860,415       51,858            -               -
GOI loans                                2,235,000           390,000      230,000        300,000          110,000
Reserve for contingencies                     7,474            6,069        4,840            -               -
Capital                                     270,574          170,924      139,623          90,000          40,000
Other reserves                               14,418           14,418        6,504             300            -
Undistributed profits                          -                -              -                9             (698)
Total Liabilities and Equity              4,936,422        2,329,216      982,715         583,633         149,821
October 5, 1970



AimEX 15
Table 3
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Profit and Loss Stateaents of the
Food Corporation of India
March 1969       March 1968     March 1967      March 1966     March 1965
Sales                                    ------------------------   Rs 's  W    =  ---------------------------
Imported Wheat                          1,687,744         1,418,300        924,319        410,485            -
Rice                             306,155            70,158          4,256         17,793            -
Other                             71,544            40,136         25,880           -               _
Local   Wheat                           1,459,149           367,516         62,135            -              -
Rice                           1,837,268         1,529,094      1,317,262        857,215            -
Other                            298 792           421 030        178,073         21,212            -
Total                                5,660,652         3,846,234      2,511,925      1,306,705            -
Cost of Sales
Imported Wheat                          1,612,862         1,320,703        825,117        359,031            -
Rice                             327,176            70,158          4,256         17,793            -
Other                             66,477            42,366         23,606           -               -
Local   Wheat                           1,626,708           342,220         58,946            -              -
Rice                           1,630,516         1,431,400      1,215,634        823,010            _
Other                            293 374           389 543        179,947         16 500            _
Total                                5,557,113         3,596,390      2,307,506      1,1633
Gross Profit Sales
Imported Wheat                             74,882            97,597         99,202         51,454            _
Rice                             (21,021)             -              -               -              -
Other                              5,067           ( 2,230)         2,274           -               -
Local   Wheat                            (167,559)           25,296          3,189         34,205            _
Rice                             206,752            97,694        101,628           -               -
Other                              5,418            31,487         1874)           4,712            _
Total Profits on Sales                 1 3,539           249,844        204,419         90,371            -
Miscellaneous Income                       525,900          108 556         25,163           8 089            8
Total Gross Profits                    629,439           358,400        229,5582        9                  8
Expenses
Salaries and traveller's expense            88,637           60,003         28,245         12,884           32L-
Freight, milling, handling                 259,972          168,291        126,024          65,612           -
Insurance, rents, electricity              39,590            27,005         10,028          1,985            41
Repair vehicles                              1,909            2,677          1,299             722            4
Miscellaneous                               66,476           17,027          2,707           1,515          164
Provision doubtful debts                    8,119             6,957          9,725             725           -
Depreciation                                13,302            8,233          4,882           2,938           28
Interest                                  135,215            29,099         16,199          9,822           148
Tbtal                                 613,220           319,292        199,109         96,203           706
Net Profit                                 16,29             39,108         30,473           2,257         (698)
Reserve for contingencies                    1,1405           1,229          4,840            -              -
Taxes                                       11,200           30,274         20,946           1,250           -
Capital reserves                             -                7,914          6,204             300           -
Undistributed profits                        -                 -              -                707         (698)
Capital account                             3,6114          (1,805)         (1,517)          -              -
Dividend                                      -               1,496           -               -              -
October 5, 1970






INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE FOOD CORPORATION OF INDIA
CHAIRMAN
MANAGING DIRECTOR
/ E W DEL HI/ OFF/CE
FINANCIAL        SECRETARY       COMMERCIAL        MANAGER          MANAGER          TECHNICAL         MANAGER          QUALITY        MANAGER PORT
ADVISORPERSONNEL                                                   PLANNINGEN    MANAGER ST                  E         CONTROL        COORDINATION
ADVISOR                        ANAGER          OVEMENT        AND RESEARCFI       ANGRSOGEMANAGER                                 CODNTO
~~~~~(116)          =   98)          (61)         (18)         (45           (5 )(6                     (54
PERSONNEL:
NEW DELHI        670
ZONAL OFFICES 24,900
25,570
ZONAL MANAGER                 ZONAL MANAGER                 ZONAL MANAGER                 ZONAL MANAGER
EAST                         SOUTH                          WEST                          NORTH
(9,912)                       (4,.730)                      (5,,947)                       (4,313)
NOTE: FIGURES IN ERAChEl S INDICATE NIAMFR OF PEOPLE EMPI-OYEI).                                                                            I, BX
I BR D-4936 (R) - _~






ANNEX 16
INDLA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Storage and Distribution Cost
Godown (10,000 ton)                         Silo (20,000 ton)
____  _____ __,Rs. l0 o------_--_----------   ----
Investment Costs
Land                                                                       202                                         Bo
Railway siding                                                             575                                        575
Building                                                                 2,415                                      5,358
Equipment                                                                  86                                       ?,162
Total (inL. 25% contingencies)                                           3,278                                      8,175
Total oer ton (Rs)                                                         327.80                                     408.75
Fixed Costs (RsBooo)
1. Capital Recovery Cost (7%)                                  12 Months   24 Months   36 Months          12 Months   24 Months   36 Months
Railway sidings (15 years)                                    63.1       126.2       189.3               63.1       126.2        189.3
B.ildings (godown, 35 years; silo, 50 years)                 186.5       373.0       559.5              388.2       776.4      1,164.6
Equipment (15 years)                                          9.4         18.fl       28.2              237.1       471.8       712.2
Total capital recovery cost                                  259.0       518.0       777.o              688.7     1,377.4      2,066.1
?. Other Fixed Costs
Supervision                                                   91.0       188.0       282.0              17n.0       340.0        51o.o
Maintenance buildings (1%)                                    24.0        48.0        72.0               54.0        108.0       162.0
Maintenance equipment (2.5%)                                   2.0         4.0         6.o               54.0       108.0        162.0
Taxes (0.25% on railway sidings and buildings)                 7.0        14.0        21.0               15.0        30.0        45.0
Insurance (0.20% on railway sidings and buildings)            5.0         10.0        15.0               12.0        2U1.0       36.0
Overheads                                                      8.0        16.0        24.0                14.0        28.0        42.0
Total                                                        140.0       280.0       420.0              319.0       63B.0        957.0
Total fixed costs                                            399.0       798.0     1,197.0            1,007.7     2,015.1,    3,023.1
Fixed and Variable Costs Per Ton
--tn---------------------------                   - ----- -
1. Capital Recovery Cost                                         25.90        51.80       77.70              34.4L       63.88      103.3?
2. Other Fixed Cost                                               14.00       28.00       42.00              15.95        31.90       b7.85
3. Storage  Operating Coat
Restacking in gocbwns/loading into silos                       1.60        1.60        1.60               0.50         O.50        0.50
Fumigating godowns (Rs 2.4 every 3 mcnths)                     9.60       19.20       28.80                -            -           -
Fwnigating silos (Rs 1.2 every 12 months)                       -           -           -                 1.20         2.40        3.60
11.20       76          30676O       b        7e        7
4.  TOTAL Storage Cost Per Ton Per Annum                          51.10      100.60      150.10              52.09      103.68       155.27
5. Mandi Cost and Transport to Storage
Mandi covmissioning                                           23.70       23.70       23.70               23.70       23.70       23.70
Mandi handling                                                 4.20        4.20        4.20                1.20        1.20        1.20
State Govenment charge                                         9.40        9.40        9.40                9.40        9.40        9.40
Octroi                                                         0.20        0.20        0.20                0.20        0.20        0.20
Purchase tax                                                 23.20        23.20       23.20              23.20       23.20        23.20
Administrative charges                                         2.00        2.00        2.00               2.00         2.00        2.00
Transport to mandi, godown or silo                            1.60         1.60        1.60               1.20        1.20         1.20
M           61.30       6.30          6        .0      '64.--9    69-0.90
6. Bagging on Mandi or Out of Silo (bags and labor)               29.70       29.70       29.70              29.70        29.70       29.70
7. Handling and Freight Up to Fppdgrain Sales Centers
Loading railway                                                6.40        6.40        6.40                6.40        6.40        6.10
Average freight charges                                       40.30       40.30       40.30              10.30        40.30       40.30
Restacking issue depots                                        6.40        6.40        6.40               6.40         6.40        6.40
53.10       53.10       53.10              53.10       53.10        53.10
8. TOTAl Storage and Distribution Costs Per Ton .                198.20      217.70      297.20             195.79       217.38      298.97
9. TOTAL Storage and Diatribution Costs Per Ton Per Month         16.51       10.32        B.26              16.31       10.31         8.30
October 5, 157C






C It D 1 A                                                                                1151  17
WET SMOms PEROWr
Analysie of  eodtsD Storer  VSenr    Silo Storae
Godosa                                                    Silo
(1,00  tosS'000   o
-    -       -~~~-------------------- ------    Rs per ton-
iOveotment Cost:                                                                                  Rs327.8C                                                   _568.17
1 Yesr         2 Year;           Years                        1 lear      2 Years        3 Yeare
---------------------------------  R.  per  ten  per  -a    _-__-_________-__-_
1.  Capital ge-overy Cost at 75
(godown,35 years;  silos,50 years)                                            25.90            51.80          77.70                          49.83        99.66        149.49
2.  Otho-  Foixd Cost                                                              14.00           28.00          42.oo                          26.40        52.cO          79.20
3. Storoge Operating Cost                                                          11.20            92.40          33.80                          1.70          2.90          4.1C
4.  Total Soorage Cost                                                             51.10          102.20          1513.30                       -77.9        155.36        232.79
5. Moodi rnd TrAnsport Coot                                                        64.30           64.30          64.30                          60.90        60.90         60.91
6.  Rgging                                                                         29.70           29.70           29.70                         29.70        29.70          29.70
7.  Hoodling rod Preigot Up to Foodgrain SaJee Canters                             53.10           53.10          53.10                          53.10        53.10         53.10
8.  Total Storage and DCttrabutiag Cost                                           198.20          049730          30.40                        221.63       299.06        376.49
9.  besos  (grdoona,Sf. clOse,48 on stored                                         60.3,          121.60          132.4C                         3o.Lc        60.60         91.20
shoot at Ito 760 to-)
10.  Total Laorgos   Coot or Storage and  Strab-
otint Par Too                                                                 259.00 3T70.9 at2S                                            252 .C3 .     59S,         467.69
Ibtal O          -oorr  c Coot or Storage rad Dlotrib-
uatn- Per Too Per  soth                                                        21.56          1A5.1           13.4}                          21.00            1y9       12 99
SeAson                                                        S.l
(25,000 to                                                  (23, 0,00 too
_____---   --------.----------- lrpPer ton --------------         ---------       --
tsoeotoeo OrCsto                                                                                    285.105                                                    608.75
1 Year         2 Years         3 Trars                       1 Ysar       2 YTors       3 Ye:-
--------------------------------         -----.s    e  o  --------__ -_ --_-----------------------
1. Crpitl R' oorery Cost at 7%
(godon,35 years;  a' ir, 50 years)                                            00.06            44.12          66.18                          31-44        66.80        103.32
2.  Other 6tood Coots                                                              13.50           00.80          41.70                          15.95        31.90          47.85
3.  Storag.   cp-rotig Coot                                                        11.20            20.80          30.40                           1.70        -,.C           4.10
4.  3otol Storage CooL                                                             47.16           92.72          106.20                         52.09        03.68         155.2,
5.  Xaedi ant Troasnoro Coat                                                       64,30           64.30          64.30                          60.70        60.50          60.YO
6.  8aggdig                                                                        29.70            20.70          09.70                         25.70         0.00         29.70
7.  ila-dl g sad FreightUp to  Foodgrain Sa es Centers                            53.10           53.10           53.11                                      53.10          53.10
S.  Total Stn agE .ad . ietribrtiro Coot                                          194.26          239.82          285.38                        195.79        247.38        298.97
9. Lossese (godso'oo 8% * sila, 43i son stored
9 te-t at RD lM                                                               6o.8o           121.60         182.40                          30.40        60.60         91.20
10.  TYtel Sarorir Cost of Store and DlstribUtio Per rIo                           25S.06          361.42          467.78                        226.19       308.18         390.17
Total SooEad-  Cost of Storage rod Dtetrihstioe
9er 7t5 Per Monte                                                              21.26           15.06          12.99                          18.85        12.87.         10.64
0027)00' 5. 1S7'                                                             ___






ANNEX 18
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Grain Storage Losses
1.        No comprehensive survey of foodgrain losses at the pre-harvest or at
the post-harvest stage has so far been made in India. Estimates vary from as
much as 50% loss per annum to 1% loss per annum. The report of a study by
the Indian Council of Agricultural Research during the years 1962 to 1965
estimatesthe losses during the pre-harvest period to be between 5% and 10%.
A Committee of Experts appointed in 1966 by the Ministry of Food and Agri-
culture assessed losses in foodgrains at all stages of handling, transport
and storage during the post-harvest period at 8.94%, including 6% losses
incurred during storage (2% on account of rodents and 4% on account of insects).
In 1969, USAID estimated that 20% of wheat production in Gujarat (West India)
was consumed by rats. In 1967, UNDP estimated overall storage losses in India
to "range up to 10% of the annual crop," excluding damages caused in some
localities by rodents and pests.
2.        Most estimates regarding the average losses per annum for the country
as a whole range between 7% and 12%. However, these estimates relate to the
average losses on all grain produced in the country and include grain stored in
both the best storage facilities and in the worst. Obviously, the proposed
project would not substitute for t~ebest or even the average of existent
facilities. The proposed facilities would be used to store grain that, under
current practice, is kept under the worst possible conditions and experiences
the greatest losses. Estimates of losses incurred in storage in "marginal'
facilities (including storage in holes and in the open) range to 50% and
higher. When deterioration in nutritional value is considered, losses
probably approach or exceed the 50% estimate.  Most of the wheat in the pro-
ducing areas is stored in the open for at least short periods. In recent years,
with expansions in output, much of the stock is being exposed to longer periods
of open-air storage. The susceptibility to extensive damage from early monsoons
is very pronounced under these conditions.
3.        Bank staff and consultants have visited the wheat belt area in Norti-
west India several times and have made numerous observations on the extent of
storage losses. It is estimated that under present circumstances, storage losses
are at least 25% on the incremental marketed production. This estimate is con-
firmed by detailed surveys in other countries in the Far East (e.g., East
Pakistan). Since inventory control in most of these countries, as in India, is
made by bag count, direct losses seemed to be very small. However, by sampling
stored grain, it appeared that grain stored over 3 months in conventional godowns
showzed 65% damaged kernels and a lowered food value of nearly 50%. Even grain
stored between 6 weeks and 3 months showed nearly 30% loss in nutritive value.
Damage due to fungi and moisture, which reduces the palatability of the grain
and causes an objectionable odor, was also substantial. Average losses on



ANNEX 18
Page   2
operational stocks stored for 3 months were ascertained to be as follows:
Insects           20.0%
Moisture           2.5%
Rodents            2.7%
Total       25.2%
4.        It has, therefore, been assumed in this report, conservatively, that
grain storagelosses in India's wheat belt on the incremental marketed production
amount to at least 25%.  Detailed surveys in East Pakistan showed that
grain losses in modern silos were about 6%.  It is estimated that, under climatic
conditions prevailing in North-west India, average grain losses in modern silos
in a 1-year period would be about 3.5% to 4.0% (assuming one turnover per annum).
Grain losses in godowns depend to a large extent, on pest and insect control.
With good control of pests and insects, such losses were reduced in East
Pakistan to about 10% to 12%. Again, under the more favorable climatic condition
in North-west India, losses should be less. It is estimated that with the
adequate pest and insect control FCI is providing, grain storage losses in
modern project godowns should not be more than S% (assuming one turnover per
annum).
October 6, 1970



AMNEX 19
INDIA
VT.[TWHET  STORAGE  PRQ0JECT .
Incremental Return 'Analysis of Godown StoragA VArm11R Silo StoragA
Differential Cost/
Godowns           Silo        Benefit Stream
(2 x 10,000)    (20,000 tons)
tons
-__ -_                     Rs 000Rs----
Investment Costs
Year   0  Investments                         6,556              597            5)959
"1 "I                                         -             6,795           ( 6,795)
"    2       "                                -               783           (   783)
T  15  Renewal equipment and
railway sidings                    1,322               -             1,322
"   17  . "    "                              -             2,737           ( 2,737)
It  30     1"                               1,322               -             1,322
"   32      n    4                            -             2,737           ( 2,737)
35  Renewal buildings                   4,330'              -             4,830
5 Renewal equipment and
railway sidings                    1,322               -             1,322
" 47          "                           -             2,737           ( 2,737)
52  Terminal value                      3,189           1,825           ( 1,364)
Operatirg Costs, Years 1 and 2
Aniual fixed costs                               280            1]-)I)             140
Storage operating costs                          224             128                96
Gr.in losses (Rs 450 per ton)  /                 720          2,250            ( ],53t
1,224           2,518           ( 1,294)
Operating Costs, Years 3 to _2
inmual fixed costs                               280             31              (  39)
Storige operFtinn  cssts                       224              3)               190
Extra mandi and transportaat'on costs             68              -                 68
Grain losses (Rs li50 per ton)                   720             360               360
1,292            713               579
* 'ate of Return 12.5%
1/ Estimated at 25% during silo construction time.
October 9, 1970






ANNEX 20
INDIA
WXEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return of Proposed Facilities
1.        Without the proposed project, foodgrain losses would be at least
25!, compared to 14% for silos and 8% for godowns under the project (Annex 18).
The wheat is evaluated at a projected price of Rs 450 (US$60) per ton, which
is in line with projected world market prices. It has been assumed that there
would be one turnover in a year for the wheat stored in the proposed
facilities.
2.        Also, in the without-the-project case, the wheat must be transported
quickly to the consuming areas because otherwise the grain would become un-
saleable. The railroad bottleneck during the 3-month post-harvest period leads
to an increase in handling, transhipment and transport costs, calculated by
the railroads at about Rs 7 million. It was not possible to verify this
calculation in detail, but the transport cost increases are at least half this
amount.
3.        A differential analysis of the cost streams in the with- and-without-
the project case is attached. The rate of return is 25%. The sensitivity of
the rate of return with respect to losses has also been tested. If losses
without the project are 15%, the rate of return would be about 16%, and if losses
are 35%, the rate of return would be about 40%.



0
Ct                                                           INDTA
0
ei                                                   WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
H                           Economic Rate of Return on Facilities Used for Operational Purposes
Without Project    With Project                                           Differential Costs
300,000 ton
- - - - - - Rs'OOO                                                       - - - Rs'OO0  - - -
Investment (excl. consultants
and training)          -114,530                           Incremental Investment                 - 114,530
Operation and distr'bution                                            Incremental operation and
costs per annum -                                                     distribution costs per
(excluding depreciation)       49,500              49,500             annum
Losses per annum 2/               33,750              7,200           Savings in losses per annum             + 26,550
Total Cost of Storage                                                 Total Cost Savings on Storage
and Distribution per annum      83,250             56,700             and Distribution per annum               26,550
Incremental cost railroads                                            Cost savings railroads per
per annum                        3,500                                annum                                     3,500
Total Cost Savings per annum              30,050
Rate of return                             25%
1/ See table in para &6Ols operation and distribution costs
are probably higher in the without-the-project case, resulting
in even greater cost savings under the project.
2/  At a wheat price of Rs 450 per ton.                                                                                   X
r'o
0



ANNEX 21
INDIA
WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return of Facilities
Used for Contingency Stock Operations
Direct Benefits - Benefits of Domestic Sales
1.        A model has been set up to simulate contingency stock operations
under Indian conditions. A statistical analysis of India's foodgrain pro-
duction over the past 20 years has shown that the time series contains a 6-year
cycle from the trend and random deviations from the cycle. The cyclical
deviations from the trend are as follows:
Year 1      +0.25%
2      +4.35%
3      +1.35%
4      -2.15%
5      -2.25%
6      -1.551
The random fluctuations were a maximum of about 20% from top to bottom if the
very exceptional drought years 1965 and 1966 are not taken into account. A 30-
year series of projected production levels, assuming a 3.2% annual increase in
the production trend, cyclical fluctuations of the above indicated magnitude
and randomly selected deviations in the range of -10% to +10%, derived by using
a table of random numbers, is shown in column 2 of Table 1. Comsumption is
expected to increase at the same rate as normal production with the price
being US$60 per ton.
2.        The price projected for imported wheat for 1975 and thereafter is
Us$65 per ton CIF India, or about US$70 per ton wholesale, and the export
price would be about US$50 per ton. The price of uS$60 per ton for domestically
produced wheat is therefore a reasonable assumption.
3.        The price elasticity of foodgrains in the open market is at present
about -0.5. Since this does not take into account the fairly inelastic demand
of the fair price shop consumer, overall elasticity is probably about -0.4.
Thus, the price series in column 5 of table 1 is derived by assuming that the
demand elasticity for deviations of production for desired consumption is -0.4,
i.e., that a 1% increase in supply will result in a 2.5% or $1.50 decrease in
price.
4.        The storage activities shown in columns 6, 7 and 8 of Table 1 assume
that a storage capacity of 5 million tons is available and that the storage
policy intends to eliminate all year-to-year price fluctuation * The purchase
costs and sales revenues of grain put into and taken out of storage are evaluated
by the average of the without-and-with-storage prices (columns 5 and 6). The
total purchase and storage costs of the operation are shown in column 12 and the
sales revenue in column 13. The differences between these two columns is the
financial return that the FCI would make on a contingency stock operation of
this size. The financial rate of return would be about 2%. However, grain losses
should also be taken into account. The contingency stock operator makes good on these
losses because the grain contains a moisture uptake that he also sells. From an
economic point of view, however, the difference in losses between those incurred



ANNEX 21
Page 2
under the contingency stock operation and those incurred without the contingency
stock operation, should be considered. The losses under the contingency stock
operation have been estimated at 4% per annum of stocks stored for periods longer
than one year from the end of the first year onwards. The net domestic benefits
of the operation are shown in column 16.
Direct Benefits - Import Price Savings
5.        The contingency stock operation has also a second major benefit.  If
Tndia wants to provide consumers with a level of foodgrain consumption as in-
dicated in column 1 of Table 1, wheat would have to be procured on world markets
in the without-the-contingency-operation case. World market prices would be
much higher than the prices that would prevail with the contingency stock
operation.
6.        The normal quantity marketed annually on world markets is about 50
million tons and the price elasticity has been estimated at about -0.67. The
normal world market price is projected at about US$65 per ton (wholesale price
India US$70 per ton). If India had to import an additional 5 million tons, the
world market price would increase to US$74.75 (wholesale price India US$79.75).
The incremental costs to India of purchasing this wheat on world markets in the
without-the-contingency-stock-operation case, is shown in column 20. These
benefits, added to the domestic benefits (column 16) are shown in column 21.
7.        Assuming the investment cost is US$45 per ton or US$225 million f'or 5
million tons capacity and a salvage value of US$112 million, the internal rate of
return (based on the cost and benefit series shown in column 21) is about 5%.
8.        The previous analysis assumea. tnat crle wheat could be bought on world
markets. It is, however, possible that prices would be much higher than indicated
above. Also, shipping could be a bottleneck, resulting in a substantial increase
in CIF India prices. If, for instance, such bottlenecks would result in an
additional increase of US$10 per ton on India's imports, which is not inconceiv-
able, the rate of return would be about 10%.
Indirect Benefits
9.        There are, in  addition to the direct benefits, also indirect benefits that
accrue to a contingency stock operation. The increased incentives to farmers
created by stable prices could not be analyzed in quantitative terms, but their
effects upon India's prospects for achieving self-sufficiency are nevertheless
substantial.
Conclusions Covering Above Model
10.       The above analysis indicates that the rate of return on a contingency
stock operation of 5 million tons would be at least 5% and possibly 10% when
additional factors such as shipping bottlenecks and conceivably higher import
prices are considered. In addition, there are substantial indirect benefits,
which were not taken into account.



ANNEX 21
Page 3
Computer Model
11.       The above calculations are, of course, very specific to the
particular selected sequence of deviations from normal production and are in
this sense only illustrative. A slightly different model was used to
simulate, with the aid of a computer, the expected rate of return from contingency
stocks on a sample of 300 randomly selected 30-year series. The major adjust-
ment in the model is that production remains constant over time and is subject
to a uniform probability distribution, ranging from 85 to 115 million tons.
The rates of return under this model are substantially the same as those
calculated above.
June 8, 1971






INDIA
0
WHeAT SToRAGE T0RWECT
Analysis of Contingeney Stock Operation - Bedefits of' Domestic Sales
H
Price per  Price per
Projected   Projected   Surplus or Surplus or  Ton US$   Ton US$
Normal       Actual    Deficit in  Deficit in   Without    With         Govt.   Govt.  Govt.                         Total       Net                 Grain
Consumption  Production   Quantity       %        Storage    Storage   Purchases Sales Stocks  Purchase  Storage  Financial   Sales    Financial  Storage   Domestic
----------ton  000         --                                           -------ton  000 ---------   Cost     Cost      Cost    Revenues   Profits   Losses    Benefits   (cont.)
(1)         (2)         (3)         (4)         (5)        (6)         (7)      (9)    (9)      (10)     (11)      (12)        (13)       (14)     (15)        (16)
1970     87,232      84,776      -2,456       -2.80      64.20    -64.20          -        -       -        -        -          -
1971     88,864      90,452      +1,588       +1.78      57.33       57 .33                            -             -          _
1972     90,496      91,234        +738       4o.80      58.80       58.80        -                -        -
1973     92,098     101,598      +9,500      +10.30      44.55       44.55        -            -       -         -        -                _
1976     95,000     103,985      +8,985       +9.45      45.83       53.72      5,000            5,000   248,850    7,500   256,350        -     (256,350)             (256,350)
1975     98,087      88,208      -9,879      -10.07       75.10    -67.65         -      5,)00     -        -       7,500      7,500    351,400   363,900      -        343,900
1976    101,270     104,930      +3,660       +3.61      54.59       60.00      3,660      -    3,660   209,718    6,830   216,548         -     (216,548)    -        (216,548)
1977    104,566      92,651     -11,915      -11.39      77.08    -71.83          -      3,660     -        -       6,830     6,830    267,864   2f1,036      -         261,034
1978    107,967     114,730      .6,763       +6.26       50.61      57.56      5,000            5,000   270,400    7,500   277,900        -     (277,900)    -        (277,900)
1979    111,473     117,485      +6,012       +5.39      51.91       51.91        -        .    5,000       -      10,000    10,000        -      (10,000)  12,000      (22,000)
1980    115,092     121,311      +6,219       +5.40      51.90       51.90        -        -    5,nO0       -      10,000    10,000        -      (10,000)  12,000      (22,000)
1981    118,835     127,908      +9,073       +7.63      48.56       48.56        -        -    5,000       -      10,000    10,000        -      (10,000)  12,000      (22,000)
1982    122,702     213,944      -8,758       -6.73      70.09    -63.99          -      5,000     -        -       7,500     7,500    330,200   322,700      -         322,700
1983    126,825     121,113      -5,712       -4.50      66.75       66.75        -        -       -        -       5,000     5,000        -       (5,000)    -          (5,000)
1984   130,805      136,377      +5,572       +4.25      53.63       59.35      5,ooo            5,000   282,450    7,500   289,950        -     (289,950)    -        (289,950)
1985    135,052     150,792     +15,740      +11.63      42.56       42.56                       5,000      -      10,000    10,000        -      (10,000)  12,000      (22,000)
1986    139,441     139,910        +469       +0.33      59.51       59.51        -        -    5,ooo       -      10,000    10,000        -      (10,000)  12,000      (22,000)
1987    143,973     128,199     -15,774      -10.95       76.62      71.22        -      5,000     -        -       7,500      7,500    364,100   356,600     -         356,600
1988    148,656     156,936      +8,280       +5.56      51.66       56.69      5,000      -    5,000   270,900    7,500   278,400         -     (278,400)    -        (278,400)
1989    153,425     148,026      -5,399       -3.51       65.26      60.39        -      5,000     -        -       7,500      7,500    309,100   301,600      -        301,600
1990    158,479     168,047      +9,568       +6.26       50.61      55.35      5,000      -    5,o00    264,900    7,500   272,400        -     (272,400)    -        (272,400)
1991    163,627     162,202      -1,425       -0.87      61.30       60.00        -      1,625   3,575      -       9,287      9,287     86,001    76,716    3,<2o      66,136
1992    168,938     186,629     +17,691      -10.47      44.29       45.56      1,425      -    5,000    64,o0l    9,287    73,298         -      (73,298)  12,000      (85,298)
1993    174,420     187,737     +13,317       +7.66      48.51       48.51        -        -    5,000       -      10,000    10,000        -      (10,000)  12,000      (22,000)
1994    180,025     188,292      +8,267       +4.59       53.12      53.12        -        -    5,000       -      10,000    10,000        -      (10,000)  12,000      (22,000)
1995    185,953     186,732        +779       +0.41       59.38      59.38        -        .    5,000       -      10,000    10,000        -      (10,000) 12,000       (22,000)
1996    191,995     186,701      -5,296        -2.75      64.12      60.23        -      5,000     -        -        7,500     7,500    305,850   298,350      -        298,350
1997    198,236     221,339     +23,103      +11.65      42-53       46.30      5,000            5,000   222,050    7,500   229,550        -     (229,550)    -        (229,550)
1998    204,687     224,o46     +19,359        +9.45      45.82      45.82        -              5,000      -      10,000    10,000        -      (10,000)  12,000      (22,000)       , 
1999    211,377     217,174      +5,797       +2.74       55.19      55.19        -              5,000      -      10,000    10,000        -      (10,000)  12,000      (22,000)      ,
2000    218,206     213,297      -4,909        -2.24     63.36       60.00        -      4,9O9      91      -       7,545      7,545    297,878   290,333      -        290,333       HIN



INDIA
o                             ~t~HEAT STORAGE PROJECT
Analysis of Contingency Stock Operation -  Import Price Savings
(D
Wheat Price      World                              Incremental       Total Economic
with Con-        Market           Added Cost        Cost Sav-         Benefits
tingency         Procure-         Per Ton of        ing Due           of Contin-
Stocks           ment Price       World Market      to Local          gency Stock
(US$/ton)                        Procurement        Proo-rement       (Cols. 20 + 16)
(17)             (18)               (19)             (20)               (21)
1970
1971
1972
1973
1974                                                                             (256,350)
1975       71.27             79.75               8.48           42,400            386,300
1976                                                                             (216, 548)
1977       74.75             77.15               2.40            9,882            270,916
1978                                                                              (277,900)
1979                                                                               (22,000)
1980                                                                               (22,000)
1981                                                                               (22,000)
1982       67.04             79.75              12.71           63,550            386 250
1983                                                                               ( Y 000)
1984                                                                              (289,'950)
1985                                                                               (22,000)
1986                                                                               (22,000)
1987       73.82             79.75               5.93           29,650            386,250
1988                                                                             (278,400)
1989       62.82             79.75              16.93           84,650            386,250
1990                                                                              (272,400)
1991       60.65             72.78              12.13           17,285             83,419
1992                                                                               (85,298)
1993                                                                              (22,000)
1994                                                                              (22,000)
1995                                                                               (22,000)
1996       62.17             79-75              17.58           87,900            386,250
1997                                                                             (229,550)
1998                                                                              (22,000)
1999                                                                              (22,000)
2000       61.68            79.55               17.87           87,724            378,057



~~~~~~(.    L                    A                   jbg
JAMMU &KASHMIR
t                4      >ACH"AGHAL
N           ~~~PRADESH
s <9         e                                           ~~~~~~T I B E T
Iq                    s'N4/BH4UTAN        A  S                        |
"r'  C  tt'LS--'-'                               <, .  
E /~~~~~
~PAKISTAN  ( ' 
INDIA
ARA/  /kw9--<                          ., ,                                                             ) ... 0WHEAT STORAGE PROJECT
TD   o"A-T^tv\       r       t                      ~~~~U XATION OF PROPOSED STORAGE FACILITIES
*WMbIIS   *S9uI              SnEakNW        ;OCATION OF IKOPOSID STORAGE FACILIES
OSTATI A.O TENlOSTOT SERA  FOUNDARLIES
DISTRICT TOUNPAiI!S
KE^
.  '           '           W  .-*s~~~~~~UIC'  ( /'
-AY 1971                                                                                                                                              iBRC tiAii



