CONFORMED COPY
tlopment Eredit
agreement
(Wheat Storage Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INDIA
DATED AUGUST 23, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
E)mclopment Eredit
agreement
(Wheat Storage Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INDIA
DATED AUGUST 23, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Wheat Storage Project) between the KINGDOM OF SWEDEN, on the one
hand and INDIA, acting by its President, on the other hand (hereinafter called
the Agreement).
WHEREAS the Kingdom of Sweden and India, acting by its President,
desiring to strengthen the cooperation and cordial relations between them, have
agreed that as a contribution to the economic and social development of the
Republic of India, the Kingdom of Sweden (hereinafter called the Lender) shall
extend to India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower), a
development credit (hereinafter called the Swedish Credit) to assist in the financing
of a wheat storage project (hereinafter called the Project), to be undertaken by
the Food Corporation of India (hereinafter called the Corporation);
WHEREAS the Borrower has entered into a development credit agreement
of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Association Credit Agreement) with
the International Development Association (hereinafter called the Association) with
regard to further assistance towards the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Lender, the Borrower, the Association and the Corporation
have also entered into an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the
Joint Financing Agreement) in respect of the allocation, withdrawal and use of
the proceeds of financing under the aforementioned agreements and the execution
of the Project, as well as other matters;
NOW THEREFORE the Lender and the Borrower agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
The Swedish Credit
1.   The Lender shall make available to the Borrower a development credit
in an amount of twenty-six million Swedish Kronor (SKr26,000,000) subject to
the provisions of the Agreement, of which the attached Annex forms an integral
part, and to such other provisions as may be agreed upon between the Parties.
2.   The Swedish Credit shall be available for withdrawal in an amount
of SKrl6,000,000 from the effective date of the Agreement, and in its entirety
from July 1, 1972.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Use of the Proceeds of the Swedish Credit
The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Swedish Credit to be used
by the Corporation in accordance with the Agreement and the Joint Financing
Agreement to assist, concurrently with the credit provided for under the Association
Credit Agreement (hereinafter called the Association Credit), in financing the
Project. To that end, the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Swedish Credit
to the Corporation on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Lender.
ARTICLE III
The Special Account
The amount to be made available in accordance with Article I shall be paid
by the Lender, as required to meet requests for withdrawals, to the credit of an
account in Swedish Kronor opened in the books of the Sveriges Riksbank,
Stockholm, acting as agent for the Lender. The account shall be held in favor
of the Borrower by the Chief Accounting Officer, High Commission of India,
London, and shall be denominated "Government of India, Special Account No. 6"
(hereinafter called the Special Account).
ARTICLE IV
Withdrawal from the Special Account
1.   The Corporation, on behalf of the Borrower, shall be entitled, subject
to the provisions of the Agreement and the Joint Financing Agreement, to withdraw
from the Special Account such proportion of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed by the Lender and the
Association, as agreed in accordance with the terms of the Joint Financing
Agreement.
2.   The closing date for withdrawals shall be September 30, 1975, or such
other date as may be agreed upon between the Parties hereto.
ARTICLE V
Service of the Swedish Credit
1.   The Borrower shall be obligated to pay to the Lender a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal


﻿5
amount of the Swedish Credit withdrawn from the Special Account and outstanding
from time to time. The service charge shall be payable semi-annually on June 15
and December 15 each year. However, the first such payment shall not be made
before June 15, 1972. The service charge shall be computed on the basis of a
360 day year of twelve 30 day months.
2.    The Borrower shall be obligated to repay to the Lender the principal
of the Swedish Credit withdrawn from the Special Account in semi-annual
installments payable on June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 1982,
and ending December 15, 2021, each installment to and including the installment
payable on December 15, 1991, to be one-half per cent (1/2%) of such principal
amount and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount. The Borrower shall have the right to repay in advance
of maturity all or any part of the principal amount of one or more maturities
of the Swedish Credit specified by the Borrower.
3.   The principal of and service charge on the Swedish Credit shall be
paid by the Borrower in Swedish Kronor to the Sveriges Riksbank in favor of
the Lender.
4.    The principal of and service charge on the Swedish Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes and charges and free from
all restrictions imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
1.   The Borrower shall take all necessary steps within its power to enable
the Corporation to perform, and shall not take any action which would prevent
the Corporation from performing, the covenants, agreements and obligations of
the Corporation under the Joint Financing Agreement.
2.   The Borrower shall furnish to the Lender evidence of the authority
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Borrower, take any action
or execute any document under the Agreement.
3.   Any notice or request under the Agreement and any agreement
between the Parties contemplated by the Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice
or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when delivered through
diplomatic channels.


﻿6
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
1.   The Agreement shall become effective after it has been signed by duly
authorized representatives of the Parties and concurrently with the Association
Credit Agreement becoming effective.
2.    The Agreement and all obligations of the Parties hereunder, except
those set forth in Article V and in the Annex, shall terminate on a date 25 years
after the date of the Agreement or the date upon which the Parties shall have
fulfilled all obligations, including those set forth in Article V, arising from the
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused the Agreement to be signed.
Done in the District of Columbia, United States of America, on the 23rd
day of August 1971, in two original copies in English.
For the
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By /s/ Curt Lidgard
Authorized Representative
For
INDIA
By /s/ Lakshmi Kant Jha
Authorized Representative


﻿7
ANNEX
The following provisions shall govern the rights and obligations under the
Agreement, of which they are considered an integral part with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth therein.
Paragraph 1: Cancellation and Suspension
1.1  The Borrower may by notice to the Lender cancel any amount of the Swedish
Credit which the Borrower shall not have withdrawn, or with respect to which
the Lender shall not be bound through a special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to the Joint Financing Agreement, prior to the giving
of such notice.
1.2  If any of the following events shall have happened and be continuing, the
Lender may by notice to the Borrower suspend, in whole or in part, the right
of the Corporation acting on behalf of the Borrower to make withdrawals from
the Special Account:
(a)  A default shall have occurred in the payment of principal or service
charge under the Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower or the Corporation shall have failed to meet any other
obligation under the Agreement or the Joint Financing Agreement and shall not
have rectified such failure after notice by the Lender.
(c)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Borrower will be able to perform its obligations under the
Agreement.
(d)  The right of the Corporation to withdraw the proceeds of the
Association Credit shall have been suspended or terminated, in whole or in part.
(e)  The outstanding principal of the Association Credit shall have been
declared, or become, due and payable in advance of the agreed maturity thereof.
(f)  The Borrower shall have cancelled any part of the Association Credit
without having cancelled, at the same time, a corresponding proportion of the
Swedish Credit.
1.3  The right of the Corporation acting on behalf of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Special Account shall continue to be suspended in whole


﻿8
or in part, as the case may be, until the event or events which gave rise to such
suspension shall have ceased to exist or until the Lender shall have notified the
Borrower that the right to make withdrawals has been restored, whichever is the
earlier; provided, however, that in the case of any such notice of restoration, the
right to make withdrawals shall be restored only to the extent and subject to
the conditions specified in such notice, and no such notice shall affect or impair
any rights, power or remedy of the Lender in respect of any other or subsequent
event described in this Paragraph.
1.4  If (a) the right of the Corporation acting on behalf of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Special Account shall have been suspended with respect to
any amount of the Swedish Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
by the date specified in Article IV, Section 2, of the Agreement as the closing
date an amount of the Swedish Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Special
Account, the Lender may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Corporation acting on behalf of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect
to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice such amount of the Swedish Credit
shall be cancelled.
1.5  No cancellation or suspension by the Lender shall apply to amounts with
respect to which the Lender shall be bound through a special commitment entered
into by the Association pursuant to the Joint Financing Agreement.
1.6  Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension all the provisions of the
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as in this Paragraph
specifically provided.
Paragraph 2: Remedies of the Lender
If any event specified in sub-paragraphs 1.2 (a), (d) or (f) of Paragraph I
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or if any event specified
in sub-paragraphs 1.2 (b) or (c) of Paragraph 1 shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Lender
to the Borrower, or if the event specified in sub-paragraph 1.2 (e) of Paragraph
I shall occur, then at any subsequent time the Lender, at his option, may declare
the principal of the Swedish Credit then outstanding to be due and payable
immediately, and upon any such declaration such principal shall become due and
payable immediately, anything in the Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Paragraph 3: Failure to Exercise Rights
No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise any right, power or remedy
accruing to either Party under the Agreement upon any default shall impair any


﻿9
such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an
acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such Party in respect of any
default or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right, power or
remedy of such Party in respect of any other or subsequent default.
Paragraph 4: Arbitration
(a)   Any controversy between the Parties to the Agreement and any claim
by either Party against the other arising under the Agreement which cannot be
settled in a satisfactory manner through diplomatic channels, within six months,
will at the request of either Party be submitted to arbitration by an Arbitral
Tribunal as hereinafter provided.
(b)   The Parties to such arbitration shall be the Lender and the Borrower.
(c)   The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three arbitrators appointed as
follows: one arbitrator shall be appointed by the Lender; a second arbitrator shall
be appointed by the Borrower; and the third arbitrator (hereinafter called the
presiding arbitrator) shall be appointed by agreement of the Parties or, if they
shall not agree, by the President of the International Court of Justice or failing
appointment by him, by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If either
of the Parties shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such arbitrator shall be appointed
by the presiding arbitrator. In case any arbitrator appointed in accordance with
this Paragraph shall resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator
shall be appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed for the appointment
of the original arbitrator and such successor shall have all the powers and duties
of such original arbitrator.
(d)   Arbitration proceedings may be instituted under this Paragraph upon
notice by the Party instituting such proceeding to the other Party. Such notice
shall contain a statement setting forth the nature of the controversy or claim to
be submitted to arbitration, the nature of the relief sought, and the name of the
arbitrator appointed by the Party instituting such proceeding. Within thirty days
after the giving of such notice, the adverse Party shall notify the Party instituting
the proceeding of the name of the arbitrator appointed by such adverse Party.
(e)   If, within sixty days after the giving of such notice instituting the
arbitration proceeding, the Parties shall not have agreed upon a presiding arbitrator,
either Party may request the appointment of a presiding arbitrator as provided
in sub-paragraph (c) of this Paragraph.
(f)   The Arbitral Tribunal shall convene at such time and place as shall
be fixed by the presiding arbitrator. Thereafter, the Arbitral Tribunal shall
determine where and when it shall sit.


﻿10
(g)   Subject to the provisions of this Paragraph and except as the Parties
shall otherwise agree, the Arbitral Tribunal shall decide all questions relating to
its competence and shall determine its procedure. All decisions of the Arbitral
Tribunal shall be by a majority vote.
(h)   The Arbitral Tribunal shall afford to the Parties a fair hearing and
shall render its award in writing. Such award may be rendered by default. An
award signed by a majority of the Arbitral Tribunal shall constitute the award
of such Tribunal. A signed counterpart of the award shall be transmitted to each
Party. Any such award rendered in accordance with the provisions of this Paragraph
shall be final and binding upon the Parties to the Agreement. Each Party shall
abide by and comply with any such award rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal in
accordance with the provisions of this Paragraph.
(i)   The provisions for arbitration set forth in this Paragraph shall be in
lieu of any other procedure for the determination of controversies between the
Parties to the Agreement and any claims by either Party against the other Party
arising thereunder.
(j)   Service of any notice or process in connection with any proceeding
under this Paragraph or in connection with any proceeding to enforce any award
rendered pursuant to this Paragraph shall be made through diplomatic channels.


