CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 267 IN
Joint Financing Agreement
(Wheat Storage Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
FOOD CORPORATION OF INDIA
DATED AUGUST 23, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 267 IN
Joint Financing Agreement
(Wheat Storage Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
FOOD CORPORATION OF INDIA
DATED AUGUST 23, 1971


﻿JOINT FINANCING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1971, between INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called India), the KINGDOM OF SWEDEN (hereinafter called
Sweden), INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and FOOD CORPORATION OF INDIA, a corporation established
and existing under the laws of India (hereinafter called the Corporation).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement with India of even date
herewith, Sweden has agreed to make available to India for relending to the
Corporation a credit in a principal amount of twenty-six million Swedish Kronor
(SKr26,000,000) equivalent at present parity rate to approximately five million
dollars ($5,000,000) for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the Project
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS by a further development credit agreement of even date herewith,
the Association has agreed to make available to India for relending to the
Corporation a credit in a principal amount in various currencies equivalent to five
million dollars ($5,000,000) for the same purpose; and
WHEREAS the parties hereto have agreed on the allocation, withdrawal and
use of the proceeds of such credits and the execution of the Project to be financed
thereby, as well as on other matters, as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms
wherever used in this Agreement shall have the following meanings:
(a)   The term "Swedish Credit Agreement" means the development credit
agreement referred to in the first Recital to this Agreement, as from time to time
amended.
(b)   The term  "Association Credit Agreement" means the development
credit agreement referred to in the second Recital to this Agreement, as from time
to time amended.


﻿4
(c)   The term  "Swedish Credit" means the credit provided for in the
Swedish Credit Agreement.
(d)   The term "Association Credit" means the credit provided for in the
Association Credit Agreement.
(e)   The terms "Swedish Credit Account" and "Association Credit
Account" mean the respective accounts established under the Swedish Credit
Agreement and the Association Credit Agreement.
(f)   The term "Project" means the Project described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
(g)   The term  "Swedish Relending Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between India and the Corporation, as from time to time
amended.
(h)   The term "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even
date herewith between India and the Corporation, as from time to time amended.
ARTICLE II
Allocation and Withdrawals of Proceeds of
Swedish Credit and Association Credit
Section 2.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and cancellation set forth
in the Swedish Credit Agreement and the Association Credit Agreement and subject
to the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Association Credit Agreement, the amount
of the Swedish Credit and the Association Credit may be withdrawn from the
Swedish Credit Account or the Association Credit Account, respectively, in
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and with the allocation of the
proceeds of the Swedish Credit and Association Credit set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant
to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement between Sweden, the
Association and the Corporation.
Section 2.02. The Corporation shall be entitled on behalf of India to
withdraw from the Swedish Credit Account and from the Association Credit
Account such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree,
as shall be required to meet payments to be made) for the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project.


﻿5
Section 2.03. (a) When the Corporation shall desire to withdraw any amount
of the Swedish Credit or the Association Credit, the Corporation shall deliver to
the Association a written application in such form and containing such statements
and agreements as the Association shall reasonably request. Applications for
withdrawal, with the necessary documentation, as hereinafter provided shall, except
as the Association and the Corporation shall otherwise agree, be made promptly
in relation to expenditures for the Project.
(b)   The Corporation shall furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence in support of the application as the Association shall reasonably
request, whether before or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c)   Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence
must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Association that the
Corporation is entitled to withdraw from the Swedish Credit Account or the
Association Credit Account the amount applied for and that such amount is to
be used only for the purposes specified in this Agreement.
Section 2.04. Each such application by the Corporation for withdrawal shall
be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds on behalf of India from the Swedish
Credit Account or from the Association Credit Account, or from both Accounts,
as the case may be.
Section 2.05. (a) When the Association shall have approved an application
by the Corporation for withdrawal, the Association shall:
(i)        pay the amount which the Corporation is entitled to withdraw
from the Association Credit Account to or on the order of the
Corporation in accordance with the provisions of the Association
Credit Agreement; or
(ii)       promptly notify the Sveriges Riksbank, acting as agent for
Sweden, in the manner and to the extent set forth in this
Agreement, that it has received an application for withdrawal
from the Swedish Credit Account and that the amount set forth
in such notice is eligible for payment by the Sveriges Riksbank.
Upon receipt of such notice from the Association, the Sveriges
Riksbank shall, subject to the rights of suspension and
cancellation of the Swedish Credit set forth in the Swedish Credit
Agreement, pay the amount so to be withdrawn from the


﻿6
Swedish Credit Account in the currency and to the payee stated
in the notice.
Section 2.06. (a) Upon the Corporation's request and upon such terms and
conditions as shall be agreed upon between the Association and the Corporation,
the Association may enter into special commitments in writing for payment in
respect of the cost of goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Swedish Credit. Any such special commitment by the Association shall, once
it has been notified'to Sweden and the Sveriges Riksbank, constitute an obligation
on the part of Sweden to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or
cancellation of the Swedish Credit, the amount to be disbursed in fulfillment of
such special commitment.
(b)   Each such request by the Corporation for a special commitment in
respect of the Swedish Credit shall be deemed to be a request for a special
commitment on behalf of India.
Section 2.07. If for purposes of this Agreement any proceeds of the Swedish
Credit are to be withdrawn in a currency other than Swedish Kronor, the Sveriges
Riksbank shall remit the requested foreign currency amount and shall debit the
Swedish Credit Account with the Swedish Kronor equivalent of such amount
calculated on the basis of the current market selling rate or, if no such rate applies,
such rate as shall be reasonably determined by the Sveriges Riksbank.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Use of
Proceeds of Swedish Credit and Association Credit
Section 3.01. The Corporation shall carry out the Project, described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound engineering, administrative and financial practices.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Corporation in designing and
supervising the construction of the silos in Part A of the Project, the Corporation
shall employ experienced and qualified engineering consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In order to carry out Part C of the Project, India shall within six
months of the date of this Agreement enter into discussions with Sweden and
the Association on an All-India Grain Storage and Distribution Study which would
assist India in preparing an investment program for grain storage, distribution and


﻿7
processing facilities. These discussions shall take into account the progress and
findings of related studies already underway. If India, Sweden and the Association
agree that the employment of consultants is necessary for the aforesaid Study,
then India shall employ experienced and qualified consultants acceptable to the
Association, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the Project, the Corporation shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.04. All the sites required for carrying out Part A of the Project
shall be acceptable to the Association and, except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Corporation shall acquire all such sites within three months of the date
of this Agreement.
Section 3.05. (a) The Corporation shall apply the proceeds of the Swedish
Credit and the Association Credit to expenditures on the Project to be financed
with the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the Association Credit in accordance
with the provisions of this Agreement.
(b)   Except as Sweden and the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than consultants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Swedish Credit and the Association Credit shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, provided, however, that
goods and services in Category I (a) and (b) of Schedule 2 may be procured on
the basis generally employed by India and the Corporation for the procurement
of goods and services subject to the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(c)   The Corporation undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Swedish Credit and the Association Credit against marine, transit and other hazards
incident to acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use
or installation and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Corporation to replace or repair such goods. The Corporation
shall keep the Association informed of such insurance arrangements.
(d)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Corporation shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit
and the Association Credit to be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project.


﻿8
Section 3.06. (a) The Corporation shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans and specifications for Part A of the Project and
any material modifications or amplifications thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Corporation shall furnish to the Association for its consideration
within six months of the date of this Agreement, a training program for the staff
mentioned in Part B of the Project.
(c)   The Corporation: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the Association
Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable representatives
of Sweden and the Association to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the Association Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to Sweden and the Association all
such information as Sweden and the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the
Association Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operation of the Corporation
Section 4.01. (a) The Corporation shall at all times manage its affairs, plan
the development of its properties and facilities, and maintain its financial position
all in accordance with sound engineering, administrative and financial principles
and practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent management;
and shall cause its plant, equipment, properties and facilities to be maintained and
all necessary renewals and repairs thereto to be made, all in accordance with sound
engineering practices.
(b)   The Corporation shall at all times have a Cost Control Unit headed
by a person with satisfactory experience and qualifications and appoint within six
months of the date of this Agreement a Head of its Planning and Research Division,
who shall also have satisfactory experience and qualifications.
(c)   The Corporation shall continue to appoint, retain or promote a
sufficient number of qualified and experienced staff to enable the Corporation
to conduct its operations efficiently.


﻿9
Section 4.02. The Corporation shall make provisions satisfactory to the
Association against insurance risks, consistent with sound foodgrain storage and
distribution practice.
Section 4.03. The Corporation shall not, without the consent of the
Association, sell or otherwise dispose of any of the fixed assets that it has acquired
with the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the Association Credit, prior to
December 31, 1995.
Section 4.04. The Corporation shall establish separate accounts reflecting the
investment cost. wheat flow and the operating cost of Part A of the Project for
each fiscal year and will have these accounts audited in accordance with sound
accounting principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association.
Section 4.05. The Corporation shall have a balance sheet, schedule of fixed
assets and profit and loss account for each fiscal year prepared and audited in
accordance with the provisions of Section 34 of the Food Corporations Act, 1964
and the Rules framed thereunder.
0               Section 4.06. The Corporation shall furnish to the Association as soon as
they are available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year (A) three certified copies of each of the accounts referred to in
Sections 4.04 and 4.05 above, as so audited, and (B) the report of each audit
by the said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and furnish to the Association such other information
concerning each of the aforesaid accounts and the audits thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Covenants of India
Section 5.01. India undertakes that, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to the Corporation will be inadequate to meet
the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, it will
make arrangements satisfactory to the Association promptly to provide the
Corporation or cause the Corporation to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Consultation; Information and Inspection
Section 6.01. The Corporation shall cooperate fully with Sweden and the
Association to assure that the purposes of the Swedish Credit and the Association
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, Sweden, the Association and the
Corporation shall from time to time, at the request of any party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under the Swedish Relending Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and this Agreement as well as the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Corporation and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Swedish Credit and the Association Credit.
Section 6.02. The Corporation, Sweden and the Association shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Swedish Credit and the Association
Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by any party
of its obligations under the Swedish Relending Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The Corporation shall enable representatives of Sweden and
the Association to inspect all plants, sites, works, properties, equipment, records
and documents relevant to the Project.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall have been delivered by
hand or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address specified below or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such request:
For India:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India


﻿S                                11
Alternative address for cables:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For Sweden:
(a)   insofar as Sveriges Riksbank acts as agent
for Sweden for purposes of this Agreement:
Sveriges Riksbank
Box 2119
Stockholm 2
Sweden
Alternative address for cables:
Riksbanken
Stockholm
(b)   for all other purposes:
Swedish International Development Authority
10525
Stockholm 1
Sweden
Alternative address for cables:
SIDA
Stockholm
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
For the Corporation:
Food Corporation of India
1, Bahadurshah Zafar Marg
New Delhi
India
Alternative address for cables:
Food Corp.
New Delhi
Section 7.02. The Corporation shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority of the person or persons who will sign the applications
provided for under Article II of this Agreement or who will, on behalf of the
Corporation, take any other action or execute any other documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by the Corporation under this Agreement, and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original. All such counterparts shall collectively be but one
instrument.
Section 7.04. (a) Except as shall be otherwise agreed by the parties hereto,
this Agreement shall become effective on the earliest date upon which the Swedish
Credit Agreement and the Association Credit Agreement shall both be in effect.
(b)   If the Association Credit Agreement terminates for failure to become
effective in accordance with its terms, this Agreement shall forthwith terminate
and the Association shall promptly notify the other parties of such termination.
Section 7.05. This Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereto
hereunder shall terminate (i) on the date upon which both the Swedish Credit
Agreement and the Association Credit Agreement shall have terminated or (ii) on
a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement or (iii) on the date upon which
the parties shall have fulfilled all obligations arising from this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 7.06. Upon termination of the Swedish Credit Agreement or the
Association Credit Agreement only, Sweden or the Association, as the case may
be, shall promptly notify the other parties hereto and, upon such notification,
this Agreement shall continue to remain in force and effect only for the purpose


﻿13
of implementation of the Association Credit Agreement or the Swedish Credit
Agreement and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties
hereunder, subject to such modifications of this Agreement as shall be agreed among
the parties thereto or as shall be reasonably requested by Sweden or the Association
for such purposes.
Section 7.07. Unless otherwise notified to India, the Association and the
Corporation by Sweden, the Association shall represent Sweden in all matters
relating to the implementation of, including amendments to, this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names, and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Lakshmi Kant Jha
Authorized Representative
KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
By /s/ Curt Lidgard
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
FOOD CORPORATION OF INDIA
By /s/ Lakshmi Kant Jha
Authorized Representative


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A
The planning, designing, constructing by slip form methods, equipping and
operating of 10 silos with a capacity of 20,000 tons each and the planning,
designing, constructing by conventional methods, equipping and operating of 10
godowns with a capacity of 10,000 tons each, on sites that are acceptable to the
Association in the states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.
Part B
Training staff to operate the said silos in accordance with a training program
mutually acceptable to the Association and the Corporation.
Part C
Contingent upon the discussions referred to in Section 3.02 (b) of this
Agreement, the carrying out of an All-India Grain Storage and Distribution Study
under terms of reference to be agreed upon by India, Sweden and the Association.
The construction of Part A and all of Part B and Part C of the Project
is expected to be completed by December 31, 1974.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of Proceeds of Swedish Credit
and Association Credit equivalent in the
aggregate to US$10,000,000 on the basis of
the parity rate between the Swedish Kronor and
the US Dollar at the date of this Agreement
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the Association Credit, the allocation
of the amounts of the said credits to each category and the percentage of eligible
expenditures to be financed in each category:
O of
Allocation (expressed in     Expenditures
C7tegory                   US Dollar equivalent)     to be Financed
Swedish         Association
Credit           Credit
I.    Civil works (ex-
cluding cost of
sites)
(a)   Silos            4,000,000                       63% of total
expenditures
(b)   Godowns                           1,200,000      37% of total
expenditures
II.   Mechanical and                          2,400,000      100% of to-
electrical                                             tal expend-
equipment                                              itures
III.  Engineering and                           280,000      100% of for-
other consulting                                       eign expend-
services acquired                                     itures
outside India and
cost of training
staff outside India
IV.   Consulting serv-                          120,000      50% of local
ices in India and                                      expenditures
cost of training
staff in India
V.    Unallocated            1,000,000        1,000,000
TOTAL         5,000,000        5,000,000


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Association (other than India) or of Switzerland;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
India, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of India;
and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to July 20, 1971; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of India or laws in effect
in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the fourth column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Swedish Credit or the Association Credit
will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    The US dollar equivalent of the Swedish Credit is shown on the basis of
the present parity rate between the Swedish Kronor and the US dollar. Should
such rate change, any increase of the US dollar equivalent of the Swedish Credit
will be credited by the Association to the second column of Category V of the
table in paragraph I above and any decrease in such equivalent shall be charged
against the second column of such Category.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of the amounts of the Swedish Credit and
the Association Credit set forth in the second and third columns of he table in
paragraph I above, if the estimate of expenditures under any Category shall
decrease, the amounts of the Swedish Credit and the Association Credit then
allocated to such Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated by
the Association by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amounts of the
Swedish Credit or the Association Credit or by increasing (up to a maximum of
100% net of taxes) the percentage applicable to Category I (a) in the case of
a decrease of expenditures under the Swedish Credit or I (b) or IV in the case


﻿17
of a decrease of expenditures under the Association Credit, provided, however,
that (i) if the Corporation gives notice to the Association or the Association, after
consultation with the Corporation, determines that any Part of the Project or a
portion of any Part will not be carried out, then the amounts of the Swedish
Credit or the Association Credit allocated to that Part or portion of a Part will
not be reallocated in the manner set forth above, but shall be cancelled, and (ii)
no proceeds of the Association Credit shall be allocated to finance expenditures
under Category I (a), unless the particular goods and services included in Category
I (a) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Association Credit shall have
been procured on the basis of international competition described in Section
3.05 (b) of this Agreement and in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
6.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the fourth column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of expenditures under Category I, II, III
or IV shall increase, the Association will reallocate correspondingly the unallocated
amounts, if any, of the Swedish Credit or the Association Credit by increasing
the amount allocated to Category I (a) in the case of the Swedish Credit and
Categories I (b), II, III or IV in the case of the Association Credit, provided,
however, that if in respect of increases in the estimate of expenditures under
Categories I (a) and (b) or IV no unallocated amounts of the Swedish Credit or
the Association Credit are available for reallocation to such Categories, the
Association may, by notice to India and the Corporation, adjust the percentage
of the Swedish Credit or the Association Credit then applicable to such expenditures
in order that further withdrawals under any such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works or to any contract for equipment
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more:
(a)   All bidders will be required to pre-qualify on the basis, inter alia, of
experience (and in the case of silo construction on the basis of experience in the
slip form method), and the Corporation shall, before qualification is invited, inform
the Association in detail of the pre-qualification procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of pre-qualified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and experience and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for pre-qualification, shall be furnished by the Corporation to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified and the Corporation
shall make such additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   Before   bids are   invited, the  Corporation   shall furnish  to  the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedure to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification or addition to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Corporation shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name
of the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Corporation's
consultants on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of said consultants, and the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall promptly inform the Corporation whether it has any
objection to the intended award and shall state the reasons for any objection it
may have.
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection or
if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the Association Credit.


﻿A-
19
(e)   Copy of the contract shall be furnished to the Association promptly
after its execution.
2.    With respect to any other contract for equipment, the Corporation shall,
promptly after the contract is awarded, furnish to the Association copy of the
contract as well as copy of the record of public opening of the bids, the bid
evaluation report and recommendations for award of the Corporation's consultants
and a statement of the reasons for any departure from such recommendations.
The Association shall promptly inform the Corporation if it finds that the award
of the contract is not consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement
and, in such event, no expenditures under such contract shall be financed out
of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit and the Association Credit.
3.    A single invitation to bid will be issued for the silos to be constructed under
the Project, which will inter alia specify that the bidder may submit offers in
respect of one or more silos. The Corporation will have the option of either
awarding to one contractor one contract in respect of all the silos or of awarding
separate contracts in respect of one or more silos to different contractors.
4.    A single invitation to bid will be issued for the godowns to be constructed
under the Project, which will inter alia specify that the bidder may submit offers
in respect of one or more godowns. The Corporation will have the option of either
awarding to one contractor one contract in respect of all the godowns or of
awarding separate contracts in respect of one or more godowns to different
contractors.
5.    With respect to the procurement of mechanical and electrical equipment,
items shall be grouped or bulked so as to permit such procurement as will be
consistent with sound technical and procurement practices.
6.    For evaluating any competing bids received for imported and for locally
manufactured mechanical and electrical equipment, for the purposes of comparison,
the following method will be used:
(a)   The term  Local Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured or
processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association)
in the territories of India; any bid offering other goods shall be deemed a Foreign
Bid.
(b)   The comparison bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the
following amounts:


﻿20
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)        inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid
the comparison bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. price of such goods net of any taxes on their
importation;
(ii)        any such taxes, as generally apply to such goods if imported
into the territories of India by non-exempt importers, or 15%
of the amount specified in (c) (i) above, whichever shall be lower;
and
(iii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
7.    If a contract is awarded by the Corporation according to procedures
inconsistent with those set forth or referred to in Section 3.05 (b) or over the
Association's reasonable objections on the grounds of inconsistency with such
procedures or if the terms and conditions of such contract shall, without the
Association's prior concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were
asked, the Association may by notice to the Corporation cancel such amounts
of the Swedish Credit and the Association Credit as the Association shall reasonably
determine represents the expenditures on goods or services included under such
contracts or any portion of such expenditures as would otherwise have been eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of the Association Credit and the Swedish Credit,
respectively.


