7/ -37
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 267 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Wheat Storage Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 23, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 267 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Wheat Storage Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 23, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated       August 23, 1971   between INDIA, acting by its
President, (hereinafter called India) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) India has requested a credit from the Kingdom of Sweden
(hereinafter called Sweden) and a credit from the Association, to assist in the
financing of a project for the storage of wheat by the Food Corporation of India
(hereinafter called the Corporation);
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Swedish
Credit Agreement) Sweden has agreed to make available to India for relending
to the Corporation for such a project, a credit (hereinafter called the Swedish
Credit) in a principal amount of twenty-six million Swedish Kronor
(SKr26,000,000) equivalent at present parity rate to approximately five million
dollars ($5,000,000) upon terms and conditions set forth in the Swedish Credit
Agreement;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith, India, Sweden, the Association
and the Corporation have agreed on the allocation, withdrawal, and use of the
proceeds of the credits referred to in Recital (B) hereof and the execution of
the project to be financed thereby, as well as on other matters; and
(D)   The Association has, on the basis of the foregoing, agreed to make
a development credit to India upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Development Credit Agreement (the said General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Joint Financing Agreement" means the
agreement of even date herewith, referred to in Recital (C) to this Agreement,
between India, Sweden, the Association and the Corporation, as the same may
be amended from time to time by agreement of the parties thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Association Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to India, on the terms and
conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000)
(hereinafter called the Association Credit).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Association Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and
suspension set forth in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with
Article II of the Joint Financing Agreement; provided, however, that, except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which
is not a member of the Association (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1975, or such other
date as shall be agreed between India and the Association.
Section 2.04. India shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Association Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. India shall repay the principal amount of the Association Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
June 15    and   December 15    commencing    June 15, 1981    and   ending
December 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
December 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.


﻿5
Section 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.08. The Corporation is designated as representative of India for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Development Credit Agreement and Article II
of the Joint Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) India shall cause the Corporation to carry out the Project
described in Schedule I to the Joint Financing Agreement (hereinafter called the
Project) with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering,
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   India shall relend the proceeds of the Association Credit to the
Corporation under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between India
and the Corporation on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association.
(c)   India shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of India and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Association Credit, and except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, India shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   India shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all action which
shall be necessary on their part to enable the Corporation to perform all of its
obligations under the Joint Financing Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere
with such performance.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. India and the Association shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Association Credit will be accomplished. To that end, India
and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
0


﻿6
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Corporation and of the departments or agencies of India responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Association Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Association Credit. On the part of India,
such information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of India, including its balance of payments, and the
external debt of India, of any of its political subdivisions and of any agency of
India or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) India shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of the Corporation and, in respect
of the Project, the operations of the departments or agencies of India responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   India shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Association Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by India of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement or the
performance by the Corporation of its obligations under the Joint Financing
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. India shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of India for
purposes related to the Association Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Association Credit
shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the
laws of India or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Joint Financing
Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution,
delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of India or laws in effect
in its territories.
S


﻿7
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Association Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and
moratoria of any nature imposed under the laws of India or laws in effect in
its territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.02 of this Development Credit Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time
during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to
India declare the principal of the Association Credit then outstanding to be due
and payable immediately, together with the service charges thereon and upon any
such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in this Development Credit Agreement
notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The outstanding principal of the credit provided for in the Swedish
Credit Agreement shall have been declared, or become, due and payable
in advance of the agreed maturity thereof in accordance with its terms;
(b)   A default shall have occurred in the performance of any covenant or
agreement on the part of India or the Corporation under the Joint
Financing Agreement and such default shall have continued for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to India and the Corporation;
(c)   The Corporation shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by the
Corporation or by others whereby any of the property of the
Corporation shall or may be distributed among its creditors; and
(d)   India or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have suspended,
terminated, repealed or amended the Food Corporations Act, 1964
or the Food Corporations Rules, 1965, in such a way as to alter
substantially the organization, powers or responsibilities of the
Corporation so as to affect adversely the Project.


﻿8
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
The right of India to withdraw the proceeds of the credit provided
for in the Swedish Credit Agreement shall have been suspended, or, India
shall have been unable to withdraw such proceeds, in whole or in part, and
India shall have failed to obtain funds for the Project from other sources
in substitution therefor, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, and such event shall have continued for a period of 120 days.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   that the execution and delivery of the Swedish Credit Agreement
referred to in Recital (B) to this Development Credit Agreement on
behalf of India shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action;
(b)   that the execution and delivery of the agreement providing for the
relending of the proceeds of the Swedish Credit on behalf of India
and the Corporation shall have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental or corporate action;
(c)   that the execution and delivery of the subsidiary loan agreement
providing for the relending of the proceeds of the Association Credit
on behalf of India and the Corporation and referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Development Credit Agreement shall have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental or corporate
action; and
(d)   that the execution and delivery of the Joint Financing Agreement on
behalf of India and the Corporation shall have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental or corporate action and (i)
the engineering consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of the Joint
Financing Agreement have been appointed and (ii) the Corporation
has acquired the sites referred to in Section 3.04 of the Joint Financing
Agreement.
S


﻿9
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Swedish Credit Agreement referred to in Recital (B) to this
Development Credit Agreement has been duly authorized and delivered
on behalf of India, that all acts, consents and approvals necessary
therefor have been duly and validly performed or given, and that such
Swedish Credit Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of India in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the said agreement providing for the relending of the proceeds
of the Swedish Credit has been duly authorized and delivered on behalf
of India and the Corporation, that all acts, consents and approvals
necessary therefor have been duly and validly performed or given, and
that, the said agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation of
the parties thereto in accordance with its terms;
(c)   that the said subsidiary loan agreement providing for the relending
of the Association Credit has been duly authorized and delivered on
behalf of India and the Corporation, that all acts, consents and
approvals necessary therefor have been duly and validly performed or
given, and that the said subsidiary loan agreement consitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the parties thereto in accordance with its
terms; and
(d)   that the Joint Financing Agreement has been duly iuthorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf ot  r ia and the
Corporation, that all acts, consents and approvals necessary therefor
have been duly and validly performed or given, and that the Joint
Financing Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation of India
and the Corporation in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date November 15, 1971 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
Section 8.01. Any of a Secretary, Special Secretary or Joint Secretary to
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or the Director
of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower,
0


﻿10
acting singly, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For India:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
S


﻿11
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ Lakshmi Kant Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purposes of this Development Credit Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(a)   By the deletion of the word "Borrower" wherever the same shall occur
and the substitution therefor of the word "India". Wherever the context shall
require there shall be made all such grammatical changes as shall be consequential
upon the aforesaid deletion and substitution.
(b)   By the deletion of the words "Development Credit Agreement" and
the substitution therefor of the words "Joint Financing Agreement" in paragraph
9 of Section 2.01 of Article II.
(c)   By the addition of the following definition to Section 2.01 of Article
II namely:
"13. The term 'India' means India, acting by its President."
(d)   By the deletion of Sections 5.01, 5.03, 5.04, 5.05, 5.06 and 5.07 of
Article V.
(e)   By the addition of the words "and the Joint Financing Agreement"
after the words "the Development Credit Agreement" wherever they appear in
Sections 8.01 and 8.02 of Article VIII.


