Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6287-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BAN6LADE SH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 1, 1988
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department 1
Asia Region
This docment has a restcted dbuon and may be used by  ipentsu oly it he pe_fnnane of
their offcidal dutes. Its contents may not othewise be discled  Wodd Bank auhbaon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  a  Taka (Tk)
Tk 1.00        =  US$ .0323
US$1.00        a  Tk 31
1 Crore Taka   =  10 million Taka
1 lakh Taka    *  100.000 Taka
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
ha    - hectare (10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres)
km    a kilometer (0.62 miles)
m     8 meter (39.37 inches)
1km2   = square kilometer (0.386 sq. miles)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDA     - Chit tagong Development Authority
(MC     - Chittagong Municipal Corporation
DCS     - Deputy Commissioner of Settlements
DNC     - Dhaka Municipal Corporation
DPHE    - Department of Public Health and Engineering
F&D-    - Final Engineering Design
HO81-    Housing and Settlements Directorate
LCaB    - Losal Government Engineering Bureau
KLC     - Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives
MOW     - Ministry of Works
PP      -'Project Proforma
P.IU    - Project Implementation Unit
TAG     - Technology Advisory Group
UDD     - Urban Development Directorate
UNCHS   - United Nations Center for Human Settlements
UNDP    - United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF  - United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
WASAs   - Water and Sewerage Authorities (of Dhaka and Chittagong)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



BNLADESH                      FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................. ii-v
Io SECTORAL BACKGROUND .                                                 1
A.  Development Context ......................             ...  1
B. Sector Organization ........ ... ...........................  1
C.  Sector Constraints     ..........................  2
Efficient Land Development and Shelter                     2
Delivery and Maintenance of Municipal Services             3
Municipal Finance and Resource Mobilization  ...*.....  4
D. IDA's Role and Sector Strategy                                4
XI.  THE PROJECT ..........    ......      .................. ...    5
A. Project Formulation ...................*.......              5
B.  Project Objectives                                           6
C. Rationale for IDA Support                                     6
D.  Project Description ............................,........,.  6
Environmental Improvements ........o...o*o ...0......  7
Area Development and Shelter ......o..o......oo.o.oo.oo 8
Institutional Development ..............................  8
E.  Project Costs and Financing .....-....................-.   9
Cost Estimates *.......................................   9
Financing Plan ..oo.....o.........o....ooo.....ooo.oo.o.  9
F.  Pr9ject Management ......................... 00..0000.00 11
Status of Project Preparation o.o..o.o...o....ooo.o....o 11
Operational Action Plan ..............0..............  12
Implementation Responsibilities  .......................* 12
Procurement Arrangements          ...................... 13
Disbursements soooo...e.o..o.......o............ oooo. 14
Accounts and Audits ..o... o.....,.oo........o...o. 14
Reporting and Supervision ...........................  16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Bangladesh in February-March, 1986.  The mission comprised Mesrs.r
Alberto Harth (Mission Leader), Alain Bertaud (Architect Planner),
Andres Jaime and Philip Gidman (Financial Analysts), and Brian Ellis
(Municipal Engineer). The report was processed by Messrs. Alberto Harth
and Albert Kennefick. In November 1987, a post appraisal mission was con-
ducted by Messrs. George Plat (Panitary Engineer and Mission Leader) and
Basil Assimakopoulos (Sr. Engineer/Planner). With the further assistance of
Messrs. Patrick McCarthy (Sr. Financial Analyst) and Arnaud Guinard
(Sr. Project Economist), the report was updated during December 1987/January
1988. Ms. Mary Keane assisted in the production of the report.
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Table of Contents (continued)
G.  Project Justification and Risks........................... 16
Economic Evaluation                 .....                  16
Cost Recovery, Pricing and Affordability   ...............  17
Risks *.o......... *.. o.....*,*    o oo.o.oo...............o  20
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..-.......................  20
TABLES
1.  Summary Project Cost Estimates               oo.........................  10
2.  Procurement Table ....00         0 00.0............0................. 15
3.  Sources of Cost Recovery .............o...................  18
ANNEXES:
1.  Documents Available in the Project File       .................. 23
2.  Summary and Project Costs    ................................ 25
3.  Flow of Funds  o ......00000.000000000000000000004000000000 29
4.  Implementation Schedule  .       o.......oo........................ 30
5.  Operational Action Plans .........................ooo.,o o o    31
6.  Disbursement Schedule  ooooooo............ ooooooo*e*oo 0000 42
7.  DMC and CMC Financial Projections/Assumptions............. 43
8.  Chittagong Area Development - Financial Analysis.........* . 50
9.  Summary of Dholai Khal Resettlement Plan.................. 54
MAPS:
IBRD 19645  Bangladesh Project Municipalities
IBRD 19646  Chittagong Municipal Services and Area Development
IBRD 19647  Chittagong Area Development, Site Layout and Land Use
IBRD 19648  Chittagong Area Development, Land Pricing
IBRD 19649  Dhaka Municipal Services and Improvements in
Low-income Areas
IBRD 19650  Dhaka Improvements in Lvw-income Areas
Shaheednagar and Islambagh: Proposed Water Supply
Network
PHOTOGRAPHS:
Case Study 1: Chittagong: Low-income Housing Market
Case Study 2: Chittagong: Low-income Housing Market
Case Study 3s Chittagong: Low-income Housing Market



-iii-
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Sumary
Borrower:       People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiaries:  Ministry of Vorks (NOW)
Housing and Settlements Directorate (HSD) of MOW
Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives (MLG)
Dhaka Municipal Corporation (DMC)
Chittagong Municipal Corporation (CMC)
Total Project
Cost:           SDR 47.4 million (US$65.6 million equivalent)
Amount:         SDR 34.4 Million (US$47.6 million equivalent)
Teras:          Standard, with 40 years maturity
Co-Financing:   The UNDP kroposes to provide US$4.6 million in
the form of a grant to fund project TA requirements.
Onlending       The Government would onlend to DMC US$28.2 million
Terms:          equivalent of ,he credit and to CMC US$15.0 million
equivalent for environmental improvement subprojects at
an annual interest rate of 12.51 for 20 years, including a
five-year grace period. A further US$2.6 million would be
provided to DMC and US$1.1 million to CMC (from the
US$4.6 million in UNDP grant funds). US$1.4 millior
equivalent of the proceeds of the credit would be made
available through Agrani Bank for plots and building
loans to project beneficiaries at not less than 132 per
annum interest over 23 years. A further US$3.4 million
equivalent of the credit would be passed to MOW as a budget
allocation. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
Government.
Project
Description:    The objectives of the project are to:  (a) develop the
capacity to plan, manage and deliver municipal services in
Dhaka and Chittagong emphasizing those having environmental
impact: low-cost sanitation, solid waste collection and
disposal, storn water drainage, and improvements in
low-income areas; (b) demonstrate more cost-effective land
development and shelter in Chittagong as a basis for a
replic*ble urban program; and (c) strengthen the
institutional capabilities of sector agencies emphasizing
more efficient and effective use of resourcest improved cost
recovery, local resource mobilization and financial
management at the local level and improved sector planning
and monitoring at the national level. The principal components
and subprojects are: environmental improvements (stormwater



-iv-
and flood contwol, solid waste collection and disposal,
low-cost individual and community sanitation, and small-scale
improvements in low-income areas); area development and basic
shelter in a pilot project in Chittagong; and institutional
development.
Benefits        The primary benefits of the project are: improved level and
ind Risks:      coverage of municipal services, savings in health care
costs, improved productivity and public healtb., and
environmental improvement.
These benefits are expected to accrue to the more deasely
populated, low-income areas of Central Dhaka and Chittagong.
The area development subproject would benefit directly 24,000
people in Chittagong with a family income of Tk 1,100-2,500
(US$35-81)/month, who could receive developed plots of land
with tenure and sanitary conditions. The main risk to the
proposed project is that improvements in local resource
mobilization through more efficient municipal property tax
administration and direct cost recovery in area development
may be achieved more slowly than expected, and that the
significantly increased financial management capability in
DMC, CMC and MOW on which the improvements depend will noz
develop as expected.
Project Costs:                              Local    Foreign    Total
==--(U   m-ill ron)------
Ministry of Works
1. Area Development and Shelter             4.5        0.4       4.9
2.  Technical Assistance                    0.2        0.5       0.7
Kinistry of Local Government
3.  Storm Water Drainage                   15.9        3.2      19.1
4.  Solid Waste Collection                  3.8        5.4       9.2
5.  Sanitation                              1.8        0.2       2.0
6.  Improvement in Low-Income Areas         3.4        0.4       3.8
7.  Project Implementation Units/Mgmt.      1.0        0.1       1.1
8.  Technical Assistance                    0.6        2.7       3.3
Total Base Cost                        31.2       12.9      44.1
Physical Contingencies                  3.0        1.2       4.3
Price Contingencies                    12.6        4.6      17.2
Total Project Cost 1/                  46.9       18.7      65.6
1/ Includes taxes and duties of US$7.9 million.



Financing Plan                      Local      oreign    Total
I- tU-S$-million) -----
Government                          g.S        -          5.5
IDA                                32.7       14.9       47.6
UNDP                                0.8        3.8        4.6
Total                          39.        18.7       57.7
Duties & Taxes                  7.9       -           7.9
Total Project Cost             46.9      18.7        65.6
Estimated IDA Disbursements                 IDA Fiscal Year
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95    FY96   FY97
---, 1Il -i on. --------
Annual        1.4    5.8    7.1    7.6    7.6    6.7    5.2       3.8    2.4
cumulative    1.4    7.2   14.3   21.9   29.5   36.2   41.4    45.2   47.6
Economic Rate of Return:  132 for the area development and sbelter
subproject (102 of total project cost), 48X for
improvements in low-income areas (92 of total
project cost), and 482 for the Dholai Khal drainage
rehabilitation subproject (282 of total project
cost).
mapsw                      IBRD 19645 - 19650



BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPM8MT PROJECT
I. 8SZCTORAL BACKGROUND
A. Development Context
1.0:1    Bangladesh has one of the highest urban population growth rates in
the world, about 7Z per year (more than threefold its rural population growth
rate). About a fifth of the national population is urban, and over the nezt
20 years some two-thirds of the total population increase is ezpected in
urban areas. The present urban population of about 12 million is expected to
increase to about 36 million over the next 20 years. The main contributing
factors to this large population movement are high population densities,
landlessness and low incomes in rural areas, exacerbated by crop failure and
flooding. By the year 2000, urban centers with population above 50,000 are
expected to number 80, compared to 34 it 1981. The cities of Dhaka (3.0
million), the capital, and Chittagong (1.5 million), the main port, currently
account for about 40X of urban population, and are expected to reach about
9.4 million and 4.3 million, respectively by the year 2000. (IBRD Map
19645). Rapid urban growth has resulted in severe shortages of basic
infrastructure, developed land, services, and shelter, particularly in Dhaka
and Chittagong. A critical situation is developing regarding immediat-= needs
for roads, drainage, solid waste collection, electricity, transport, water,
and sanitation facilities, as well as for affordable and accessible serviced
land for shelter and urban enterprises.
1.02    About two-thirds of current employment in Dhaka and Chittagong is in
the informal sector. Even in Dnaka, with a 361 share of national large-scale
manufacturing, the informal sector will continue to be critical to future
labor absorption. These economic and demographic trends have major
implications for the quality of life and for the efficiency of cities. ahey
underscore the importance of looking closely at the effectiveness with which
limited resources can be used more efficiently to develop land, provide urban
infrastructure and improve shelter on a scale commensurate with a threefold
increase of urban population over 20 years.
B. Sector Organization
1.03    At the national level, coordinPtion cf urban 4evelopment activities
is the responsibility of the Planning Commission. Two key ministries are
responsible for urban development: the Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives (MLG) and the Ministry of Works (MOW).  Both
ministries have Planning Cells to program and monitor their activities.
Specific development projects are generatly implemented on a sectoral basis
by local branches or agencies of other national ministries, including those
responsible for roads, electricity, flood control, gas and other services.



-2-
1.04    Urban planning, housing and development are primarily the
responsibilities of several institutions under MOW, including the Urban
Development Directorate (UDD), responsible for urbae. planning in secondary
cities; the Housing and Settlements Directorate (0SD), primarily responsible
for implementing public housing programs; and the Deputy Commissioner of
Settlements (DCS), responsible for allocating public housing.  The Dhaka
Improvement Trust and the Development Authorities of Chittagong, Khulna and
Rajshahi have formal responsibility for physical planning and development
in these four cities. In practice, there has been little effective urban
planning in Bangladesh.
1.05    Agencies responsible for constructing and maintaining most urban
services are under MLG.  It ovsrsees three Municipal Corporations, other
municipalities and upazilas (local government units), as well .s the
Department of Public Health and Engineering (DPHE), the Local Government
Engineering Bureau (LGEB), the Water and Sewerage Authorities (WASAs) of
Dhaka and Chittagong, and the National Institute of Local Government, a
training center. The Urban Development Authorities under MOWt the DPHE, and
the LGEB under MLG are, in principle, primarily responsible for constructing
ma3or physical works, which are then turned over to the municipalities for
operation and maintenance. These services include roads, storm water
drainage, solid waste collection and disposal, sanitation, public health,
and, except for Dhaka and Chittagong, water and sewerage services. To manage
and extend municipal services, municipalities collect local taxes and fees
and receive annual capital development transfers from Government through MLG.
1.06    The Dhaka Municipal Corporation (DMC) and Chittagong Municipal
Corporation (CMC) are organized into five principal areas of responsibility
under the Chief Executive Officer. In both DMC and CMC, the Chief Engineer
is the next highest ranking official under the Mayor. Given its scale of
operations, DMC currently includes under the Chief Engineer three
Superintending Engineers, five Executiie Engineers and one Terminal Manager,
compared to three Executive Engineers under Chittagong's Chief Engineer.
Also, DMC is planning to create a new storm drainage unit to assume such
function from DPHE, and has recently established a low-cost sanitation unit
to implement a pilot latrine program financed by IDA.  However, in both
cities no single officer is responsible for overall financial management,
which is shared among the Chief Revenue Officer, the Chief Accounts Officer
and the Audit Section.
C. Sectoral Constraints
Efficient Land Development and Shelter
1.07    The Urban Sector Memorandum (Report No. 3422-BD) of 1981 summarizes
urban development trends and constraints, and outlines a proposed strategy
for managing urban growth. The system for developing urban land and shelter
by the public and private sectors is not meeting the needs of new household



-3-
formation, nor of the growing formal and Laformal industrial and commercial
sectors in Bangladesh. Housing supply in the formal sector is estimated to
be meeting only about 4X of annual needs. At least two-thirds of the urban
population is inadequately serviced and lives in very low standard rental or
squatter accommodations, particularly in low-lying areas susceptible to
flooding several months of each year. The remainder is in quasi-legal
settlements where some form of land tenure may exist, but where development
and building permits are not obtained, and services for the most part are not
available (see photographs of case studies). Unnecessarily high development
standards for conventional sites and services programs, together with
inadequate pricing and cost recovery, have led to conti.nuing large-scale
public subsidies ard have made housing available only to a few beneficiaries.
1.08    Major adjustments in site layouts, infrastructure, and building
standards, as well as in institutional and financial arrangements are needed
to make urban land development sustainable on a large scale and afiordable to
lower-income groups. Adjustments are also needed in the definition of roles
of the public, private, and informal sectors. Public agencies need to
concentrate primarily on the provision of trunk infrastructure for land
development and on establishing more efficient land use standards and
appropriate service standards, especially for low-income groups and small
businesses. Shelter construction would then be left primarily to individuals
and private builders, as now generally occurs in the informal sector. The
need for subsidies should be reduced or eliminated by substantially
increasing the proportion of sellable urbanized land tl; ough efficient land
planning and by introducing differential pricing according to location and
service level. einancial arrangements and cost recovery can be improved
through the use of financial institutions rather than relying on central
government departments.
Delivery and Maintenance of Municipal Services
1.09    The present approaches for providing and maintaining basic services
are inadequate to reach the growing middle- and low-income populations. High
service standards and limited municipal revenues have made these services
available to only a small proportion of households and have led to growing
intergovernmental grants. Water-borne sewerage service, for instance, is
only available to about 15% of the population in Dhaka, and an initial system
is orly in the proposal stage for Chittagong. Approaches to low-cost
sani...ation to replace the bucket latrine system are currently being
introduced on a pilot basis in Dhaka, under the Third Dhaka Water Supply and
Sanitation Project (Report No. P-4379-BD), and in Chittagontg, supported by
UNICEF. Large amounts of solid waste and night soil are normally washed into
storm water drains and culverts, contributing to severe flooding and
unsa itary conditions. Solid waste collection and disposal systems are
inefficient and could be significantly expanded, together with improvements
to storm water drainage. Flood control is a serious problem in cities
located in the delta of the Ganges-Brahmaputra, where commercial and



-4-
low-income areas are subject to severe seasonal flooding. Road maintenance
and traffic management (private and public vehicles, including rickshaws) are
important urban functions and would benefit from improved management,
especially in the central areas of the larger cities. Because constraints to
improved solid waste collection, sanitation, road maiatenance, and traffic
are largely managerial and financial, they need to be considered as part of
an ove-all approach to improve municipal management and finance in
Bangladesh's major citie,.
Municipal Finance and Resource Mobilization
1.10    The inefficient management and inadequate pricing of urban services
are constraints th.at relate not only to water and sanitation, but also to
other urban services provided by the municipalities. The Urban Government
Finance and Management Paper (Report No. 5790-BD) of 1985 reviewed the
relationships among municipal management, resource mobilization, and national
policies, including the intergovernmental grant system. The study reviewed
the financial management practices of selected cities and revealed that while
grants from central government constitute the largest single source of funds
for municipalities (25-40% for Dhaka and Chittagong), property-based taxes
are potentially the most productive for mobilizing local revenues. These
include the holdings tax, and related lighting, conservancy 1/ and water
rates, and account for 34% of revenues in Dhaka and 25% in Cbittagong. The
holdings tax does not respond to population increases, prices, or economic
activities due to deficiencies in current property assessment practices, rate
limits, tax administration, .ecord keeping and tax collection. In 1983/84,
the proportion of current collection over current demand was 55Z in Dhaka and
25% in Chittagong. Similarly, findncial management practices in budgeting,
accounting, and investment programming are weak, and are treated as merely
statutory requirements rather than as means toward effective analysis and
decision-making by city managers. At the nat:onal level, the analytical
skills in municipal finance available to MLG's Planning Cell need to be
strengthened so that local financial information systems can be reviewed and
improved as part of MIG's monitoring process.
D. IDA's Role and Sectoral Strategy
1.11    During the past two decades, IDA's urban operations in Bangladesh
have been three water supply and sewerage projects in Dhaka (Credits 368-BD
in 1973, 941-BD in 1979 and 1734-BD in 1986) and two water supply projects in
Chittagong (Credits 42-PAK in 1963, revised as 367-BD in 1973, and 1001-BD in
1980). The objectives of these water and sanitation projects are: (a)
development of more effective sector institutions through improved financial
policies, manpower development programs, accounting systems, and operating
1/ Solid waste and street sweeping.



-5-
procedures; (b) improved financial discipline and direct recovery of most
costs through user charges; and (c) long-term planning of capital
investments, including recurrent budgetary requirements.
1.12    Project Completion Reports for the first two Dhaka water supply and
sewerage projects (Cr. 368-BD and Cr. 941-BD) and the Project Performance
Audit Report for Cr. 368-BD inave indicated that while physical implementation
and resource utilization have been adequate in IDA-supported water and
sanitation projects, achievements in cost recovery and resource mobilization
have been less satisfactory. However, the Dhaka and Chittagong WASAs now
recover all operatiag expenditures, and a portion of debt service, but are
still unable to maintain positive rates of return. This issue is being
addressed vnder the ongoing water supply and sewerage projects (Cr. 1001-BD
and Cr. 1734-BD) in three ways: first, specific financial management actions
are being implemented (e.g., tariff measures, metering, meter reading, bill
collection and staff development); second, action plans for meeting targets
in financial management and operational efficiency are being agreed to, and
are being used in monitoring progress; and third, sectoral training tad
investment planning are being supported by current operations through MLC and
the WASAs.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Formulation
2.01   The proposed project would be the first urban project supported by
IDA in Bangladesh to support Government/Urban Development Authorities and was
initially discussed during a mission to review the Urban Sector Memor'-"dum
(para 1.07) and a Dhaka Metropolitan Study funded by UNDP and the Asian
Development Bank. Consultancy services were provided under an IDA Technical
Assistance Credit (Cr. 1124-BD) to prepare the Chittagong components in July
1984, and for the identification of future projects in Xhulna and Rajshahi in
December 1985. Consultancy services also were provided, with UNDP/UNCHS
support, to prepare the Dhaka components in June 1985. IDA missions visited
Bangladesh in August 1984 and in February and July 1985 to assist Government
in project preparation. Feasibility reports were completed and ro-iiewed by
Government in November and December 1985. The project was appraised in March
1986. However, due to delays in execution of the detailed design consultancy
agreements for the MOW and the MLG components in Chittagong, the final
engineering designs and cost estimates (FEDs) were not available until
October 1987. An IDA post-appraisal mission visited Bangladesh during
November 1987 to review the FEDs and to update project costs, action plan and
conditions of negotiation. During December 1981, the appraisal report was
revised to reflect the changes.  A pre-negotiation mission visited Bangladesh
during April 1988, and the Credit was negotiated in May 1988.



-6-
B. Project ObJectives
2.02    The purpose of the proposed project is to assist Government in
improving the management and financing of urban development through:
(a) more effective planning, managing, and operation of municipal
services, with particular emphasis on those having immediate
environmental impact in the more densely populated and low-income
areas of Dhaka and Chittagong;
(b) identifying replicable, cost-effective and affordable approaches
to urban land development and shelter for middle- and low-income
families by more efficient land use with significant reduction in
-         the cost of plots, and through full cost recovery with positive
interest rates; and
(c) strengthening the planning, management and financial capacity of
key local and national sector agencies: MOW and HSD for urban
land development and MLG, DMC and CMC for the provision and
management of municipal services.
C. Rationale for IDA Support
2.03    IDA can assist the achievement of the above objectives, particularly
by supporting an efficient approach to increasing the supply of affordable
urban land and infrastructure and by supporting improved environmental,
sanitation, and municipal management in Bangladesh's two largest cities. The
proposed project would extend IDA's past assistance in water and sanitation
to other essential urban services in these cities and, over the medium term,
contribute to the development of similar approaches in intermediate size
cities in Bangladesh. IDA's involvement also affords Bangladesh
opportunities to draw more extensively on the experiences of other countries.
Dr Project Description
2.04    The project consists of three components: environmental improvements,
area development and basic shelter, and institutional development. The
environmental improvements component under MLG comprises about 80Z of the
project costs and involves surface storm water drainage and flood control,
solid waste collection and disposal, low-cost individual and community
sanitation, and small-scale improvements in low-income areas. The area
development and basic shelter component under MOW comprises about 1OZ of
project costs and includes area development for urban plots and building
material loans for basic shelter in a pilot project in Chittagong. The
remaining 101 of project costs would support institutional development of
agencies under MLG and MOW through technical assistance for establishing
project implementation units (PIUs) and for studies of traffic management,



-7-
area wide drainage in Chittagong, manpower development and organizational and
managerial reforms in local government.
Environmental Improvements
2.05    Storm Water Drainage.  In ce-tral Chittagong, a new major stormwater
relief drain is to be constructed (along Sheikh Mujib Road) and about 29 km
of small channels in four main drainage catchment areas are to be cleaned,
repaired and improved. This will reduce regular flooding in the main
commercial and residential areas. The Government informed IDA at
negotiations that formal arrangements have not yet been finalized between
CMC and the Port Authority for the construction of the Sheikh Mujib Road
storm water culvert through the Port Area. Assurances were received that
evidence of such an agreement would be sent to IDA before mid-July 1988. In
Dhaka, about 4 km of channels would be improved in the lower Dholai Khal
catchment area affecting 273 hectares of densely developed land and
one-quarter of the population under the jurisdiction of DMC. The drainage
improvements, which are incorporated in Rehabilitation Option 3 adopted from
the predesign studies, would also release land for improved road connections
and residential/commercial development. Improvements would also include the
construction of a new barrier and pumping station at the outlet to prevent
river backflooding during the monsoon period. The proposed storm water
drainage systems are designed to discharge flows from 10-year storms in Dhaka
and Chittagong (IBRD Maps 19646 and 19649). About 418 families and 35 small
businesses will require resettlement/relocation due to the proposed Dholai
Khal drainage improvement in Dhaka. Prior to negotiations, DMC, through GOB,
submitted to IDA a detailed plan for resettling the project affected people
to a 2.64 hectare site located about 2.5 km from their present location. The
plan was discussed and agreed at negotiations. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, the Government will confirm that all necessary Governmental
action required for adopting and thereafter implementing the resettlement
program in accordance with the detailed plan, has been taken.
2.06    Solid Waste Collection and Disposal.  Improvements in the management
of solid waste operations would be carried out in the central areas of Dhaka
and Chittagong, building upon existing methods to provide more regular
service and ensure efficient collection and disposal. Appropriate vehicles
and equipment (trucks, handcarts and dust bins), and maintenance workshops
would be provided. Sanitary standards in land-filling operations would be
improved with a new landfill site in Chittagong and several sites in Dhaka.
A pilot program for the sale of solid waste for private land-filling by
landowners in Dhaka would be included. Improved solid waste management also
would be supported under the institutional development subproject.
2.07    Sanitation.  This component would include the rehabilitation of about
3,000 existing septic tanks, and the provision of about 900 new septic tanks
and 40 public toilets in the more densely developed areas and in unserviced
low-income settlements of Chittagong, reducing the discharge of night soil



-8-
into drainage channels. This would complement the ongoing CMC/UNICEF program
to replace 20,000 night soil bucket latrines with more hygienic, individual
pour-flush latrines, and would also complement the low-cost sanitation
program supported in Dhaka through the ongoing IDA Credit 1734-BD and the
UNDP/IDA Technology Advisory Group (TAG).
2.08    Improvements in Low-Income Areas.  Three pilot settlements in old
Dhaka (Islambagh, Shaheednagar and Rasulpur) with a combined population of
90,000 peonle, and constituting the largest supply of new housing units
affordable o (and built by) low-income families, would be improved with
small-scale works (IBRD Maps 19649 and 19650). Improvements would include
roads and foot paths, water supply, gas distribution, surface drainage, solid
waste collection, low-cost sanitation, selected land filling, and regularized
99 year land leases.
Area Development and Shelter
2.09    About 41 hectares of land would be developed in Chittagong to provide
about 4,150 serviced residential plots and about 50 small-scale commercial
and industrial plots for low- and middle-income beneficiaries of whom about
three quarters would have incomes below the 50th percentile. All land has
been acquired by MOW and is located adjacent to the main industrial area on
the Dhaka Road. Assurances have been received from HSD/GOB that no
involuntary resettlement has occurred in connection with land acquisition for
this site. Area development includes site preparation, roads and footpaths,
storm drains, street lighting, sanitation, water and gas distribution, and
areas for schools, clinics and other community facilities. Individual plots
would have public standpipes or individual water and gas connections, and
ventilated improved pit or pour-flush latrines. A power distribution and
street-lighting system would provide adequate lighting for security and also
offer an opportunity for all residents to connect to the system when they
find it affordable and desirable. Assurances were received at negotiations
that satisfactory arrangements have been made for on-site and off-site
services to be provided and implemented through agreements with the
respective water, electricity, gas, education, health and municipal
authorities. Optional hire-purchase arrangements for plots and building
loans would be available to beneficiaries through a commercial, financial
institution and would be recovered through a consolidated monthly payment.
Prior to negotiations, the Government confirmed to IDA that the Agrani Bank
was the financial institution selected for this role. Assurances were
received at negotiations confirming arrangements with the selected financial
institution which would collect monthly payments through a branch office on
the site.
Institutional Development
2.10    Technical assistance, equipment and project start-up costs would be
provided to strengthen DMC, CMC and HSD at the local level, and MLG and MOW



-9-
at the national level. Total technical assistance would amount to about 360
person-months of foreign assistance, and 480 persun-months of local
assistance over a five-year period. To support the area development and
basic shelter subproject, consultancy assistance to HSD's PIU would be
provided in project planning, design standards and engineering, contracting,
accounting and estate management (including beneficiary selection), community
development, and monitoring of collection of mortgage payments. To support
the environmental improvements subproject, consultancy assistance would be
provided to the organizational divisions and PIU's in DMC and CMC in:
municipal management, finance and planning (including budgeting and capital
investment programming), property tax administration, and improved operations
and maintenance of key municipal services. Assistance would be provided to
strengthen MWG's Planning Cell to monitor and improve municipal financial
management and manpower development at the national level, and further
develop the system of intergovernmental budget transfers.
E. Project Costs and Financing
Cost Estimates
2.11    The estimated total cost of the project, including contingencies,
duties and taxes, is US$65.6 million. Physical contingencies amount to
US$4.2 million, price contingencies to US$17.2 million, and duties and taxes
to about US$7.9 million. The foreign exchange component is US$18.7 million,
or about 291 of total project costs. A summary of local and foreign project
costs (in Taka and dollars) and a breakdown of project costs by year (in
Taka) is presented in Table 1 below and further detailed cost tables are
included in Annex 2.
2.12    Base costs estimated for the project are in January 1988 prices.
Physical contingencies in the range of 5-10% have been allowed for civil
works, equipment, vehicles and materials, except civil works for the Dholai
Khal drainage improvement component, for which a 151 contingency has been
allowed, since only feasibility study engineering design details are
available at this time. Price contingencies for local and foreign costs have
been estimated as follows: local costs 10.01 for FY88, 9.0X for FYs 89 and 90
and 8.01 for FY91 and thereafter; and foreign costs, 5.61 for FY88, 5.4Z for
FY89, -0.3Z for FY90, and 1.751 for FY91 and thereafter.
Financing Plan
2.13    The total project cost of US$65.6 million would be financed by a
combination of IDA credit of US$47.6 million equivalent, grant assistance
from UNDP of US$4.6 million equivalent, and Government contribution of
US$13.4 million equivalent, including US$7.9 million equivalent in taxes and



-10-
Table 12 Summary Project Cost Estimates
Local    Forein    Total
---(Us$ million)---
Ministry of Works
1.  Area Development and Shelter            4.5        0.4       4.9
2.  Technical Assistance                    0.2        0.5       0.7
Ministry of Local Government
3.  Storm Water Drainage                    15.9       3.2      19.1
4.  Solid Waste Collection                   3.8       5.4       9.2
5.  Sanitation                               1.8       0.2       2.0
6.  Improvement in Low-Income Areas         3.4        0.4       3.8
7.  Project Implementation Units/Mgmt.      1.0        0.1       1.1
8.  Technical Assistance                     0.6       2.7       3.3
Total Base Cost                        31.2       12.9      44.1
Physical Contingencies                  3.1        1.2       4.3
Price Contingencies                    12.6        4.6      17.2
Total Project Cost 1/                  46.9       18.7      65.6
duties. The project funds would be passed to MOW's implementing agency (HSD)
as a budget allocation equivalent to US$7.5 million, and to NLG implementing
agencies as a loan: (i) DMC US$34.9 million equivalent; (ii) CMC US$19.5
million equivalent. Loan funds to DNC and CNC would be made available at
standard Government terms to independent agencies: 12.5X in-erest, repayable
over 20 years, with equal installments of principal and inLurest, including a
five-year grace period on repayment of principal. The execution of
subsidiary loan agreements between the Government and DMC and CMC will be a
condition of credit effectiveness. Funds for technical assistance would be
passed on to DNC and CMC as grant (US$3.7 million). US$1.4 million
equivalent of the proceeds of the credit would be made available as building
loans to project beneficiaries at 131 interest over 25 years. A flow of
funds for the project is shown in Annex 3.
2.14    The proposed IDA credit (US$47.6 million) would finance about 83Z
of project costs, net of duties and taxes. The institutional development
1/ Includes taxes and duties of US$7.9 million.



-11-
subproject (US$4.6 million), which represents 8X of project costs net of
duties and taxes, would be financed entirely by grant funds from UNDP. Total
external funding would represent about 901 of total project costs, net of
duties and taxes. The Government's contribution to project costs, net of
duties and taxes, would cover land and other costs (US$5.5 million). All
foreign costs would be covered by external funding.
P. Project Management
Status of Project Preparation
2.15    The project's objectives, subprojects and institutional arrangements
were presented in feasibility studies completed in September and October
1985. The approach and design for MLG's environmental improvement subproject
represent cost-effective and affordable solutions to immediate sanitation
problems. Pinal engineering designs, revised cost estimates and draft bid
documents for the Dhaka and Chittagong subprojects have been completed, with
she exception of the Dholai Khal drainage improvement in Dhaka and the Sheikh
eujib Road culvert in Chittagong.  The first contracts are expected to be
ready for tendering during PY89. The engagement of engineering consultants
to carry out the detailed design of the Dholai Khal drainage subcomponent is
a priority matter. As well, before bid documents can be finalized for the
Sheikh Mujib Road culvert, engineering services for additional subsurface
investigations are required. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the retention of consulting firms selected for these two assignments would be
completed by October 15, 1988. A location and acquisition plan for at least
half of the total sites needed by DMC and CMC for the project has been
completed and land for the first two construction seasons has been acquired.
A timetable for acquisition of the remaining land required for the project
has been established through the Operational Action Plan.  GOB has adequate
arrangements for assessing the value of land and buildings and paying
compensation to owners.  Those procedures will be followed in the project.
Assurances have been received from CNC that no involuntary resettlement will
be required in connection with the drainage improvements designed for
Chittagong. In Dhaka, the proposed Dholai Khal drainage improvement
subproject will involve resettlement of 418 households. As a condition of
negotiations, DMC prepared a resettlement plan which has been approved by
GOB. The plan was reviewed and agreed during the negotiations (suimary of
plan - Annex 9). As a condition of effectiveness, GOB will confirm to IDA
that all necessary Govw-nmental action required for adopting and thereafter
implementing the resettlement program in accordance with the detailed plan
has been taken. The respective PIUs and new divisions under the Chief
Engineers of DMC and CMC with adequate staff and budget allocations for
implementation of the proposed subproject, including the low-income
settlements component in Dhaka and Chittagong, have been established and are
expected to be fully operational during the last quarter of FY88. As part of
the Operational Action Plan (para 2.18), DMC and CMC have agreed to creating



-12-
and filling the position of Chief Financial Officer on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
2.16    The design and land use standards proposed for MOw's area development
and basic shelter subproject represent cost reductions of 85-90, compared to
conventional sites-and-services schemes. All land has been acquired by MOW
for the area development and shelter component in Chittagong. Final
engineering designs, cost estimates and draft bid documents have been
completed. The first construction phase is expected to be ready for
tendering during the second quarter of FY89. The establishment of a PlU,
with adequate staff and budget allocations, to supervise the implementation
of the area development subproject is expected to be fully operational during
the second quarter of FY89.
2.17    Approval of the Project Proforma (PP) for HSD, DMC and CMC by the
Planning Commission, Ministry of Planning, was received as a condition of
negotiations. Final approval of the PPs by the Government will be a
condition of credit effectiveness. Government and UNDP signing of the
Project Documents, confirming UtDP financing and UNCHS execution of the
technical assistance and studies for the MOW and MLG subprojects, is a
condition of credit effectiveness.
Operational Action Plans
2.18    The implementation of important physical, institutional and policy
actions would follow a timetable reflected in the three Operational Action
Plans (Annex 5). At negotiations these Operational Action Plans were revised
and updated, and assurances were received from HSD/MOW, DNC and CMC that the
agreed plans would be updated annually and reviewed with IDA, and would serve
as a basis for monitoring project implementation. The timing of principal
project activities is shown in the Implementation Schedule (Annex 4).
Implementation Responsibilities
2.19    Overall monitoring of the MOW component would be the responsibility
of the Task Force established for project preparation under the Secretary of
Works and the MOW Planning Cell. The PIU within HSD at Chittagong, with
assistance from CDA, would have direct responsibility for coordinating and
implementing the area development and basic shelter subproject in Chittagong.
MOW would also be responsible for approving the contracting of consultancy
services and studies to be implemented through UNCHS, with IDA concurrence.
GOB selected the Agrani Bank as the financial intermediary to be responsible
for managing the collection of building loans.
2.20    Overall monitoring of MLG's subproject on environmental improvements
would be the responsibility of a Task Force established for project
preparation under the Joint Secretary for Development and the MLG Planning
Cell. DMC and CMC would manage and implement the municipal services



-13-
components in their respective cities under the new and revised divisions and
the PIUs. MLG also would be responsible for approving the contracting of
consultancy services for technical assistance and studies to be implemented
through UNCHS with IDA concurrence. DMC and CMC would be responsible for
reviewing final engineering designs and costs, contract procurement, and
monitoring progress by components. With consultancy assistance, the two
municipal corporations would implement improvements in financial management
and conduct studies included under the respective components. TAG would
assist in the implementation of the low-cost sanitation components.
Procurement Arrangements
2.21    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 2 below.  All civil
works contracts (up to an aggregate of US$18.1) with a value of less than
US$1.0 million and vehicles, equipment and supplies contracts (up to an
aggregate of US$1.8 million) with a value of less than US$150,000 would be
procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). Minor civil works of a
value less than US$20,000 (up to an aggregate of US$0.9 million) for
improvements in low-income areas would be carried out by force account.
Civil works, equipment, vehicles and supplies (totalling US$30.6 million)
that could be grouped into contract values at or more than US$1,000,000 for
works and US$150,000 for goods would be procured through International
Competitive bidding (ICB). Such contracts would include both civil works and
equipment supply and installation and a provision for construction
management. Minor equipment and supplies (up to an aggregate of US$0.7
million), in packages of US$25,000 or less would be procured through local
shopping, based on at least three quotations. It is expected that most civil
works contracts under this project would not be of interest to foreign
bidders because of the relatively small scale of the units, their short
duration, the relatively small value of individual contracts, their
geographical dispersion, low-cost technology, and labor-intensive
construction. However, the Dholai Khal storm water drainage work contracts
in Dhaka and the Sheikh Mujib Road culvert contracts in Chittagong could
interest foreign firms. Therefore, these would be procured under ICB and
contractors will be prequalified by DNC and CMC. All ICB contracts would be
subject to IDA's prior review of prequalification documents and resulting
short list, invitation to bid, bidding documents and proposed awards and
final documents. All LCB civil works contracts worth over US$200,000
equivalent and LCB equipment and materials contract packages worth over
US$50,000 equivalent also would be subject to IDA's prior review. For the
Chittagong area development subcomponent, IDA would carry out prior review
only of the first three contracts to be tendered. All other contracts would
be subject to random post review by IDA after contract award. Eligible
bidders would be afforded a preference of 7-1/2Z under ICB procurement for
civil works and qualifying manufacturers would receive a preference in bid
evaluation of 15Z or the import duty, whichever is the lower for ICB
procurement of goods. Technical assistance services amounting to US$4.6
million will be procured by UNCHS in accordance with UN guidelines. IDA and



-14-
Government would review UNCHS consultants' contracts above US$50,000
equivalent prior to invitation and award.
2.22    LCB policies and procedures followed by Government do not fully
comply with IDA guidelines. However, assurances were received at
negotiations that for IDA-financed projects, IDA procurement guidelines would
be followed.
Disbursements
2.23    The project would be completed by June 30, 1996, and the proposed
credit of US$47.6 million equivalent is expected to be disbursed by June 30,
1997. The estimated disbursement schedule of nine years is shown in Annex 6
and is based on the profile for the urban sector Bankwide.
2.24    Disbursements by IDA would be fully documented except for payments
under LCB civil works contracts valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent;
for civil works under force account; for LCB equipment and materials
contracts valued at lass than US$5O,OOO equivalent; and for building loans,
which would be disbursed against certified Statements of Expenditure. IDA
would finance: (i) 100l of foreign and local ex-factory expenditures for
vehicles and equipment and 65% of local expenditures for items procured
locally (such as small tools, equipment and hand carts); (ii) 100% of
building loans; (iii) 951 of expenditure on contracts for civil works; and
(iv) 100l of expenditure for consultants engaged for design, supervision,
project management and studies. In order to facilitate disbursements, a
Special Project Account would be established in the Central Bank of
Bangladesh on terms and conditiois satisfactory to IDA. The initial deposit
would be US$2.0 million equivalent.
Accounts and Audits
2.25    NOW, DMC and CMC would maintain separate accounts of project receipts
and expenditures. These accounts, and the separate accounts and records to
be maintained for Statements of Expenditure (DOEs), would be audited annually
by the Government's Controller and Auditor General. Reports of these audits
would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the end of the fiscal year.
2.26    The commercial bank providing building loans to beneficiaries and
collecting loan repayments from beneficiaries would prepare quarterly
summaries of beneficiary account activity, and submit such summaries to MOW
within thirty days of the end of each quarter. These summaries would be
reconciled with the project accounts as part of the audits of these accounts
by the Government's Controller and Auditor General.



Table 2s PROCUREMENT TABLE
(USS Million)
-  rocurgment Method                Total
Project Element ,CU   LCD                              Other    N/A 2/   Cost
1.  Area Develooment of Bseic Shelter
Land                              -        -      -         1.5.       1.5
-   --              (0.0)      (0.0)
Civil Works                       -        3.4 1/ -                   (3.1)
-  (3.1)-                       (31
Building Loans                    -        -      -         1.4        1.4
-  -      -       ~~~~(1.4)  (1.4)
Management                        -        -      0.4       -          0.4
-   -     ~~(0.0)     -         0)
Subtotal (1)                  -       34        4       2.T1
(3.1)  (0.0)    (1.4)       (4.5)
2.  Environmental Imgrovement
A.  Chittasona Municial Services
Land                              -        -      -         1.6        1.6
-       -       -        (0.0)     (0.0)
Civil Works                       6.8      6.6    -                   13.4
(6.5)   (6.3)   -         -        (12.8)
Equipment/Vehicles                2.9      1.0    0.2 4/   -           4.2
(1.6)   (0.5)  (0.1)      -         (2.2)
Management                        -        -      0.3       -          0.3
-   -      (~~0.0)   -         (0.0)
'3.7   ~7'7r  -0.5        1. 6
Subtotal (2A)                (8.1)   (6.8)  (0.1)    (0.0)    (18.0)
S.  Dhaka Municioal Services
Land                              -        -      -         2.1        2.1
-       -       -        (0.0)     (0.0)
Civil Works                      19.2      8.1    0 9 5/   -          28.2
(18.1)   (7.7)  (0.6)       -       (26.6)
Equipment/Vehicles                1.7      0.6    0.5 4/   -           3.0
(0.0)   (0.4)  (0.3)      -         (1.6)
Management                        -               .1.6      -          1.6
-   0.o0      -        (-)
Subtotal (2b)                    30     8         30        2 1      -".-.
(19.0)   (8.1)  (1.1)    (0.0)    (28.2)
Subtotal (2)                30.6    16.5    3.5        3.7      54.3
(27.1)  (14.9)  (1.2) 9(0.)    (43.2)
3. Technical Assistance & Studies 3/
Ministry of Works                      -           0.9      -          0.9
-       I-     (0.0)      -        (0.0)
Ministry of Local Govt.           -        -       3.7      -          3.7
Subtotal (3)                                   .                   4. 
-_     -       (0.0)      -        (0.0)
TOTAL (1+2+3)                    30.6    19.9    8.5        6.6       65.6
(27.1)  (18.0)  (1.2)    (1.4)    (47.6)
Nafts IISoua totals may not add due to rounding.
1/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
2/  N/At Not applicable.
3/  The technical assistance will be procured by UNCHS in accordance with UN guidelines,
(para 2.21). Financing of these items to be from UNOP grant funds
(USS4.6 million).
4/ Procurement by local shopping (para 2.21).
_/ Procurement by force account (para 2.21).



-16--
Reporting and Supervision
2.27    The PlUs in DMC and CMC would prepare brief monthly progress
memoranda, which would be submitted to MLG through its Planning Cell.
Similarly, the PIU in HSD and the commercial bank (Agrani Bank) collecting
mortgage payments would prepare brief monthly progress memoranda, which would
be submitted to MOW through its Planning Cell. The two ministerial Planning
Cells would make recommendations on any corrective actions considered
necessary to ensure that project objectives, staffing and management reforms,
implementation schedules, cost estimates and the Operational Action Plans are
achieved. Based on the brief monthly memoranda and their own field
supervision and controls, the Planning Cells of MOW and MLG would prepare
quarterly reports on the overall progress of the subprojects, highlighting
any major problems in any component and providing recommendations for
overcoming them. The quarterly progress reports would set out physical,
managerial, financial and technical assistance indicators, and would be
submitted to IDA by MOW and MLG within 30 days of the end of each reporting
quarter. The monitoring and supervising formats and the Operational Action
Plans would be periodically reviewed with IDA and updated annually. Upon
completion, MLG and MOW would prepare Project Completion Reports (PCRs) for
their subprojects and Government would prepare a consolidated PCR and submit
it to IDA. The project would require 15 professional weeks per year for IDA
supervision.
C. Project Justification
Economic Evaluation
2.28    Bconomic analyses have been conducted for the Dholai Khal drainage
rehabilitation subproject in Dhaka, the area development and basic shelter
subproject in Chittagong, and for the environmental improvement and drainage
work in Dhaka's low-income areas. For the Dholai Khal subproject, the
internal rate of return (IR) was 48X, and did not drop below 25Z under the
various assumptions tested. Economic benefits accruing from area development
were predicated on imputed rental values for three different sized units.
The analysis shows an expected IRR of about 13X for the area development.
Sensitivity analyses were performed, varying rental values and delaying the
time ior plot occupation. If rental values are increased or decreased by
101, the IRR would change to about 141 and 121, respectively. If plot
occupation and land sales are delayed by one year, the IRn would be reduced
to about 10X. Hence, the IRR for the area development does not appear to be
significantly sensitive to changes in rental values, but it could be
noticeably affected by delays in project implementation.
2.29    Increased land values were used as economic benefits for improvements
in Dhaka's low-income settlements. Using conservative estimates for future
prices of unfiiled and filled land, the IRE for these works would be about
481. However, a 101 overestimation of future land values would reduce the



-X.7-
IRn to 201, while a 10% underestimation would increase the IRR to 701. The
high sensitivity of IRR to future land prices results from relatively small
investments in, for example, the filling of roads, having an effect an
relatively large areas of land in central Dhaka.  Because of this, the
estimates of average land prices in the analysis are very conservative, and
actual prices higher than the estimates are considered far more lika-ly than
lower prices.
Cost Recovery, Pricing and Affordability
2.30    The main purpose of th-e project is to improve the living conditions
of the poor by providing them with basic infrastructure and social services
at affordable costs. The cost recovery mechanisms that would be adotce4
under the project meet the Government's social objectives and its wish to
minimize its budgetary contribution. For components for which benefits would
be enjoyed exclusively by the residents of the areas being upgraded or newly
established, costs would be recovered directly through property sales and
user charges. For henefits to be shared by a wider community, costs would be
recovered through existing taxes. These principles and their application are
consistent with those applied to other similar Bank-financed projects.
2.31    The various sources of cost recovery and amount to be recovered by
project components are summarized in Table 3.
2.32    Area Development and Shelter.  The cost of raw land and on-site
infrastructure would be recovered through property sales to households and
enterprises. The cost of off-site utilities (water supply, gas, and
electricity) would be recovered through existing tariffs that have been
agreed under IDA operations in those sectors. The Government would bear the
.cost of social facilities (including the cost of serviced land), and all
off-site roads. Optional building loans would be recovered through monthly
repayments.
2.33    Several innovative techniques have been introduced in the site design
to reduce development costs and to improve affordability. They include: (a)
close adaptation of the street layout to existing topography when feasible,
minimizing cut and fill; (b) more efficient land use, allowing 60X of raw
land to be sold as plots, corpared to about 45% in existing CDA land
development schemes; and (c) a plot pricing system that closely reflects the
large variations of infrastructural standards, plot sixes, and locational
opportunities within the site. About 231 of the serviced land would be sold
at market prices to developers, or in larger plots to higher income families.
The surplus generated in this manner would be used for cross subsidies to
reduce the price of smaller plots sold to families in the target group (10th
to 25th percentile of the income distribution).



-18-
Table 3t SOURCES OF COST RECOVERY
(in lakh Taka)
Plot   Loan            Municipal  General   Not
Component                 Charges Rep.  Tar.ffs   Taxes       Taxes  Recovered   Total
Area Development
and Shelter
-Land & on site infra   1,353.6    -       -        -         -           -      1,353.6
-Off site utilities         -       -     24.1      -         -           -         24.1
-Off-site roads and         -       -      -                 120.3        -        120.3
social facilities
-Building loans             -      435.7   -        -         -           -        435.7
-Project Management         -       -      -        -         17.9        -        117.9
Subtotal             1,353.6   435.7  24.1       -        238.2               2,051.6
Environmental
Improvements
-Storm water drainage       -       -      -      9,828.6     -           -      9,828.6
-Solid waste                -       -      -      3,590.0     -           -      3,590.0
-Sanitation                 -       -      -      1,017.6     -           -      1,017.6
-Improve low income areas  -        -    699.6   1,119.9      -           -      1,819.5
-Project Nsnagement         -       -      -        590.5     -           -        590.5
Subtotal                 -       -    699.6  16,146.6      -          -      16,846.2
Institutional
Development                 -       -      -        -         -       1,422.8    1,422.8
Total                 1,353.6   435.7 723.7  16,146.6    238.2   1,422.8   20,320.6
1                         6.7     2.1   3.6       79.4      1.2        7.0      100.0
2.34    Terms and conditions for residential plot charges and building loans
would include a down payment of 5-20X of the price of the plot, with the
balance of the plot price and buil-ing loan amount, if any, to be repaid over
a period up to 25 years at not less than 131 interest. This interest rate
would be reviewed periodically and adjusted to maintain a positive rate in
real terms, compared to projected inflation rate of 101 i? 1988, 91 in
1989-1991, and 81 tuereafter.  Confirmation was received at negotiatd-ns that
the terms and conditions for residential plot charges and building loans
would be as above.
2.35    The targeted beneficiaries of area development in Chittagong are
households which wculd normally rent a single room in rental tenements



-19-
without any wal.er, gas, electricity or sanitary facilities. These househ:ds
have a monthly income :anging from Tk 1,100-2,500.  A survey of the present
low-and middle-income housing market, conducted during project preparation,
was used to select the design standards and to establish the pricing system.
The smallest plot (30 square meters), including a ventilated improved pit
latrine and a standpipe shared by 12 households, would require a monthly
mortgage payment of Tk 89 (US$2.85), or a consolidated monthly payment of
Tk 161 (US$5.20) if an optional Tk 5,000 (Us$161.30) building loan is
included. This compares favorably with the current market rent of Tk 175-200
(US$5.65-6.45) for a single room made of bamboo with no water, electricity or
sanitary facilities.
2.36    A detailed affordability analysis i; pro~sented in Annex 8.  About
54% of the plots would be affordable to households with monthly income
between Tk 1,150 and Tk 1,850 (US$37.10 and $59.70) and 77X to households
with monthly income below Tk 2,300 (US$74.70). Household qualification for
plot allocation would be made on the basis of income affidavit and
verification that the applicant owns no other property in the area.
Low-income plots would be allocated through a lottery system, while
higher-income commercial and industrial plots would be auctioned. The
current administrative process for plot allocation and property registration
would be simplified, taking into account the literacy level of the target
group.
2.37    Environmental Improvements.  Project coste related to the
infrastructural investments by DMC and CMC would be recovered from the
general revenues (taxes and fees) of the two corporations. Both DMC and CMC
would have to improve their financial performance significantly under the
project. Operational Action Plans (para 2.18) developed with DMC and CMC
provide for annual monitorable operational and financial targets to increase
receipts and contain expenditures. These include: (a) increasing the
percentage of collection of current demand of taxes and charges; (b) reducing
accumulated arrears through more vigorous collection procedures and resorting
to legal remedies where appropriate; (c) revaluing properties to reflect
current market rental values; (d) revising current rent levels of
municipal-owned commercial properties to reflect realistic market rent
levels; (e) improving the productivity of service delivery (thereby reducing
costs); and (f) improving the financial accounting, budgeting and planning
systems through retention of financial management experts. The main source
of revenue increase will come from increased property tax yields on higher
land values. The higher yields would be expected to result from tasks
included in the Financial Action Plan (to be formulated by September 1, 1989)
provided for in the Operational Action Plans (Annex 5). In this respect, CMC
will receive specialist technical assistance to help them revalue properties,
which are presently undervalued. Detailed financial projections and
assumptions for DMC and CMC are given in Annex 7.



-20-
Risks
2.38    Three principal risks are involved in the projects  (a) DMC and CMC
may not be able to sustain this commitment to raise enough revenue to cover
the project's debt service and recurring maintenance; (b) project
implementation could suffer because of difficulty in attracting and
maintaining qualified local staff; and (c) coordination at the national level
may be insufficient.
2.39    To reduce the risk of not improving local resource mobilization, only
procedural reforms would be initially introduced in property tax
administration. Such reforms would include improved record-keeping and more
efficient collection procedures. These are not expected to meet serious
political opposition and would be introduced concurrently with improvements
in the delivery of municipal services. The more politically sensitive
reforms, such as increasing property tax rates or reassessment of property
values, are decisions that rest in each Municipal Corporation and would be
gradually introduced, according to the financial projections and the
Financial Action Plan (para 2.37).
2.40    To further reduce project implementation risks, assurances were
received at negotiations that Government will maintain a core of skilled
staff in the PIUs and divisions implementing the project throughout its
duration (paras 2.15 and 2.16). Also, manpower development will be supported
through a long-term program of technical assistance and studies for MLG and
MOW during the first five years of project implementation.
2.41    Insufficient coordinating capacity at the national level would be
addressed by strengthening the Planning Cells of MLG and MOW and through the
extended technical assistance and training subproject.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01    (a) Prior to negotiations, Government completed the following actions
to the satisfaction of IDA:
(i) Project Proforma: Informed IDA that on May 10, 1988, the
three Project Proforma (for HSD, DMC and CMC) were approved
by the Pr.ject Evaluation Committee of the Planning
Commission, Ministry of Planning in accordance with GOB
policy letter of January 2, 1986 (para 2.17);
(ii) Dholai Khal Resettlement: Submitted to IDA for review a
detailed plan for resettlement of the project affected
families in the area of the Dholai Khal drainage improvement



-21-
in Dhaka (para 2.05), with confirmation that GOB had approved
the proposed resettlement plan.
(iii) Collections: Area Development: Submitted to IDA the name of
Agrani Bank as the financial institution selected by GOB to
manage the collection of mortgage payments for area
development and shelter loans on behalf of GOB (para 2.09 and
2.19).
(b) The Government informed at IDA negotiations that formal
arrangements have not yet been made between CMC and the Port Authority for
the construction of the storm water culvert through the port area, including
maintenance arrangements. It was agreed and recorded in the CMC Action Plan
(Annex 5) that GOB would submit evidence of an agreement before mid-July
1988.
(c) The following agreements and assurances were received at
negotiations:
(i) Collections: Selection of the Agrani Bank as the financial
institution for managing the collection of mortgage payments
for area development and shelter loans on behalf of HSD. and
confirmation of proposed arrangement with MOW/HSD. (para
2.09 and 2.19);
(ii) On-site services: Agreements have been made between MOW and
the electricity, water, gast education and municipal
authorities for the provision and implementation of these
services on the area development subproject site (para 2.09)?
(iii) Chief Financial Positions: Creation of and a timetable for
filling such positions in DMC and CMC, and a municipal
finance position in the MLG's Planning Cell (para 2.15);
(iv) Procurement: Government practices that do not comply with
IDA guidelines would not be pursued and IDA procurement
guidelines would be followed (para 2.22);
(v) Operational Action Plans: Preparation by NOW, DMC and CMC,
operational action plans including specific financial
management actions, would be updated annually, for
satisfactory review by IDA, and would serve as basis for
monitoring project implementation (para 2.18);
(vi) Organization and Staffing: Government would maintain a core
of skilled staff in PIUs and implementing divisions through
project implementation (para 2.37).



-22-
(vii) Engineering Design Consultancies: Execution of engineering
agreements with consultants selected for Dholai Khal detailed
design and additional design for Sheikh Mujib Road culvert by
October 15, 1988; and
(viii) Resettlement: Agreement on final resettlement plan for
project affected people in area of Dholai Khal drainage
improvement.
(d) The following will be conditions of credit effectiveness:
(i) Technical Assistance and Studies: Signing of UNDP Project
Documents (para 2.17);
(ii) Subsidiary Loan Agreements: Execution of Agreements between
the Borrower and DMC and CMC (para 2.13);
(iii) Project Proforma: Final approval by Borrower for carrying
out the Project (para 2.17); and
(iv) Resettlement: Confirmation by Borrower that all necessary
Governmental action required for adopting and thereafter
implementing the resettlement program in accordance with the
detailed plan, has been taken (para 2.15).
3.02    On the basis of the above conditions and agreements, the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$47.6 million equivalent to The People's
Republic of Bangladesh, at standard terms with 40 years maturity.



-23-
AN=   1
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1. "Dacca Metropolitan Area-: Integrated Urban-Development Project; Working
Papers": 1. Population; 2. Environmental Aspects; 3. Land Issues;
4. Engineering Infrastructure, Flood Protection; Shankland Cox
Partnership, Dhaka, December, 1979 to January, 1980.
2. "Dacca Metropolitan Area, Integrated Urban Development Project"; Final
Report: Vol. I: Summary; Vol. II: Urban Strategy; Vol. III: Projects;
Shankland Cox Partnership, Dhaka, March 1981.
3.  "Bangladesh:  Urban Sector Memorandum", The World Bank,
(Report No. 3422-BD), Washington, D.C., May, 1981.
4.  "The Chittagong Municipal Corporation Ordinance", 1982, The Bangladesh
Gazette, Dhaka, September 20, 1982.
5. "Sewerage and Sanitation System for Chittagong Metropolitan Area:
Feasibility Study and Development Plan", Interim Report and Annexes,
Dhaka: BKH/PKL/SEA, September, 1983.
6. "Bangladesh: Urban Government Finance and Management: Issues and
Opportunities", Sector Paper, The World Bank, (Report No. 5790-BD),
Washington, D.C., June, 1985.
7.  "Dhaka Municipal Corporation:  Finance Management Study", UNCHS/CIPFA
Services Ltdl., London, October, 1985.
8. "Phase II Report, Chittagong: Area Development Subproject and Municipal
Services Subproject"; Vol. I:  Executive Summary; Vol. II:  Introduction
and Area Development Subproject; Vol. III: Area Development Subproject
and Plates and Plans; Vol. IV: Municipal Services Subproject; Vol. V:
Municipal Services Subproject Plates; LBII/ECA, Dhaka, August, 1985.
9. "Housing Development Subproject: Subcontract 'A': Executive Summary";
Final Feasibility Report (Summary Volume); Final Feasibility Report
(Volume 2); Urban Management Survey; Financial and Economic Analysis
Addendum; Drawings; BKH/BIE/Culpin Planning/Aqua Consultant and
Associates, Dhaka, October 1985 to January, 1986.



-24-
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
10. "Preliminary Project Proforma (PPF) for Environmental Improvement
Project Under Chittagong Municipal Corporation", CMC/MLG, Dhaka,
nod.
11. "Peliminary Project Proforma for Environmental Improvement project:
Dhaka", Dhaka Municipal Corporation, February, 1986.
12.-"Preliminary Pro3ect Proforma for Urban Area Development Scheme for
Low-Income Housing at Kaiballadham, Chittagong (included in ADP 1985-6)
as Acquisition and Development of Land at Kaiballadham near Firuz Shah
Colony at Chittagong", Ministry of Planning, Planning Commission,
HSD/MOW, Dhaka,, n.d.
13. "Bangladesh: Staff Appraisal Report, Third Dhaka Water Supply and
Sanitation Project", The World Bank (Report No. 5964-BD), Washington,
D.C., August, 1986.
14. "The Chittagong Municipal Corporation for the Year 1985-6", DMC, Dhaka,
n.d.
15. "Final Report - Housing Development Project Subcontract "A" Dholai
Khal Rehabilitation and Area Development Study", 2 Volumes, BKH/BIE/
Culpin Planning/Aqua Consultant and Associates Ltd., October 1986.
16. "Project Proforma for Environmental Improvement Project, Dhaka", Dhaka
Municipal Corporation, October, 1987.
17. "Project Proforma for Environmental Improvement Project, Chittagong",
Chittagong Municipal Corporation, October 1987.
18. "Final Report - Area Development Sub-Project Final Engineering Design
for Ministry of Works/Housing and Settlement Directorate/Urban
Development Directorate", Louis Berger International, Inc.,
October 23, 1987.
19. "Final Report - Chittagong Municipal Services Sub-Project, Final
Engineering Design, fa- Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives/Chittagong Municipal Corporation," Louis Berger
International, Inc., October, 1987.
20. "Dholai Xhal Redevelopment Project: Report of Socio-Economic Conditions
of the Inhabitants of the Project Area and Resettlement Proposals of the
Affected Persons," Dhaka Municipal Corporation and Tropical Ccnisultants, Ltd.,
December 1987.



-25-                                                          ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
95,3/"                      URa BANOsVI  OPNE IT  oao04 atI
Ttke   Lakh                  US A   s6 *I .     tweeei
reX~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . ..    .... .--........8   s                                  se
oF PteReTmet    to
...................................................... .................................................................... f
Lecel  Faap       Tta   teut l Poisp    Ttalt  od  otaUt  Ct
lifliStly of vwet OVA0
........................
1. Chittaguw Ar     pmt_
LaW                          430.0       0.0   430.0    1.39    0.00       1.4      0.00    3.11
civil wb                      e63.1     927       3.7    3.00    04t 0     3e 3    13.02   s5a.
lbildiag Lomn                390.3      39.91   3.1    0.87    0.10        1.0     10.00    341
Projelt iWq   tt_l  Unit       73.3      L1   '81.4    0.3       0.0      0.3    10.0%    0.6
.......  .......   .......   ........ .......   ........ ... ............ ...
otal              131.5    13.7  15.2    4.49    0.42           4.9      8.a    11.11
*. Ttict*mstu
Proe ct lpA      **p. orw.t56.         16.6   2.6    0."9    0.S          0.7      743.     1.73
.......  .......    .......    ........ .......    ........ ... ............ ...
h rtot              3.3    s166.6   38        0.9    0.54       0.?     74.J      141x
Te 0i     -.    -14*.7    3w.$    wx. -I.               0 o.7             Tr.b   1.5
Nilnitry of Loca Sast. (t)
..................................
1. Chi 0lut ISlipat soecyi
ste l Moto e  rsin
Lad                           167.3      8.8   174.1    0.54    0.03      0.6       5.Os    1.31
tup.td  . Vehictls TC4t$       22.5    3e.?   35.3    0.07    06          0.7      90.01    1.61
civit Wrts                   14MOA      6t.   179.3    5.43    0.29       5.7       5.03   12.91
Solid  eta Cottctwivep.
lad                          a3.3        0.0 3e68.3    0.74    0.0t        0.7      0.0     1.7S
ksrtehap BSl.                 48.3       5.4     3.6    0.16    0.02      0.3      10.03    OS
victl                         39.      M.9   M3.5    0.13    2.43    23.6          ".       5.03
Sadtatfct
$eptic Test, CemLstre        56t.9      63.2   632.1    1.64    0.20      2.0      lO.01    4.61
Project loplinnttatont Utt      71A        0.0    71.4   08.3    0.00       0.3       0.01    0.51
S14 Ttat Chittt   3937.1   1133.4  39.5           9.1      3.6    132.t    36.4    D6.9X
3.  0k Itmlpet Servoe
Stem  aterW Onfrale
Lad                          37.0        0.0  235.0    0.S9    0.00       0.9       0.03X   L.0
Civit lrt                   tOt.t    7.1  3434.3    L.7          3.31    1..0      3.x    25.01
Sotid  eta CotletlfeVof
Lt                           3e5.1       9.0   35.1    0.95    0.00       1.0       0.03    Z.36
Civi I rks                    3t.7       3.4    34.1    0.10    0.01      0.1      10.03    0.21
EPeel vebel.                  36.0    646   7.7    8.            2.31     LS       95.0t    5.31
vwbbp                         614.3   23t        0.4    1.       0.70    32.3    3l.01       .31
* Total             3tt.3   1611.3  5460.5    13.4       5.3    176S    29.51   40.03
Septa Lee 13c item
Civil nt                     1064.0    11M.O  140    34          07       3.7      10.03    6.5S
ProeJct l ntta urdt            36.3       34.0   340.3    0.99    0.1t      1.1      10.e0    2.5S
....... ..... .               ...... ..... ....... .... ... ............ ...
PA tot Shak          3 5    1741.3  6A4.8   1.0    5.             22.5     25.3    S1.0
3. Tattelt Asit
t (ta
....... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~    ..    . ....
113.1    03.9  1001.0    0.56    3.60        .3      82.8X    r.4S
oh Tot al7.1                      3.9   tS.0    0.56    2.6        3.2     661    7.41
ftew  Mi             S .    3716.6  1125.3   S6"         t1.99    3L5      31.31X    .21
.......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;;;   ....... -... ----.. ....------ ... ......... .... ...
Tot Sam Cas t(J    9          9659."   40       t 5.9 105.    31.16   1.   4.        39.4S    160.X M
hsIC  Cutirtmes              935.7    3"        C4.0    3.O    1.1t        4.2     IS.7X    9.51
Ptei  cwiagunle Sa 39.4   1434.9    W4.3   13.61    4.6O    17.2                   3L.7;  3.0x
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ....... ....... ........ ....... ........ ....... ........ ....... ........ .....................
64  otal             4640.0   171.3  in.3    15.6         5.73    31.4     3.73   46.51
TtalProJect  ot               14534.1  5tS9.1  3030.6   4646    16.67    6.          38.5S  146.6
........... 



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01    s"S    19                          .oo      lo      140        "    so       laost  Tot"    *0    SO        Wm      Ms   *10    to         ~     Wm    1" a
_o     _      _  _      _             _  _      _      _       _                                                                                  _____________ ___  _
-  - - -              -  C --------0 0 1
5       T _0010 31..0..9..
La.00.0   00      00      00      00       .       0.       .       .     00        .0     .0      0      .0 00    .          0.00   0.00   0.00    1.4
01101 MMMI  0.0    40.0   109.0   100.0   101.9    90.1  0.0     0.0     0.9  118.13    0.00   0.0?    0.0.00    0.39   0.81   0.00   0.09   0.00at3.3
0*418109 LO1.  0.0    J:  01.0    14.0    74.0    9.0    00.0  0.0  0.0  7.10    0.00   0.00   0.10   0.84   0.04   0.11   0.10   0.          0.00     1.0*.4   Eal   :  D.
97j00t 1098.00.0.01.. 104   0~~.0         M         4.4-,.3          4.      0.0 s  1  0.r00         ". 'n    0.00   0.0    0.0r   0.00 0.? 0.00.0 .O.0 0 O.:
s  <X<_  _*Z  .   ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o!!-   -0                                                                    . 
S010.1                              .0       .     1                                         0.0     0.0  160.1      I.9.   0.31   0.      0." 00    0          0.0   0.00   0.00    4.o
*dse-WeZ n ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~82- ssi*                                                      sc                                            og  5c e-r ed   ;.te  .2,g8ee -g    o  2eo
S0t1ef0a                           0.0       .       .0      .4    44.1     1.S      0       0.0     0.0  *3.03    0.00   0.10   o.o    0.oo    0.14  *0.0    0.0    e.00   0.00    D.?
_0001 MM                         om.0   143.9   300.4   33?.0   200.?   113.0    00.1        0.0     0.0             --2..95    1.39 o.40   0.00   1.0    1."    0.0    00 .   0.00 r.0
0t1.s.                               0.0     0.0  164.0    la.I       0.0      .0       0              0    s.0   i'0.1  0.0a  0.00   0.la   0.00  *0.0   0.0   *0.00   0.00   0.00    0.s
0.0   p 3.3   o0.e    30.3    30.3       0o.0    0.0     0.0     0.0      .      0.      0.10 0.39 0.1o a3 O*   O t.o10   0 0.o e4     0.0 0  000   0.00    0.?
_m00.1.30..00 0     0.0    13.0   495.    W.6   301.4   109.0    09.1  1TS0."       0.00   9..O    0.00   0.6      .            0.4_0.6    0. _.?
La"14.1 ao                                .3              0                        0.0     0.0     0.0  *SO.DA     o.3?   0.9   0.0?   0.0    e.00    .        0.0    00 000    0.,
30o10060 014w.             ~~~~ ~~~~0.0    31.4    2.  0.0  O.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.      340    0.00   00       0.10w  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.D   0.00   0.00    0.8
e=30110                              0.       O.  1e8.?   1e.? -W.    1.              0.       0       0.0b  1 .0     0.t      0.e  E0                            0.10   0.00  *00 e .e
e000e.e 0a .4o.    e4.0    94.0    04.0    94.                                                04.0 0o.o  03.0          e.'s ..2S   0.31   0.eo    8.
O _ .eu.* ras.sssE s.  s  .o .7 C-.s, &,*OI             s. .                                               632    s .00                                                         0.0
*     *01 d   m053.1 Sw10.
* 0010M      0t                                          :r0 3-- LI  1J::    0J::   111:4   , 2 au   1: ,L             .? - .*&   O.Qs   0.0    0:.3    O.*   0.r0   *.o   0.*            0.
em O_a Chi$Z                               40.0   94.7   53.2   O.4,   ".I    OR.A-   ".*    99.4 P94.50    G.3r   ;-.ts   ;. 7 *             r       -#            *.X.-0   ;W 1- o
oftm,m sfttw Oralmew                                         0.                                                                                                 0.~~~~~~~~~~~.200.0    .0
La"  Mt                              0.0    1.0s    10.2 I   .I       .8      .0      0.0      0.0     0.   34.0    0.00   0.00   0.03   04    .03   0            0.00   0.0    0.e    0: 
8441944# 509..                "0.0       .      0.0    w44.        1:. 14      144.1   1.1   0.    .0.           0.00   0.00   0.00   0 '.E    0.0   .a_09   0.0    09   0.0 e       .3
La"  O0.0                                    0.    144.1   300.8   810         .0     0. 0.0           0.    *.0      00      .0 S    0.09    .0    01      .0     .00 0.        0.00      .3   2
CA."~~ O.                                                                                                                                 e     .0|
3.310.                                                                                                               *                                                                            b:0P  ~  3...dp..,1  0.0    30.0   *00.0   300.0   109.0   540.0   100.0    01.0  0.0  1*40.00    0.00   0.1*   0.0?   9.04   0.04   0.54   0.:O  0.20   0.0::3.?
Le 0001004.                     0.0    11.8.I    .   14.540       .4      .0      .0 1    0.0     0.03  00.10    0.0000   .     0.9    0.      00'a0000 0                   00       .
00000 310. 310300           0~~~~~~~.0  0.9.  0.01   304.0    00.0 a  .4     0.0     0.0     0.0  *0413      0.0    .0    0.0    1:0.    0.30'  :40.00.00  0.00    0.00    0.
001 0.041                            0.0    34.3    10R.0   0.02T      . 00.  13.0   8a.0    00.0   09.0 21409.31    0.00   0.31    .3    0.8    0.31   0.11W  0.0    0.00   0.00r   1.a
'.%.001 a.1  OM.                         0.0   811.0   131.0  *004.0  1149.1,  100.0   093.0   410.4   *1.3  W600.00    0.00   9.1It   0.30   9.3?   O."0   3.0    1.34   1.80   0.3?   10.0
Sub8..0    t"l .w00032;10                                                      -se 
us..p                                                                                                                           A    u
MW tote)     0.0   303.0   100.3    394.1   133.3    00.9    40.4      0.      0.0  106.09    0.00    e.1 00          .81 00        .9 03          .0 00           .
300.  .0          14.2  *49.41109430  308.0 300.30*90.30  100.4  10.4* 818.0  113                    03?   ~3    4.3.   .00    .93    .24    .90 0.090=09 30.
1004) 040. 1.00      344.1  1109.1  1139~~~~~~.4  309.009.    0005.0      0    0.4 80.   313.            10 3.1          .0 90?.00t0?o39                   o80    0.00   00.1
999414 C100031MCOO                   0. 0 a1 08.    1136.?   300.6 203         .     11.      0.1      00 104          .0     0.1     .      0.0    2.00   0.93o0.48       0.2    0.00    4.*
9,10  C0*90144                       0?.0   101.3   1094.    61.3   441.3,  *40.0   108       01.0   81.0  20314.    0.00   0.4    1.t 0. 10O.      4.00    3.4s   3.09   1.-0-   0.09   11.
N L 0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S.b 44461  0.0   2631.0   900.10  264.4   x3a.3,   00.9    44.O  0.0  0.0 Sam."    0.00   owtv   GAS: O.Ift   0.40   O.DO   *.St   *.Co   0.40    0.0~~~~~~~94



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
-27-
LA^LALDXSB
WRIAN 9TtgLOJXJBT plOJsl
St||tC&L AIS$SS^wlO
d~~~~~~~~~~ V_                       S. d                      WS3 
NIO                                                                    isVdwa. of    us$              us        taba
a"t  mite                                    ('000)
V     _        12    9,000  21m.0e0
96.000   2,976,000
2. eoma_s_o T41 -aU
=NIt  idget VIO.21.01          I1a1*~t                  1               7     7.0    ,5.0
ww(Zoei*a   cm job  p                   4    40.000  1L,252,000
uUMs *_u  .  . _
s6,00   17,639600,
.- .0oaUt 0pw  to (A2) A M
MP1     3.11..             0mu                      -     -         -         --
,    -    _   '    72,000  a.3.oo0
1?              issmi ommatAM             L    -         so    20,000    620,000
92d00    2.852.000
4. Squi8MaIPOSeM.a   uepat COSeto XA   & 6W
-I3.dqat N1is                  Otw" gptct               L      -        -       o000 1o,000
Is              oas.s   Sv.               1      -        -      *,000    as000
16               0s. Cat                  -      -        .          _-
V     _         -         o13000    4000
41                s.bb1   3       s       '      '        '          -          -
1     -         .    15,000    45.000
42  ~ ~~st              c -  -  oo - ,"oo
V     -         -    10.000    210.000
V          .          5.000    92,.00
104.000   S.22r,00O
PIOJNCI S       OTAL                                               "1.000   26,691.000
lot.,   All sdtmms   to bult  &in" utUt. to _0U 1td.. 1 Am_adse I for   NV Vojoot N3mbeg DO           3   6 1001861044.



ANNEX 2
fapS4 of 4
-28-
DUDLCXl *3V7.ONUI   PUJUG
S    ,  _____ ___________________ _____
Nosa dmle. *Oeemw __t    ailla
eeeea~~~ . .e... .e.. ...
in    won se.1.01         1_ e    lbeek. AVUv            L _
1     _        50   540,000   7,440,000
2.onsmtueias T1tamtte                                                                                    540,000   7,448,000
t1 Buget  ..21 .01               1_   b.                  L     _        in      9lW,000   6,121,000
tOUC (?aoluid. an tbe  I    _           1"  lnoM6o0    5$.05,000
job tgaiia   e pemmSt)
1,974,000   1,164,000
3. Mme1p"l tmo.
0t0w sudg.t eo.21.02                     Yumae"1 7Y ne                    so _   40  ,w    1,#60,000
(haotLd. ea do job       *      _        45   540,000 16,74,000
600,000   18.600,000
4. __m_ __. Desta
IB budot e.21.0S. Ubalka Mbll ON        l 7ZD             L     _        84    64,000   2,604,0*"
1     -        20   360,000  11,160,000
21.04 Cbtt.    Shrkh Mbilb 1ED             L     _          4      4,000    $124,00
1     -        45    *0,000  2190,000
528,000  16,676,000
3. f0p1s"   aWp.ot to (AS) G PO
_5 Nudest W0.11.02              Ccasitat  (OSUOMIVI)  -    --
I     -         6    72,000  2,232,000
17               lategal cmultao           7,    -         30    20,000    930,000
1    -                     .    .      _
102,000    2,165,000
6. IScpIbzso eaal Jbppout COnta to cr .nd 110
-   - ... - - .. - - .   -    -      - .- 
11 Budgt l*,.is                 Ad .   ;."-         _         -                 4,wty   1,,0200
1i               OLdAl Trave               L     -          -    10,000     $10,000
16               Otw C                     -    -co
-              -    1,000    558,000
41               2      1e U       at      -    -           -         -           -
1    -          -    44,500   1,579.500
42                     b l    _ eut   -    -                -          -
t -   105,500   2,270,500
51               Opeostlems  atn                _          _          _ 
1     -         -    20,000      620,000
52               Repoats                   -    -                      -          -
V     -         -       2,000     93,000
2                   AY                                                 -          -
I               -    10,000    310,000
251,000   7,842,000
PROJECt   TOTAL                                                    3.707,000  114,917,000
Motes   A11 zd.naoos to budget l1kes gelate to _15  gedee 1 A_ndment 8 for  WIW PiJect number S18/104S 1a 10861044.



ANNEX 3
-29-
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flow of Funds
IDf         UNDP
47.6   47.6        4.6'
1GOB                    - -]
2.    4.5                   h6.7   2.1         4.5 1501
53--t--  Lt't
, .  L  _ 1.4_  _
._~~~~ II 
Benefi-
liGries w  
* w GOB Budgetary Allocation
*- UNDP Funds
I- DA Credit
- - - - w LoanlMortgage Repayments
(Amounts shown in USS million



UR9N4 DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
Imp lewmtat ion Schedula,
1 2 34   1 2 34   1 2 34   1 2394   1 2 34   1 2394   1 2 34   1 2 34   t1234
FY88     FY89      FY90     FY91      FY92     FY93      FY94      FY95     FY96
1        2         a        4         56                 7                  9
Rtrei Development S.Shelter-SI                                                      I                            I    
Lantd P4quisition           In NN               I                                                         
CivilMorwks                 I            n  n  IVNEMIVEEEnIn  VM                               I 
Building Loars              S                           NN NMEN  SEIN n x I NNN"nI             NENIEN N  I 
Dsgn.d'Spn.dlqgmt.          I    ENNEEIVNIVN EI *    VN  NEVE                            NV   I  N E   I   V 
Chittagon Municipal Services                            I                                                          
Lansd Aquisition            INNNIVNSE                    I                                                
StoreMotorDrainage          I                   IImmn        ENSEaN   S    * S EVE    S ENU     aNE   EVEN  I EVEN S 
Solid Moo" Colloction       I S               INNIV N knNIN  EN             I                   I                 II
Sanitation                  I         I         I        I NUI EVEN    MMV    VErnE In EV   I EaEN a INNa  S W 
IM.mioipel Moi-kcsop        I S               INNINEa "            a          aI 
Vehicosle4Equipamet         I         IIEN N "mtn  "N nEIV                   a                            
Dogn- /Spn.fl~got.          I         I N N N N In N N N  N IN N N  N I  N VVN In N in n I V  NVV IA NVN a a    I    I 
Obaka IMuicipal Services                      ISISSISII
LanmdAquisitianIn  MN NVINNNENNNS                                  I                  S                  S 
Stor~m,Wter Grairneg        I         I         INNNEI nNEN          NNSVEVEVNNIVE
SolidIdesta Collection      I         S           NNS n N  EVVES                      I        IS
Solid MestoCollectirfEquip  S         I         Ip*  INNNN INNEEnI VNmN  IN  NVI 
Moo km$ op                                             a  S NIEn N * VENEw       I             IS 
lmpreve.ents toLI f-.as     IS             n NSVaNNNS    uN EVIN *In  VI               NNn IVVNVS                  I 
Ds9n.foSpn.flMg.t.          I             EE      NVV    S ENE aM n0 I ME       a VEEINV           EME   SEEI
Tochn~ical  tseistaieS                                                     III                                     
studios  ~~I                *n             I        I II                                   I
studios            I            n   W IVN an  I   NV   I           I        I         II
NNN N Continous Activity
Part Time Follma-tj 



AMNEX 5 A
-31-                           Page 1 of 3
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HSD OPERATIONAL ACTION PLAN
(Prepared 5/20/88)
The following operational action pian contains a number of actions
to be undertaken. It was discussed, updated and agreed to at
negotiations. It will be used as a tool for monitoring progress
in project implementation, and will be further added to as agreed during
supervision missions.
A.  Chittagong:  Kaiballadham Area Development and Shelter Subproject    - - -
1.0 HSD LAND ACQUISITION
1.1 Legal possession of all land by HSD and communica-
tion to IDA of status of. pending claim adjustments:   Completed
1.2  Agreement on the acquisition of access rights and
modification of main road alignment in CDA scheme at
the proposed railway crossing:                         Completed
2.0 HSD FINAL ENCINEERING DESIGNS & BID DOCUMENTS (FED) AND PROCUREMENT
2.1 Pre-qualification and evaluation of contractors
according to "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD loans and IDA Credits":                     December 1, 1988
3.0 HSD INSTITUTIONAL  IRRANGEMENTS FOR IMPLMENATION
3.1 Communication to IDA of initiation of PIUs
activities in Chittagong/BSD offices and appoint-
ment of director:                                     November 1, 1988
3.2 Submission to IDA confirmation that
Bangladesh Railway (BR) authority to carry out
arrangements for access and crossing
to site:                                              Completed
3.3 HSD to submit to IDA proposal for proposed
arrangements for tenure and sale of plots:            Jani.ary 1, 1989



-32-                        ANNEX 5 A
Page 2 of 3
3.4 Definition of formal arrangements between MOW and
other governmental agencies to cooperate and carry
out specific project activities within a timed,
phased costed and financial program, and confirmation
to IDA of the following.
(a) Agreement with CWASA for timing,
financing and cost recovery arrangements for
construction and provision of water, in a
phased programs                                    Completed
(b) Agreement with electricity authority for
timing, financing and cost recovery arrangements
for construction and provision of electricity to
site in a phased program:                          Completed
(c) Agreement with gas authority for timing,
financing and cost recovery arrangements for
construction and provision of gas service to
site in a phased program.                          Completed
(d) Written agreement with education and health
author4ties for timing and financing
arrangements for construction and staffing
of schools, including arrangements for
land pur'chase.                                    Confirmed
3.5 Confirmation from Chittagong Municipal
Corporation for provision of municipal services
solid waste collection, street lighting/cleaning,
etc. from entire Kaiballadham settlement, after
allocation:                                            Confirmed
3.6 Finalization of detailed program and form for
advertising applications, beneficiary selection,
lottery, plot allocation, tenure arrangements,
occupation:                                            December 1, 1988
4.0 HOD PFINACIAL ABRANGEMENTS FOR COST RECOVERY
4.1 Submission to IDA of detailed arrangements by Agrani
Bank for managing, loan instruments (mortgage) and
collection of payments from plot holders (house-
holds and small businesses):                           January 1, 1989
4.2 Detailed program for administering loan program for
construction materials, including links to mortgage
payment arrangements through financial institution
(in 4.1 above):                                        May 1, 1989



-33-                            ANNEX 5 A
Page 3 of 3
4.3 HSD/GOB to define long term financial arrangements
for revolving fund for future area development
and low income shelter programs to be agreed
with Ministry of Finance and Bangladesh Bank.          September 1, 1989
4.4 MOW/HSD to prepare model loan agreement for plot
beneficiaries for review by IDA.                       January 1, 1989
5.0 HSD TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, STUDIES AND TRAINING (UNDP/UNCHS)
5.1 Preliminary TORs and Draft of UNDP Pro-Doc
submitted to IDA for implementation assistance to
HSD/PIU in Chittagong and assistance to HSD/DCS
in Dhaka.                                              Completed
5.2 Confirm expression of interest by consultants in TA: October 1, 1988
5.3 Signing of final UNDP Pro-Doc for NOW technical
assistance in 5.1 above:                        .  -  August 1, 1988
5.4 UNCHS to confirm to GOB and IDA nomination of CTA
project manager for implementation of IDA
project:                                               July 15, 1988



34                         ANNEX 5 B
Page 1 of 4
BANGLADESB
URBAN DEVEWPMENT PROJECT
DMC OPERATIONAL ACTION PLAN
(Prepared 5/20/88)
B. Dhaka: Environmental Improvement SubproJect
The following operational action plan contains a number of actions
to be undertaken. It was discussed, updated and agreed to at
negotiations. It will be used as a tool for monitoring progress
in project implementation, and would be further added to as agreed during
supervision missions.
1.0 DMC: LAND ACQUTSITION
1.1 Confirmation by DXC of acquisition of sanitary
land fill site for solid waste disposal, including
phasing of sanitary landfill operations and
financing:                                            Completed
1.2 Identification of land re;uirements by DMC for
the Dholai Khal drainage scheme:                      Completed
1.3 Confirmation of 1987-88 and 1986-89 ADP
allocation for DMC. land acquisition under
under project:                                        Completed
1.4 Location and acquisition plan for at least half
of the total site to be acquired for each physical
component (sanitary landfill, Dholai Khal and low-
income areas) and submission to IDA:                  January 1, 1989
1.5 Legal possession of land required by DMC for 1.1
and 1.2 above for first two seasons of
construction:                                         March 1, 1989
2.0 DMC FINAL ENGINEERING DESIGN & TENDER DOCUMXENS (FED):
2.1 Submission to IDA of a resettlement plan and
implementation program to relocate families
affected by Dholai Xhal drainage schemes              Completed



-35-                             AN14EX 5 B
Page 2 of 4
2.2 Dholai Khal Detailed Design
(a) Invitation of expressions of interest from
consultants for Dholai Khal detailed designs    Underway
(b) Submission to IDA of short list of
consultants:                                     June 30, 1988
(c) Invitation for proposals from shortlisted
consultants:                                     July 15, 1988
(d) 8ubmission to IDA of recommendation on
consultant selection:                            September 1, 1988
(e)  Execution of consultancy agreements              October 15s, 1988
(f)  Mobilization of consultantss                     December 1, 1988
2.3 Prequalification of local construction firms for
improvements in low income areas and for
Dholai Khal resettlement programs                     October 1, 1988
2.4 Prequalification of construction firms for
Dholai Rhal drainage improvement subproject:          January 1, 1989
3.0 DNC: INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
3.1 Formal definition of national/local responsi-
bilities in respect of the drainage component
financed under the project and overall drainage
responsibilities within DMC area, including
staff to be deputed from DPHE:                        September 1, 1988
3.2 Formal definition/clarification of DMC depart-
mental responsibilities in respect of project
components: (a) project management: PDIU/CE;
(b) works in low-income settlements: PDIU;
(c) solid waste management: Conservancy/CEg;
(d) mechanical workshop: M&E Dept./CE; (e) Dholai
Khal: new Drainage Department/CE; and (f) low-cost
sanitation cell ICE:                                  October 1, 1988



-36-                         ANNEX 5 B
Page 3 of 4
3.3 Definition of formal arrangements between DMC and
other necessary government agencies to cooperate and
carry out specific project activities within a timed,
phased, costed and financial program:                 January 1, 1989
(a) DNC and DWASA in respect of water supply to
low-income areas;
(b) DNC and the proposed low-cost Sanitation Cell
in respect of the IDA financed (DWASA III)
low-cost sanitation facilities in Old Dhaka
and low-income settlements;
(c) DMC and respective utilities (TITAS GAS and
Bangladesh Power Development Board) in respect
of utility supplies in low-income areas;
(d) DMC and accredited NGOs willing to participate
community development and social welfare aspects
of proposed low-income settlement component; and
(e) DMC and education and health authorities in
respect of construction and staffing of school
and health facilities in low-income areas.
4.0 DXC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COST RECOVERY ARRANGEMENTS
4.1  Chief Financial Officer
Ci)  Create the post of Chief Financial Officer       January l, 1989
(CFO);
Cii) Fill the post of CFO;                            July 1, 1989
4.2 A Financial Action Plan, with expected results, to:
(a) decrease accumulated arrears of the property
holdings tax;                                    September 1, 1939
(b) improve the proportion of the current year demand
of the property tax collected during the year;
(c)  maximize property value assessments;
(d)  revise current rent levels of municipal owned
comercial properties to reflect realistic
market rent levels; and



-37-                          ANNEX 5 B
Page 4 of 4
(e) the production of an agreed overall financial
plan showing how the improved revenues of the DMC
will be able to finance the existing and other
non-project related expenditulres together with
the expenditures arising from the Environmental
Improvement Subproject;                                 "
4.2 Prepare a staffing plan to ensure an adequate
supply of competent staff in the revenue, accounts
and budgeting sections to produce the results
required in the above action plans:                   September 1, 1989
5.0 DMC: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, STUDIES AND TRAINING
5.1  Preliminary TORe and Draft UNDP Pro-Doc
submitted to IDA for implementation assistance
to DMC as described in 5.2 and 5.3 below:             Completed
5.2  Confirm expression of interest by consultants
in TA to provide management and technical
services, both foreign and localt                     September 1, 1988
5.3  Confirm expression of interest by firms in TA
to provide financial advisers (foreign and local)
to be working under the general supervision of
the municipal finance expert in the Planning Cell
of the MLW, as follows:                               December 1, 1988
(a) Municipal financial management expert(s) to
assist in improving the financial accounting,
budgeting and planning systems; and
(b) Municipal tax expert(s) to assist in improving
revenue performance (part time shared with CMC).
5.4 Signing of UNDP Project Document with DMC technical
and financial sub-contracts:                          August 1, 1988



ANNEX 5 C
Figie1of 4
-38-
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CMC OPERATIONAL ACTION PLAN
(Prepared 5/20/88)
C.  Chittagong:  Environmental Improvement Subproject
The following operational action plan contains a number of actions
to be undertaken. It was discussed, updated and agreed to at
negotiations. It will be used as a tool for monitoring progress
in project implementation, and will be further added to as agreed during
supervision missions.
1.0 CMC LAND ACQUISITION
1.1 Submission to IDA a location and acquisition plan
for half of the total sites required for each
physical component (community latrines, drainage,
workshop and solid waste disposal) and
submission to IDA:                                     January 1, 1989
1.2 Allocation of funds for CMC land purchases in
revised 1987-88 ADP and/or 1988-89 ADP:                Completed
1.3 Submission to IDA evidence of legal
possession of all lands required for the first
two full construction seasons of the program:          January 1, 1989
1.4 Identification of all CMC land reguirements for
drainage subproject.                                   October 1, 1988
1.5 A program of identifying and acquiring the remaining
sites and lands necessary for the remaining
components:                                            January 1, 1989
1.6 Identification and acquisition of access/temporary
use rights of sites for construction purposes: e.g.
temporary access to drains:                            January 1989



-39-                          ANNEX 5 C
Page 2 of 4
2.0  CMC FINAL ENGINEERING DESIGN & TENDER DOCUMENTS (FED) AND PROCUREENT
2.1 Pre-qualification and evaluation of contractors
according to "Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD
loans and IDA Credits":                                March 1, 1989 *
3.0 CMC INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
3.1  Allocation of funds for CMC/PIU staffing in FY87-88
and 1988-89 ADP budget allocation:                      Completed
3.2  Confirmation of continued UNICEF support in the
program of bucket latrine replacement with 20,000
units in the four year period, and agreement with
UNICEF and TAG to fund proposed medium-term
strategy for low-cost sanitation in Chittagong:        Completed
3.3  Confirmation of agreement with the Chittagong
Port Authority for the constructioh of
box culvert drain through the Port area and
arrangements for future maintenance:                   July 15, 1988
3.4  Reorganization of CNC conservancy office to carry
out new duties in respect of road and drainage
cleaning, public latrines and inspection services,
including training programs:                           March 1, 1989
3.5  1st phase expansion of the CMC Mechanical Repair
Dept. to include maintenance and repair facilities,
services and schedules for solid waste management
services:                                              March 1, 1989
3.6  Reorganization of storm drainage section of the
Chief Engineer's Department to fulfill regular
cleansing operations with new equipment:               March 1; 1989
3.7  The appointment of an Executive Engineer (Mechanical)
to manage and operate the workshops:                   January 1, 1989
* Implementation support subcontract to be fielded January 1989.



-40-                          ANNEX 5 C
Page 3 of 4
4.0 CNC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND COST RECOVERY ARRANGEMENTS
4.1 A Financial Action Plan with targets of recovery
and dates to deal with:                                 September 1, 1989*
(a) accumulated arrears of the property holdings
tax arising from: (a) public sector organiza-
tions particularly the Bangladesh Railways;
and (b) the private sector;                               "
(b) improve property value assessments so as to more
closely reflect market level rents, identifying
the expected improved yield (which should be at
a greater growth rate than that achieved in the
past) arising from the next two re-assessments
in the Old Municipal Area, the Previously
Extended Area and the Newly Extended Area;
(c) improve the proportion of the current year
demand collected of the property holdings tax
during the year;
(d) raise current rent levels of municipal owned
properties to reflect realistic market rent
levels;
(e) improve budgeting and accounting systems so as
to more clearly identify the actual cost of
muicipal services and to improve decision
making and monitoring of the finances of CMC; and
(f) Production of an agreed overall financial plan
showing how the improved revenues of CNC will
be able to finance the existing and other
non-project related expenditures, together
with the expenditures arising from the
Environmental Improvement Project;                       "
4.2  Production of a financial staffing plan to ensure
an adequate supply of competent staff in the revenue,
accounts; and Budgeting sections to produce the
results required in the action plans in 4.2 above:    September 1, 1989
* Municipal Finance subcontract to be fielded in July 1989.



-41-                          ANNEX 5 C
Page 4 of 4
5.0 CMC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, STUDIES AND TRAINING
5.1  Preliminary TORe and Draft U)P Pro-Doc
submitted to IDA for review to assist CMC/PIU
implementation of project:                             Completed
5.2 Signing of UNDP Pro-Doc (with CMC Technical
sub-contract and Financial sub-contracts):             August 1, 1988
5.3  Firms confirm expression of interest in CMC TA:         October 1, 1968
5.4  Contracting of a municipal tax expert(s) to be
located in Chittagong to assist in improving
revenue performance through direct technical
advice and through the training of affected
municipal officials. Such person(s) to work
also with the Dhaka Municipal Corporation and
such other Municipwleities as may be desired
and under the general supervision of an expert
working primarily with the NLCRC and the NILG,
under UNDP financing arrangements:                      July 1, 1989
5.5 Contracting of a municipal financial management
experts(s) to be located in Chittagong to assist
in improving the financial accounting, budgeting
and planning systems through direct technical
advice and through the training of affected muni-
cipal officials. Such person(s) to work with a
similarly qualified expert(s) working with the
Dhaka Municipal Corporation, to provide advice
to other Municipalities as required and to work
under the general supervision of an expert working
primarily with the MLGRC and the NILC.                 July 1, 1989



-42-                                             ANNEX 6
DANGLADESH
URBAN    DEVELOPNENT   PROJECT
DISDURSEMENt SCHEDULE
(US $ million)
ANKIIDA                                     Cumulative
Fiscal      Quarter      Disburseuents    Disbursusent       Cumulative
Year       Ending         IUSS million)     OU5 million)         (Z)
1989    Sept 30, 1988           0               0.0                 0
Dec 31, 1988            0               0.0                 0
Nar 31, 1989         0.72               0.7               1.5
June 30, 1989        0.72               1.4               3.0
1990    Sept 30, 1989        1.19               2.6               5.5
Dec 31, 1989          1.19              3.8               8.0
Lar 31, 1 99          1.67              5.5               11.5
June 30, 1990         1.67              7.2              15.0
1991    Sept 30, 1990        1.64               8.8              18.5
Dec 31, I990          1.67              10.5             22.0
Iar 31, 1I            1.90             12.4              26.0
June 30, 1991         1.90             14.3              30.0
im     Sept 30, 19I          1.90              16.2              34.0
Dec 31, 1991          1.90             18.1              38.0
War 31, 1992          v.90             20.0              42.0
June 30, 1992        1.90              21.9              46.0
1993   Sept 30, 1M           1.93              23.8              50.0
we  31,  1992         .90              25.7              54.0
War  31, 19"3        1.90              27.6              58.0
June 30, m3          1.90              29.5              62.0
1994    Set 30, 199          1.67              31.2              65.5
Dec  31, 1993        1.66              32.9              69.0
Ibr 31, 1994          1.67             34.5              72.5
June 30, 1            1.66             36.2              76.0
1993    Sept 30, 1994        1.43              37.6              79.0
DeK  31, 1994         1.43             39.0              82.0
Bar 31, 1995          1.18             40.2              84.5
Jun 30, 1995         1.18              41.4              87.0
1996   Sept 30, 1995         0.95              42.4              89.0
Dec 31, 1995         0.95              43.3              91.0
War 31, 1996         0.95              44.3              93.0
June 30, 1996        0.95              45.2              95.0
19"7   Sept 30,1 96          0.72              45.9              96.5
Dee  31, 196         0.71              46.6              98.0
ar  31, 1997         0.48              47.1              "9.0
June 30, 1997        0.48              47.6             100.0



-43-
ANNEX 7
1. DMC Financial Projections
2. DMC Financial Assumptions
3. CMC Financial Projections
4. CMC Financial Assumptions



ul-tlOll w'GIt   CO't9t   9C'ltit   C6-lCt  01-4tt   Zl-COt   Ws'         StI -t9   C0 -09                        rlOtJ{I HSU*I l"   Is
96-92C   1609C    tC-tv   CC-CIP   4-91       91-CS    A-tI   avt          "I 66-6t                          vot dV0004 t04tdO3 t 404  'A
"I**    CA`6      *S-Ot   C8Olt    &l9tt   ol-ct    >t-Zt IV     itt-6    $I.,      "lO-b                           *@-o Pw4vto -
-4149   IPS-tCt   t-tt   CO-tOt   9Z-6    -CSC         >-t I s    90-9t    L91aC    colli                         _neo  W1-twd   IS
_'om    99t-      9,0C    W-K#-C  "IS  tACZ    Wt It-t #'0                MS       092-                Stpi SOM   wt*ttat tw0   ISS
0Ut^    t-9 04     t-St,    *a-tS   Se-,t   et'st   CCtb 0n        1 6C   o$Ct    091-Z                                f4u 1440w
A'"    W;It   ;;-;,   ;>-CT    et-e           -*t -    SC-i    609-       OO-C     OgA-Z                           "110 41- llo
T9' 1996S 001     as,      6At6  02-ts    00-tt    6t-*w    0910           WIl-  IWat                   ftleDA A*UWI010
CA-19B   OS-CUt  tC-1t  Ct- 'UV   SS-ttt   "I"    ZC'61    At'0    t6-C5    "'So                      IlO5AAC WS    WAOJ
69-ZO    n-O c     CS csc   SS-tC    9t-lt   go-tt    AC-At    tO-Ct    "It        tb-,                          *"A" 44Oe t"A  *C
ez-"t   0 9,0    *'c c    so-oc    tS-#    tS-Ot   Zb-St1  t6Ot           >S1       Z-bt"'  or's         twdv"vAo*vintt W^l0 1
se-es    961 -@C      10 *s c 'co    49-S0    94-CS    A-">       WSC    *S-ttP  it-*t                   "ArP-oWowd  tw#*   MOA  'V
C*-uwg   e-"g   islet    -se         * "lo    "I        so Olt   to-I   tt-tt    AC'St                                I"_  *h -Woro
" -"    "IlW    OO-Ott  "-SS         "I">   CO'CA    "Its   *g-1  i" t-t            e-sXc                           *-Pa  tw404  *t
W: 19S   teot4-Ot    AS-0  SJ6   * -          SA-S     90-1,    69-t  SS-O  OO-O                              0*OO  >reJ"   O W
*s-      -;tct   Co,"s   01-0    "Is          AX9      61194S    AS-OS    "I-C.    "'A                        *V -
t CeA   Ot       St       106       C6 t     SUet    1661      0661      011
C02P  *o*ZA *WAA
; ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ WU            " IWNI aW       ONO,
xam ~ ~~~~_a



-45-                      ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
ASSUMPTIONS FOR DMC FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1. RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
Recurrent expenditures, including minor works, increase at about 62 p.a.
(equivalent to the approximate population rate increase) over the
inflation rate. Project operation and maintenance costs are
estimated at about 102 of capital costs.
2. CAPITAL COSTS
Capital schemes include the proposed project, plus additional municipal
investments, and increase annually at the inflation rate.
3. DEBT SERVICE CALCULATION
All capital investments are financed by loans. Loans are repaid in 20
years, after a grace period of 5 years. Principal is repaid in 20 equal
installments. Interest, which is also paid during the grace period, is
12.5 on outstanding balance.
4. DEBENTURE REPAYMENT
Repayment of existing debentures is per current schedule, and no new
debenture financing is envisaged.
5. PROPERTY TAX
The rate of assessment would increase from 12X to 152 in 1991 and
thereafter on the basis of a proposed increase of 32 in the conservancy
rate.
6. COLLECTION OF CURRENT DEMAND
The percentage of collection (502 at present) would improve gradually
according to the following schedule:
551 in 1990
602 in 1991
65X in 1992
702 in 1993 and >nwards
7. COLLECTION OF ARREARS
About 50X is paid one year late; 102 is paid two years late; 52 is paid
three years late; balance is written off.



-46-                           ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 6
8. MARKET RENTS
Rents are projected to rise by about 20% a year, based on planned
completion of markets, and taking into account annual inflation.
9. TRADE AND CALLINGS TAXES
Receipts would increase at about 6X p.a. (equivalent to the approximate
population rate increase) until 1993 when rates would double.
10. CINEMA TAXES
Will increase in line with inflation rate.
11 . OCTROI GRANT
No increase in grant anticipated.
12. OTHER REVENUES
Will increase at about 6% p.a. (equivalent to the approximate population
rate increase) over the inflation rate.



A-ssc     WV"s      S 9*tsl  9'*soot  WOWS>   10614   *-01pT'  O'*OC'T  -912*6Ctt  >Hf:1"
C;f'C0 9t41   611$6s -e        l-sltl-#  e-szo-w, S t C  9.00. DOs'C 60 C-IwOSAI't  0-909'1                       ROIJhl MSff3 '110101  '
ST-9s   4j 6Sj. *t   -tiott   A-b0O' 2  CICb*- szt   V   TI1AC*V  A'A'    'SCAt  o'Aes-I  o e                      &4dVt >     t*#Td - o teW46   * A
es-c osl~~     ~~~~ I-co     6b-Obw b91' t,  *w6gl IlPt f-t1w#T  Q-9sC*T  4-902T  O-&WO,t  O-Dnu&O -                        u444 n     19* O*
q-ACC'-    g W9*OI    *+B6      6-t4b    Cof e      Ie *'^5    'tt9s   o-eCS    eces    o'scs                       O* *4 +"      *ItW"   ttv#*A  'S
bs 9sft   sc 6SC    8f'tatC    SO-0-'KC6  *0'6t    secc                                                                   00t 9Jf  5tSl0OSane ba    b
SZ-Zbtos  8O-69t    tl'ASt    AWIJts  O*-tPCt  2A-tPZT   et-,SIT   C*901   ot-es    00-06                                   *-X*  tn
A-eoT*   eO-eTS      0-AIb   6C-Z    eb1 M,et 094 WM       So-eet    WMSS   et-czr   00-SST                                 94S-V N-OJ "
0-9"60    O-CS6-;   O-Clss    slto Oe ASz         a Ig ,*b.S    stCS    b699S    a-SOS    0-6oZ            P*4  tT** 1*1 f4*dO4d tW**A  '111
*-oewlot  o-oot'Bz   'ogoset  0 009,81 o ors"s  0o-ot       *Os' >*pl    .0pe 0-S'   O06B -2weooeec                     04"" e  100A
,_ ........_-----  -  _----  _- ---- ------ -  -------*- -------- -------- -------_ --------
0-0089t   0-Bes    -o0I     oswas  0'ul  0,99411 0-o    ::t9-of    o-olsfs  wo-osfz   wou                                        OSft  fa
O-OOC*z Be   OOA   DOAS O-OO "4S   0-0a   ooSe'  o oSsez   a  o    20.sf -oseze 0-OS9'                                                 wa5 OO6ed
Wos oezcT    -r        -OS 0-029 0".1O'av  t-ol    O OveSC  ID-Otelt  O-OtC  o-Otec    Ooutrl                                         Wm"es_-e=__
9-1cOzT   C-SAIPIP   ol-Z^ "     lao   vovs a-sz6r  t;-OTb't 6-1611  -S'CS1t  O-SITIT  C-6AS                 r,*UJrkC MWe Iff04
-----  ----- --------............. -------- ------- ------- ------- -------- --------
01-96104.   ss-0Ato  ls-s6b"t  ICTvagat Cb-6t'tgl  1t*Ofl   to-Alps   t0-teg   wbig   tc's 8STA- *                              4`140S * MO  Iwlc
S-2't aopJ' *of-iOtO'IZ  6*-ow0o -C          C qioC t-t4C'Z Sf'SiAO ags-ssfr 96-9esOT 00-V06                  ^ "A*tpVdf4a tO.1d 11 MOA  *Z
..._  -------- --------.-------- --- ---- ----- ----------- - ---- ---------- --------
Coleco,$t  b"lot#   DEUSz**   00-91At WO->'                                                                                     7S.c tsto-oo   -h  06  jt4d    xJn 
St*e      * stO AA6--   As Ko t  t ogc      09    C  W' SPI"' t**    A*s    *et' e6 0IS                       Oj4S-1 t. *.0
._  1-  -  -_  -  --  _  "-  s  Te  -  vi  *  g   g  -T _  T   -  -  00  T   -  -  --  -   w  -  To  t  a-  -   -  -- _-  --   "  _f t4  s- --   - --  -- --  -- 1-  46 1  It-- 
oc-tiole ~ ~  ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      Cw    uo wu- 
Al 091  WM'  ZSCT#   t.8.Bd                               wo0a:tob ILII_a 'P,>C'SO  000TA'10 0'4               .Oi po
-- - - - - -  ------   -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -  -  -  -  ----------  -  -- - - - --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
*A    9661 SO&I  b"t  test     86.1      tT       066T        ST     OW 



-48-                 ANNEX 7
Pasge 5 of 6
ASSUMPTIONS OF CMC FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.  RECURRENT EXPENDITURE
Recurrent expenditures increase at about 5X p.a. equivalent to the
approximate population rate increase) over the inflation rate. Operation
and maintenance costs of the project are estimated at 10 of the total
cost.
2.  CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Capital expenditures include the proposed project and additional
municipal investment, and increase annually at the inflation rate.
3.  DEBT SERVICE CALCULATION
All capital investments are financed by loans.  Loans are repaid in 20
years, after a grace period of 5 years. Principal is repaid in 20 equal
installments. Interest, which is also paid during the grace period, is
12.52 on outstanding balance.
4.  IMPROVED ASSESSMENTS
The procedural improvements will lead to the following expected increases
in assessments by areas:
(i)   Old Municipal Area (OKA):  Revaluation in FY89 will result in a
three-fold (nominal) increase, followed by a two-fold increase when
revaluing in FY94.
(ii)  Previously Sxtended Area (PEA):  Revaluation in FY89 will result
in a three-fold increase, followed by a two-fold increase when
revaluing in FY94.
(iii) Newly Extended Area (NEA): Revaluation in FY93 will result in a
three-fold increase.
5.  COLLECTION OF CURRENT DEMAND (HOLDING TAX)
At present, the annual collection of current and arrears demands is about
352 of current demand. The target is to achieve 702 by 1994 with a 52
increase in collection every year, starting in 1989.
6. MARKET RENTS
Rents are projected to increase annually by a minimum of 5Z over the
inflation rate.



-49-                        ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 6
7. BUSINESS FEES AND TAXES
Receipts would increase at least by the annual inflation rate.
8. OTHER FEES AND TAXES
Will increase annually at about 5S (equivalent to the population rate
increase).



BANGLADESH                                                ANNEX 8
-50-                              Page 1 of 4
URBAN DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Cjiwaui PiiR AM iLOMI (PROEETt USIA): IJNCIIL  NAYSIS
0-c-7                                           Sertu  Nodl
A. SITE KUELEn  COSTS
7                      IBw    Physical   esign a      Constmction   Construction lotal   Dlrect     Ave. tk   Annual
I                      cost Contingencies kSpvisin       Sutotal      Interest  Chrge. Recowry    /grass iintemnce
9                    LLakh k   I  LabhIk  I  UkLh kLakh tk  I         I  Lakb lk.         I  Lah tk n2        I
10
11 Lnd apuisition    430.00   0.0  0.00   1.0  4.30 434.3  40.01  21.?  94.09 528.39  100.0 58.39 128.8
12 Site preparation    66.03  10.0  6.60   7.5  4.9S   7?.6   7.11 11.4  8.85 86.44 100.0 86.4"   21.1
13 Rlods and Orai      96.1    5.0  4.81    7.5  7.21  1082   10.02  5.1  5.S0 113.66 100.0 113.66  27.7  0.7S
14 Elec. I Street Light 70.4?   7.5  5.29   7.S  5.29  81.0   7.51  3.7  3.03  4.07  75.0 63.0   20.5  0.75
15 Ibter supply        48.35    S.0  2.42   7.5  3.63  S4.4   5.02  S.1  2.77  57.16  75.0 42.87   13.9  0.75
16 6as Distriution    104.64  10.0  10.46   7.5  7.84  122.0  11.32   2.0  2.46 125.29   0.0  0.00  30.6  0.75
17 0ff-site Infrstruct 87.21   10.0  872   7.5  6.54  102.5   9.42   2.0  2.5 104.52   0.0  0.00   25.5  0.75
19 Scools a  Clniuc  31.95   5.0  1.60   7.5  2.40  35.9   3.31  2.0  0.72 36.66   0.0  0.00   8.9  0.75
19 Other  evelopbnts  59.54   7.5  4.47    7.S  4.47  68.5   6.31  2.6  1.76  70.24  60.0 42.14   17.1  0.50
20                                                                                                          others
22   TOTAL             994.2   4.St 44.4 4.71 46.6 1085.2  100.01  11.21 121.2 1206.4  72.7 876.6 29.2
23
24 ease"
25 . LK  USE AN PRICING
26     Sway                               Hon-Residential                        Residential S vry
27 total            ha 41.01  100.01                     h   Tik./"2 Total          .-.-- .-------..------
28 OpenSpace        ha 6.58  16.01         Schools3a                LtLk.           Re    /lot         57.3
29 Circulation      h  86.42  20.5S             Clinic  1.30 213.0 27.69            JU0ff PLOTS        4144
30 Rmnistratoon    ha 0.21    0.5S         Religious    0.19   0.0  0.00
31 lotal lbrketable  h 26.B0   62.91       Industrial   0.29 64.S  19.56          Projected  Wsho Size   5.9
32 'otal Residential ha 23.74  57.92       llorkets      0.20 1360.2 27.WD        Projected Population 24465
33                                          Stalls       0.08 1390.3  11.12
34 Total land sales' *    4.0 La  Tak                                             Revenue, Lakh tk.   798.7
35  erage price  Tk. 342.6 t2                sbtotal   2.06          85.38        Rue. Price Tlk/2    336.4
36                                                                                           Ik/plot  1927
37 01STRIWBTI0AN10 PRICIi6 ff ESIOEHTIIL PLOTS
38
39 Nshld Incoie TkAi o.
40 Plot s         Z    30.0  35.0  4S.0  60.0  80.0  110.0  110.0
41 Percentgeof Plots   8.32  15.51  30.2S 23.21  12.7   3.0S  721           100.01
42 CEulWatOistr'n    8.32  23.7?  53.9? 77.11 89.8?  92.081000;
43 Ubber of Plots        342   641  1251   961   526   124   2               4144
44                    _'eeeu.me...aaeaue                                    57.3
45 Projected Hhhd Size   4.5   5.0   S.S   6.0   7.0   8.0   8.0
46 Pro3ectd Population  1539  3205  668   S766  3682   992  2392           2455
47
48 OETILEOD OlSTRINTION BY TPE
9 PlotSin  R2             30    35    35    is    45    60    60    0          o0  110   110   110  110
50    Locationel grade     L     L      N     L             L     H            H      I      L     N    NH   HNM
51 Lotonld Ueight    ' 00  120 1I 50  1. SC  1.80  2.10   2.40  2.40  3.00  2. 10  2.75  3.50  4.75  5.75
52 Priceper n2   1k. 1st.0  1?7.4 213.0 213.0 255.6 298.2 340.8  340.8  426.0 298.2  390.5 497.0  74.5  816.5
53 P2ICE PtP PL     . 14260  5964  7465  9585 11502 17892 2048 27t64  34080 32802 42955 54670 7419589815
i5N1o ROf PLOTS          312   373   268   592   659   40   511   398   128    60    64    97   137    65
55 Percent of Total      8.3S   9.01  6.5S  14.31 15.9r  10.91  12.31  9.6?   3.12   1.41   1.51  2.32   3.31  1.6U
56 Revn, Lakh 1k.   14.57 22.28  20.01  56.09 74.92  81.52 105.  108.61  43.62 20.52 28.66 SS.29 105.98 60.87
57 Totl Ara u2         10260 13078  9396 26332 29313 27     31043 31840 10240  6881  7340 11125 IS713  7466
58
67 TOIL LRK  KEUMU       .O LRKH TO
68  SURPLUS              7.5 LAHM TRR              0.9 1O  RECEOER8LE COSt
69 nun
7C C. PLOT SERUICES U  STRUCTURES                                           20.0 bshlds per standpOpe
71                    9S     Phwsi-                    Chime-   t ota I
72                    cost    c     esign   Unit Constr.  aut  I  Constr.Chargeale   Physicalesn
73                    /wnit contin.Superw. cost  Inter cost, =its cost  cost  Base  Contin Superv'n
74                      tk.           Z S    tk.         Tk.          Lakh lk.
7S Iater Cwntetim       1100   5.0   5.0  1210   1.7  1231  1910 23.11  23.50  21.01   1.05  I.OS
76 C_Mu   Standpipe    2500   7.5   5.0  2813   1.7   260   125  3.52   3.8   3.13  0.23  0.16
77 6a Coection          1620  10.0   5.0  1863   1.7  1895  4144 77.20  78.51  67.13  6.71   3.36
78 ElectrcCon ection  1750   5.0   5.0  192S   1.7  1958         0  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
79 latrine  VIP Twe    140    S.0   5.0  1540  17  1566  2234 34.40  3499  31.28  1.56  1.56
e latrine  Pr Tpe    2700   5.0   S.   2970   1.7  3020   961 28. S  29.03 26.95   1.30  1.30
81 tCre Hwse Sie R         0   7.5   S.0      0   1.7      0   983  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
82 Core ouse SineI         0   7.5   5.0      0   1.7       0  1251  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
83 Core HoNse Sin C       0    7.5   S.0      0   1.7      0   961  0.00  0.Q0   0.00  0.00  0.00
6"                                                     tota         166.77 169.61 148.9  10.86  7.42



ANNEX 8
P-a8ge 2 of 4
-51-
I6.L ROfOlitY  U  rcI3IN6 ALySIS
n* ep,pent   woe d    I    I  t                 0Ijrrtel  E1 1su perstfl
n~~~~~~t "Ws                         su   9-tUwx{t05 t"o owt srumturt
90 PlotTyp              3IL          3511    5L   45    60    60H    OL   8011  1101  llCl 11I    IIE llOlI10
9t 1".s711      ,1 1xwlii     1 iss o   1e                     zio   am 2          4 150  419   If   552   as
92 Plot Price           to   5961  7155  9585 11502 16!2 204  2726  310   32902 4ZM5  54670 74P9 5 8991
93 SuperWtructwre       1566  1566  1566  1566  1566  3020  3020
94 Utility   c iuo    2031  2030  2038  2038  2038  5083  5083  3125  3125  3125  3125  3125  3125  3125
95 TrtttlIPITRLOIISt   764  9561 110$9 1319  15106 259%  28551  30389 37205  3592? 4t00  5779  77320 92940
%     Ds 1L              3tS   170    so         72D    li0  1610  1770  3039  3721   5869 12   0154 
I 4Ibntey                    lu  1 23.! 1 3 167.90 286.X 315.02 320.43 392.30 357.78 48.89 575.55 724.69 871.09
9s I nt                11.60 16u24 20.29 26.09 31      4.731  55 66   .22 92.77 69.29116.9314802201.t  2450
10  ON 6                5So0 60. 00 6720  6007   60     700  7000 1000  106   00 1 000 ISl00 15000 15000
101  8IL4thP_t 6Q66 72.t9 72.9 72.N   72.79 a.qj84.93 121.32 121.32212.65181.99181.99181.99    ."99
102 1TOTLR tHOJIT. ONR. 161.00 196.27 216.86 245.62 m.  120 59 455.61 515.9? 606.40 689.72 n7.80 906.36 0108.7 1297.6
103'* IF tOrhg.y rIc     Ii    13.51  15.0S 13.3I   1i.72 1L.31  19.82 16.11  18.9g  16.61  8.3  Z81 21.3n   25.0
1 --p~--                                                                                      
IQS huldirg t,Qn Uptate       9ot   902   91   901   901   901  9O:   901t   90    901   902   902   902  901
106                     IS olUar  15.39 20.14  14.4? 31.9? 35.59 28.35  32.19  35.82  11.52 10.60  8.61  13.10 18.50  8.78
107   0u6l1dn  Loeu4 for C ewrcial and ndustrial Plots:  SO.0 ik/l,  75.02 uptake 1otal 13.80 alb Tlak
108 TOTAL 8Ul 6 lORI-S  *    299.1 Lak Tak
109  _g         $    |     F    _       $       A        a lt        t s a a             t _         _
11i "TtOTAL PRECT COST IN BE YEN PRICE  16?5.2 lRIH tRKt gU5  5.10 S.L1UON at 0581 * 1k 31.00
111  Less Equty (Land on Hood)           * 125.0
112       Censtruction interst           * 124.1
113  T fotal Nt Project Expedturs          1426.1 LR1H TRlK *U90 4.60 Million
115 E. PHRS1116 Of ENOItIE N PR CE CONtINEEICIES.
116                    Pro,Qted grcen;e of expenditure per              L         4cr
17                      I9    199       199 1m   1992  1993  1991 TorTA  "eaculatimn of construction iOtlrest
118                    - ---------------------- ----
119 Land    sition      100.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  100.0  21.7  23.2  -0.9  -1.6  -1.0   0.0
120 Sate preparation    0Q0  40.0  6ILO 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.  100.0  11.1   0.0   5.7   4.7  -1.0   0.0
121  ods end Orans        0.0  15.0a  25.0  30.0  20.0  10.0   0.0 100.0   5.1   0,0   1.6   1.1   0.S   0.0
122 Elet. 5 Stret Light  0.0  10.0  20.0  30.0  30.0  10   0.0 100.0   3.?   0.0   0.7   D.S   0.5   0.9
123 U4ter suply          0D    15    25.0  30.0  20.0  10.0   0.0  100.0   S.1   0.0   1.6   1.1   0.5   0.0
124 6"s Distribution      0.0  10.0  20.0  30.0  30.0  10.0   0.0  100.0   3.7   0.0   0.7   0.5   0.5   0.0
125 Off-site infrastruct  0.0  20.0  20.0 a   .0  20.0  10.0   0.0  100.0   5.4   0.0   2.4   0.5   O.S   0.0
126 Schools and Clinrc    0.0   0.0  10.0  30.0  4O.a  20.0   0.0  100.0   1.0   0.0  -0.9  -0.5   0.5   0.0
12? Other kuelon1ents    0.0   0.0  20.0  40.0  30.0  10.0   0.0  100.0   2.6   0.0  '0.9   0.5   1.0   0.0
18 Core  ouse  Itility   0.0   0.0  15.0  25.0  35.0  25.0   0.0  100.0   1.3   0.0  -0.9   0.0   0.2   0.0
129
130 Bualding Lom          0.0   0.0  10.0  2S.0  25.0  20.0  20.0  100.0   0.8   0.0  -0.9  -0.S   0.2   0.0
131 --..-.......--...-
132 Aual Inflation      10.0019.00t 9.00 9.001 O     8.001 8.001  8.001
133 Escalation factor    2.112 12.115 22.2  32.62S 13.3 S2.691 67.06?
134 -  ------ -                                   .- -------- ----------
135                    Protected exenditures cer yer   Lakh Taka
136                      1      W819891990   1991   1992  1993   14 TOTRL
137 Landcisition        441.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  441.8
138 Site preparatin       0.0  34.8  56.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  91.?
139 RoedsandOrains        0.0  18.2  33.1  43.8  31.0  16.7   0.0  142.0
140  Clec. I Street Light  0.0   9.1  19.8  32.2  34.8  12.5   0.0  108.5
141 hater swply           0.0   9.1  16.6  21.6  15.6   8.4   0.0  71.4
142 6haOs  tributim       0.0  13.8  30.0  48.9  52.8  19.0   0.0  164.5
113 Off-site infrasrt  0.0  23.0  25.1  40.8  29.4  15.9   0.0 134.0
1tt Schools and Chlic    0.0   0.0   1.4  14.3  20.6  11.1   0.0  50.4
14S  Other Oeuloents    0.0   0.0  16.7  36.3  29.4  10.6   0.0  93.1
146 Core Hose  Utilty  0.0   0.0  30.6  55.3  83.6  64.5   0.0  234.0
li8 Ytwlv ependitures  4lt.8  108.0 233.2 292.5 297.1  IS8?   0.0 1534.3
19   (contingencies     10,5  11?  42.4  71.9  89.7  56.1   0.0  282.3 ) -included above
15D  iding& Lo            0.0   0.0  36.6  99.2  107.1  92.5  99.9  35.3
"    einects      0.0   0.0   6.?  24.4  32.3  32.7  40.1  136.2  -inclued abo
152 roaw   in an9100    1431.8 34.4  870.1 1263.4 1304.0  810.6      6031.2 000 US9 * Tk 1969.6 lakh
IS3 - --W066"m-___####rl# #|sB#X
I64 f. C   rOT ItCK
155 Indirect Recvery                Plot Sales
156                     Total                     Total Oun pay,ent
is?                    LAkh  k.                  I.akh Tk   I  lkhILk
58 Schdols I Clinics    64.3        Rsidential   963   10.0   6.6
I59 Off-site Infrastruct 101.5      Nonresidential 57.?  30.0  17.3
160 Ither nr. recon. t18.7
161- --.-                                        1.0 .-           .
162                     357.6                    1026.0  II.I  113.9



Paae 3 of 4
-52-
163 0                                                                             IY a  I dts preed
164 6. PHASING of IHEWMC  perwentab of revenus preI                                      ls gear
16.                       191  909   1990  1991   I"?               1999 TOTAL
166                        *    -..-.--                              -
16?  Indirect Recouery     0.0  10.0  20.0  30.0  30.0  10.0   0.0  100.0
168 0.Pay. Plot Uleu       Le   10.0  15.0   5.0   25.0  16.0  10.0  100.0
169 D.Pay. Plot Sa1es      0,0   5-0 - 1S.   20.0  30.0  16.0  10.0  95.0
170    --       --    -                   -^           -
171  Reyenue Mdustnenttyr 10.00S  9.005  9.001  8.00  8.001  8.001 8.001
172 CuaulAtive            2.411  12.141 22.232 32.621 43.231 54.691 67.0o2
173   - -                ---.                        --.       ........
174                     pro  ted 0IputAlokdhAkY
17S6 j!p'rtc) f:lrve       i                     :1 tr  T3"i E    
77 F.Pah. Plot Sdlts       0.0  51.1  1&7.2  241.9  391.9  211.6  1624 1216.1
.....................................------.-.--------.- _      _        ...... 
179 Yearly ,eenues         0.0  104.0  275.5  421.9  686.3  -J.4  212.1 1893.3
180  -price udjustmt       0.0  11.3  50.1  103.8  177.0  105.7  85.1  531.0
182 H. IHC1E RND ENPE1OIURE SUMRYI
183                        BASE YENR PRICES, tLkh Ik.                          CURRENT PRICES
194                     8.s.  Physic'Desin Constr'total       I             Price
185                     Cost  ContingSuper'nlnterest               USSm    Escalation Lakh tk USAN
186 Site Deuelop,ent     564.2  44.4  42.3  27.1  678.0  40.51  2.19            201.6  862.?
187 Plot facilities      148.5  10.9   7.4   2.8  169.6  10.1t 0.55               61.2  236.8
188 Land                 430.0   0.0   4.3  94.1  528.4  31.51  1.70              10.5  530.9
189 Shalding Loans       299.1                       299.1   17.9?  0.96         136.2  435,3
190. . ..                      ....... .   _...... .... .......
191               total 1141.8  55.2  54.0  124.1 1675.2  100.02  5.40           418.5 2093.7  6.03 (not mcl.    I
192            ----------------------------------------------------- .-....     ........... .   constr. intenst) 1
193 Inrect 1ecowy                                    357.6  21.3t                1t1.2  478.?
194 Residential Sales                                968.3  57.82                247.9 1216.1
195 lonres, Sales                                     57.7   3.it                140.?  198.4
196-------------      - ---I....... . ..................                        .............. 
197 Swrplus/Oeficit(-)  not including bldg loans       7.S   0.5S of constr'n cost    234.9
198 
199 1. IHPLIEiNIRTION CASH fl0U
200 Interest rate during constructions  13.00 1
201 Equity at baset ye               k18.09 Lakh tk.
202    Year               1988   19r   1990  1991   192   1993  1994
203 Net cash flow       -316.7  -4.0   42.3  129.5  289.2  134.6  212.1         IlI *    7.67?                 -14  42.34
204 cwjlatiue cash flow -316.7 -341.2 -343.0 -260.9  -14.0  100.0 312.1
205 Capitalized Interest  -20.6  -44.1  -47.3  -42.3  -20.6   0.0   0.0
206 Total Ctnul.Cash flw-337.3 -385.4 -390.4 -303.2  -34.?  100.0 312.1
207 rotal interest during construction    1k  175.0 Lakh or  11.43 of Cost in current prices
209 . LOH5-TEII CAPITRL BUWET
210                VeWr  1988   1989  1990  1991   1992   1993   1994  1995   1996  Total
III Capital expenditures 316,7  108.0  233.2  292.5  297.1  158.7  99.94               1506.1
212 Bulding loans          0.0    0.0  36.6  99.2  107.1   92.5  99.9                   436.3
213   LESS
214 O p  l Indir recou   0.0  52.9  108.3  180.0  194.4  81.7  59.?                     677.1
215 flortpge Repawt_nt
216  Begun in year         0.0    3.6  14.3  24.0  35.1   0.0                            770
217 cwtatiue               0.0    3.6  21.5  59.8  118.9  153.9                         3577
218                     ---   ---            -     -* - -.                  .-
219 Net Expenditwes      316.7  51.5  139.9  151.8   90.9  15.6  14.2    0.0    0.0  906.6
220
221 Cpitalized Interest  18.21  41.48  57.25  80.61 103.84 121.91
22 Culative Expen.    334.9  Z7.9  625.1  857.5 1052.3 1189.8
223
224 DT SERQICE C JALrICoN                                                IR  *    9.01
225    Rate of interest:  11,5 X p.a.  6race Period      5 years   Repay period    20 years
226
22? OMt Seruvce           1993'  1994  1995   1996  19    1997        1958    1 009   2001   2002
228  -gun in YW           35.1   5.8  15.6  17.0  10.2    1.7  IS 7               4.0   0.0   0.0
229  Cdulatiue            35.4  76.5  97.9  130.5  167.7  169.6  187.0  202.  2027202.?
230 Worg    Collection   118.9  118.9  118.9  118.9  119.9  118.9  118.9  118.9  118.9  119.9
231 Culative Surplus'   83.5  135.4  171.9  190.0  161.9  125.8  76.6    1,6  -82.0 -175.2
232      * includs interest earned at 11.5 I per yr.
233                YERO  2003   2004  2005   2006   2007  2008   2009  2010  2011   2012
234 Dbt Seice            202.7  202.7  202.7  202.7  202.7   Z02.7  202. ? 202.7  202.? 202.?
235 Nortgag  Collection   118.9  118.9  118.9  118.9  118.9  110.9  116.3  100.9  77.0  41.9
236 Cuwlatiue Surplus  -279.2 -395.1 -524.3 -668.4-829.0           -
237 Present Uslue of Surplus at 11.50t
238           Lakh raka  -43.9  -55.7  -66.3  -75.8  -84.3  -9t.9  -99.1 -106.5  114.9 -124.3
239           __m                                           ________  _



l'l9Z  0'0   I'S!  0'9  15 l'l   'S   1'9Z  0'0   6'0Q2               T'1OI        659
6'b!  0'0   9'1   6'6   c'lo  OIl   ill   D'I G    'Z             'W9' qP3     '91 es?
6'05l 0'0   S'0    Zl111? 0l 5 O'lS1 t'U   0'0   S'9           000I s?
Q'If  01   0'1! 0It   Ol   01t    O'UI  O'l               1fl f:tlduuxj 9SS
6'l  8'??  0'0   S'QI  1'99 l99'    S,ZZ   0'0           'ble            uJ   X  ATMA is?
**. ...   _a.  _n.. s....  ~    .. ....  tSZ**5
1:    O:I  Q:0   9l   ti    'S~         o'oZ 8    0'S   es'st oi9  "nl nittle *UON      ZRlS
l'l   s'o   0'0   l'1   1'!   I't   1'0   0'0   0'0   C'S  O'S1 BIUDUdOtWe            i t's OS?
0'fr   '1   0'0   2'   C'9   Z'9   O'S   '6    '        iD    '8bn} iuleaJ"iu ';    Cii  2
6'6   I19   0'0   9l   Ilt 591  :.'l Ole i g9                      S1
S,9   I1   O'9   O'S   6'!1  6',2   I'S   5'! 91    '    ?tZ! Q 0O   b  14 1 q 1s 0I    3 9SZ
i's   t'I Z  0'0   5'0   0'0   S'0     ' 5 's      S'S U5    S'S1        IV              Sb?
i'1   ?'6   0'0   0'S                                                                    46?.I    :  :1 O-    IIg 
a'0   0'00  0    000  0        000  0       0 0 0'0   0000'               l@       t    l 
'I 0i6l   1661  Z661   1661  O 6616 I      1                          uSdiuj      lK
l XZ NR6 s
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R qXitNSN                                                             dlij  i



-54-
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Resettlement Plan for Project Affected People
located in the Dholai Khal Redevelopment Site in Dhaka
SUMMARY
1.      This annex summarizes the plan incorporated in the Urban Development
Project to resettle project affected persons (PAP) located in the site of the
proposed Dholai Khal drainage rehabilitation scheme in Dhaka. Details of the
plan are contained in a report prepared by Dhaka Municipal Corporation (DMC)
and its consultants. The plan was revised after discussion with IDA and
approved by GOB prior to negotiation of the project. At negotiations further
discussions between GOB and IDA cost on recovery aspects of the plan resulted
in the agreed plan for cost recovery outlined in para 5 below.
2.      The objective of the plan is to ensure that the PAP (owners and
renters) ate afforded the opportunity to become settled and economically self
sustaining at living standards equivalent to (if not better than) those prior
to resettlement. The plan will provide housing to 418 families (as deter-
mined in a December 1987 survey) on a 3.0 ha portion of a 29 ha site owned by
DMC. The site is located on Demra Road about 2.5 km from the Dholai Khal
area. Public transport is readily available adjacent to the new site, as are
employment opportunities. The survey also determined that 35 small commer-
cial enterprises will be required to relocate during construction. Assurances
have been received that these businesses will be able to relocate temporarily
near the Khal as construction proceeds and the plan provides that they will
be offered, at concessionary, affordable rental rates, spaces in the markets
to be constructed along the redeveloped Khal. As their interim relocation
will occur gradually as construction proceeds no formal relocation arrange-
ment is considered necessary.
3.      l e 418 families to be relocated will be given plots of land (average
area 40 m ) in the resettlement site as compensation for their loss of assets
in the Dholai Khal site. They will be provided tenure in the form of 99 year
leases as is standard in Bangladesh. Compensation will also be paid to the
PAP to assist with the move.
4.      On the new site, the following amenities will be provided.  The area
will be raised above flood level by earth filling and graded to ensure good
drainage. An area for recreation/playgrounds will be created around the east
and north boundaries of the site. A central area with school, mosque and
market facilities is included. Each plot will receive a po'r flush latrine,



-55-
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
and standposts (one per 10 households), Brick internal footpaths and street-
lighting also are included. The plan provides for each family to receive a
semi-pucca house (prick walls and GI sheet roofing lighting) with maximum
floor area of 18 m . At the time of preparation of final detailed plans to
implement the scheme further discussion will be held with the PAP regarding
standards of housing to be constructed.
5.      It has been agreed that the portions of the site development cost
related to provision of housing and site grading/footpaths will be recovered
directly from the PAP. The remainder of the costs will be recovered through
cross subsidies from the land sales and taxes in the Dholai Khal redevelop-
ment area, utility user charges, or borne by GOB and its agencies.
6.      The agency responsible for implementing the resettlement plan is DMC.
Tha plan provides for orderly relocation in stages detailed in the report,
similar to previous resettlement plans in IDA projects in Bangladesh. It has
also been agreed that a non-governmental organization (NGO) will be engaged
by DMC to assist DMC and the PAP in planning, monitoring and carrying out
the move.



INDIA                                                       BANGLADESH
GAB\ , w9., ')                                                               URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
{ U        G  A\                     Ki~v                                                          PROJECT MUNICIPALITIES
26'        RG                                                                                                      hAect Munidwtpalities                          26
Primary Roads
Primary Roads Undcer Constructi
Other Roads
Di                                                                                                W R R  \     Z" 
D.sWict Headquarters               District Boundlarieds
;    Division Headquarters               Dison Boundarins
National Capitol
25_                    Nl                                                             xMAIhA   \  )                     '  ''S    1 %              i
dAf_    m                                                                                                                           7 Y
IAN9t#4.                          /                :\<                                                                            
AB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~~~~~~~~
HA      AN
INDIA                                                                                                                                  INDIA               2eR    
slIw,.                                              , Wsfl.a
.   2t-   6  w  Xo    40:   t10    t                   ''                           ,            \\            21'~~~~~~~~~o ~
INDIA                  'fM
z~~~~~~~~~
Cz  f                                                                                      ,''                              .           \               c~~~~~c  L
i } ws*V    k"                   n--A, \i



MAIN CATCHMENT                                                                                                       B.:GLADESH
H USING SUBFPROJECT
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\  \  n    ^  X  >   1 A   AR    GHAT    "kH."! R\  \   \CHIITAGONG MUNIaPAL SERVICES
AND AREA DEVELOPMENT
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -Prposed DemWlpnma Anea
Poposed Ac _ Rood
Road to be Upgraded
HMENT                                                                     ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Poposed Box Culvert
N C MOHES  C 11
Drainag Canals to be Rehalbtated
......Ofle Exhda Drainag Csna
KII I-TAI            T TCHMENT                                CotdumtArsa      mict
Servics CM pFM nt II  Projec
Roade
890    16W0    2rI    3*0
Ec  *\               \//                                                                                                 __,,              __   _



.    ..       .                                     _ 15 19647
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHITTAGONG AREA DEVELOPMENT
SITE LAYOUT AND LAND USE
PR.OJECT FEATURES
Ennd U.e
SS 0Cnnrpast Ig site
Cunrnraity WWdI.,ti   I arrnrca
Residen-idnti W -
ROes  enaidertil
60 ns  reidetial
LII 45 sr rsienia
35 m2 rdwimein
30 nP0 rnidurriu
EXISTING FEATURES
$ Nnstarl Starr Druiuag  Ci-nen
N \~~~~~~~~~~~A
---.-  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RPS
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~sCOW
N NJ.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~GA-
rarenr.n..,u,a,.uur ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~F   hhCW
ra u. -*5 S-ku
SnSaed nuese. Ca.rn.*en                                                                                               2      50     tnt      qa      ant    rnuuataes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    20  (~    ~ 0"M
utanrerrarrren~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JL 9



BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHITTAGONG AREA DEVELOPMENT
LAND PRICING
PROJECT FEATURES
Comuity loilfitio I connrodol
Pock Mn open spmeit
Lord Pricng
more thro 400 TK/re2 
261 to 400 TX/in'
211 to 160 TX/or
EXISTING FEATUhEESz
Rood
-----Powo Li-r
Ff1    Colony ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~m  . oo
,~~~.   Notrurol Storm Drornoge Chorroel ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~QD                             IV       20
N~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00n
I ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-it~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  f



ISID 1%49
BANGLADESH
%                         URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DHAKA MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND IMPROVEMENT IN LOW INCOME AREAS
j,Y.
F
*'j                                                                       Proiw  Components.
Low lncorne Areas to be Improved
Drainage Canals to be Rehabilitated
Primary Catchment Boundary
Built-Up Areas
k4l
J 0,                                A
NI    t'                          '41
ij,
'A' P
S
4
V                                                                                                               'g                                                              p.,
6:'
'o
3                                                       -04
'V
-7'
-it
1*w ,
W                                                                                              e r
Riv                                                                                                                    j
Me
W;, P
01___"'* %M1,                                                                                                                                                     59
DHAVA
17
I, -01;
Al,
2           3          4 MOMETERS
1!1W,



C,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~1
4V*                           ~~~~~ISLAMBAGH
SHAHEEDNAGAR                                    /
-~~-                                                                                       ,/"
BANGLADESH
DHAKA -IMPROVEMENTS IN LOW INCOME AREAS -SHAHEEDNAGAR AND ISLAMBAGH
PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY NETWORK
*   Propoed Deepwells and Overead Tanks           --     Existin Waer Supply Ls
Proposed Water Suppl Lane                        C) (Z   Wote Bodies
B-*t-w Areas
1?weSopvt ee-r.dh- flnfw  t-so     IOre*,,    of                                        0        100      200       3        400 FEE 
--_  -       AM  - _b uwo_nw=        s    _                                             O.. 
c                  Fkna Cor twdok  w *.w    nd & w gon0Sfx  1s  *                                                       --- *W  a AM
fd. an VW PMow                        NW NW'  I     n   u ne av - I  _                                            30D      400} 90D 1S200  EEbS _
w bg ds~b do anw loam  ams  wor,Ie of* -b 



CASE NUMBER                .  2
SnfUATION                  - Dampara                                                                   CHIlTAGONG LOW INCOME HOUSING MARKET STUDY                                                                     -.
TYPE OF CONSTRU .TON                                                                                                           CASE STUDY NO.1
Wath              -  ~Bamboo
Flowt                       Earth
Roofd                       Cl. shee and thatch
Remrnirh                 - S apartments under one root
ESTIMATED REPLACBMENT COST .Tb. 14.`00
AREA OF DWELLING
Main bulldtng__
and ktchen               .  42 rn5 (129 sq. ft.)                                                                                       1600 m
CourtFord                =  -
Verandah                 .  -
Toaotpot                 -  -
WATER SUPFLY
Drlnhtng ecate              Tubeweli at 25 yds.. shared by 40
tam"S                                                                   ..s 
Laundry and Bathing         Fond at 50 yds,
LATRNE                     - FPi larine shared by 12-16 tamHes                                                                                                                    I
ELECTRiCr                  -  No (Kerosene tor fightHng)
COOKaNG FUEL               -Wood
TYPE OF TENURE                                                                                           _ Rented        * '  '
HOUSING COST PER MONTH
Tanes                     . Hirf0
Eteorcilty               .  nit
Lartrine servicing       -  oil
Fuel tbot cachng
and lighlna              - Tk. 190.00 (Tk. 40/tor lIhHng)
Water supply                nli
House rent               - Tk. 450.00 (noreased raom lTs. 400 In
1980
Tosci                       Tk. 240.00
HOUSEHOLD DATA
Hoehold composSlan .        2 aduBlt. 1 chli
No. of income earners       1
Occupolions        .        Bamboo house builder
Household Income per
month                       Tb. 90000
Assets                      r i .  !r,9....,
REMARKS                       The other xpatrentls In  tructure
am occupled by 3 rbkshow puters
and a tea  dl aowner wHh their
households. Inoome up to Tk. 1000.00
per m'onth.
Tube-well
Two pit lartrlnes                                                                                View of the Inteeriewee's housc
World Bank-306006



CASE NUMtER              .                                                                   CHITTAGONG LOW INCOME HOUSING MARKET STUDY
SRTATION                   EBao BCda, Rampur                                                                       CASE STUDY NO. 2
5m AIYP O C N I UON       .   a.                                                                                                                                                                                 -a,Ra p r_ _   t-   - -
TMF OF OO'CoNsruON  f~~!-4 ~ 
WoiEs                   . 8' brbk, plastered                                                                                                                                                                        Pois
Floos                      Cement                                                                                                                                                                                  PM >
Roof                       Cl. sho.t
Remorks                 .  2 dwelling units undcer some root.
(under constrsocion)                                                                                                                                                                    snown
ESTtMATED REFLACEMENT
COST                     . Tk. MD= C00for the 2 unt .occorotrng
to owner-builaer                                                                                                                     C.i Street
AREA OF DsWUJNG                                                                                                                   Ai    C
Main building                                                                                                                                          -                                   _                         orn
and kstchn              . 28 rrs (301 sq. ft.)                                                                                          n Buu tui lno                III
Courtvard               . 4 mA (43 sq. ft.)                                                                                                | IIs irck fdII
Verandrh                .    rr.(54 sq.t flt.                                                                                              I            I      NCk
Total Of Plt            . 37 ml (398 uq. ft.)                                                                                             C|kn Fr|.*
WATER SUPPLY                                                                                                           .,,,J                         mzrn flus _|
Dtnkkng wa0ter,                                                                                                                                                                                 CI . Yr             --
laundry and bathirng    - Tubewed on plot
LATRNE                    - Latrne on pto connected to septc                                                                                                                                             _-'
tank outsidce                                                                                                                                                                                         T 1
nrscalR y                . -                                                                                                                                                                               ,            232.-2 2           dwh         ftInstsbr
COOIONG FUEL             . -
TYrE OF TENURE               Owner built Intended for rental
REMARKS                  - The owner, deitgner and buIlder of
titrs hrouse Is a mauson. who butt and
owrer other housOes of     hist thi, t dtswh
form his main source of Income. ie
tenids to ask a monthly rntt of about
Tk. 400.00 for thlis house. i is a  ooud
example of opthial use of a 35 nr 5
plot.
Eniy o door, Tntn veandah and de vtew of dwereinV units
View llam curtyard throug I houe to porch                                                 Bathroo  oppot  tube-w
Warod Bank-S306



CASE NUMBER                - 10                                                                    CHITTAGONG LOW INCOME HOUSING MARKET STUDY                                                                       COSE NUMBER                 - I0CA
SITUATON                      Ganesh Choro tner Sartara)                                                                  CASE STUDY NO. 3                                                                          StUATSoN                    - See sitres as10
TYP OF CONSTRUCllON                                                                                                                                                                                                 rfl  OF C 3ONSTRUCTI
Walls                         ' B" tIk                                                                                                                                                                              Walk                      a  ST brIck platrdo
Floors                    -Cement                                                                                               -RpOOM-Crrer
Root                        too.. stalb                                                                                                                                                                             Root                           t re
Remarkso                     Part ofla row of 4 rental dwellings plot                                                                                                                                               Rematrks                  -  Part of a raw ot retrIl dweitng
by-out similar to i0A but higher standard                                                                                                                                                     RS'IMBHT COP  - lk       B20
Of connructln                                                                                                                                                                        ET          RACAWCS            7k82
ESTIMATED REPIACEMENT COST =-                                                                                                                                                                                       AFAOF DMUJN
AREA OF DWELUNG                                                                                  _                                                                                                                                              a - 42 ml t452 sq. ft.)
Maln bdlking                                                                                                                                                                                                        Q -Owtrd                     16 m (172 sq. ft.)
and kithen                = 46rn9 (484 sq.ft.)                                                                                                                                     Nearb  rental sIngle             Verandah Innovt4          -6 nit ( 66 sq. ft.)
Courtyard                 - 2s ma (269 sq tI                                                                                                                                       room ac)n                        Total plot                   64 eni (669 sq. It.
Verandoh                  .   5 m' (54 sq., t.)                                                                                                                                          a       oe'WLY
Total plot                .  76 m [r807 sq. ft.)                                                                                                                                                                  WARS rWPPR Y  -
D2n*kleg rwnter           - PUbllo iubewel
WAR! SUIPPLY                                                                                                                                                                                                          Laundty and bathing       -  POnd
DrWing waler              - Pubic tubewell lot 263 ydok
Laundry ond Balhing       .  Pond at 225 yds.                                                                                                                                                                     LAIRB                       - Buoolet kalri
LATRINE                    = Buckeo latrIne on plot snericed dolly                                         'ECII R                                                                                                                                 Yes
ELTCTRCITY                 . Yes                                                                                                                                                                                    OOOXWG FUEL                 . Wood
COOINS FUEL                . Electriy                                                                                                                                                                               TYPE OF TENUtRE             -  Retal
TYPE OF TENURE             .  Rented
HOUSING COST PER MONTH
Tane                      - Included in rest
Electricity                 inclduded In renl
Latine sernvlng           -  Included In -ens
Fuel far cooking
and lighting              .  Included In rent
Water supply              = nil
Htonss rent                  SiTk. 700
Total                     - 1k. 700LS!
HOUISEHOLD DATA
Hoastld CoostEon          .  2 oauit. 8 chibren under 10                                                                                              _A row of rent
No. of Income earers      -                                                                                                                                                        d l i
Occupattans               =  Businessno                                                                                                                                                  N.1-
Hoausetrold income per
manthr                    =  k 2000.00
Ausein                    -rSadio. land In vaillage homeI                                                                                                                                                                                         -.     .
I =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------  --    0W W 
World Saeka60ekn



