Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report Number: 19354
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1930-BD)
May 26, 1999
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of June 1998 )
Currency Unit         =        Taka (Tk.)
Tk. 1.0          =        US$ 46.5
US$ 1.0          =        Tk.0.0215
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ha            -         hectares (1 ha = 2.469 acres)
km            =         kilometers (1 km = 0.621 miles)
m             =         meter ( m = 39.37 inches)
km2           =         square kilometer (1 km2 = 0.386 sq. miles)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCC            -     Chittagong City Corporation
CWASA          -     Chittagong Water and Sewerage Authority
DCC            -    Dhaka City Corporation
DWASA          -    Dhaka Water and Sewerage Authority
GOB            -     Government of Bangladesh
HSD            -    Housing and Settlements Directorate
ICR            -    Implementation Completion Report
IDA            -    International Development Association
LGED           -    Local Government Engineering Department
MHPW           -    Ministry of Housing and Public Works
MLGRDC         -     Ministry of Local Government, Rural Dev. and Cooperatives
NGO            -    Non-Governmental Organization
O&M            -    Operations and Maintenance
OP             -     Operational Plan
PAP            -    Project Affected People
PIU            -    Project Implementation Unit
SAR            -     Staff Appraisal Report
UDP            -    Urban Development Project
UNCHS          -    United Nations Center for Human Settlements
UNDP           -    United Nations Development Program
USM            -    Urban Sector Memorandum
Vice President:             Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:           Frederick Temple
Sector Manager:             Frannie Humplick
Task Leader:                Toshiald Keicho



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1930-BD)
Contents
Page No.
Preface ..............................................................................i
Evaluation Summary ..............................................................................ii
Borrower's Evaluation Summary .............................................................................                                                       vi
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background ..............................................................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ..............................................................................                                               1
B.   Achievement of Objectives  .............3................................................................                                                     3
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................................................................                                             7
D.   Project Sustainability .............................................................................                                                          8
E.   IDA  Performance ..........                 ...................................................................                                               9
F.   Borrower's Performance .............................................................................                                                         10
G.   Assessment of Outcome .............................................................................                                                          11
H.   Future Operation .............................................................................                                                               11
I.    Key Lessons Learned .............................................................................                                                           12
J.    Evaluation of Program  Objective Categories .............................                             ................................................      13
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  1               Summary of Assessments .............................................................................                                       14
Table 2                Related Bank Loans/Credits .............................................................................                                   15
Table 3                Project Timetable ......................                                                                    :                              17
Table 4                Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual ...................................................                            17
Tables 5 and 6   Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation .............................................................                            18
Table 7   Studies Included in Project .18
T able 8A              Project Costs.19
Table 8B  Project Financing .19
Table 9   Economic Costs and Benefits .19
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants .20
Table 11    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .22
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .22
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions .23
APENDICES
A:  ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire .24
B:           Borrower's Evaluation.33
C:           Operational Plans.54
MAP: IBRD 19645.61
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1930-BD)
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Urban Development Project in
Bangladesh, for which Cr. 1930-BD in the amount of SDR 34.4 million equivalent was approved on June
21, 1988, and made effective on January 25, 1989.
2.     The credit was closed on June 30, 1998, one year after the originally scheduled closing date. Final
disbursement took place on November 3, 1998, at which time a balance of SDR 484.18 equivalent was
canceled. In addition, the amount of SDR 6,352,000 and SDR 5,900,000 was canceled on July 25, 1993
and on October 15, 1996 respectively. Co-financing for the project was provided by the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP).
3.     The ICR was prepared by a team consisting of Toshiaki Keicho, Zahed Khan (SASIN), and
Dipasis Bhadra (Consultant). Gladys Stevens, Razia Sultana (SASIN), and Reza Khan (Research
Assistant) assisted in data collection, preparation of various tables, and editing. The ICR was reviewed by
Frannie Humplick, Sector Manager (SASIN) and cleared by Frederick Thomas Temple, Country Director
(SACBD). Borrower's implementing agencies provided their own evaluations that are included as
appendices.
4.     Preparation of this ICR was begun during the IDA's supervision mission in May, 1997. The ICR
work resumed in early 1998, and the ICR mission took place during October/November, 1998. The ICR is
based on materials in the project file, discussions with officials of the implementing agencies, and
findings of the ICR mission. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing IDA with
the necessary data and by cooperating with the IDA's ICR team.



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1930-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Evaluation of Objectives
1.   The Urban Development Project (UDP) is IDA's first comprehensive urban project in Bangladesh,
designed to assist the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in improving urban environmental services and
housing in Dhaka and Chittagong. The objectives of the project were to assist GOB in improving the
management and financing of urban development through: (a) effective planning, management, and
operation of municipal services; (b) identifying replicable, cost-effective and affordable approaches to
urban land development and shelter for middle- and low-income families; and (c) strengthening the
planning, management and financial capacity of key local and national sector agencies.
2    These objectives were to be attained through a variety of specific initiatives. The entire project was
originally divided into three major components: (i) the environmental improvements component; (ii) the
area development and basic shelter component; and (iii) the project support technical assistance. The
environmental improvements component under the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives (MLGRDC) involved storm water drainage/flood control and solid waste management
in both Dhaka and Chittagong, low-cost individual/community sanitation in Chittagong, and small-scale
infrastructure improvements in low-income areas of Dhaka. The area development and basic shelter
component under the Ministry of Housing and Public Works (MHPW) included area development for
mostly residential plots and building loans for basic shelter in Chittagong.
3.   The project objectives appear to be broadly consistent with the policy emphasis at the time. The
first Bangladesh urban sector strategy paper of IDA (Urban Sector Memorandum of 1981) brought out
multiple and growing needs of the sector and their magnitude together with the importance of proper
policy sequencing. It recognized the need for some well thought-out project initiatives to narrow down the
glaring gap between demand and supply of various urban services as well as the ultimate importance of
institutional strengthening to accomplish these goals. Inception of the project perhaps lay in this strategy
paper.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.   The overall achievement of project objectives was poor. For example, allocation on the original
project items could only utilize 48 percent of the total credit by the end of the original credit closing date
of June 30, 1997. In May of the same year, the southern districts of the country were severely hit by
cyclone. Observing low utilization of the credit and feeling the need for external support, GOB made a
formal request in June, 1997 to extend the credit closing by one year and to use the unutilized funds to
repair some of the infrastructure damaged by the cyclone, primarily roads. IDA agreed to this proposal
and thus the cyclone-damaged infrastructure rehabilitation component, implemented by the Local
Government Engineering Department (LGED), was added to the project. With this component, the
utilization record climbed up to 62 percent at the end of the project, June 30, 1998.



- 111 -
5.   Given that a large part of the project (i.e., the Dholai Khal environmental improvement component,
some parts of the sanitation component, and the building loan component) had not been implemented, it
appears that the project has been able to achieve its physical objectives only partially at best. The physical
implementation of many components suffered enormously right from the beginning. For example, some
of the crucial works under the Dholai Khal environmental improvement component in Dhaka, primarily
drainage improvements and construction of roads, were dropped in July, 1993 mainly due to GOB's
failure to implement the agreed resettlement plan. Also, delay in land acquisition, delay in approval of
tender, error in design, and delays in other administrative decisions by the concerned ministries -- all
characterized the construction of the Sheikh Mujib culvert in Chittagong.
6.   Most of the work under the area development component in Chittagong was completed at the
Kaiballyadham site by May, 1997, but this component also had some serious problems. It is important to
note that this site of about 102 acres had been developed by cutting and leveling hills. Though this often
results in soil erosion causing drainage problems particularly during monsoon months, no environmental
assessment was undertaken because this project was questionably classified as "Environmental Category
C." Actually, IDA had to request the Housing and Settlements Directorate (HSD) to carry out the cleaning
work, as early as December, 1992, to remove eroded soils. In addition, a housing loan in the tune of US
$1.0 million had to be canceled due to lack of coordination between HSD and the Agrani Bank, assigned
to provide housing loan and collect mortgage repayment. In addition, it is surprising to note that the pace
of settlement is extremely slow. Out of the total 4144 plots actually developed, some 3585 units have
been so far allotted. Of this, only 2880 have been taken into possession. While these numbers appear to be
large, actual number of households living in the Kaiballyadham area is very low. Only 350-400
households appear to be living there as of November, 1998. There are quite a few reasons behind this
slow pace of settlement: (i) Kaiballyadham lacks basic services. Except electricity, no other services are
presently available; (ii) since the house building loan component now has been dropped, the plot-owners
have to arrange their own loan to build their houses; (iii) the location of the Kaiballyadham housing
scheme is 14 km from the city center, and neither affordable transportation to the center nor economnic
opportunities in the area are available; and finally (iv) mixing of different income classes in the developed
area, due to the need for cross-subsidization, may be a deterrent for settlement by any particular class.
7.   The cyclone rehabilitation component, undertaken by LGED, also experienced a delay of several
months before the actual works started in early 1998. However, the project staff of LGED, its consultants
and the contractors were able to complete 227 roads in six districts by the credit closing date (June 30,
1998) and could successfully utilize most of the remaining funds of the project.
8.   Achievement of the project's institutional development objectives is negligible. It is evident that
the project implementation had disproportionate emphasis on numerous construction works while
institutional aspects lacked direction, orientation and adequate following-up. The institutional support to
project implementation work was most adversely affected by the delay in creation of Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) and in recruitment of personnel for those units. Though retention of
institutional memory is a crucial aspect for institutional strengthening and smooth implementation under
any project, frequent changes in staff at PIUs caused loss of institutional memory leading to slowdown of
work at times.
9.   Although the project called for a substantial change in financial management of the local
governments, the Dhaka City Corporation (DCC) and the Chittagong City Corporation (CCC) in
particular, financial objectives were largely unattained. UDP was carried out, by and large, without much
attention to the improvement of the financial management even though SAR stipulated detailed financial
action plans for both the city corporations as well as HSD. For example, reduction of arrears in tax
revenues together with maximization of property value through regular assessments were suggested as



- iv -
two key instruments for improved financial management at the city corporations. However, the present
tax structure and collection pattern do not reflect any of the suggested changes.
10.  Overall, project sustainability is unlikely. The project had achieved very little in terms of making
the implementing agencies attain their institutional and financial goals. Consequently, the project had
very little or no impact on reducing the financial dependency of the implementing agencies, DCC and
CCC in particular, on external grants and aid. Also, regarding the Kaiballyadham area development
scheme, the sustainability would require integration of essential services and economic aspects to the poor
population's need for housing. Without essential services, economic opportunities and community
participation, it is not expected that this scheme is sustainable.
11.  Though IDA's performance in project identification was generally satisfactory, its preparation
assistance, appraisal, and supervision were all deficient. IDA's preparation assistance was not just enough
to fully complete the necessary preparation activities. IDA's appraisal failed to identify a great risk
concerning land acquisition and resettlement, and IDA did not commit enough supervision efforts for this
project. As a result, the project was rated as a "problem project" from 1990 to 1993 and again in 1996 and
1998.
12.  Borrower's overall performance was also deficient. GOB's failure to implement the agreed
resettlement plan for Project Affected People (PAP) in the Dholai Khal site was mainly due to GOB's
lack of political commitment and lack of institutional capacity on the part of DCC which was responsible
for implementing the plan. Focus was more on preparing the plan rather than implementing the plan, and
DCC's limited institutional capacity to implement the plan or its lack of experience in resettlement was
not given adequate attention initially.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
13.       Most of the completed works were transferred to the agencies responsible for operations and
maintenance (O&M) except for the Kaiballyadham area development component. At IDA's request, HSD
submitted in December 1998 an action plan to solve the problems of lack of basic services at
Kaiballyadham, but implementation of the plan needs to be monitored closely. Another operational issue
is related to the pumping station created under the project as part of the Dholai Khal drainage component
in Dhaka. The pumping station is in a good condition and demonstrated benefits during the severe floods
of mid-1998, saving the adjacent areas from being flooded. Though this component was implemented by
DCC, the station was handed over to the Dhaka Water and Sewerage Authority (DWASA) on March,
1998, as DWASA is now officially responsible for managing storm-water drainage systems in Dhaka.
DWASA's institutional and financial capacity to assume this responsibility is now being reviewed under
the Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project (also financed by IDA).
14. The key lessons learned from this project relevant for other urban projects in Bangladesh and other
countries are discussed below. These lessons have been incorporated into designs of the IDA-financed
new urban project in Bangladesh, the Municipal Services Project.
(a)    Adequate resources should be made available for supervision. This project was rated as a
"problem project" from 1990 to 1993 and again in 1996 and 1998. Most of this period,
IDA's supervision mission consisted of only one or two members, visiting the project
sites less frequently than necessary. In such a case, where a project suffers a long history
of non-performing status, a sector manager or higher level should intervene to ensure that
the composition of a supervision team and/or frequency of a field visit is adequate, that
supervision team is well prepared to address all the problems, and that action plans
agreed during supervision mission is followed up in a timely manner.



- v -
(b)    Institutional strengthening should receive more and explicit attention than what was
given in this project. This is very critical, especially in Bangladesh, where institutions are
in dire need of reforms. In addition, PITUs should be integrated more into the
system/within the implementing agencies. They should not hang loose and let go as soon
as the projects have been completed. This will ensure valuable institutional memories to
be available within the institutions.
(c)    The major problem facing the project was GOB's inability to implement the agreed
resettlement plan. IDA should have put more emphasis on implementing the plan rather
than preparing the plan by building local capacity to deal with resettlement issues. In
preparing a resettlement plan where such resettlement is unavoidable, more attention
should be given to institutional capacity of a local agency responsible for resettlement,
and the plan should be formulated based on full participation of all the PAP.
(d)    Although the cyclone rehabilitation component was added to the project in May, 1997,
after the devastating cyclone, implementation of the component only started in early 1998
despite the emergency nature of the component. Before emergency operations could be
included in the project, exchange of necessary information between GOB and IDA had to
take place and certain other processing requirements had to be fulfilled, as a result of
which the new emergency component could not be started as quickly as it would have
been desirable. In a country like Bangladesh which is prone to frequent natural disasters,
there should be projects that are flexible enough to reallocate project funds for emergency
assistance without having to go through the time-consuming paper work.
(e)    Conducting ex-post economic analysis was not possible due to lack of adequate data. In
addition, concrete performnance indicators were not set up for this project. In order to
make ex-post economic analysis easier and to avoid cumbersome data collection at
project completion, all the data necessary for the analysis should be part of the project's
performance indicators which need to be monitored and recorded properly during project
implementation and operation. It is also very important to help build institutional
capacities of implementing agencies for effective monitoring and evaluation.
(f)    Most of the components of this project was engineering work, and designed and
implemented with little consideration to local involvement and participation.
Consequently, some of the completed works are underutilized (e.g., community latrines)
and/or far from meeting the targeted local needs (e.g., area development). Not to mention
the need for beneficiary participation in every stage of development projects, government
officials should be trained to improve their skills in community participation, in addition
to technical and managerial skills.
(g)    The design of the project included multi-sector investments in two cities, therefore
involving many implementing agencies. Without focus, the project became difficult for
the Borrower to manage and for IDA to supervise. Therefore, the siie and complexity of
projects should be reduced, focusing on specific sub-sectors, with a limited number of
components that can be implemented by one or a few agencies.



- vi -
Borrower Agencies' Evaluation Summary (See Appendix B)
1.     DCC:  DCC's evaluation says that the project achieved satisfactory development results.
However, there were some problems that seriously affected the timely implementation of the project,
which include: (i) land acquisition; (ii) inadequate administrative authority of the Project Director; (iii)
frequent staff rotation; (iv) delays in procurement; (v) delays in various approval processes; and (vi)
financial reporting and audits.
2.     CCC: CCC's evaluation of its project component is very positive. It says that, despite the delays
implementation due mainly to problems related to land acquisition and design changes, rehabilitation of
canals and construction of the Sk. Mujib Culvert contributed to reduction of flooding and inundation of
canals in Chittagong and, therefore, living standard of city dwellers improved. It also notes the
importance of timely repair and maintenance of the infrastructure created under the project in order to
sustain the project benefit.
3.     HSD: HSD's evaluation of its area development component says that performances of the Bank
and the Borrower are both satisfactory and the project is sustainable. However, it identifies some factors
that negatively affected project implementation, which include: (i) land acquisition; (ii) design changes of
works; (iii) frequent changes of PIU staff; (iv) erosion and drainage problems associated with land
development; and (v) lack of coordination between GOB agencies and the Bank. It also notes that some of
the basic services like water supply are not available on the developed land which contributes the current
slow settlement.
4.     LGED: LGED's evaluation of its cyclone rehabilitation component says that the project has been
completed satisfactorily within the stipulated time. It notes various implementation experiences such as:
(i) smaller size of contract packaging to ensure quicker completion of works; (ii) participation of
beneficiaries in selection of schemes; and (iii) choice of technical specifications by considering maximum
use of indigenous materials, withstanding ability against cyclone and flood, etc.



Part - I
Project Implementation Assessment



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1930-BD)
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Project Identity
Name:        Urban Development Project
Credit:      Cr. 1930-BD
RVP Unit:    South Asia
Country:     Bangladesh
Sector:      Infrastructure
Sub-sector:   Urban Development
Background
1.    The Urban Development Project (UDP) is IDA' s first comprehensive urban project in
Bangladesh, designed to assist the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in improving urban environmental
services and housing in Dhaka and Chittagong. In the past, IDA's involvement in the urban sector had
taken place through financing the water supply and sanitation projects only, having financed five water
supply projects in the cities of Dhaka and Chittagong since 1963 before UDP was approved. UDP was
initially discussed during a mission reviewing the Urban Sector Memorandum (USM) of 1981, IDA's
first urban sector strategy paper for Bangladesh. Consultancy services were provided in 1984 and 1985 to
prepare various components with the support of the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and
the United Nations Center for Human Settlements (UNCHS). The project was apprais6d in March 1986,
approved in June 1988, and made effective in January, 1989.
A. StatementlEvaluation of Obiectives
2.    The objectives of the project were to assist the Government in improving the management and
financing of urban development through:
(a)    effective planning, management, and operation of municipal services, with particular
emphasis on those having immediate environmental impact in the more densely
populated and low-income areas of Dhaka and Chittagong;
(b)   identifying replicable, cost-effective and affordable  approaches to urban  land
development and shelter for middle- and low-income families by more efficient land use
with significant reduction in the cost of plots, and through full cost recovery with positive
interest rates; and
(c)    strengthening the planning, management and financial capacity of key local and national
sector agencies; the Ministry of Housing and Public Works (MHPW) and the Housing
and Settlements Directorate (HSD) for urban land development and the Ministry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLGRDC), the Dhaka City



Corporation (DCC) and the Chittagong City Corporation (CCC) for the provision and
management of municipal services.
3.    These objectives were to be attained through a variety of specific initiatives. The entire project
was originally divided into three major components: (i) the environmental improvements component; (ii)
the area development and basic shelter component; and (iii) the project support technical assistance. The
environmental improvements component under DCC and CCC comprised about 80 percent of the original
project cost. It involved storm water drainage/flood control and solid waste management in both Dhaka
and Chittagong, low-cost individual/community sanitation in Chittagong, and small-scale infrastructure
improvements in low-income areas of Dhaka. The area development and basic shelter component under
MHPW comprised about 10 percent of the original project cost and included area development for mostly
residential plots and building loans for basic shelter in Chittagong. The remaining 10 percent of the
project cost was allocated to support institutional development of both agencies under MLGRDC and
MHPW and at the ministry levels through technical assistance and some studies. Each implementing
agency's original component and its cost were as follows:
* HSD under MHPW (total US $5.6 million):
- Kaiballyadham area development in Chittagong (US $4.9 million)
- Technical assistance within MHIIPW (US $0.7 million)
L DCC (total US $22.5 million):
- Dholai Khal stormwater drainage improvements (US $11.9 million)
- Solid waste management (US $5.7 million)
- Low-income area improvements (US $3.8 million)
- Technical assistance (US $1.1 million)
* CCC (total US $12.7 million):
- Sheikh Mujib stormwater drainage improvements (US $7.0 million)
- Solid waste management (US $3.5 million)
- Sanitation (US $2.0 million)
- Technical assistance (US $0.2 million)
*  MLGRDC (total US $3.3 million)
- Technical assistance (US $3.3 million)
4.    The project objectives appear to be broadly consistent with the policy emphasis at the time. The
first Bangladesh urban sector strategy paper of IDA (USM of 1981), the only existing policy paper for the
country at the time, brought out multiple and growing needs of the sector and their magnitude together
with the importance of proper policy sequencing. It recognized the need for some well thought-out project
initiatives to narrow down the glaring gap between demand and supply of various urban services as well
as the ultimate importance of institutional strengthening to accomplish these goals. USM also emphasizes
that initial projects should not be overly ambitious. They should work to build local capacities in the
urban sector as part of a long-term step-by-step programmatic approach. Both short- and medium-term
projects should be designed to improve the efficiency of the urban economy including the delivery of
basic urban services, the ultimate goal of urban development. To that end, "projects which provide good
opportunities for both institutional development and sub-sector strategy reorientation as well for meeting
immediate needs should include area development schemes, transport projects, and environmental
sanitation projects," USM says. Inception of the project perhaps lay in these statements.



- 3 -
B. Achievement of Obiectives
5.    The overall implementation record or achievement of objectives, as reflected in the utilization of
the credit, is poor. For example, allocation on the original project items could only utilize 48 percent of
the total credit (or, US $21.12 million) by the end of the original credit closing date of June 30, 1997. In
May of the same year, the southern districts of the country were severely hit by cyclone. Observing low
utilization of the UDP credit and feeling the need for external support, GOB made a formal request in
June, 1997 to extend the credit closing by one year and to use the unutilized funds to repair some of the
damaged infrastructure, primarily roads, hit by the cyclone. IDA agreed to this proposal and thus the
cyclone-damaged infrastructure rehabilitation component, implemented by the Local Government
Engineering Department (LGED), became the formal part of UDP. With this added component, the
utilization record climbed up to 62 percent at the end of the project, June 30, 1998.
6.    Physical Objectives: Given that a large part of the project (i.e., the Dholai Khal environmental
improvement component under DCC implementation, some parts of the sanitation component under
CCC, and the building loan component under HSD) had not been implemented, it appears that the project
has been able to achieve its physical objectives only partially at best. A look at the record reveals that the
physical implementation of many components suffered enormously right from the beginning. Valuable
time was lost due to delays of different kinds leading to significant compromises in physical magnitude,
and therefore, in utilization of funds. For example, only 6 percent of the total credit was utilized by the
end of January, 1991 - two years after the project became effective - as opposed to targeted 18.5 percent
by the first quarter of 1991, as outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). Attempts were made, from
time to time, to accelerate this slow pace of utilization of funds and to generally improve the status of the
delayed works. The mid-term review mission, which took place in June, 1993, found both the pace of the
implementation and utilization of funds falling far short of the project target schedules. The mission
recommended to drop some of the major items from the original package.
7.    Dholai Khal Drainage: For example, some of the crucial works under the Dholai Khal
environmental improvement component in Dhaka, primarily drainage improvements and construction of
roads, were dropped (amounting to US $8.8 million) in July, 1993 mainly due to GOB's failure to
implement the agreed resettlement plan. Funds for construction of pump station and some other items
(totaling US 3.1 million), however, was retained, and the pump station was completed in 1997. It is
important to note, despite concrete assurances, GOB failed to carry out the resettlement according to the
plan agreed upon before the project approval. Subsequently, this cancellation reduced the total credit
amount from its original value of US $47.6 million to US $38.8 mnillion, 18.5 percent reduction in the
original credit, by the middle of 1993.
8.    Sheikh Mujib Culvert: Delays in project implementation and institutional weaknesses of
implementing agencies characterized the project right from the beginning. Construction of the Sheikh
Mujib culvert in Chittagong is another example. Delay in land acquisition (estimated two years), delay in
approval of tender (estimated two years and two months), error in design (estimated 100 meters short) and
consequent wrong estimation of sheet piles to construct required bays for the culvert (resulting in
estimated one year and four months of delay), and delays in other administrative decisions by the
concerned ministries - all characterized the construction of the culvert. While work under this component
went ahead eventually, speedier later than at the initial stages, and was completed in 1997, these delays
translated to significant cost escalation. For example, the contract cost of US $7.0 million was increased
by approximately US $3.4 million, a whopping 50 percent, at implementation completion. A significant
amount of this increased cost (estimated to be 41 percent) represents the delays in implementation (i.e.,
price escalation) alone. As a result, the culvert had become more expensive than originally anticipated,
and accordingly, the benefit is expected to be far reduced as well.



-4 -
9.      Kaiballyadham Area Development: Most of the work under the area development component in
Chittagong was completed at the Kaiballyadham site by May, 1997, but this component also had some
serious problems. It is important to note that this site of about 102 acres had been developed by cutting
and leveling hills. Though this often results in soil erosion causing drainage problems particularly during
monsoon months, no environmental assessment was undertaken to identify these problems and to
recommend mitigation measures because this project was classified as "Environmental Category C."
Considering the relatively wide area of the development scheme requiring hill cutting, this categorization
is very questionable and some environmental analysis should have been done. Actually, IDA had to
request HSD to carry out the cleaning work, as early as December, 1992, to remove eroded soils. In
addition, a housing loan in the tune of US $1.0 million had to be canceled due to lack of coordination
between HSD and the Agrani Bank, assigned to provide housing loan and collect mortgage repayment.
This had delayed, as expected, the occupation of plots and the formation of revolving fund based on the
collection of mortgage repayment. Likewise in resettlement of project affected people in the Dholai Khal
component, solid assurance was also given by GOB before the project approval with regard to the
coordination between HSD and the Agrani Bank.
10.    Given the fact that HSD started advertising for the Kaiballyadham plots in as early as 1992, it is
surprising to note that the pace of settlement is extremely slow. Although the average price of land was
found to be 30 percent lower than the current market rate,' it seems that the poor's response had been
rather lukewarm at best despite numerous attempts by HSD over the past few years. Out of the total 4144
plots actually developed, some 3585 units have been so far allotted. Of this, only 2880 have been taken
into possession. While these numbers appear to be large, actual number of households living in the
Kaiballyadham area is very low. Only 350-400 households appear to be living there as of November,
1998. Adding the on-going construction to this, total number of active plots (i.e., living plus those under
construction) will not exceed 500 (slightly over only 10 percent of the total).
11.    There are quite a few reasons behind this slow pace of settlement: (i) Kaiballyadham lacks basic
services. Except electricity, no other services are presently available. It is surprising to note that many of
the infrastructure facilities (e.g., water reservoirs, schools, markets, community centers, communal
garbage bins, sanitation facilities, drainage, etc.) are physically present at the site. But operationalizing
these facilities requires inter-agency coordination2 which is completely absent at present. Furthermore,
providing these services may not be cost-feasible if much of the area remains unoccupied; (ii) since the
house building loan component was never implemented, the plot-owners have to arrange their own loan to
build their houses. Many of them surely face severe fund constraint. The plot-allottees cannot apply to
commercial loans by using the allotment as a collateral as HSD does not give ownership of the land in
order to prevent land transfer. They have to wait 10 years to receive formal registration of the property.
Consequently, it is not possible for many poor people to receive any loan without the ownership of this
land. This excludes targeted poor households from the housing loan market altogether and has indeed
The cost of land per katha (approximately, 68 sq. mts.), calculated on the basis of the price of lowest category land at
Kaiballyadham site (i.e., 30 sq. mt.), turns out to be Tk. 35,300. This appears to be lower, 30 percent or more, than the on-
going market price spot checked during the May, 1997 mission. Such low price, and therefore, its apparent cost-
effectiveness, may have been possible due to low real estate value of hills and other embedded subsidies in the project.
Consequently, replicability of this component is questionable on financial consideration, in similar or other areas in the
future. Furthermore, the govemment has very little public holding of land on which similar schemes can be replicated.
2   Prior to credit negotiation, HSD proposed, and subsequently IDA accepted, that the site will be maintained through a
multitude of coordination among the local govemment service agencies. While roads, drains, markets and street lighting will
be managed by CCC, power distribution systems will be managed by the Power Development Board. CWASA will manage
water supply while natural gas supply will be maintained by the Bakhrabad Gas Systems Limited. Health clinic will be
managed and run by the Ministry of Health and schools will be run by the Ministry of Education. The overall management
will remain in the hand of HSD. It is important to note here that on-site infrastructure facilities did not cost local service
agencies any fixed investment since most of the on-site facilities have been built under the project.



- 5 -
slowed down the pace of settlement; (iii) the location of the Kaiballyadham housing scheme is 14 km
from the city center. Given the lack of affordable transportation in the area, living at Kaiballyadham costs
the poor a substantial sum (Tk. 10 a day for traveling by tempo). Lack of economic opportunities in and
around the settlement area does exacerbate the situation further; and finally (iv) mixing of different
income classes in the developed area, due to the need for cross-subsidization, may be a deterrent for
settlement by any particular class.
12.   At this rate of settlement and in absence of the basic service provision in Kaiballyadham, quality
of the physical infrastructure will deteriorate very rapidly. As a matter of fact, many of the completed
infrastructure show signs of severe wear and tear. For example, the two water reservoirs together are
expected to hold 272,000 gallons of water if supply is ensured once. Since the Chittagong Water and
Sewerage Authority (CWASA) has not taken the responsibility of the water supply yet, the reservoirs are
not in use at present. Long gestation period between construction and their uses together with no
maintenance may lead to an eventual breakdown of the physical investments. An investigation of the
reservoirs during the ICR mission of October, 1998, reveal that the relatively bigger reservoir placed on
the upper ground, with a capacity of 185,000 gallons, may just fall apart due to severe soil erosion on the
eastern side. Similarly, lack of maintenance of the drainage has led to severe silting, making overflow a
regular phenomenon. Although these problems may not pose any serious threat now since the settlement
is low, they will become a serious burden to both the residents as well as the service agency. Market
centers and community facilities show similar severe wear and tear due to absence of their proper uses.
13.   Sanitation Component: The work under the sanitation component in Chittagong (US $2.0 million)
was also much slower than expected. For example, only 16 private latrines had been completed by the
original credit closing date. As a result, the allocation for remaining 39 latrines awaited cancellation in
May, 1997. Similarly, out of planned 40 public toilets under the original project design, only 23 had been
constructed by May, 1997. The ICR mission found that the completed public toilets seem to be
functioning relatively well. However, the mission noticed that the use of some of the public toilets is very
low. The reasons for the low use may be attributed to such factors as affordability (charging one Taka per
use), inconvenient location, or inadequate designs (men and women share the same entrance). Also, the
long-term maintenance remains an important issue and needs to be addressed.
14.   Solid Waste Management: Under the solid waste management component, DCC purchased 44
trucks and 220 de-mountable containers, and CCC purchased 48 trucks, one front-end loader, and four
tractors. In addition, workshop tools and equipment were provided for both cities. This component
focused on purchase of machines and equipment only, and management aspects of solid waste
collection/disposal were not given adequate attention. As a result, solid waste management in the cities
have not significantly been improved according to some city officials.
15.   Low-income Area Improvement: Three slums in Dhaka (Shaheednagar, Rasulpur, and Islambagh)
benefited from improved basic infrastructure under this component. Main achievements include
construction of 17 km of roads and footpaths, three community centers, 482 latrines, etc. A quick survey
in the three improved slums during the ICR mission shows that, despite about 60 percent rent increase
during the project period, approximately 80 percent of slum dwellers continue to live in the areas and
enjoy the project benefits. More than 90 percent of the dwellers interviewed believe the project improved
their living conditions.
16.   Cyclone Rehabilitation: This component, undertaken by LGED, was an 'add-on' to the project, and
was approved one month prior to the original credit closing date. It was necessitated following a request
for assistance by GOB for the repair and rehabilitation of rural roads and small structures in the wake of
the May 1997 cyclone which severely affected the south-eastern districts of the country. This component
required an extension of the project by one year and the tasks were to utilize unspent funds of the credit.



- 6 -
Although there was a delay of several months before the actual works started in early 1998, the project
staff of LGED, its consultants and the contractors were able to complete the 227 roads in six-districts by
the credit closing date (June 30, 1998).
17.   Institutional Development Objectives: Achievement of the project's institutional development
objectives is negligible. It is evident that the project implementation had disproportionate emphasis on
numerous construction works while institutional aspects lacked direction, orientation and adequate
following-up. Institutional development components were incorporated in the project, through direct
support to the ministries via technical assistance; and, implementation support through Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) attached to the three original implementing agencies (DCC, CCC, and
HSD). These were designed primarily to improve planning, management and operational aspects of this
project, of the agencies and the concerned ministries. However, an investigation of the implementation
record together with the communications between all concerned ministries and agencies reveal that lack
of planning and coordination, and failures to meet deadlines were two most important factors affecting the
institutional strengthening components adversely, right from the beginning. These problems were
observed in setting up the PIUs and in subsequent coordination with the co-financier, UNDP. For
example, when a UNDP-funded technical assistance team arrived in Chittagong to work with CCC, the
PIU was not established yet. The team focused on operational aspects only to find that initial tenders were
not completed. Unfortunately, operations under the project began only after the consultants left. The same
was true, with varying degrees, at HSD and DCC sites as well. Thus, much of the project work went on
with very little training and technical assistance due to lack of coordination between GOB, implementing
agencies, UNDP, and IDA. Due to this problem, IDA had to channel some of the funds from other
sources to provide technical assistance with regard to municipal finance for CCC at some later stage of
project implementation.
18.   The institutional support to project implementation work was most adversely affected, in DCC
and CCC sites in particular, by the delay in creation of PIUs and in recruitment of personnel for those
units. Though retention of institutional memory is a crucial aspect for institutional strengthening and
smooth implementation under any project, frequent changes in staff at PIUs caused loss of institutional
memory leading to slowdown of work at times. It is rather surprising to note that neither the project nor
the GOB had any long-term plan for retention of whatever institutional capabilities that the project could
eventually attain. For example, it seemed logical to incorporate the PIU staff from the implementation
cycle into a maintenance squad of city corporations, as project components nears their completion. This
would be particularly necessary since the PIU staff, wherever continuity was maintained, would have the
knowledge regarding the maintenance requirements of the particular civil works. Thus, when the project
drew to an end, more PrU staff could have been released to meet the increasing maintenance
requirements. Since such a plan did not exist, implementing agencies lost valuable institutional
capabilities through losing the PIU staff after the project implementation was completed. For example,
many of the PIU staff in different sites have been transferred to unrelated departments or far away places.
In case of CCC, the entire PTU staff were fired upon the credit closing. Thus, the entire institutional
memory, acquired and retained over this project cycle, was lost.
19.   According to SAR, three studies were supposed to be conducted under the project: (i) traffic
management; (ii) area-wide drainage in Chittagong; and (iii) manpower development and organizational
and managerial reforms in local government. However, it is very disappointing to note that no
implementing agency was aware of any of these studies, and that no study report was available for the
ICR mission. The mission had to conclude that these studies were not carried out.
20.   Financial Objectives: Although the project called for a substantial change in financial
management of the local governments, DCC and CCC in particular, financial objectives were largely
unattained. UDP was carried out, by and large, without much attention to the improvement of the



- 7 -
financial management even though SAR stipulated detailed financial action plans for both the city
corporations as well as HSD. For example, reduction of arrears in tax revenues together with
maximization of property value through regular assessments were suggested as two key instruments in
SAR for improved financial management at the city corporations. However, the present tax structure and
collection pattern do not reflect any of the suggested changes. Similarly, much of the suggested revolving
fund, arising out of selling plots at Kaiballyadham, had not evolved yet due to slow possession at the
HSD site. As a matter of fact, it appears that the implementing agencies as well as IDA's project
supervision had paid very little attention to the financial aspects of the project. Consequently, the
financial objectives of the project had not been achieved well.
21.    Sector Policies: UDP was the IDA's first comprehensive lending in the urban sector in
Bangladesh. Drawing on the past experience in assisting GOB in water supply and sanitation in urban
areas, IDA tried to broaden the base in other essential urban services in the two largest cities of the
country. Given the growing need of the urban sector, therefore, the project had potential to be a model for
similar investments in other cities of Bangladesh. However, as the experience from this project suggests,
physical investments in the urban sector should be preceded or entailed by comprehensive institutional,
financial, and policy reforms. Piecemeal physical investments without paying much attention to
institutional, financial and policy issues may not be enough to meet the growing needs of this sector in
Bangladesh. Thus, the project had only a partial impact on the sector policies.
C. Maior Factors Affecting the Proiect
22.   Implementation of UDP was severely affected by many factors. The most important factor that
negatively affected project implementation, among all, was the delay in land acquisition. One of the major
factors for late start in many of the components was GOB' s inability to acquire land in time.
Underestimation of cost of land, subsequent underestimation of required counterpart funds, and resultant
shortage of counterpart funds also contributed to the slow land acquisition, especially in the beginning.
On average, the delay in land acquisition slowed work by two years. This delay had virtually upset many
components of the project.
23.   Following this, GOB was also unable to appoint key personnel at different PIUs. Delay in
recruitment and periodic transfer of staff showed very little GOB's commitment to the project. The
overall progress of the project (such as construction of the Sheikh Mujib culvert and procurement of
garbage trucks) was seriously hurt by the slow and cumbersome procurement processing by GOB. The
movement of proposals and counter-approvals often took up a lot of time. For example, the approval of a
contractor for the construction of Sheikh Mujib culvert took almost 26 months. The existing institutional
bottlenecks (e.g., usual bureaucratic delays in administrative procedures) seriously affected the progress
of the project. Consequently, the performance of the project was affected substantially.
24.   Much of the work under the project took place during the second half of the project cycle, i.e.,
1993 to 1997. A significant portion of this period was characterized by severe political disturbances in the
country. Starting from June, 1994 until March, 1996, hartals (general political strike) caused loss of
working days ranging between 167-274 days. Loss of working days in the tune of 25 percent or more
affected the performance of the project adversely which was essentially beyond any implementing
agency's control.
25.   In addition, there was a gap of almost 7-8 years between design of the various physical works and
their implementation due to implementation delays. This had implication on the cost as well as on
relevance. For example, the length of the Sheikh Mujib road culvert was 2250 meters, as opposed to 2150
meters originally designed by the contractor, which was only discovered at the time of implementation.



- 8 -
This caused serious delays in construction of bays (16.5 meters) within the allowed time and created
troubles regarding materials available for construction.
26.    Furthermore, throughout the project, and most likely afterwards, the PIUs remain outside the
realm of the implementing agencies. This is because the implementing agencies created the PIUs in
somewhat distance from the mainstream of the work of the agencies. As a result, the implementation had
to face even internal resistance. Lack of support for the PIUs from the implementing agencies themselves
had often caused ineffectiveness of management, implementation delays and lack of adequate monitoring
and evaluation.
27.    Finally, technical assistance acted very little to benefit the implementing agencies. It had been
noted earlier that there was serious lack of coordination between GOB, implementing agencies, co-
financier, and IDA in implementation of the technical assistance component which was originally
designed to improve the institutional capabilities at different stages of project implementation. The
management, supervision and training of the project staff was virtually void of any technical assistance
due to lack of coordination and inappropriate timing. Consequently, these factors affected the project
quite adversely, and quite substantially.
D. Proiect Sustainability
28.    Overall, project sustainability is unlikely. The project had achieved very little in terms of making
the implementing agencies attain their financial goals as laid out in the financial action plans in SAR. As
a matter of fact, there was very little attention paid to this aspect during the implementation of the project.
Consequently, the project had very little or no impact on reducing the financial dependency of the
implementing agencies, DCC and CCC in particular, on external grants and aid. The economics of the
project thus changed significantly due to the lack of improvement in financial management of the
implementing agencies and cancellation of many components under the project. Also, for the
Kaiballyadham area development component, there is a general apprehension that payment for the
developed plots may not be recovered due to lack of institutional capabilities. Failure to establish
effective housing loan arrangements and subsequent irrelevance of the Agrani Bank assigned to manage
the revolving fund make this apprehension a real possibility in the future. Therefore, it is unlikely that the
project is financially sustainable.
29.    Another important factor for sustaining the project benefits is to ensure proper operations and
periodic maintenance of the completed physical works. For example, the sustainability of the Sheikh
Mujib culvert and any other similar components depends squarely on how these works will be maintained
as physical works such as the culvert require regular maintenance for its long-term sustainability. While
the culvert seems to have worked effectively in channeling a large amount of water into the Karnaphuli
river, connecting canals (the Nasir Khal in particular) had also brought heavy silt deposits, unabated by
silt guards or any other obstacles, into the completed box culvert in the past heavy monsoon season. In
absence of the box culvert, the silt used to be deposited on the surface of the canals causing periodic flood
during the rainy season. A preliminary testing inside the box culvert during the ICR mission of October,
1998 showed that silt deposits ranged between 2 inches to 2 feet. This raises an immediate concern about
the long-term effectiveness of the culvert. Since the height of the box culvert is about 10 feet in most
places, silt deposits ranging 2 inches to 2 feet in just one season may have serious consequences in the
long run, if went unchecked and not properly cleaned. In addition, given the nature and quality of the
water flow through the canals carrying a large amount of plastic bags, at least one to two thorough clean-
up is required at the beginning of the dry season followed by a regular clean-up of the silt guards at the
mouth of the culvert. The ICR mission brought these points to the attention of CCC executives, and it is
encouraging to note that CCC shared these concerns and agreed that a detailed operational plan will be
worked out to address these issues.



- 9 -
30.    The sanitation and solid waste management components, such as building public- toilets and
purchasing equipment for garbage collection, require viable and self-sustaining institutions to run them.
However, the project failed to effectively strengthen the institutions in charge of these environmental
services. In addition, one of the reasons that the pace of settlement is very low in the area development
component in Chittagong is that such basic services as water supply, health and education are not
available in the site due to lack of coordination between HSD and service providers. Also, the developed
site is away from the place of economic opportunities. Since most of the poor, the majority of the
intended beneficiaries, cannot afford a long distance travel to the city center where most of the economic
opportunities are presently available, quick possession of the plots by the poor would require making
economic opportunities available in and around the housing sites. Credit assistance, skill-development
through training and other initiatives to develop the economic opportunities is essential. NGOs could be
involved in developing these aspects. The project sustainability would thus require integration of essential
services and economic aspects to the poor's need for housing. Without essential services, economic
opportunities and community participation possibly through NGO assistance, it is not expected that this
scheme is sustainable.
E. IDA Performance
31.    Identification:  IDA's performance in project identification was generally satisfactory with the
project scope being consistent with the government's priorities and IDA's sector strategy at the time
(USM of 1981).
32.    Preparation Assistance: IDA' s preparation assistance was not just enough to fully complete the
necessary preparation activities. For example, preparation of detailed engineering designs and bid
documents for such major works as the Dholai Khal drainage and the Sheikh Mujib Culvert was not
completed even at the time of credit negotiations. Although it seems this was an accepted practice when
this project was being prepared, the low quality at entry significantly delayed and negatively affected
project implementation at a later stage.
33.    Appraisal: Project appraisal by IDA was somewhat deficient. IDA's appraisal failed to identify
a great risk concerning land acquisition and resettlement. These are the two main factors that adversely
affected project implementation. GOB's inability to acquire land in a timely manner seriously delayed
many components. In fact, locations and areas of required land for some components were not even
identified before or at appraisal. Also, implementation of the Dholai Khal drainage improvement
component required resettlement of 418 families, and the component was eventually cancelled due to
GOB' s failure to implement the agreed resettlement plan.
34.    Three risk factors of the project identified at appraisal were: (a) lack of sustained commitment on
the part of DCC and CCC to raise sufficient revenues to cover project investments and debt services; (b)
difficulties in attracting and maintaining qualified personnel for timely implementation; and (c)
inadequate coordination at the national level. However, it appears that all three guidelines to minimize
these risks have very minimally or not attained their desired goals at all. For example, the procedural
reform in local property tax administration and gradual introduction of reassessments to make the
corporations financially self-sustainable have not been attained. As a matter of fact, there has been very
little emphasis on the improvement of the financial structure of the city corporations under the project.
While the manpower development through technical assistance and studies for MLGRDC and MHPW
have been incorporated into the project, it failed to attain the desired goal. Furthermore, contractual
arrangement of personnel under the PlUs and/or periodic transfer of personnel under the PIUs do not
allow for long-term retention of qualified personnel during and after the project. Finally, the observed
long delays in approval, for even a minimal change in proposed work under the project, indicate that



- 10 -
strengthening the planning cells of the two sector ministries had not yielded the desired results, either.
Consequently, factors which were termed risky at appraisal remained risky towards the end of-the project.
35.    Supervision: Project supervision by IDA was also inadequate. IDA did not commnit enough
supervision efforts for this project. Most of the time, IDA's supervision team consisted of only two
members (one financial analyst and one sanitary engineer in early years, and one financial analyst and one
program officer in late years). Even though the project was long suffering from problems related to
resettlement and land acquisition in early years of project implementation, a resettlement specialist joined
IDA' s regular supervision mission only once. It is important to note here that the supervision efforts were
sometimes not commritted full time. As a result, the supervision visits were severely stretched out between
visiting numerous components of the project with very little impact on the quality of the project. The
demand of Dhaka, as a project site as well as the location of the GOB Secretariat, made it difficult for
IDA mission to visit other sites in Chittagong often. A lack in follow-up actions was also observed in
almost all stages of project implementation. Furthermore, a serious lack of coordination between
headquarters, resident mission and government agencies was observed in different stages of project
implementation. For example, routine agreements were reached at the end of supervision visits, to be
disregarded or discarded altogether later. Follow-up actions were not communicated well by the
headquarters and/or not carried out effectively in the field by the resident mission.
F. Borrower Performance
36.   Preparation: Project preparation by the Borrower was deficient. Preparation activities such as
detailed engineering designs for major works or identifying and acquiring the necessary land were not
completed and, therefore, these activities occupied significant portion of initial years of implementation.
Though GOB prepared operational action plans which detail the measures to be taken regarding land
acquisition, engineering designs for the various sub-components, and institutional arrangements, and
agreed with IDA on the schedule to implement the plans, GOB failed to implement the plans according to
the agreed schedule.
37.   Implementation: Given that project implementation was significantly delayed and that the major
component (the Dholai Khal drainage improvement) was cancelled due to resettlement problems, project
implementation by the Borrower was also deficient. In addition, institutional and policy issues were not
given adequate attention by the Borrower, throughout the implementation period, due to its lack of
commnitment to these issues.
38.   Resettlement:  GOB's failure to implement the agreed resettlement plan for Project Affected
People (PAP) in the Dholai Khal site was mainly due to GOB's lack of political commitment and lack of
institutional capacity on the part of DCC which was responsible for implementing the plan. According to
the resettlement plan (prepared in 1988), 418 families were supposed to be relocated to a DCC-owned
site located about 2.5 km away from the Dholai Khal area. The plan says that public transport is readily
available adjacent to the new site, as are employment opportunities. The plan provides for each family to
receive a plot of land (average 40 square meters) and a semi-pucca house (brick walls and GI sheet
roofing) in the resettlement site with basic facilities such as a water stand-post (one per 10 households)
and a pour flush latrine. Compensation was also to be paid to the PAP to assist with the move. It is felt
that both GOB and IDA focused more on preparing the plan rather than implementing the plan, and that
DCC's limited institutional capacity to implement the plan or its lack of experience in resettlement was
not given adequate attention initially. Some DCC officials informed the ICR mission that part of the
reasons for the resettlement failure was IDA's lack of flexibility as IDA insisted on implementing the
resettlement plan strictly in the way agreed, i.e., relocating all the 418 families to the resettlement site,
which was proved very difficult. It is interesting to note that in 1998 DCC started rehabilitation of the
Dhlai Khal drainage works with its own funds by just paying financial compensation to the PAP.



- 11 -
39.   Cyclone Rehabilitation: Implementation of this component, which was added to the project in
1997 to rehabilitate the infrastructure damaged by the cyclone of May 1997, was successful. However,
start-up of this component was delayed, despite its emergency nature, due to the slow pace of processing
the necessary administrative work both by IDA and GOB. As a result, implementation of the component
only commenced in early 1998, leaving less than six months for implementation. Implementation itself by
LGED was very successful, rehabilitating 227 roads in the short period of time and utilizing most of the
remaining credit of the project. The timely completion of this component indicates the relatively efficient
organization and delivery mechanism that LGED has built up in the rural areas of Bangladesh, but the
sustainability of the sub-components would depend to a large extent on regular maintenance and periodic
upgrading of infrastructure. LGED does maintain a large network of field-based as well as project staff,
but the crucial element would be the timely identification of any future damage (such as during the severe
floods in mid-1998) followed by the allocation of resources for repair and rehabilitation.
40.   Covenant Compliance: Despite the implementation problems, IDA's record show that most of
the covenants were complied with. As of February 1999, there is still one overdue audit report.
41.   Operation: Operational aspects of the project was unsatisfactory. One of the major operational
problems is related to poor coordination between HSD and service agencies at the Kaiballyadham area
development site in Chittagong. As a result, people who have actually started living in the area suffer
greatly from lack of basic services such as water supply. This serious problem needs to be addressed
urgently through improved coordination among the agencies and full community participation (please see
the section B above for more details).
G. Assessment of Outcome
42.   Overall Outcome: Overall outcome of the project was unsatisfactory in view of the limited
achievements of the project's development objectives. In fact, IDA's supervision record shows that this
project was rated as a "problem project" from 1990 to 1993 and again in 1996 and 1998.
43.  Ex-post Economic Analysis: Conducting project's ex-post economic analysis was not possible
due to lack of adequate data. In June 1998, IDA initially provided GOB with the list of data required to
conduct the analysis for three original components: (i) the Dholai Khal drainage improvement; (ii) the
slum improvements in Dhaka; and (iii) the Kaiballyadham area development, and followed up on data
collection with implementing agencies during the ICR mission of October, 1998. Unfortunately, however,
the data collection by the agencies was never completed. The severe floods in the middle of 1998, which
paralyzed the country for several months, were the major reason that prevented the speedier data
collection, together with agencies' inadequate capacity for data collection and record keeping.
H. Future Operation
44.   Most of the completed works were transferred to the agencies responsible for operations and
maintenance (O&M) except for the Kaiballyadham area development component (see the sections B and
F above for operational problems related to this component). At IDA's request, HSD submitted in
December 1998 an action plan to solve the problems at Kaiballyadham (see Appendix C), but
implementation of the plan needs to be monitored closely.
45.   Another operational issue is related to the pumping station created under the project as part of the
Dholai Khal drainage component in Dhaka. The pumping station is in a good condition and demonstrated
benefits during the severe floods of mid-1998, saving the adjacent areas from being flooded. Though this
component was implemented by DCC, the station was handed over to the Dhaka Water and Sewerage



- 12 -
Authority (DWASA) in March, 1998, as DWASA is now officially responsible for managing storm-water
drainage systems in Dhaka. DWASA's institutional and financial capacity to assume this responsibility is
now being reviewed under the Fourth Dhaka Water Supply Project (also financed by IDA). Please see the
section D above for an operational issue of another major component of the Sheikh Mujib Culvert in
Chittagong.
46.   As part of the Borrower's contribution to the ICR, IDA requested each implementing agency to
prepare an Operational Plan (OP) to ensure continued operations of the assets created or rehabilitated
under the project. Most of the agencies submitted OP with a various degree of quality (attached as
Appendix C). JDA's record show that this project did not set up any concrete performance indicator,
which is now required, to monitor physical, operational, and financial progress of the project.
I. Key Lessons Learned
47.   The key lessons learned from this project relevant for other urban projects in Bangladesh and
other countries are discussed below. These lessons have been incorporated into designs of the IDA-
financed new urban project in Bangladesh, the Municipal Services Project.
48.    More Resources for Supervision:  Adequate resources should be made available for
supervision. This project was rated as a "problem project" from 1990 to 1993 and again in 1996 and 1998.
Most of this period, IDA' s supervision mission consisted of only one or two members, visiting the project
sites less frequently than necessary. In such a case where a project suffers a long history of non-
perforrning status, a sector manager or higher level should intervene to ensure that the composition of a
supervision team and/or frequency of a field visit is adequate, that supervision team is well prepared to
address all the problems, and that action plans agreed during supervision mission is followed up in a
timely manner.
49.   More Emphasis on Institutional Issues: Institutional strengthening should receive more and
explicit attention than what was given in this project. This is very critical, especially in Bangladesh,
where institutions are in dire need of reforms. This project is a prime example of how institutional
weaknesses can seriously damage the quality of relatively simple physical works. In addition, PIUs
should be integrated more into the system within the implementing agencies. They should not hang loose
and let go as soon as the projects have been completed. This will ensure valuable institutional memories
to be available within the institutions.
50.   Build Local Capacity for Resettlement: The major problem facing the project was GOB's
inability to implement the agreed resettlement plan. IDA should have put more emphasis on
implementing the plan rather than preparing the plan by building local capacity to deal with resettlement
issues. Considering the weak capacity of DCC responsible for implementing the plan, more assistance
should have been provided in this field in the beginning. In preparing a resettlement plan where such
resettlement is unavoidable, more attention should be given to institutional capacity of a local agency
responsible for resettlement, and the plan should be formulated based on full participation of all the PAP.
51.    More Flexibility for Emergency Assistance: Although the cyclone rehabilitation component
was added to the project in May, 1997, after the devastating cyclone, implementation of the component
only started in early 1998 despite the emergency nature of the component. Before emergency operations
could be included in the project, exchange of necessary information between GOB and IDA had to take
place and certain other processing requirements had to be fulfilled, as a result of which the new
emergency component could not be started as quickly as it would have been desirable. In a country like
Bangladesh which is prone to frequent natural disasters, there should be projects that are flexible enough



- 13 -
to reallocate project funds for emergency assistance without having to go through the time-consuming
paper work.
52.   More Effective Monitoring and Evaluation: Conducting ex-post economic analysis was not
possible due to lack of adequate data. In addition, concrete performance indicators were not set up for this
project to monitor progress and development impacts. In order to make ex-post economic analysis easier
and to avoid cumbersome data collection at project completion, all the data necessary for the analysis
should be part of the project's performance indicators which need to be monitored and recorded properly
during project implementation and operation. It is also very important to help build institutional capacities
of implementing agencies for effective monitoring and evaluation.
53.   More Beneficiary Participation: Most of the components of this project was engineering work,
and designed and implemented with little consideration to local involvement and participation.
Consequently, some of the completed works are underutilized (e.g., community latrines) and/or far from
meeting the targeted local needs (e.g., area development). Not to mention the need for beneficiary
participation in every stage of development projects, government officials should be trained to improve
their skills in community participation, in addition to technical and managerial skills.
54.   Simplify Project Design: The design of the project included multi-sector investments in two
cities, therefore involving many implementing agencies. Without focus, the project became difficult for
the Borrower to manage and for IDA to supervise. Therefore, the size and complexity of projects should
be reduced, focusing on specific sub-sectors, with a limited number of components that can be
implemented by one or a few agencies.
J. Evaluation of Program Obiective Categories
55.   Poverty Reduction and Other Social Objectives: Though poverty reduction was not the main
objective of the project, the project did have a positive impact on the poor through improving living
conditions of the three slums in Dhaka. Impact of the Kaiballyadham area development scheme in
Chittagong on the targeted poor population is yet to be seen due to the slow pace of settlement in the area.
56.   Environmental Objectives: The completed Sheikh Mujib culvert in Chittagong and the Dholai
Khal pumping station in Dhaka were put to an immediate test by the severe floods of 1998. It appears that
these new infrastructure worked fairly well even though the flood was one of the major in the country's
history. Consequently, it is expected that these facilities will have substantial contributions, if maintained
properly, towards environmental improvement of the two cities. The pumping station would have been
even more effective if the construction of the associated culvert had not been dropped from the project.



Part- II
Statistical Tables
Table 1       :   Summary of Assessments
Table 2            Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3       :   Project Timetable
Table 4       :   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
Tables 5 and 6  :   Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 7       :   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A      :   Project Costs
Table 8B       :   Project Financing
Table 9       :   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10       :   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11      :   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12      :   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13      :   Bank Resources: Missions



- 14-
Part II - Statistical Tables
Table 1: Summary Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial     Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies        LI             LI              Li             0
Sector Policies               E]             LI                             Li
Financial Objectives          Li             L                              Li
Institutional Development     Li               i                            L-i
Physical Objectives           Li                             Eli            LO
Poverty Reduction              ]z                            LI             I
Gender Concerns               Li 0l 0
Other Social Objectives       LI             Li              0 L
Environmental Objectives      O              El              0               0]
Public Sector Management       ]              0i                            [I 0
Private Sector Development    OL             Li              0 L
Other (specify)               Li                                            z
B. Project Sustainability       Likely               Unlikely                Uncertain
FI                                           0 
Highly
C. Bank Performance           Satisfactory          Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                n                                             EL
Preparation Assistance         i                     0                       z
Appraisal                     O                      0                       3
Supervision                   L                       i                      3
Highly
D. Borrower Performance       Satisfactorv          Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                   [                     L1i
Implementation                 i                    L                       z
Covenant Compliance            l                    z                        l
Operation (if applicable)      i                    L                       z
Highly                                    Highl,v
E. Assessment of Outcome      Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
L               i           X             L



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
LoanlCredit Title                 Purpose               Year of Approval      Status
1. First Dhaka Water    To address poor institutional and        1973         Completed
Supply Project       financial capacity of the Dhaka Water
(Cr.368-BD)          Supply Sector, and increase service
provision and efficiency in Dhaka.
2. Second Dhaka Water   To increase the capacity of water        1979         Completed
Supply Project       supply to meet the immediate needs of
(Cr.941-BD)          the people in the Dhaka Metropolitan
area for potable water and to provide
sewage disposal facilities.
3. Third Dhaka Water    To support Government of Bangladesh      1986         Completed
Supply Project       in providing equitable and improved
(Cr. 1734-BD         access to basic water supply and
sanitation services.  The objectives
includes  concern  for  the  cost-
effectiveness   of   both   capital
investments  and  operations  and
maintenance, and for the extension of
coverage
4. Fourth Dhaka Water    The basic objectives of the project are  1996        Underway
Supply Project       to: (i) commence  a program  of
(Cr.2926-BD) - 1996   institutional reforms that would lead to
efficient operation of the water and
sanitation sector in Dhaka on a
commercial basis and prepare a
strategy to enhance private operations
and mobilize private finance; (ii)
increase the life of existing assets and
reduce water losses through a water
loss  reduction  and  rehabilitation
program;  (iii)  strengthen   water
resources management for the greater
Dhaka area, by optimnizing use of
available water resources in the most
economic   and    environmentally
acceptable way; and (iv) increase
potable water supply in the Dhaka area
by  effectively  utilizing  available
surface and groundwater resources to
expand water supply in the Dhaka
metropolitan area.
5. First Chittagong     To address problems of inadequate        1963         Completed
Water Supply Project   water supply in Chittagong City.
(Cr.367-BD)



- 16 -
6. Second Chittagong    The  project  provided  additional       1980         Completed
Water Supply Project    supplies of water to meet the needs of
(Cr.1001-BD)            Chittagong's growing population and
industry up to 1990.
Following Operat  _i.o.n
1. Municipal Services   The  principal  objective  of  the       1999       Just Approved
Project             proposed  project is  to  improve
environmental  and  infrastructure
service delivery in urban areas.
Specifically the project will:  (a)
strengthen the institutional capacity of
selected municipal corporations and
secondary towns to plan, finance,
implement  and   operate  urban
infrastructure services in an efficient
and sustainable manner; (b) improve
resource   allocation   and   fiscal
discipline through the creation of an
improved financing mechanism for
urban infrastructure investment; and
(c)   support   Government   of
Bangladesh (GOB) and municipalities
to reduce urban poverty and improve
environmental conditions of urban
communities through the financing of
critical  urban  infrastructure  and
services.



- 17 -
Table 3: Proiect Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned            Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification                                                         05/25/1981
Preparation                              09/1981                       10/26/1981
Appraisal                               02/16/1986                     02/16/1986
Negotiations                            05/17/1988                     05/17/1988
Board Presentation                      06/21/1988                     06/21/1988
Signing                                 07/29/1988                     07/29/1988
Effectiveness                           10/27/1988                     01/25/1989
Midterm Review                                                         06/20/1993
Loan/Credit Closing                     06/30/1997                     06/30/1998
ICR Preparation             12/31/1998                     05/26/1999
ICR Preparation
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
IDA Financial Year        Appraisal Estimate    Actual       Actual as % of Estimate
1989                      1.44             2.01               139.58
1990                      7.16             2.26               31.56
1991                     14.26             2.45                17.18
1992                     21.86             4.22                19.30
1993                     29.49             7.08                24.00
1994                     36.15             10.19               28.18
1995                     41.37             13.70               33.11
1996                     45.13             17.08               37.84
1997                     47.52            22.50               47.34
1998                     47.52            29.96                63.04
1999                     47.52            31.03               65.29
Date of Final Disbursement                       November 3, 1998



- 18 -
Table 5 and 6: Key Indicators for Proiect Inplementation/Oneration
I.  Key indicators in SAR                     Estimated                          Actual
1.                                           N.A.                              N.A.
3.                                                                                                l
II. Modified indicatorsN...A
3 .
m. Otherindicators
1.                                           N.A.                              N.A.
2.
3.
III.   O ther  indicators__           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1.                                           N.A.                              N.A.
3.
Note: Specific performance indicators were not set up for this project.
Table 7: Studies Included in Proiect
No.                  Study                              Status                   Impact of study
1.   Traffic Management Study                        Unknown
2.   Study of Area-wide Drainage in                   Unknown
l   Chittagong
3.   Study of Manpower Development
and Organizational and Managerial               Unknown
Reforn in Local Government



- 19 -
Table 8A: Proiect Costs
Appraisal Estimate         ActuallLatest Estimate
(US$ million)                (US$ million)
Local   Foreign
Item                   Costs      Costs      Total           Total
A. MHPW
1. Kaiballyadham Area Development     4.5       0.4 |      4.9 |          4.3
2. Technical Assistance               0.2        0.5       0.7             0.6
B. MLGRDC
1. Storm-water Drainage              15.9        3.2      19.1            26.6
2. Solid Waste Management             3.8        5.4       9.2             7.8
3. Sanitation                         1.8        0.2       2.0             0.6
4. Slum Improvement                   3.4        0.4       3.8             3.8
5. Project Implementation Support     1.0        0.1       1.1
6. Technical Assistance               0.6        2.7       3.3             3.7
7. Cyclone Rehabilitation               -          -         -             5.3
C. Physical Contingencies              3.0       1.2        4.2
D. Price Contingencies                12.6       4.6       17.2
TOTAL                     46.9       18.7      65.6            52.7
Table 8B: Proiect Financing
Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate
(US$ million)                     (US$ million)
Local     Foreign
Source              Costs       Costs       Total              Total
IDA                         32.7        14.9        47.6               31.1
UNDP                         0.8         3.8         4.6                                  l
Domestic Contribution       13.4           -        13.4               21.6
TOTAL                 46.9        18.7       65.6                52.7
Table 9: Econonic Return and Benefits
Component                  Appraisal Estimate    Actual (at Final Development)
1. Dholai Khal Drainage Improvement         48%
2. Kaiballyadham Area Development            13%
3. Slum Improvement in Dhaka                 48%
Note: Conducting ex-post economnic analysis was not possible due to lack of reliable data.



- 20 -
Table 10: Status of Le2al Covenants
Covenant              Original     Revised
Agreement   Section      Type      Present  Fulfillment  Fulfillment       Description of Covenant      Comments
Status     Date         Date
DCA         3.01(a)        10        CP                               GOB to implement through HSD,    Housing Loan
Parts E and F.1 of the Project as   arrangements were
described in Schedule 2 of the DCA    dropped.
and provide promptly the funds,
facilities  and  other  resources
required for the project.
3.01(b)       03        CD                               GOB to cause DCC and CCC to  During FY91/92
Implement the Project components  availability of adequate
and provide adequate funds, facilities  funds was a constraint on
services and other resources required  implementation of DCC
for the Project.                   component.
3.01(c)       10        CP                               GOB to cause HSD to implement E  Housing Loan
and F. 1 of the Project in accordance  arrangements were
with Implementation  Program  set  dropped.
forth in Schedule 4 of DCA
3.02(a)       03         C                               GOB to re-lend part of proceeds of  Complied with.
Credit to DCC  and CCC  under
separate subsidiary loan agreements
at 12.5 percent repayment over 20
years including a five-year grace
period.
4.01(a)       01         C                               GOB to maintain or cause to be  Complied with.
maintained by GOB departments or
agencies, records, and accounts to
reflect operations  resources  and
expenditures in respect of Parts E and
F of the Project
4.01(b)       01         C     03/31/1990   03/31/1990   GOB to have records and accounts  Complied with.
referred to in 4.01 (a), including those
for the Special Accounts, for each
fiscal year audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and to
provide to IDA, no later than 9
months after end of fiscal year,
certified   copies   of   financial
statements and audits reports
4.01(c)       01         C                               GOB to maintain or cause to be  Complied with.
(i)and                                                   maintained, in accordance with 4.01
(iii)                                                   (a) separate records and accounts for
all   expenditures   for   which
withdrawals are requested on basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOE) and
retain evidence of such expenditures
one year after IDA has received the
audited report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made.
4.01(c)       01         C     03/31/1990   03/31/1990   GOB to ensure that SOE accounts are  Comphed with.
(i)and(ii)                                              included in the annual audit referred
to in 4.01 (b) and that the report
includes a separate opinion on the
SOE audit.
PA          2.01(a)        10        CP                               DCC to carry out Parts A.1, B.1, D   Part A.l of the project was
I_________  I_______ _________                            and F.2 of the project as per the  cancelled in July 1993._



- 21 -
Covenant              Original      Revised
Agreement   Section       Type      Present  Fulfillment  Fulfillment        Description of Covenant        Coitments
Status      Date         Date
Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 of the DCA, to the extent
such obligations are applicable to
DCC.
2.01(b)       01         C                                 DCC  to  carry  out obligation  in  Complied with.
Selections 9.03 to 9.08 of General
Conditions and shall not, without
IDA agreement, take or concur to any
action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating assigning or
waiving the DCC subsidiary loan.
4.01(a)       01         C                                 DCC  to maintain its records and
accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices to reflect.
4.01(b)       01         C      03/31/1990   03/31/1990   DCC  to have its annual records,  Project Report and Audits
(i)and(ii)                                                accounts and financial statements for  of DCC financial
each fiscal year audited by independent  statements are no longer
auditors acceptable to provide IDA, no  required.
later than 9 months after the end of
each fiscal year, certified copies of
l_______ _________                                         financial statements and audit reports
2.01(b)       10         C                                 CCC to carry out Parts A.2, B.2, C, F.3  Complied with.
of the Projects as described in Schedule
2 of the DCA.
2.01(b)       10         C                                 CCC to implement Parts A.2, B.2, C   Complied with.
and F.3 of the Project as per the
Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 of the DCA, to the extent
such obligations are applicable to CCC.
4.01(a)       01         C                                 CCC  to maintain its records and  Complied with.
accounts in accordance with sound
accounting practices to reflect its
operations and financial conditions.
4.01(b)       01         CP      03/31/1990                CCC  to have its annual records,  Project Report and Audits
(i)and(ii)                                                 accounts and financial statements for  for CCC financial
each fiscal year audited by independent  statements no longer
auditors acceptable to IDA, and to  required.
provide IDA no later than 9 months
after the end of each fiscal year,
certified copies of financial statements
and audit report.
Covenant types:                                                                                        Present status:
1 =  Accounts/audits                                  8 =   Indigenous people                       C    = covenant complied with
2 =  Financial performance/revenue                    9 =   Monitoring, review, and reporting        CD = complied with after
generation from beneficiaries                                                                    delay
3 =  Flow and utilization of project funds             10 =   Project implementation not covered by  CP = complied with partially
categories 1-9
4 =  Counterpart funding                               11 =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or  NC =not complied with
other resource allocation
5 =  Management aspects of the project or executing agency  12 =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
regulatory/institutional action
6 =  Environmental covenants                           13 =   Other
7 =  Involuntary resettlement



- 22 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title         Describe and comrnent on lack of compliance
N.A.                                       N.A.
N.A.                                       N.A.
3.                     N.A.                                       N.A.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                           Actual
Stage of Project Cycle          Weeks         US$ (000)           Weeks         US$ (000)
Preparation to Appraisal                                 -             110.4           110.8
Appraisal                                                              33.0             64.1
Negotiations through
Board Approval                             _                            80.2           169.9
Supervision                                              -            340.0            428.7
Completion                                 _                            17.8            43.2
TOTAL                                     _581.4                                       816.7



- 23 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Specialized
Stage of          Month/        Number      Days in        Staff skills    Implementation    Development
Project Cycle        Year         of persons    Field       Represented          Status         Objectives
05/81           5           11      US,FA, IA, SE, PS
Through Appraisal      10/81            4          11      US, FA, IA, US
01/82           1           13      UE
02/82           1           3       US
06/82            1          6       US                       NA               NA
07/83            1          5       -
10/83           2           10      US
03/84           3           10      PS, US
08/84           4           11      FA, US, RS, EC
02/85           5           15      FA, US, IA
07/85           5           14      SE, FA, EC
02/86           8           27      FA, SE,
Appraisal          04/86            4           4       -
Through            11/86           2           8       FA, SE                   NA               NA
Board Approval        09/87            1          4       FA, SE
11/87           1           7       -
11/87           3           11      -
04/88           3           12
11/88           -           -                                HS               HS
Supervision         04/89            -          25                                HS               HS
10/89           3           16      SE, FA                    S               HS
03/90           3           21      SE, US, RS                S                S
10/90           3           16      SE, FA, PS                U                S
03/91           2           23      SE, FA                    U                S
10/91           2           20      SE, FA                    U                S
05/92-           1          14      FA                        U                S
09/92           2           20      SE, FA                    U                S
04/93           2           16      SE, FA                    U                S
11/93           2           19      SE, FA                    S                S
10/94           2           -       IA, US                    S                S
04/95           2           12      FA, US                    S                S
10/95           2           10      FA, US                    S                S
05/96           2           22      FA, US                    U                S
09/96           3           15      FA, US                    S                S
03/97           3           14      FA, US                    S                S
05/98           1           5       US                       NA               NA
07/98           1           5       US                       NA               NA
Completion          11/98            3          12      UE, US, EC                S                U
Key:  FA:   Financial Analyst                    HS:   Highly Satisfactory
SE:    Sanitary Engineer                  S:     Satisfactory
PS:    Procurement Specialist             U:    Unsatisfactory
RS:   Resettlement Specialist             NA:   Not Applicable
IA:    Infrastructure Advisor             -:     No Record Available
UE:   Urban Environmental Specialist
US:   Urban Specialist
EC:   Economist



APPENDIX - A
ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE



THE WORLD BANK
Bangladesh Dhaka Office
24                  3A Paribagh, Dhaka 1000, Bangladesh
Phone: (880-2) 861056-68/9669301-8
Fascimile: (880-2) 863220
Frederick T. Temple
Country Director
November 12, 1998
Mr. Jagannath Dey
Secretary
Ministry of Housing and Public Works
Bhaban No. 5, Room No. 202
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dhaka.
Dear Mr. Dey:
BANGLADESH: Urban Development Project (Cr. 1930-BD)
The completion mission for the Urban Development Project, which visited Dhaka
and Chittagong from October 25 to November 5, 1998, has reported its findings. On
behalf of the mission. I would like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Housing and
Public Works (MHPW) and the Housing and Settlements Directorate (HSD) for the
assistance and cooperation provided to the mission. We endorse the mission's findings
and recommendations contained in the attached Aide-Memoire. In this letter, I would like
to highligh-t some of the issues raised by the mission in its discussions with your staff.
First of all, we are very concerned about the poor management of the
Kaiballyadham Urban Area Development Scheme in Chittagong. Though the physical
works for the scheme were completed a few years ago, the pace of settlement is very
slow with only about 350 houses built so far out of the total 4144 plots. More seriously,
there are no basic services such as water and gas supply available on the site due to lack
of coordination between HSD and service/utility agencies. In addition, the completed
infrastructure in the area has started deteriorating because of lack of proper maintenance.
We would urge you to take up these problems seriously and take an immediate action.
We welcome MHPW's suggestion to hold an inter-ministerial meeting to help improve
the coordination among the different agencies, and would like you to keep us informed of
the result of the meeting.
The mission agreed on a schedule to finalizing the project's Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) and the operational plan for the assets created under the
project. HSD has already provided its draft ICR, but we would like you to revise it based
RCA 248423. ..: WUI 64145 . FAX (202) 477-6391



Mr. Jagannath Dey                                        November 12, 1998
25
on the discussions with the mission, emphasizing lessons learned from the project. Also,
your operational plan should focus on management aspects of the Kaiballyadham
scheme. It is critical that this plan confirms the full acceptance of operation and
maintenance functions by each agency responsible for various service provision.
If you have any question to the issues raised in this letter, please do not hesitate to
contact us.
Sincerely,
cc:   - Mr. Azizul Islam, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Housing & Public Works
- Mr. G. D. M. Mohidul Islam, Chief Engineer, Housing & Settlement Directorate
bcc:  Messrs./Mmes. Frannie Humplick, Jonathan Kamkwalala, Toshiaki Keicho, Paula
Reed (SASIN). Arun Banerjee, Zahed H. Khan (SACBF).



26                       THE WORLD BANK
Bangladesh Dhaka Office
3A Paribagh, Dhaka 1000, Bangladesh
Phone: (880-2) 861056-68/9669301-8
Fascimile: (880-2) 863220
Frederick T. Temple
Country Director
November 12, 1998
Mr. A. H. M. Abdul Hye
Secretary
Ministry of Local Govt., Rural Development
& Cooperatives
Bhaban No. 7, Room No. 640
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dhaka
Dear Mr. Hye:
BANGLADESH: Urban Development Project (Cr. 1930-BD)
The completion mission for the Urban Development Project, which visited Dhaka and
Chittagong from October 25 to November 5, 1998, has reported its findings. On behalf of the
mission. I would like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives (MLGRDC), the Local Government Engineering Department
(LGED). the Dhaka City Corporation (DCC) and the Chittagong City Corporation (CCC) for
the assistance and cooperation provided to the mission. We endorse the mission's findings and
recommendations contained in the attached Aide-Memoire.
First of all, we would like to congratulate you and your staff on the completion of the
above mentioned project. The mission reported that the completed major works (the Dholai
Khal Pumping Station in Dhaka and the Sheikh Mujib Road Culvert in Chittagong) are
demonstrating benefits. We are particularly pleased that they were effective in protecting the
adjacent areas from being flooded during the recent severe floods. Also, we note that LGED
has recently completed rehabilitation of 227 roads which were damaged by the Cyclone of
May. 1997.
The mission agreed on a schedule for finalizing the project's Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) and the operational plan for the assets created under the project. We
would like to stress the importance of this operational plan in order to sustain the project's
benefits. It is critical that this plan confirms the full acceptance of operation and maintenance
fiunctions by each responsible agency, and demonstrates that the arrangements for Operations
& Maintenance are financially, institutionally, and technically sustainable.



Mr. A. H. M. Abdul Hye                    27                 November 12. 1998
I t vou have any question, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Sincerel
cc:   - Mr. Q. 1. Siddiqui, Chief Engineer, LGED
- Mr. Shamsul Haq Bhuiyan, Chief Engineer, Dhaka City Corporation
- Mr. Rezaul Amin Khan. Chief Engineer, Chittagong Citv Corporation
hcc:  Messrs./Mmes. Frannie Humplick, Jonathan Kamkwalala. Toshiaki Keicho. Paula
Reed (SASIN). Arun Banerjee, Zahed H. Khan (SACBF).



- 28 -
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1930-BD)
IDA COMPLETION MISSION
(October 25 - November 5, 1998)
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    An IDA mission consisting of Messrs. Toshiaki Keicho, Zahed Khan (SASIN), Dipasis Bhadra
(Consultant), and Reza Khan (Research Assistant) visited Dhaka and Chittagong from October 25 to
November 5, 1998 to review the status of the completed Urban Development Project (Cr. 1930-BD) and
to facilitate the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The mission held
discussions with officials of the Ministry of Housing and Public Works (MHPW), the Ministry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLGRDC), the Housing and Settlements Directorate
(HSD), the Local Government Engineering Department (LGED), the Dhaka City Corporation (DCC), and
the Chittagong City Corporation (CCC). The mission also met with local residents of the Kaiballyadham
Area Development Component in Chittagong.
2.     The mission wishes to thank the Government of Bangladesh (GOB), the implementing agencies
and their officials for the courtesy and cooperation received during the mission. The views expressed in
this Aide-Memoire are subject to review and confirmation by IDA management.
B. STATUS OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
3.     Originally, the credit was scheduled to close on June 30, 1997. Though the original components
were completed by this date, one year extension was granted to undertake emergency rehabilitation of
roads in the southern districts of Bangladesh which were severely hit by the cyclone in May, 1997. The
status of each component is described below.
Dholai Khal Drainage Improvement (DCC)
4.     This component originally included mainly construction of the Dholai Khal culvert and a
pumping station. As the culvert was dropped due to the problem related to resettlement of 418
households, only the pumping station was constructed under the project. However, the mission was
informed that DCC had started constructing the Dholai Khal culvert from its own funds by applying its
own resettlement policy. The pumping station, completed in 1997, is in a good condition and
demonstrated benefits during the recent severe floods, saving the adjacent area from being flooded. The
whole drainage scheme would have been far more effective if the construction of culvert had not been
dropped.
5.     The mission was also informed that now the DWASA is responsible for managing storm-water
drainage in Dhaka and that the pumping station was handed over to DWASA on March 1, 1998.
However, the pump station is now jointly operated by DCC and DWASA as it is still in a transitional
period. The mission discussed O&M issues, such as need for clean-up of the canal leading up to the
station, and requested DCC to work with DWASA to prepare an operational plan to ensure continued
O&M (see Section F below).



- 29 -
Slum Upgrading in Dhaka (DCC)
6.    Three slums in Dhaka (Shaheednagar, Rasulpur, and Islambagh) were upgraded by improving
basic infrastructure. Main achievements include 17 km roads and foot paths, 3 community centers, 482
latrines, land filling, etc. According to DCC officials, most of the slum dwellers continue to live in the
upgraded areas and enjoy the project benefits. Replicability of this kind of slum upgrading programs was
discussed.
Sheikh Mujib Culvert (CCC)
7.    Sheikh Mujib Culvert of about 2.25 km in Chittagong was completed in June, 1997. The culvert
is in a very good condition, and demonstrated benefits during the recent severe floods. The mission and
CCC jointly inspected how deep the culvert was silted up in some selected points, and found that silt
deposits ranged from 2 inches to 2 feet (the average was about 6 inches). Since the height of the box
culvert is about 10 feet in most places, silting of this range in just one year may have serious
consequences in the long run if went unchecked and not properly and regularly cleaned. The mission
emphasized the importance of periodical check-ups and cleaning/de-silting especially before monsoon
seasons. CCC is aware of this issue and agreed to prepare an operational and maintenance plan for the
culvert (see Section F below).
Public Toilets (CCC)
8.    Twenty-three public toilets were constructed under the project in Chittagong. The mission visited
a couple of the public toilets and found they are in a good condition. These toilets are leased out
to private operators, who charge one taka per use. The mission noticed that the use of some of
these toilets is very low. The reasons for the low use may be attributed to such factors as
affordability, location, or designs (men and women share the same entrance, fewer latrines for
women, etc.). CCC needs to continue to review and monitor community practices.
Solid Waste Management (DCC and CCC)
9.    Under the solid waste management component, 44 trucks, 220 de-mountable containers were
purchased for DCC, and 48 trucks, one front-end loader, four tractors were purchased for CCC. In
addition, workshop tools and equipment were provided for both cities. However, according to city
officials, solid waste management in the cities have not been improved significantly. This component
focused on purchase of machines and equipment only, and management aspects were not given adequate
attention.
Kaiballyadham Area Development (HSD)
10.   About 100 acres of land and associated infrastructure were developed in Chittagong to provide
4144 residential plots and some industrial and commercial plots. Although the work was completed, the
mission found that management of this area development scheme is so poor, creating serious problems.
According to HSD, 3585 plots have already been allotted, out of the total 4144 plots. 2800 plots have
already been handed over to people, but only about 350 houses have been built so far. More seriously,
there are no basic services available in the area such as water and gas supply or social services like a
clinic. In addition, the completed infrastructure has started deteriorating because of lack of proper
maintenance. As a result, people who have actually started living in the area suffer greatly. The main
reasons for non-availability of these services seem to be lack of coordination between HSD and service



- 30 -
agencies such as CWASA, reluctance of these service agencies to operate in the area, and lack of HSD' s
capacity to manage the area.
11.   The mission asked HSD to take these problems very seriously and take an immediate action. HSD
agreed to discuss the problems with the service agencies urgently and to inform IDA of the results of the
discussions. The Joint Secretary of MHPW also promised to hold an inter-ministerial meeting to help
solve the problems and to inform IDA of the results of the meeting. The mission also advised HSD to
explore any possibilities to facilitate provision of these services and to improve coordination among the
service agencies. For example, HSD should consider involving NGOs in provision of social services or
setting up an Area Management Committee consisting of CCC, utility  agencies/companies,
representatives of local residents, NGOs, etc. HSD agreed to prepare a management action plan to
improve the management aspects of the Kaiballyadham scheme as part of the required operational plan
(see Section F below).
Cyclone Rehabilitation (LGED)
12.   The project closing was extended by one year to enable rehabilitation of the roads damaged by
the cyclone of May, 1997. Though this component was emergency in nature, actual implementation
started in February, 1998. The delays were mainly due to the slow pace of processing the required paper
work, such as amendments to the Development Credit Agreement, both by IDA and the Borrower. LGED
rehabilitated/reconstructed 227 roads in five months in the southern districts of the country.
Implementation by LGED was quick and successful.
13.   Unfortunately, however, the mission found that some of the recently rehabilitated roads
(especially brick roads) have been damaged again by the recent severe floods. The mission raised an issue
of technical specifications and materials used for various types of roads in cyclone/flood-prone areas.
LGED informed that the choice of specifications/materials was made by considering such factors as
availability of materials, maintenance requirements, speed of construction, availability of construction
equipment, etc. Some repair and rehabilitation of these roads, affected by 1998 floods, were being
undertaken by LGED with finance from other sources.
Technical Assistance and Studies
14.   The mission also discussed, with each implementing agency, institutional and financial
components of the project. This project focused heavily on physical works only, and the institutional and
financial components were given inadequate attention or ignored. For example, the original project design
included TA for property tax administration or a study for traffic management (according to SAR). But no
agency is aware of these.
C. PROJECT COST
15.   The project's total cost, according to the data provided by each implementing agency, is given in
the table below. Despite the fact that construction of the Dholai Khal culvert was dropped from the
project due to the resettlement problem, the cost of the drainage component was escalated probably
because of the implementation delays and the floods/heavy rains which sometimes damaged already
completed works.



- 31 -
Component                             Latest Estimate   SAR Estimate
(million US$)   (million US$)
Area Development                                 4.3            4.9
Storm-water Drainage                            26.6           19.1
Solid Waste Management                           7.8            9.2
Sanitation                                       0.6            2.0
Slum Upgrading                                   3.8            3.8
Cyclone Rehabilitation                           5.3
TA and Project Staffing                          4.3            5.1
Contingencies                                      -           21.5
Total                                           52.7           65.6
D. STATUS OF DISBURSEMENTS
16.   The credit closed on June 30, 1998, after one year extension, which was necessary to enable
rehabilitation of the roads in the coastal areas damaged by the Cyclone of May, 1997. Now that the
deadline for withdrawal applications also expired on October 31, 1998, the final amount of IDA's
disbursements will be about US $31.0 million, which is equivalent to 65.1 percent of the original Credit
but almost 100 percent of the formally revised Credit amount (after two cancellations: US $8.9 million in
1993 and US $ 8.5 million in 1996). The undisbursed amount of about US $700 will be canceled.
E. IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
17.   The preparation of the ICR is already underway both by IDA and the Borrower, and the mission
again explained to all the implementing agencies their responsibilities to prepare the ICR and the
objectives and requirements of the ICR. All the agencies already submitted their draft evaluation reports,
which were reviewed by the mission. The mission asked the agencies to update/revise the reports,
focusing on lessons learned from the project.
18.   To enable the ICR to be completed within six months of the credit closing date (December 31,
1998), the mission and the agencies agreed on the following schedule to finalize the ICR:
*  Each Agency to submit its evaluation to IDA:         by November 15, 98
*  IDA to submit a draft ICR to the Borrower for comment:  by November 15, 98
*  Borrower to submit its comment on IDA's draft ICR:   by December 10, 98
*  IDA to finalize the ICR, attaching Borrower's evaluation:    by December 31, 98
F. OPERATIONAL PHASE OF THE PROJECT
19.   The mission discussed with each agency the operational phase of the project and emphasized the
importance of continued O&M to sustain the project's benefits. As part of the ICR preparation, the
Borrower is required to develop and present an acceptable action plan for the operational phase of the
project (Operational Plan) which ensures continued operations of assets created under the project. Each
agency agreed to submit its draft Operational Plan to IDA by November 15, 1998. The plan should set out
at least:
(a)   required institutional arrangements and staffing needs for continued O&M of the assets created
under the project;



- 32 -
(b)    estimates of the additional O&M costs resulting from the operation of such assets, and source of
such funding; and
(c)    key physical, operational, and financial indicators to monitor the performance of these assets and
to assess their development impacts.
G. EX-POST ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
20.   In June 1998, IDA initially asked the Borrower to collect the data required to conduct ex-post
economic analysis for the three components: a) Dholai Khal Drainage; b) Dhaka's Slum Upgrading; and
c) Kaiballyadham Area Development. The mission reviewed the status of the data collection, but the
collection was significantly delayed mainly due to the recent floods in Bangladesh. It was agreed that
each agency will complete the data collection and submit the data to IDA by November 15, 1998, in order
to enable the economic analysis to be included in the ICR. The Bank's Dhaka Office will help facilitate
the data collection.



APPENDIX - B
BORROWER'S EVALUATION



- 33 -
APPENDIX - B
BANGLADESH
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BORROWER'S EVALUATION
DHAKA CITY CORPORATION
Introduction
Bangladesh has one of the highest urban population growth rates in the world about 7
percent per year. About a fifth of the national population is urban, and over the next 20 years,
some two-thirds of the total population increase is expected in urban areas. This growth implies
almost a tripling of present urban population of about 36 million within one decade. The main
contributing factors to this large population movement are high population densities,
landlessness, and low incomes in rural areas due to crop failure and flooding. Rapid urban
growth has resulted in severe shortage of basic infrastructure, developed services, and shelter
particularly in Dhaka and Chittagong. To face this critical situation, i.e., for development of
roads, drainage solid waste collection and others, the Urban Development Project as 1930 BD
Credit was signed in July 1988 between GOB and IDA. Considering the above situation the said
project was the first urban project supported by IDA in Bangladesh. Consultancy services were
provided in 1985 with UNDP/UNCHS support, to prepare the DCC components. The project
was appraised in March 1986. The final Engineering designs and cost estimates were prepared
in 1987. Constructional activities were started in 1988 and the project was completed in June
1997.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project are to:
(a)   develop the capacity to plan, manage and deliver municipal services in Dhaka,
emphasizing those having environmental impact: low cost sanitation, solid waste
collection and disposal, storm water drainage, and improvements in low-income
areas;
(b)   strengthen  the institutional capabilities of sector agencies emphasizing more
efficient and effective use of resources, improved cost recovery, Local resources
mobilization and financial management at the local level and improvement sector
planning and monitoring at the national level. The primary benefits are: improved
level and coverage of municipal services, savings in the health care and public
health and environmental Improvement.
The benefits are expected to accrue to the more densely populated, low income areas of central Dhaka.



- 34 -
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:  Storm Water Drainage
Improvement of about 4.25 km of channels in the lower Dholaikhal catchment
area in Dhaka, including the construction of a barrier and a pumping station at
the outlet to prevent river backflooding during the monsoon period.
Part B:  Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
Acquisition of vehicles and equipment and construction of maintenance workshops for
the collection and disposal of waste in Dhaka.
Part C:   Low-Income Area Improvements
Carrying out small-scale works in the three areas in old Dhaka, including:
(i)  construction of and improvements to roads and foot paths
(ii)  surface drainage
(iii) solid waste collection
(iv) Low cost sanitation
(v)  Construction of community centres, and
(vi) selected land filling.
Part D:   Institutional Development
Provision of technical assistance, equipment and training for the strengthening of DCC.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
The purpose of the proposed project is to assist Government in improving the management and
financing of Urban Development through improved resource utilization and mobilization. More
specifically, the project would:
(a)  improve the efficiency and effectiveness of planning, managing and operation
municipal services, with particular emphasis on those having immediate
environmental impact in the more densely populated and low-income areas of
Dhaka and Chittagong;
(b)   demonstrate more cost-effective and affordable approaches to urban land development and
shelter for middle-low income families through more efficient land use with significant
reduction in the cost of plots, and through full cost recovery with positive interest rates, and
(c)   strengthen the planning, management and financial capacity of key local and national sector
agencies : MOW and HSD for urban land development and MLG, DCC and CCC for the
provision and management of municipal services.
Implementation Experience and Results
The project achieved most of its major activities and has achieved satisfactory
development results. The project was completed in due time. The problems faced by DCC during
implementation was the acquisition of land. The key factors that affected achievement of the
major objectives were:



- 35 -
(i)   inadequate administrative authority of project Director's and frequent staff rotation;
(ii)   delays in procurement process;
(iii)   delays in TAPP / PP approved processing; and
(iv)   lack of compliance with financial reporting and audit requirements.
The above problems were the great obstacle for proper and timely implementation of project.
Future Project Operation
The pump station which have already been handed over to DWASA, will be operated and
maintained by themselves. The operation and maintenance of all other components will be controlled by
DCC revenue hand.
Key Lessons Learned
Through implementation of such urban project, the concerned project personnel gathered lots of
knowledge in physical implementation, contract management and administration. So DCC authority should
have to take initiative to absorb such experience project personnel in revenue head for institutional
development. Moreover such personnel may be engaged in similar ongoing IDA project.



- 36 -
CHITTAGONG CITY CORPORATION
A. INTRODUCTION
In Bangladesh the environmental improvement aspects of the urban areas have not been given
adequate attention in the past. There are serious lack in urban drainage. Solid waste disposal. sanitation
and health care education in almost all the urban towns and cities of the country. As a result unhealthy
atmospheres, health hazards and environmental pollution are the common scenario in these areas.
Chittagong is the gate way to Bangladesh as the main port city of the country. It is also the
largest industrial city of Bangladesh with a population of about 30 lakhs. The population in this city is
estimated to be about 35 lakhs by 2000 due to its situation as a port and industrial city.
For many years, the people of Chittagong City were suffering due to congestion of storm drainage
and tidal inundation. Lack of proper drainage system subjected large areas of the city to regular flood
every year.
The sanitation system in the city is deplorable due to prevalence of large scale service latrines.
No storm sewer system was introduced in Chittagong City though the Water and Sewerage Authority
(WASA)was created in 1963. On consideration of such factors the First Urban Development Project i.e.
Environmental Improvement has been adopted.
B. OBJECTIVES
The objective of the Environmental Improvement Project under Chittagong City
Corporation area:-
(a)   improvement of environmental sanitation within the CCC area covering:
(i) storm drainage; (ii) solid waste disposal; and (iii) sanitation;
(b)    establishment of modern workshop facilities for repair and maintenance of City
Corporation vehicles;
(c)    establishing a radio communication system within CCC area by procuring
"walkie-talkie" for increasing efficiency of City Corporation services;
(d)    establishing a computer system by procuring computer for improvement financial,
management practices and recording system of CCC;
(e)   in-service training facilities for technical, health and sanitation personnel.
C. FEASIBILITY STUDY AND DESIGN
Feasibility Study and Design Report was prepared by Mls. LBII in 1986-87, with the financial
assistance of the World Bank. Further, the major component "Construction of Sk. Mujib Road Culvert"
2.2 km was redesigned by Consultant BKH in 1990-91, with financial assistance of UNDP as proposed
by LBII in their final Engineering report.



- 37 -
D. PROJECT COMPONENTS
Project components with estimated cost are shown below:
Si
No   Item of Works                                   Local         F. E.      Total
I.   Storm Water Drainage:
(i) Land                                      1179.00           -     1179.00
(ii) Equipment, vehicles, tools                123.19      266.47      389.66
(iii)Civil work (Drainage implt. /canal rehab.
(a) Canal rehabilitation                   735.50            -      735.50
(b) Diversion channel                       89.32                    89.32
(c) Diversion weir                          21.36            -       21.36
(d) Sk. Mujib Rd. Culvert                    3130.00        50.00     3180.00
(e) Pilot watershed erosion central
structural silt traps)                  53.17            -       53.17
(f) Priority tertiary canal upgrading       20.60            -       20.60
5352.14       316.47    5668.61
2.   Solid Waste Collection/Disposal:
(i)  Land                                      106.00           -      106.00
(ii)  Workshop building                        59.26            -       59.26
(iii)  Vehicles                               364.52       408.04      772.56
(iv)  Dustbin                                  36.54            -       36.54
566.32       408.04     974.36
3.   Sanitation:
(i)   Land                                     46.60            -       46.60
(ii)  Upgrading of septic tank/pits on loan   332.10            -      332.10
(iii)  New Septic Tank                         145.00        15.00     160.00
(iv)  Community Latrine                        00.00            -      300.00
678.70        15.00     678.70
4.   Radio communication network (walkie-talkie)     50.17            -       50.17
5.    Computer                                        10.00           -       10.00
6.   Project linplementation Unit (PIU)             269.99            -      269.99
7.    Vehicle for PIU                                37.22            -       37.22
8.   Local Engg. Consultancy Services                 6.00            -        6.00
9.   Training                                         5.00            -        5.00
Sub-Total                               6975.54       724.51     7700.05
10.  Technical                                       58.60       282.40      341.00
Total Base Cost                         7034.14       1006.91    8041.05
Physical Contingency                      41.90        109.20     151.10
Price Contingency                         84.50       848.19      932.69
Grand Total                             7160.54      1964.30     9124.84



- 38 -
E. RESPONSIBILITIES
(a)  Sponsoring                :    Local Govt. Division of the Ministry of LGRD and
Co-operatives
(b)  Execution                 :    Project Implementation Unit, Chittagong City
Corporation, Ctg.
(c)  Design                    :    M/s LBII with Local Associates ACE and Mls. BKH
with local Associates EPC.
(d)  Operation and Maintenance       Chittagong City Corporation, Ctg.
(e)  Technical Assistance during
implementation            :    M/s. Mott MacDonald Ltd.
(f)  Financial Assistance           IDA Loan, UNDP Grant for Technical Assistance
during implementation and GOB grant.
F. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
(a)    Land Acquisition:
According to original estimate, the project total land area to be acquired was 7.61 hector. Actual
land acquisition was done as follows:
Acquisition Component                           Quantity of Land        Cost in Lac Taka
(in Hector)
(i)  Chaktai khal                                            2                   567.98
(ii)  Chaktai Diversion khal (S.W.)                          2                   200.61
(iii) Mirza khal                                           1.01                  178.06
(iv) Mirza Noa-connector khal                            0.632                   144.32
(v)  Dustbin and Solid Waste Disposal                     2.42                   200.00
Area                                                                         (on-going)
(vi) Silt traps                                            0.22                   30.16
(viii) Community Latrine              ___
8.31 Hector                1321.13
Achievement of target has been fulfilled 100 percent.
(b)    Procurement of Vehicles. Equipment and Workshop Tools:
There was a provision for procurement of trucks - 84 nos.; Front End Loader - 1 no.; Tractors - 4
nos.; Wagons - 8 nos.; Sewage Pump - 3 nos.; Generator - 1 no.; and workshop Tools and Equipment.
Procurement has been completed 100 percent as per schedule and total cost involvement was Tk. 1,157.80
lacs.



- 39 -
(c)    Canal Rehabilitation:
(i)  Chaktai Primary khal (4935 M): According to program of works in PP, this component
was scheduled to complete in four phases, but it was completed in two phases. The first phase
was done in the financial year 1988-89 by excavation of original canal (without any widening by
Land Acquisition) only. After acquisition of required land for widening the work of second phase
was taken up in the year 1991-92 and completed in all respect successfully. Total cost incurred
against this item was 332.62 lacs.
(ii) Chaktai Secondary khal (6596 M): There were 5(five) number secondary khals in
program to be rehabilitated. Among those Hizra khal was completed in 1988-89 financial year
and cost involvement was 12.82 lac. Other works two secondaries (Chatteswary khal and Jamal
khan khal) are going on in present financial year which were expected to be completed by
June,'97 and the total cost involvement against this two secondaries khal will be 10.61 lacs.
Other two khal(Mirza chaktai connector khal and Mirza by pass khal) were rehabilitated by
Chittagong City Corporation from its own fund.
(iii) Nasir khal (5363 M): Rehabilitation work of Nasir khal was taken in hand in the month of
May 1990. But after doing some works. The work were suspended due to heavy rain fall. These
works again taken in hand in present year (1996-97). Now the works are going successfully and
expected to be completed by June,1997. Total cost involvement (including the cost of partial
works in '90) will be 61.03 lacs.
(iv) Sadarghat khal (1780 M): Rehabilitation work of this khal has taken in hand in this
present year (1996-97). Now the work is going on and expected to be completed by June, 1997.
Total cost involvement against this work will be of Tk.5.20 lacs.
(v)  Mirza khal (6767 M) and Mirza Noa connector khal (1380 M): Rehabilitation works of
the two khals were executed in the year 1994-95 after acquisition of lands for widening. Total
cost involvement against this two khals were Taka 293.25 lacs.
(vi) Removal of Utilities Pipes: Utilities Pipes were removed as where necessary during the
project period and cost involvement against this item was Tk. 8.7 lacs.
(vii) Construction and Widening of Diversion Canal(2832 M and 5 nos. Bridge): The work
were successfully completed in 1990 after acquisition of requisite lands. Five numbers bridge
were constructed over this canal. Total cost involvement including bridge was Tk. 89.32 lacs.
(d)  Diversion Weir and Bridge:
One number weir and bridge was constructed in the year 1991-92 as per program in PP. These
weir and bridge was executed over the diversion canal just in the junction point of Chaktai khal and
Diversion khal. Total cost incurred for this component was Taka 16.55 lacs. Achievement of this
component is 100 percent.
(e)  Priority Tertiary Canal Upgrading (16.2 km):
There are two types of tertiaries according to their connection with the main canals. One is
tertiaries connected with Mirza- Chaktai khal another is connected with Nasir Moheskhali canals.
Rehabilitation works of tertiaries related with Mirza Chaktai khals was executed in the year 1988-89 and
cost involvement was Tk.10.28 lacs. Rehabilitation works of tertiaries connected with Nasir khal are



- 40 -
taken in hand in this present year and expected to be completed by June, 1997. Total cost required for this
component is Tk. 4.09 lacs.
(f)    Sk. Mujib Road culvert (2250 M):
Constn. of Sk. Mujib Road Culvert was started in October 1994 and expected to be completed by
June,1997. original contract amount during work order was Tk. 20.96 lacs but due to different reasons
construction cost increased and expected to be the amount of Tk. 3180.00 lacs.
(g)  Construction of Workshop Building:
One number workshop building was constructed in the year 1990-91 at Sagarica, Chittagong.
These workshop building was constructed to set up a mechanical workshop for repair and maintenance of
vehicles, machineries, etc. of City Corpn. Cost involvement for constructing this building was Tk. 59.25
lacs. Achievement of this component is 100 percent.
(h)    Silt Trap Constructions:
14 (fourteen) numbers Silt Trap were constructed at different points of Chaktai, Mirza, Nasir, and
Hizra khal as suggested by Design Consultant LBII to trap the silts coming from up stream. Total cost
required for this component was Tk. 49.91 lacs, and achievement of this component is 100 percent.
(i)   There are 40 (forty) numbers Community Latrine in the program of project. Out of which 17
numbers were constructed at different places during the last 8 years of the project period. Another 6
numbers community latrine are being constructed in the present financial year which are expected to be
completed by June,1997. Total cost involvement for 17 number was Tk. 113.90 lacs and amount will be
required for another 6(six) number is Tk. 45.00 lacs, if these 6 numbers are completed successfully then
total achievement for these component will be 58 percent.
(j)   Constn. of Dustbin (300 nos.):
Three hundred (300) number dustbins were constructed in the year 1992-93 and 1993-94 at
different places of City Corporation area as suggested by conservancy department of CCC. Total cost
incurred against these component was Tk. 36.49 lacs, and achievement of this component is 100 percent.
(k) Radio Communication Network (Walkie-Talkie):
22 Numbers of Walkie-Talkie were procured for increasing efficiency of City Corporation
services in the year 1992-93. Total cost incurred against this component was Tk. 50.11 lacs and
achievement is 100 percent.
(1)   Procurement of Inspection Vehicle for PIU:
Jeep-3 nos.; Car-I no; Micro-bus-I no and Motor Cycle-10 nos. were procured for PIU
Official. Cost involvement was Tk. 30.9 lacs.
(m) Constn. of Latrine with Septic Tank/Pit on Loan:
In the original project program, there is provision to construct 900 new Septic Tanks and 3000
upgrading of septic tanks. But people are not interested to construct only septic tanks. They are
interested to build latrine with septic tank on loan. That is way the name of the component has been



- 41 -
changed to "Latrine with Septic Tank/Pit on Loan". Constn. of these component is going on in this
financial year.
(n)  Local Engg. Consultancy Services:
Project design and drawing was done by the Louis Burger International Ltd. in 1986. But some
components were not designed by them as these were not included in TOR. These were some silt traps.
Diversion weir and Bridge, Traffic and Foot bridges over diversion khal. These were designed by
engaging Associate Consulting Engineers in 1990 and cost involvement there of was Tk. 2.64 lacs.
(o)  Technical Assistance:
Consultant M/s. Mott MacDonald Ltd. Was engaged to assist PIU Engineers in implementing the
various components of the project from 1990 to December 1994 as an implementation support consultant
with the financial assistance of UNDP as provision in the project. Total cost incurred against these
component was Tk.441.00 lacs.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
(a)   Canals: The rehabilitation works of canals Chaktai khal, Chaktai diversion khal, Mirza khal,
Mirza Noa-connector khal, Nasir khal, Hizra khal, Chatteshari khal, Jamal khan khal, Sadarghat khal and
different ternaries were completed satisfactorily and these are functioning well. It may be mentioned that
Chittagong City area is full of hills with different elevations in scattered position. As such the
characteristics of land contour is completely different than the other parts of the country. Due to rapid
development works within lower land are being developed by filling with hills carted earth. Due to above
reasons huge quantity of hilly sands are coming down to the khals and drains from the hilly are of during
the rainy season causing heavy siltation. Therefore in order to sustain the proper function ability of the
components proper maintenance and desalting works must be done regularly.
(b)  Vehicles, machines and workshop Tools: Under this component 48 Nos. garbage trucks, no front
end loader, 4 nos. tractors, 8 nos. wagons, 3 nos. sewage pump, 1 no. generator and workshop tools were
procured and these are now being used by CCC conservancy department and mechanical department.
These garbage trucks are giving very good service in collection and disposal of garbage. So it has now
become possible to keep most of the areas of the city neat and clean. To sustain the services of the
vehicles for long term or up to expectation period, proper maintenance and operational schedule must be
maintained as a routine work of CCC.
(c)   Silt Traps: 14 (fourteen) Nos. Silt traps were constructed under this component and they are
functioning well. But the purpose of the Silt traps hampers when arrested silts are not removed timely.
As such maintenance of Silt traps and timely removal of silts must be maintained to sustain its main
objectives.
(d)  Dustbin: 300 nos. dustbins were constructed at different places of the city which are being used
properly by city dwellers to dispose their household waste and garbage. These garbage are being
collected under the management of conservancy department of CCC. These dustbins are required to
repair and maintain properly as and when necessary to sustain its longibility for long time.
(e)  Sk-Muiib Road Culvert: It is a big component of the project. The length of this drainage culvert
is 2. 25 km. which runs underneath the Sk. Mujib Road (Western carriage) and CPA area. Culvert starts
from Fire-Brigade Area and discharged Karnafully river. Total cost involved in this component is Tk.
3180.oo lacs. The main objectives of the component is to keep the areas(Agrabad Commercial area and



- 42 -
Residential Area, Patantooly, Dewanhat) free from flooding in rainy season. In order to hold its
sustainability for long time or up to the expected period it requires permanent maintenance squared to
timely repair and maintain the culvert.
H. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Land Acquisition: Allocation for this component in original PP was 404.3 lacs taka for
acquisition of 7.61 hector of land as estimated by LBII in 1986. But when actual land acquisition was
started in 1990, it was seen that the price of land had been increased. Again the consultant did not
consider the cost of existing structures over the land to be acquired. On the basis of the estimate from
acquisition department in 1991 it was found that actual money would be required 1331.6 lacs taka for
acquisition of 7.61 hector land. For this reason PP had to be revised in 1992. Due to this short of fund
land acquisition work had been hampered initially which caused delay in implementing the component.
Sk. Muiib Road Culvert: Constn. of Sk. Mujib Road Culvert is one of the most important
component of this project. In original PP 977 lacs taka was allotted for this item. But consultant Messrs.
LBII proposed in their final Engineering report to redesign the culvert. As such Consultant M/s. BKH
was engaged for this purpose and completed the design of the culvert in 1990 under UNDP financial
assistance. During the design period BKH found that for solving the flooding problem in Agrabad and its
surrounded area the culvert should start from Fire Bridged point instead of Jack point. Hence the length
of the culvert had been increased. Accordingly the estimated cost has been increased to 1875 lacs taka.
But after international tendering, contractor MWs. Consortium of ABC Ltd. (the Engineers Ltd.) was
selected with a contract amount of 2100 lacs. But due to following different reasons the construction cost
of the culvert has been increased again to Tk. 3180.00 lacs:
(i)     As per design, drawing of the Consultant the length of the culvert is 2150m. But during
construction actual alignment of the culvert was found 2250m. Thus cost increases for 100 m.
(ii)  Due to restriction of 100 m opening of trench by 100 m Sheet Piles at a time work could not
be progressed more than 3.57 bays per month (each bay 16 meter) instead of 6.17 bays per month
as per schedule in the contract. If work is continued at the rate 3.57 bays per month the work will
not be completed till September, 1998. That is why additional 150 meters Sheet Piles were
allowed in a view to complete the work within the project period June, 1997 for which the
construction cost increases.
(iii) There is a provision in the contract to pay the contractor the price escalation of different
construction materials, labours, etc., used in the culvert. But in the work order the required cost
amount in this respect was not included. That is why construction cost increases.
(iv) Final design and estimate was prepared by Foreign Consultant BKH Consulting Engineers in
1990. On that basis International tender was invited on July,1992. At that time there was no
provision for VAT, as such no allowance for VAT was included in these estimates. The Contract
Agreement between CCC and Contractor was signed on 20-09-94. As per circular Nol(25)Mu Sha
Ka-2/93 (Part) dated 07-08-95 of National Revenue Board(NRB) VAT amount must be deposited
to NRB. So, VAT amount is needed.
(v)  The culvert (2250 m length) seems under the main Sk. Mujib Road (west side). Re-
instatement of road pavement within the width of working space was not included in the work
schedule except only over culvert width. The part of the road used for the contractors working
space has deteriorated and deformed despite the best efforts of the contractor to protect the



- 43-
existing pavement. So, the Bill of Quantities requires that the new base courses with pavement be
provided and leveled to fit the existing road.
(vi) There are different claims from the contractor against which no cost was included in the
contract work order. That is why construction cost increases.
For the above reason initial delay occurred in starting the construction work of this component
which affected the ultimate completion of this component.
Canal Rehabilitation: Almost all the canals under this component have been completed
satisfactorily. But delay in acquisition of land effected the timely completion of this components.
Constn. of Silt Trap: There were 14 (fourteen) number silt traps in different khals to be
constructed. Out of 14 numbers only 6 number was designed by the consultant M/s. LBII. So for
designing remaining 8 numbers a local consultant was needed and engaged. For this, initial delay
occurred in completing the construction of silt traps.
Community Latrine: There are 40 number of community latrines to be constructed under this
project. Out of which 23 numbers were completed. Remaining latrines could not be completed as
because non-availability of suitable places which affected the complete completion of the component.
Latrine-with Septic Tank on Tank on Loan: In the original PP there is a provision to construct
900 New Septic Tank and 3000 Up-grading of Septic Tanks. But people are not interested on this. They
are interested to build latrine with Septic Tank on loan. This was informed to the Ministry accordingly
letter No-PIU/110/89 dt. 27-03-96 and ministry gave the approval through the letter vide No-Poura-
1/3.M-1/93/(Part-l)/213 dt. 15-05-96. So the name of this component "Latrine with Septic Tank/Pit on
Loan" is needed to include in the PP in place of the components of "Up-grading of Septic Tanks and New
Septic Tank". This affected the completion of the component.
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
As per proposal of CCC and subsequently by the Bangladesh Govt. This project named
"Environmental Improvement Project (EIP)" was prepared by the foreign Consultant LBII in 1986 with
the financial assistance of the World Bank. The Consultant prepared the Project on the basis of
information received/discussions with CCC and different local organizations and details survey and
feasibility study report made by themselves. The cost of the project was financed by the Bangladesh
Govt.(Grant) and International Development Authority(IDA) as credit and UNDP for Technical
Assistance as Grant. Chittagong City Corporation is the development beneficiary and Implementing
Agency of this Project. The main objective of this project was to improve the environment of Chittagong
City. Both Bangladesh Government and IDA provided necessary financial allocation yearly as per annual
development program. CCC as an implementing agency implemented the project by its PDIU Technical
Staff satisfactorily.
Consultant Mott Macdonald Ltd. provided technical support to the PDIU of CCC. All the
technical and other staff of PDIU appointed by CCC were qualified and experienced. So it was possible
for the PDIU staff to implement the project works smoothly from the inception up to the completion
period. Besides the PDIU staff during the project period got necessary field training and technical
assistance from the Consultant Mott MacDonald Ltd. Consultant Mott MacDonald Ltd. provided their
technical assistance very satisfactorily.



- 44 -
J. BANK PERFORMANCE
The "Environmental Improvement Project, Chittagong" is financed by IDA under Urban
Development Project, Credit No-1930-BD. World Bank Officials and World Bank Mission used to visit
this project 2-3 times a year during the Project period (1988-89 FY to 1996-97 FY). The purpose of
their visit was to see the physical progress of works, quality of works, over all management activities of
PDIU technical staff, follow up actions of yearly program and also advise the executing agency(CCC) to
follow the procurement as per World Bank guideline and to submit the claims timely for reimbursement
of money. If any defect/problem of the project was identified during the visit of the World Bank
Mission, they used to give necessary suggestions/advice from time to time to rectify/solve the same
through their aide-memoir report on visiting Bangladesh. The World Bank officials also gave necessary
approval/consent very promptly for any unscheduled matter considering the necessity/urgency of the
Project works. A number of Workshops/Seminar on Sanitation Program/Sanitation Unit was held at
Ctg. with assistance of the World Bank officials. Sometimes, they used to give advise to the PDIU staff
for necessary training for increasing the efficiency of knowledge/field experience. Following their
advise PDfU staff of CCC also got necessary training accordingly. The over all Bank performance was
highly satisfactory.
K. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Rehabilitation of canal (khals): The nature of all the original canals were narrow with zigzags
and sharp bends. Besides, almost all the canals had some or no depth as they were already filled up by
sand/earth/suspended garbage. For these, the city used to suffer flooding, overflowing the canals in
adjacent areas during rainy season every year. Rehabilitation works of canals includes dipping and
widening by excavation earth, retaining walls on both sides of canals in many parts of all the canals,
raising the height of existing side walls of the canals, silt traps, new Culverts/Bridges, protection walls,
etc. As such, after rehabilitation of all the canals: Chaktai khal, Chaktai Diversion khals, Hizra khals,
Mirza khals, Mirza Noa connector Ichals, Jamal khan khals, Lalmia Chara, etc., the water flowing
capacity of all the khals had increased and thus flooding and inundation of canals in city areas have now
greatly reduced. With the rehabilitation of the canals the rate of development work at low lying areas in
many parts of the city has increased rapidly.  Living standard of city dwellers has improved.
Environment of the city is now better than before. Loss of people lives and property during flooding in
the monsoon period have reduced.
Procurement of Garbage Trucks: Before the procurement of 49 garbage trucks under the project,
CCC had to manage collection and disposal of garbages by only 8-10 hired trucks. With these few
number of trucks it was possible to carry only 50-70 tonnes of garbages daily from some parts of the city.
But the city produces about 250 tonnes of garbages per day. For this reason, many parts of the city were
found with huge quantity of garbages spreading hither and thither causing serious unhygienic condition
for the city dwellers. But, now, the conservancy deptt. of CCC is quite able to keep the whole city clean.
Earlier CCC had to incurred a big amount of money for hiring trucks for little or insufficient services. A
big workshop building was set up with equipment and tools under the project for maintenance of vehicles.
Now CCC can operate and maintain the procured trucks with a little cost giving great services.
Bridges and Culvert: Eighteen bridges and one RCC box culvert (length 2.25 km size, 3.5m x
2.7m) underneath the main city road named Sk. Mujib Road were constructed under this project. Bridges
were set up on different canals and they now allow easy flow of water through the canals and provides
smooth traffic flow as well. Earlier, there was serious disruption of communication to those places for
want of bridges.



- 45 -
The purpose of Sk. Mujib Road (Culvert (2.25 kin) was to connect the Nasir khal and discharge
the flow in a short way to Karnafuli River. The total length of Nasir khal is about 5.5 km up to the
discharge point of Maheshkhali canal. It would take much time to carry all water coming from the
upstream during heavy down pour and rainy season. Besides the flow capacity of Nasir khal was
inadequate causing heavy flooding and inundation of water on both sides of the canal and surrounding
areas of Dewanhat, Patantoli, Agrabad C/A and Agrabad R/A. By connecting this culvert the length of
flow of Nasir khal has been shortened to 3.0 km. Now, it has become possible to carry all the water
through the culvert and discharge to Karnafuli River within short possible time. Earlier, the above
mentioned areas would go under water during heavy down pour and water logging would not remove
even for 5-7 days every time. People of those areas had to suffer a lot in monsoon period.
Dustbins: A total of 300 dustbin were set up at different points of the city. Earlier, only 50-60
dustbins were in the important places of the city. City dwellers had to use the drain and canals as dustbins.
They also had to through their household wastes, garbages in the roadside or anywhere around their
houses causing serious unhygienic situation. Now this worst situation has much improved. The
conservancy deptt. of CCC is now carrying all the wastes/garbages regularly from the selected point of
dustbin by trucks and dispose then in the tensing ground. Thus, the city is now found clean.
Sanitation: Earlier there was no community latrines in the city for the floating people. Under the
project 23 community latrines were set up and some private latrines were constructed. These are now in
operation and giving good result. But it requires more attention to have good mechanism for effective
operation and maintenance to achieve full benefit out of these latrines.
L. FUTURE OPERATION
Chittagong City Corporation (CCC) is the executing agency of project. Besides, CCC is mainly
responsible to keep the city clean. For this 49 garbage trucks, equipment and workshop tools, 5 tractors,
8 wagons, 3 sewage pump and generator were procured and for its maintenance one vehicle workshop
was also constructed. Besides 300 dustbins were constructed. For smooth drainage facilities the flow
capacity almost all the channels were increased by widening and depthing by excavating earth/sand and in
many portions side drainage walls were raised by 3'-4' high. Besides, 20 bridges/culverts (2.25 km) were
constructed to facilitate smooth flow of the channel and easy traffic movement. Twenty-three community
latrines were set up for the floating people. These are all in operation and working well.
CCC have already put their conservancy staff to respective points for its operation and
maintenance.
For Vehicles: CCC have prepared operation and maintenance schedule immediately after the
procurement of vehicles and they are now being followed accordingly and will also continue in future.
For Canals: CCC have arranged a separate fund in its annual financial budget to the expense for
regular desalting all the canals and silt traps to ensure smooth flow of the canals.
For Community Latrine: All the Latrines for their operation and maintenance have been given to
selected persons on lease system through tender (annually). CCC is monitoring its activities regularly.
This process will also continue in future.
Bridges/culverts: Engineering deptt. of CCC will maintain and repair all the bridges/culverts as a
routine work in future.



- 46 -
M. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
PDIU Staff of CCC were given necessary training on computer, engineering survey, field
supervision by UNDP. Besides, CCC Staff already attended a number of Workshops/ Seminars on
Sanitation Program. Healthy City Project, Procurement procedures, etc. From time to time Engg. and
procurement guides books were also provided by World Bank. The World Bank official and the World
Bank Mission during their visit at site had given advise to the PDIU staff about the management of
project activities and how to maintain the action plans for smooth running and timely completion of the
project. From the above, the PDTU staff of CCC have learned a lot about management and supervision of
project works. Besides PDIU staff during these 9 years project period learned a lot about engineering
knowledge and practical field work. Staff of CCC were not so much alert about the importance of
sanitation program. After having necessary training/assistance through Workshop/Seminars and advise of
the World Bank personnel staff of CCC have now realized and learned how to improve the environment.



- 47 -
HOUSING AND SETTLEMENTS DIRECTORATE
Introduction
By an agreement between People's Republic of Bangladesh and International Development
Association (IDA) dated July 29, 1988 the IDA provided loan for "URBAN DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT" (IDA CREIT NO. 1930 BD). The closing date of this Agreement was June 30, 1997.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the Urban Area development Project for Low Income Area at Kaiballyadham
Chittagong were:
(a)    To create a replicable mechanism to deliver affordable and livable shelter (plots) to the
urban low income population without subsidies;
(b)   to test housing loan arrangement to low income groups;
(c)   to demonstrate low cost latrine systems for low income groups in urban areas;
(d)   to develop 41.30 hectors of land into 4144 nos. residential and 31 small scale industrial
plots with provision for 97 market stall, 2 nos. schools and 1 nos. health clinic and other
infrastructure facilities.
Responsibilities
(i)  Sponsoring         Ministry of Housing and Public works
(ii)  Execution         Housing and Settlement Directorate
(iii) Design            Foreign       a)   Louis Burger International Inc.
b)   B.K.H.
Local         a)   Engineering Consultant and Assocs.
b)        SARMS Associates
c)            AQUA
(iv) Operation and Maintenance
a)  Management                            .  HSD
b)  Road, Drains, Markets and Street Lighting:  CCC
c)  Power distribution System             :  PDB
d)  Water Supply System                      CWASA
e)  Natural Gas System                    .  BGSL
f)  Health Clinic                         .  MOH
g)  School's                              .  MOE
(v) Technical Assistance during implementation:
Foreign            :    BKH
Local              :    AQUA
(vi) Financial Assistance:
Loan               :    IDA
Grant              .    UNDP



- 48 -
Standard Steps
1.    To develop serviced plots for low income beneficiaries at a price that is affordable and
without any subsidy;
2.    To Strengthen the Housing and Settlement Directorate (HSD) and improve capability of the
HSD to implement similar projects in future;
3.    To form comnimittees like steering, technical management, policy planning for monitoring,
evaluation, and solving the problems during the implementation;
4.     To develop new cost recovery system for easy access of land for the poor.
Statement /Evaluation of Objectives
About 41.3 hectors of land has been developed in Chittagong to provide nearly 4144 residential
plots and about 97 small scale commercial and 31 Industrial plots.
The site is located on the northwestern edge of Chittagong, adjacent to the main industrial area at
a distance of about 14 km. from the city center and .5 km. west of the Chittagong-Dhaka Highway (Trunk
Road).
The project includes the acquisition of land, preparation of the site, construction of road's
footpaths, storm-drains, street lighting, water, sanitation gas and also the provision of community
facilities such as schools, clinics, and an open space for mosque.
Achievement of Objectives
About 24,000 people with income between Tk.1400 and Tk.9000 per month will benefit from
improved housing, municipal services, improved health and environment, and access to employment
opportunities.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
1.    Land Acquisition: Out of 103 Acres of land 4.47 acres are harsh land. That land has not
yet achieved from the respective authority and affects the project a little.
2.    Development Works: Various components of the project have re-designed in accordance
with the satisfaction of concerned authority those who have taken over the installation for
future maintenance. As a result the cost of the development works.
3.    Change in PIU members: A frequent change of PIU members like Project Director,
Executive engineer, Sub divisional engineer and others affects the project. Always, new
comers differs with the others in different respect.
4.    Erosion Protection/Measures: As the land area is not plain at the time of rainy season, the
storm water comes over the land with the tremendous gravitational forces. It caused
erosion and scouring of the Project area. At this stage, it had protected by constructing
drains, embankments and palisiding works. The problem was not identified earlier and
the same work was not included either in the feasibility study or Staff Appraisal Report.



- 49 -
5.    Decision both of the GOB and IDA: To some extent, due to lack of co-ordination among
the GOB agencies and IDA's perception has affected the project.
Project Sustainability
The project consists of different component of works such as site preparation, roads, storm drains,
power distribution line, water supply, Gas supply, Dustbin, Health Clinic, School, Market and
commercial centers, etc. Most of the components will be handed over to the concerned authority such as
Chittagong City Corporation, Power Development Board, Bakhrabad Gas System Limited, Ministry of
Education, Ministry of Health, the rest of the components will remain under the Housing and Settlement
directorate. After completion of the project, HSD will bear the maintenance cost and will be allocated
through the ADP. As the Project cost are covering through the monthly installment in 20 years and will
maintain the concerned organization/ agencies; the project will be sustainable.
Bank Performance
The "Urban Area development and Shelter Project, Chittagong" is financed by IDA under Urban
Development Project, Credit No.1930-BD. The IDA official and world Bank Mission have visited/
inspected the project several times for ensuring the physical progress and to meet the PIUJ members for
exchanging of views regarding problem, if any. The Bank personnel and the mission members also meet
the concerned higher authority of the Govt. to exchange views and advise the authority for solving
different problems. Moreover, the Bank officials assist the PIU members in different ways as and when
necessary. To some extents IDA officials differ with the Govt. decisions and as a Borrower Govt. has to
abide by the IDA' s decision that seems embarrassing for the Govt. Moreover the bank has not maintained
her original committed amount. However, the overall Bank performance is satisfactory.
Borrower Performance
The "Development Credit Agreement" between GOB and IDA was signed on July 29, 1988.
Later when the PP was prepared with an amount of Tk.2467.41 lakh and submitted to competent authority
for approval. The PP was approved by ECNEC on 15.11.1988. the provision was Tk. 430 lakh for land
compensation, Tk. 434 lakh for building loan, Tk. 266.91 lakh for Technical Assistance, Tk. 105.89 lakh
for establishment and Tk. 1230.61 lakh for development works. The contribution of GOB was Tk. 597.42
lakh (US $ 1.93 Million) as grant, Tk. 434 lakh (US $ 1.2 M) from IDA as loan, Tk. 266.91lakh (US $ 86
M) from UNDP as Grant and Tk. 1169.08 lakh (US $ 3.77 M) from IDA as loan. At that time the US rate
was considered at the rate of Tk. 31/Dollar. Further, the PP has been revised and approved with an
amount of Tk. 2753.87 in the year 1994 in accordance with the necessities. Among which the Govt. has to
provide Tk. 785.82 lakh (US $ 2.06 M), the IDA has to provide Tk. 1026.15 lakh (US $ 2.7 M) to work,
the IDA has to provide Tk. 525.65 lakh (US $ 1.38 M) for building loan, the UNDP has to provide Tk.
416.25 lakh (US $ 1.1 M) for T.A. Here the conversion rate was US $=Tk. 38 up to June/94 and Tk. 39
from July/94 and onward.
HSD has claimed an amount of SDR 300,000 by a withdrawal application no. 1 on 09.04.89 and
that has disbursed on 31.07.91. Till to date IDA has disbursed an amount of Tk. 850.01 lakh
(US $ 2.07 M) against an amount of Tk. 1026.15 lakh. HSD is expecting to claim all the amount
specially to work within June/97 (which by now supposed to be finished). To some extents, HSD has
delayed to claim for re-imbursement for various reasons. However, the borrowers performance is
satisfactory.



- 50 -
Achievement of Outcome
There are 4144 nos. of residential, 97 nos. of commercial, 31 nos. of industrial and 10 nos. of
institutional plots have been developed with the provision of infrastructure and community facilities such
as schools and clinic. Among the 4144 nos. there are different graded plots and 3400 plots have been
allotted so far and the rests are on processing for allotment. About 24000 people will be benefited with
the improved housing, municipal services, improved health, and environment and access to employment
opportunities. The physical progress of the project is 92.94 percent up to March and the rest is expected to
be completed by June/97. (The project presently finished without the basic facilities of Water, Gas,
Sanitation and that's why lagged behind the actual probable dwellers.)
Future Operation
HSD will operate the project until handed over the various components of work to the concerned
authority. According to the PP HSD will operate the management, Chittagong City Corporation, will
operate the roads and drains, Markets and street lighting, Power Development Board (PDB) will operate
the power distribution system, WASA will operate the water supply system, Bakhrabad Gas System
Limited (BGSL) will operate the natural gas system, Ministry of Health (MOH) will operate the health
clinic and Ministry of Education (MOE) will operate the schools. In the mean time, all the
organization/agencies are requested to take over the respective / concerned installation.
Key Lesson Learned
1.   The Planning Principle for more intensive and economic land use.
2.   The principles and mechanisms for ensuring affordability and cost recovery.
3.   The project will assist in improving national capabilities in regard to the planning and
implementation of similar programmes in the future.
4.   The project will also serve to demonstrate government's willingness and ability to meet the
housing needs of the income group in the country.
5.   A pricing system for the pricing of plots has been devised, taking into account the different
sizes of plots, the different standards of in infrastructure sand servicing and also the
differences in locational advantages of the various plots.



- 51 -
LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
Introduction
By an agreement between People's Republic of Bangladesh and International Development
Association (IDA) dated July 29, 1988 the IDA provided loan for "URBAN DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT" (IDA CREIT NO. 1930 BD). The closing date of this Agreement was June 30, 1997.
Later, through negotiation, the IDA has agreed to transfer part of the unutilized fund equivalent to
US$ 5.07 million for the Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of road and other infrastructure damaged by
1997 Cyclone {Cyclone Damaged Roads Rehabilitation Project(CDRRP); Entire Coastal Areal under
LGED in and around Chittagong area and rural areas in South-East of Bangladesh and the above
agreement has accordingly been amended in the month of 28.12.1997. Its was stipulated that all the works
for the utilisation of the allocated fund shall have to be completed by June 30, 1998. Brisk activities were
necessary to start the execution process and it was possible to start the implementation from October,
1997. All the schemes taken up for execution have been successfully completed within 8 months, i.e.,
June 30, 1998.
Project Objectives
The recurrence of cyclone and flood in Bangladesh seriously damages the infrastructure affecting
the economy of the whole country. A precept is there for the improvement of post cyclone/flood situation
utilizing the available resources. Since the available resources are meager with respect to the inflicted
damages, the fixation of preference to derive the optimum benefit become necessary. The schemes for
the utilisation of this fund have been selected with this precept. While selecting the schemes the emphasis
has been given for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of maximum length of road network and other
infrastructure mainly in rural areas. The Bangladesh economy mainly being agro-based, the rehabilitation
of road network in rural areas will facilitate the quicker and easier transfer of the produces and will help
in even distribution of products. The main objectives of the Project were to:
(i)    establish improved road network, facilitate agricultural production and enhance rural
socio-economic activities through rehabilitation/reconstruction of rural infrastructures;
(ii)   create direct short term and long term employment opportunities for the rural poor
through rehabilitation/reconstruction of rural infrastructures;
(iii)   create indirect employment in agricultural and non-agricultural sector as a result of
development activities.
A total number of 227 schemes have been taken up for execution. Besides the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of about 141 km of roads and other infrastructure, viz., Bridge/Culverts, Ghat, Jetties have
also been rehabilitated and reconstructed.
Implementation Experience and Results
The implementation process started from October 1997. About 8 months time was available to
complete the implementation by June 1998. The pre-execution process, viz., selection of schemes,
formulation of policy regarding the type and size of contract packages, preparation of contract documents
comprising of:



- 52-
1)    Conditions of Contract
2)    Specifications and
3)    Bill of quantities etc.
required some time. In fact, October to May is the ideal working period in Bangladesh, hence it was
possible to implement the Project conveniently. The Project area covered 6 districts, viz., Chittagong,
Coxs Bazar, Feni, Noakhali, Laxmipur and Bhola. Total 227 Nos. Contract packages of contract amount
more than BDT 260 million had been taken up and the work were scattered over 49 Thanas. The concept
of smaller size of contract packages are for ensuring participation of more number of contractors and to
complete the works quicker which really worked. During selection of schemes the opinion of the District
and Thana level Engineers including the local people's representative had been given due consideration to
ensure participation of beneficiaries. The technical specifications had been prepared ensuring maximum
use of indigenous materials and withstanding ability against susceptibility towards cyclone and flood.
Consideration was also given to minimise low maintenance cost, quicker construction, re-use of materials
etc. Standard check list for ensuring the quality works was also developed suitable for the project.
Progress was monitored at regular intervals and any lacuna or deficiency quickly attended. There were
problems too on few occasions. Some of the schemes were in remote areas where transportation of
materials and equipment were very difficult. Attention for individual situations was necessary. Since
LGED doing has been similar development work in rural area for long time, the experience and skill of
the people in rural areas helped appreciably towards implementation of schemes.
The Project has been completed within the stipulated time and satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Future operations and Key Lessons Learned
Future Operation: The rehabilitation and reconstruction of rural infrastructure provide
both tangible and intangible benefit to the rural people and the national economy.
The more active participation of the people helps in identifying the appropriate type of schemes
and to derive optimum benefit. The technical specification should be compatible with the working
situation. Since Bangladesh is prone to frequent cyclone and flood, the reasonable withstand ability
against such natural calamities required to be taken into consideration. Motivation of people is more
important than the policing in maintaining the quality of workmanship. Immediate maintenance and
repair of damage inflicted due to such calamities are important to prevent more deterioration.
Regular observations and study towards improvement of adaptable specifications to restrain the
susceptibility of damage caused by such natural calamities need to be kept in consideration.



APPENDIX C
OPERATIONAL PLANS



53
CHITTAGONG CITY CORPORATION
CHITTAGONG
Memo No. 97/C.E/CCC                                        Date.26/11/98
Zahid H. Khan
Urban specialist
Energy & ifrastrcetre Team
The World Bank
3/A, Paribagh, Dhaka.
Sub: Maintenance of drainage network of Chtagong.
After completion of Sheikh Mujib road culvert the major component of
Environment Inprovement Project, Chittagong did not experience any flooding in
Agrabad area, which used to go under almost knee deep water (before the
construction of the culvert) on quite a number of occasions during rainy season.
However, a littleless than a metre deep deposit of silt was seen, during inspection,
in presence of a world Bank mission, which recently visited Chittagong.
Another component, ie construction of 14 nos. of silt trap at different key points
of vanous khals yielded satisfactory results, when they are cleaned regularly.
In fact if all the main & tertiary khals are desilted, as required, magnitude of
sufferings due to flooding caused by heavy showers would be reduced to a
mninmurn-
Keeping this in mend City Corporation allocated an amount of taka 10 (ten) crore
in 1997-'98, for annual maintenance of its infirastucture giving due emphasis on
removing the deposited silt from various khals to allow free flow of water. Major
desilting is done by preparing schemes & by engaging contractors. Emergency
desilting of vanous khals are done by engaging professional labourers under the
direct supervision of elected ward commissioners. Also labourers of conservancy
department and Engineering department are engaged to remove silt on emergency
basis.
As an usual practice the early maintenance works are taken care of by the
respective executive engineers of the three divisions of the city corporation.
Incidentally, city corporation area is divided into three divisions headed by
executive engineers, who in their turn take suggestions and advice from the
superintending engineer & finally from the Chief Engineer.
(Rez   Amuhan)
Chief Engineer
Chittagong City Corporation.



54
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
LGED has it's own arrangements to maintain the rural roads throughout the year as
well as periodically. There are two categories of maintenance being operated by
LGED which are as follows:
i)    Regular maintenance (Routine and Periodic)
ii)    Rural Maintenance Programme (RMC & RMA)
Regular Maintenance Programme
The detail objectives and operational procedures are stated below:
The primary objectives relating to the maintenance of roads in general are follows:
*  To reduce rates of deterioration and thereby extend their durability in order to achieve the
design life that was originally envisaged.
*  To reduce operating costs and accident rates by maintaining good riding surface
*  To provide safe. regular punctual and convenient transport facilities for private and
commercial road-users.
Two other important objectives specifically related to the maintenance of Feeder Roads Type B.
Rural Roads, Bridges and Culverts by the LGED are as follows:
*  To develop the interest awareness and participation of local people and members of local
Government bodies by encouraging their involvement in the planing process and otlher stages
of implemnentation
*  To provide employment opportunities and alleviate the poverty of the poor people in rural
areas.
Maintenance Categories.
The two main commonly accepted maintenance categories are
*  Routine Maintenance
*  Periodic Maintenance
tJnder special circumstances two more categories may also be included, namely
* Emergency Maintenance
* Rehabilitation
Allocation of Funds
Allotment of fuinds must be made against the maintenance schemes approved by the appropriate
authority in the order of priorities from the list of district schemes. Every effort must be made to
maintain the important road network of the district within the allocated fund for each respective
district by HQ, and maintenance funds shall never distributed evenly among the Thanas of the
district. Routine maintenance will receive top priority in maintenance fund allocation over other
categories of maintenance.
All Feeder Roads Type B of each district, whether paved in full or partial length and including
the structures on these roads, shall be brought under the maintenance programme on a priority
basis. Alter- satisfying the maintenance requirements of all FRB's, if there is any outstanding
balance with the district fund, other types of roads may be included according to the priority
7c /adm/icr-1 do                        7



55
order fixed earlier. The Executive Engineer must certify that no FRB's in his district have been
left from the maintenance programme before attending to any rural Roads.
Routine maintenance of shoulders and side slopes must be given due attentioll by engaging
length men in the form of LCS on a regular basis, for which necessary fund allocation must be
provided.
To cover possible emergencies. a maximum amount of Tk. 2.0 (Two) lakh can be set aside in
each district, wlhich can only be used to mitigate instant suffering of the people due to damage
to the infrastructure by cyclones, flooding, tidal surge and similar natural disasters. also meet
emergency riequirements in the interest of public works.
RESPONSIBILITIES AT DIFEFRENT LEVEL
Activity              I             Responsibility
Maintenance Need Assessment through  Thana Engineer in consultation with local
Field Inspections and Condition Surveys    people, UP Chairman, Member.
Preliminary   selection of maintenance Thana  Engineer, based  on  specified
scheme proposals using inventories maps criteria.
plan books and other relevant documents.
Approval of preliminary scheme list at Thana    Development    Coordination
Thania level                           Commitee (TTDC).
Preparation  of  Quantities  and  Cost Thana Engineer
Estimates
Submissioni of Thana recommendations to  Thana Engineer.
district Executive Engineer with Quantities
and Cost Estimates.
Review of submitted schemes to determine  Executive   Engineer   and    District
priorities witlin District fund allocation maintenance Committee (DMC)
I imits
Submission   of  annual  maintenance Executive Engineer.
proposals for whole district to LGED HQ
Approvals issued after review of district LGED-HQ
proposals and further consultation with
XENs if necessary
Tenders  invited,  bids  received  and Executive Engineer
contracts awarded.
Implementationi of maintenance contracts Executive Engineer and Thana Engineer
with supervission and quality control.
Monitoring and reporting to LGED-HQ    Executive   Engineer   and    District
maintenance Committee (DMC)
Expenditure of allocated funds completed.  Executive Engineer and Thana Engineer
8c /aam,'icr-1 do                       8



56
LGED HQ 
District Annual    APPROVAL
Approvals
Maintenance
DMC          ~~~DISTRICT OFFICE      0-TENDERS, BIDS
=                                  | ~~~~~~~~~AND AWARDS
ESTIMATES
THANA OFFICE           X SUPERVISION.,
MONITORING AND
REPORTING.
tJP AND                                       COMPLETION BY
LOCAL                                           END OF MAY
FLOW CHART OF ANNUAL ESTIMATING
AND IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS
9c ladm/icr-1 do                      9



57
Rural Maintenance Programme
(Road Maintenance Component)
PROJECT OBJECTIVES:
RMP has defined two objectives in relation to the RMC
A)    "To assist in the development of sustainable, cost effective maintenance of essential
rural earthen feeder "B" roads through the employment of destitute women"
i)    Improve Road Maintenance
Improve the quality of rural earthen roads maintenance in a cost-effective and efficient
manner in apprx 3,600RMP unions;
ii)    Rationalize the Management Structure
introduce a management structure that increase the participation of the UPs, increase
the responsibility and accountability of both the UPs and RMAs and clarifies the
management, supervision, and monitoring roles, responsibilities and accountability
between all RMP parties concerned.
B)    " to transfer  the Road Maintenance (RMC) component from  CARE to the Local
Government Engineering Department (LGED) of the Ministry of Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLGRD&C)"
Responsibility of the Local Government Engineering Department (LGED)
The LGED will:
a.    develop and implement, in collaboration with CARE, a project transition plan for RMC,
for taking over the RMC operation and management from CARE in a gradual and
effective manner.
b.    establish a RMC Unit with a project Director and staff who will work closely with the RMC
Unit of CARE RMP for the purpose of eventual adoption of the Road Maintenance
Component of the project;
c.    gradually assume the responsibility for RMC in accordance with the transition plan for
RMC:
d.    issue, in consultation with CARE keeping conformity with the Agreement, Programme
guidelines and instructions to the participating Districts, Thanas, Unions and local Banks
regarding the purpose, operating procedures, rules and regulations regarding the RMC;
e.    monitor and review  the achievement of the road maintenance objectives and
performance and take necessary follow up actions on CARE/LGED reports and
discussions held with CARE staff and local officials;
f.    organize with the assistance of CARE local staff training, seminars and evaluations and
when necessary.
g.    ensure timely release and transfer of funds for CARE's operational costs ;and release
and transfer in one installment GOB's and CIDA's contribution to crew wages for Unions
where CARE is responsible for RMC from the special bank account of the LGED to
CARE as per the terms of the agreement between CARE and GOB;
I (Oc /adm/ncr-1 do                     1 0



58
h.    ensure timely transfer in one installment of the full yearGOB's and CIDA's contributions
to crew wages by demand drafts to the maintenance crew accounts with local banks for
unions taken over by LGED;
i.    ensure that agreed upon contributions by Union Parishads are deposited in the
maintenance crew accounts by the 30th day of September of each year;
assist CIDA's external evaluations/monitoring missions reviewing RMP progress as and
when required;
Responsibilities of the Executive Engineer (LGED):
The Executive Engineer will:
a.    have an overall coordination and  supervisory role within his/her jurisdiction with the
LGED Thana Engineers;
b.    encourage the unions to deposit the RMC contribution before the annual deadline;
c.    provide to the LGED project reports and information pertaining to unions performance in
RMC;
d.    assist in the resolution of any outstan,ding problem with respect to RMC activities;
e.    review in meeting held at the district level the overall achievements and status of the
RMC and initiate appropriate steps for removing bottlenecks, if any;
Responsibilities of the Thana Engineer (LGED):
The Thana Engineer will:
a.    ensuring that the participating Union Parishads timely deposit their contribution to crew
wages and provide the necessary equipment and logistic support to the RMAs in the
execution of their work;
b.    arranging Thana Review Sessions on RMC at least once a year;
c.    participating in the road assessment and selection process;
d.    assisting in the resolution of any outstanding problems with respect to RMC activities;
e.    providing technical support and guidance to the Union Parishad and the RMAs on road
maintenance;
f.    ensuring that Union Parishads submit monthly progress reports and that from  those
reports consolidated monthly monitoring report is submitted to the Executive Engineer
with copy to the TNO and CARE;
g.    monitoring Union Parishads performance and taking appropriate measures as and when
required;
h.    ensuring that the Union Parishads and Banks understand and comply to the programme
regulations.
I  c /adm/icr-1 do                      II



59
Flood Rehabilitation:
Repair & damage due to the 1998 flood has already been taken up under emergency
maintenance programme.
The countrywide flood damage assessment of infrastructures has been made by LGED
and are estimated to BDT 2840 million (US $ 60.48 million). On priority basis already 19
flood affected schemes so far been taken up under emergency maintenance
programme of LGED amounting Tk. 10 million (US$. 0.22 million). The repair &
damages of these infrastructures shall be taken phase-wise and on availability of fund
from the Donor and GOB
I 2c /adm/icr- I do                 1 2



- 60 -
OPERATIONAL PLAN FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1998-99
FOR COMPLETION OF ENGINEERING WORKS OF KUAD PROJECT
Si.    Name of Activities        Unit   Total   July    Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Jan.    Feb.   March   April  May              June               Remarks
No.                                      works   1998   1998   1998   1998   1998   1998   1999   1999   1999             1999   1998    1999
2                3       4        5      6       7       8       9      10      11      12       13      14       15       16                  17
1.    High-level Reservoir       %       0.43                                                   _                                                   Subject to allocation of fund
from the Government
2.    Pour Flush Latrine         %       0.31
____  ____________________   _____         -  do   -
3.    Composting Site Shelter    %       0.05                                                                     _                                              d
_  _  -~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                 do -
4.    Composting Site            %       0.07
Preparation                                                                                                                      *                       - do -
5.    Internal Road              %       0.12                                                                                                                   - do -
6.    G. I. Overhead Bank        %       0.03                                                                    *                                              -do -
7.    Internal Drain             %       0.05                                                                                                                   -do -
8.    Hand over of water line to                                                                                    -
Chittagong WASA                                                                                                                              Depends on WASA
9.     Hand over of Gas Line to                                                                                                                                  G
B.G.S.L. Chittagong                                         _      _ .                                                                       Depends on BGSL
10.   Hand Over of Health
Complex                                                                                                                                      Depends on Mi. of Health
11.   Hand over to Roads, etc.,
to CCC                                                                                                                             _ q       Depends on CCC
0  B f 0 r v :77777__~    =                              777   _   7777g77
1.    Allotment of Remaining     Plot                                                                                                               Delayed due to availability of
Residential Plots          194                                                                                                               some plots afterward.
2.    Allotment of Industrial    Plot                                                                                                               Subject to receiving of
Plots                     31                                                                                                                 approval for the procedure of
allotment from the HH & PW
_______________                                                            for which proposal was sent.
3.    Allotment of Market Shop   Shop
97                          ___                               .                                                               - do-
4.    Price Recovery                       On oin  rocess runnin since 1994
. ~          ~~~~~ I    lg  I   I1



- 61 -
MAP: EIBRD 19645



,   X  ,89                 902                          ~~         ~         ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~91  92  
\ %, 5& imS <- , ~~~~~~BANGLADESH
t4<.i4.6-Eaio.^A<\t '  va                             URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
X} ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT MUNICIPALITIES
26 svrs iJt L n i ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ^  X  <   X                         - ~~~~~~Prinnary Roads Under Construction26
<   \$ ffi  S                                             0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Othecr Roads
0   ! ,-  ;   \\.)  |   3  \ ' .j                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~District Headquarters  District Boundaries
.   ,1   <  ;+\ S      <                            iy  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Division Headquarters  --=Dvision Boundaries
25'                                                                   A'                          MOAKI~~<'           ','t             5
WX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A0 -U P.   ;             
i; X 7   %    7<  , Af    ,          Q/  /vC   n_  *  j                 X 5         >p-&<i-a /~~~~~~~~~~~~2
24'                                                                                                                                    2e u W SX
t X~~~~~~~I



