Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 1930 BD 
CMC Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CHITTAGONG MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
Dated July 29, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1930 BD
CMC Project Agreement
AGREEMENT, dated July 29, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and CHITTAGONG MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (CMC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to thirty four million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
rights (SDR 34,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that CMC agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and CMC, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to CMC on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS CMC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Page  2
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CMC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Parts A.2, B.2, C and F.3 of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and CMC shall otherwise agree, CMC shall carry out Parts 
A.2, B.2, C and F.3 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement and perform all obligations 
therein set forth to the extent that such obligations are applicable to CMC.
Section 2.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 2.03.  CMC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A.2, B.2, C 
and F.3 of the Project.
Section 2.04.  CMC shall duly perform all its obligations under the CMC 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CMC shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the CMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CMC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A.2, B.2, C and F.3 of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the CMC 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
CMC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A.2, B.2, C and F.3 of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by 
CMC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the CMC Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CMC
Section 3.01.  CMC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02.  CMC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and 
financial practices.
Section 3.03.  CMC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) CMC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
CMC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
Page  3
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02.  (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
CMC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify CMC of this event. 
Section 5.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For CMC:
Chittagong Municipal Corporation
Anderkilla,
Chittagong
Section 6.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
Page  4
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CMC, may be 
taken or executed by its Mayor or such other person or persons as its Mayor shall 
designate in writing, and CMC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IT WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shinji Asanuma
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
CHITTAGONG MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
By /s/ Akbar Ali Khan
Authorized Representative
