OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1930 BD
DMC Project Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
DBAKA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
Dated                             , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1930 BD
DHC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                2           , 1988, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASS CIA  ON (the Association) and DRAKA
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (DMC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the People's, Republic of Bangladesh (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty four million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 34,400,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that DMC agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower 4nd DMC, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided. for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to DMC on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS DMC., in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.. Unless, the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) DMC declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out


﻿-2-
Parts A.1, B.1, D and F.2 of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources rqquired for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and DMC shall
otherwise agree, DMC shall carry out Parts A.1, B.1, D and F.2 of
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement and
perform all obligations therein set forth to the extent that such
obligations are applicable to DMC.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. DMC shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement
and Parts A.1, B.1, D and F.2 of the Project.
Section 2.04. DMC shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the DMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, DMC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogat-
ing, assigning or waiving the DMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) D4C shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A.1, B.1, D and F.2 of the Project, the per-
formance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
DMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) DMC shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A.1, B.1, D and F.2 of the Project, the


﻿-3-
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by DMC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the DMC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of DHC
Section 3.01. DMC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
and engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. DMC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.
Section 3.03. DMC shall. take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) DMC shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) DMC shall:
(i) have its records, accounts and financial state-
ments (statements of income      and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after


﻿-4-
the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
~ ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of DMC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years aftdr the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If   the  Development ,Credit Agreement terminate!    in
accordance with its terms before the date specified "in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify DMHC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneoug Piodions
Setion 6.0. Ahy -notie or reqiest- required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement. between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made whe   t' "Will                  ha4dbir by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other ,address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving 'duch notice or making
such request. Thiaddiresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street,iN.W..
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For DMC:
Dhaka Municipal Corporation
Laxmibazar
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted t be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of DMC, may be taken or executed by its
Mayor or such other person or persons as its Mayor shall
designate in writing, and DMC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the pArttes hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to bd
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By5
Regional Vice President
Asia
DHAKA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
By/     Ah         0(
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


