OFFICIAL
DOGUMENTS
CREDIT MUMBER 1930 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Development Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF RANGLADESR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1930 BD
DEVELOPBkT CREDIT AGREENENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                     ,'1988,
between  PEOPLE'S REPUBLI    OF BANGLADESH   (the  Borrower)  and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association)..
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility. and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the $orrower,.intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a grant (UNDP Grant) in an amount of
$4,600,000 equivalent, to assist in financing *Part F of the
Project .on the. terms and. conditions set forth in an agreement
(the UNDP Project Document) to be entered into between the
Borrower and UNDP;
(C) Parts A.1,, S.1, D and F of the Project_will be carried
out by the Dhaka Municial Corporation (DMC) and Parts A.2,
B,2, C and F will be carried out by the Chittagong Municipal
Corporation (CMC), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance  the Borrower will make available to DMC and CMC
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and DMC, and 14 the Project Agreeinent of even date herewith
between the Association and CMC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the. General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "HSD" means the Housing and Settlements Directorate
under the Ministry of Works of the Borrower;
(b) "DMC   Act"  means   the  Dhaka  Municipal   Corp6iation
Ordinance, 1983 (Ordinance No. XV of 11983) of the Bdrrower, 'as
amended from time to time to the date of thid Agreement;
(c) "DMC" means the Dhaka Municipal Corporation established
under the DMC Act;
(d) "CMC Act" means the Chittagong Muiicipal Corporation
Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance, No XXXV of 1982) of the Borrower, as
amended from time to time to the date of this Agreement;
(e)  "CMC"  means   the  Chittagong   Municipal  Corporation
established under the CMC Act;
(f) "DMC Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and DMC of even,date.herewith, as the ,same may be
amended from time to time, and' such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the DMC Project Agreement;
(g) "CMC Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and CMC of even date herewith,, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the CMC Project Agreement;
(h) "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" mean the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and DMC and CMC, respec-
tively, pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and "Subsidiary
Loans" means the loans provided for in such Subsidiary Loan.
Agreements.
(i) "Bangladesh Bank". means the Central Bank of Bangladesh
established under Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. Order No. 127
of 1972);


﻿-3-
(j)  "Project Affected People" means those people who were
residing in the Dholai Khal drainage rehabilitation site as of
December 15, 1987;
(k)  "Special Account" moans the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (bW of this Agreement;'
(1) "Sub-borrower" means a person or an enterprise to which
the Borrower pxoposes to make or has. made a Hire-Purchase
Arrangement or a Build#ng .Loan-
(i) "Hirq-Purchase   Arrangement" means   a   loan  made  or
proposed to be made by the. Borrower out of .the proceeds of the
credit to a Sub-borrower for the pu'rchase of a plot under Part E
of the Project; such arrangements to stipulate that title to the
land will remain withthe Borrower until the. loan is fully paid;
and
(n) "Building.. Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made by the. Borrower out of the proceeds of the Credit to a
Sub-borrower for the construcfion oi a house or a business under
Part E of the Project.
.         ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
.rower, on the terms and cohditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to. thirt  foar 'million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR .349.400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) ih respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of-the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank


﻿-4-
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special. Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from   time  to  time at a rate to* be set by       the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2.of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a' date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)'to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by -the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set  as of June 30' in
each year shall be applied as of the next payment' date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the t6rritory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currendies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. "The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of' the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject-'t6 pragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments 'payabie ' ori each April 1 and October 1
commencing October 1, 1998, and ending .April 1, 2028. Each
installment to and includifg the - installment payable on April 1,
2008 shall be one perceit (1%) of* such principal amount, and
each installment' thereafter shalt be two percent (2%) of such
principal a6xnt.
(b) Whenever (i) the Borrower's'gross national product per
dapita, as determined by the Associationi, "shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending,- the Association may, 'subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Ekecative Directors of 'the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, todify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by reqiiiing the Borrower to repay
twice 'the amount of dach such installment not yet due until the
principal amount of the Credit 'shall have been repaid. If 'so
requested by the 'aorrowbr, the Association may "revise such
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amoAit 6f shL inst'aliments the payment of'interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdia   " and oitstanding *from time to time,
provid4d that,' in the'judgmnt of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant elemet obtained under the above-
mentioned repaym:ent modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to , paragraph (b) 'above, the' Assi'atidn determines that the
Borr6wer's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedUle 6f installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of th6 United States of America
is hereby specified for the purooses of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to*
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts .E and F.1 of
the Project through HSD with due diligence and efficiency and in.
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engi-
neering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the,
purpose.
(b) Without" any limitation or restriction upon any of. its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
DMC and CMC each to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the DMC Project Agreement and the CMC Project Agreement, respec-
tively, all the obligations of DMC and CMC therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services, and other. resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable DMC and CMC to perform ,such
obligations, and shall- not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Association and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts E and
F.1 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend part of the
proceeds of the Credit to DMC and CMC under separate subsidiary
loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and DMG.
and CMC, respectively, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association which shall include the following:
(i) interest on the Subsidiary Loans shall be payable
at a rate per annum equal to 12.5%; and
(ii) the Subsidiary Loans shall be repaid over a period
of twenty years including a grace period of five
years; and


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. (a) Subj.bt tb paragraphs (b) and (c) belpi,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit'in
semi-annual installments - pabl on each April I and October 1
commencing October 1, 1998, and ending April 1, 2028. Each
installment to and including the instaliment payable on April 1,
2008 shall be . one percent   (11.) of such principal amount, and
each 'insiallmet thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Whenever (iY he B6rrower' s grbss national product per'
capita, as determin*d by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent     tb the review and
aproval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by thiem of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by reqdiring the Borrower to repay
twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until- the
principai amount of the Credit *shal   have been repaid. If so
reqqested' by the 1or-w4, the Association may revise such
modification td inclxdd, i lieu of some or all of- the increase
in the amount of 'sucK' instillments, the payment of interest at an
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the' Credit withdrawn- and" outstanding from time to time,
provided that, tn the judg*ent of the Association, sch r"vision
shall n6t chaige 'the gra t 'thmeht obtained under "the- above-
mentioned repaym&nt modifiedtibn.     '         '
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph  (b) above, the Asiciation determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has- deteribrated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested-by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of instalments
as provided in paragraph (a) ab6ve
Section 2.08. The currency of-the United States of America
is hereby specified for -the ptrposes of-' Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 .to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts E and-F.1 of
the Project through HSD with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and' engi-
neering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for.the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
DMC and CMC each to perform in accordance with the provisions of
the DMC Project Agreement and the CMC Project Agreement, reppec-
tively, all the obligations of DMC and CMC therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable DMC and CMC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or .permit to be taken any action
which would pievent or interfere with.such performance.
(c) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Association and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree, the Borrowqr shall carry out Parts E and
F.1 of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend part of the
proceeds of the Credit to DMC and CMC under separate subsidiary
loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and DMC
and CMC, respectively, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association which shall include the following:
(i) interest on the Subsidiary Loans shall be payable
at a rate per annum equal to 12.5%; and
(ii) the Subsidiary Loans shall be repaid over a period
of twenty years including a grace period of five
years; and


﻿-7'-
(by the   Borrower  shall  exercise   its rights   under  the
Subsidiary toan Agrdemients in suach   nanner as "to protect the
interests of the Borrwer arid phe Aisaociation and to accomplish
the purposesiof the Credit, and' except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not asbign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan'Agreefnents or a' y provision thereof.
Section 3.-'3. Except as the Association shall' otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the
Project and to be 'fin need' out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the proiisi6ns' of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Bor rower And the Associatioft hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Secti6ns 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use, of goods    and services, plans and schedules,
records and rports, maintenance and land acquisition, respec-
tively), in   espect of Parts A.1,' B.1, ID and F.2 of the Project
shall be carried out by DMC and in respect of Parts A.2, B.2, C
and F.3 of the proJect shall'6e carried .6ut by CMC, pursuant to
the, respec.ive   Se. ion  2.03  of   the  DMC 'and   CMC  Project
Agreements..     ,
ARTICE IV'
,       Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maiAtained records and accounts adequate tp reflect in accordance
with soland accouniting practices the operatons,' resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts E and F of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borower responsible for carrying
out Parts E and   of the Project 'or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shallf:
(i)  have the records    an- accOunts referred    to in
paragraph (a) of this t   'efon including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;


﻿-8-
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request,
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
\) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the comple-
tion of the audit for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by the said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and interval controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.


﻿ÅRTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.41. Purstant to Seetion '6.02 (h) of the Genéral
Cond-.tions, the followiigg additional eyents are specified:
(a) DMC   r Cift' håll have 'filed to perf-rm any of their
respective obligations undet -the DM0 and CMC Pröjeét greements
or the DMC and CMC Subsidiary Loan Agreeinénts;
(b)  as a reu.t of 'events which have occurred af ter the
date of the Developnent Credit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have    arisen which   shall make it improbable
that DMC or CMC will be able to pérorm their respective obliga-
tions under the DMC or CrC oject Agreement or the DMC or CMC
Subsidiary Loan Ag Éémeit
(    ) he bC AIt oi 'C  Act -shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repaed     r  ai-ed so'äs to affeétY materially
and adversely the ab±ityof DMC ö, rdiC to perform any    of thelr
respective obligations under the DMC or CMC Project Agreement or
DM  or CMC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
)(d  thé Börrowerör any othéi authority havtg jurisdidtion
shall have taken any actiorn for the d-ssolution or disestablish-
ment of DMC or CMC or for the suspension of their operations; and
(e) (i) subject to subparagraph (ib)         this paragraph
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
'öf  he th NP >Grant made to the Borrower for the
financi  'f the Projéct shall have' been sus-
pençded, cancelled or. terminated in whole or in
part,' ursuat ~to the terms of the agreement
providing tRerefor;. and
M) sub-paragraph     (a) of' this paagraph shall not
apply   if  the   Borrower   establishes   to  the
satisfaction -f thé:Ässodation that:      (Ä) such
sujpéfsion, caricellation ör tetminatioå is not
caused.by th' falure öf 'the Botrower to perform
any of Its' öbligatlöns under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms and


﻿conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this AgreementA
Section 5.02,. Pursuant to Section 7,01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b)  the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01,. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12,01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
UNDP Project Document (other than, if applicable, the effective-
ness of this Agreement) have been fulfilled;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on
behalf of the Borrower, DMC and CMC; and
(c) the Project Proforma for the carrying out of the
Project have been approved by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12,02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the DMC Project Agreement and the CMC Project
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by DMC and CC,
respectively, and are legally binding upon DMC and CMC, respec-
tively, in accordance with their terms; and


﻿11 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreemits have been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower, DMC and CMC, respec-
tively, and -are legally binding upon -the Borrower, DMC and CMC,
respectively, in accordance with their terms. and
(c) that all necessary governmental action' required for
adopting and thereafter implementing the resettlement program
pursuant to the  provisionI of -paragraph 7 of -Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, has been taken.
Section 6.03. The date  ninety (90) days aft4r the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the Geferal Conditions.
Sectio" 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under para-
graph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreementa'id the provisions of
paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
hall termiii te vr.eon" the "Afe  20 "years after t:h'e date of this
Agreemot v'hichevershall     the earlier.
ARTICIEVI-
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, the Additional Secretary, or
any Joint Secretary, Deputy'Seretary 'or Assistant Secretary of
the External Resources Division of the Ministry of Planning of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Setton 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People'
Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, 'Bngladesh


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                        642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By/61               Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) CivIl works               27,820,000        95%-
(2) Equipment and              2,170,000        100%-of foreign
vehicles                                   expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 65%
of local ex-
penditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)  Building                  1,010,000        100%.of amounts
Loans                                      disbursed
(4) Unallocated                3,400,000
TOTAL               34,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the planning,
managing and financing of municipal services, land development
and basic shelter, and the strengthening of local and national
urban development agencies.
The.Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications .thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Storm Water Drainage
1.   Improvement of about 4 km of channels in the lower Dholai
Khal catchment area in Dhaka, including the construction of a
barrier and a pumping station at the outlet to prevent river
backflooding during the monsoon period.
2.   Construction of a storm water relief drain along Sheikh
Mujtb Road, and repair and improvement of about 29 km of small
channels in four main drainage catchment areas in central
Chittagong.
Part B:   Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
1.   Acquisition of vehicles and equipment and construction of
maintenance workshops for the collection and disposal of waste in
Dhaka and carrying out of a pilot program for the sale of solid
waste for private land-filling by landowners in Dhaka.
2.   Acquisition of vehicles and equipment and construction of
maintenance workshops for the collection and disposal of waste in
Chittagong.
Part C:   Sanitation
Rehabilitation of about 3,000 septic tanks and provision of
about 900 new septic tanks and 40 public toilets located in the
more  densely  developed   areas  and  in  unserviced  low-income
settlements of Chittagong.


﻿15 -
Part D:   Low-Income Area Improvements
Carrying out small-scale works in three pilot settlements in
old Dhaka, including: (i) construction of and improvements to
roads and foot paths, gas distribution, surface drainage,, solid
waste collection, water supply, low-cost sanitation and selected
land filling; and (ii) regularized 99-year leases.
Part E:   Area Development and Basic Shelter
1.   Development of about 4,150 serviced residential plots and
about 50 small-scale commercial and industrial plots, covering
about 41 hectares of land in Chittagong including community
facilities.
2.   Provision of Hire-Purchase Airangements or Building Loans to
Project beneficiaries.
Part F:   Institutional Development
Provision -of technical assistance, equ4pment and training
for the strengthening of:
1.   HSD
2.   DMC
3.   CMC
The Project is expected to be coapleted by June 30, 1996.


﻿-16 -
Procurement''
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D -hereof, gdods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
cosistent with those set forth in Sections' I and I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for works included in Part A of the Project shall be
prequalified as' described-in paragraph 2.10 of' the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described   in  Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured      in
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, domestic contractors may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with., and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs' 2.55 and 2.56 of "the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$1,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent of $18,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association;
provided, however, that civil works estimated to cost less than


﻿- 17 -
the equivalent of $20,000.per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $900,000, for improvements in*
low-income areas may be crried out through force account.
2.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed- the equi-
valent of $1,800,000, may be procured under conttacts awakded"on
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accor-
dance with procedures satisfactory to the Association; provided,
however, that goods estimated' to cost $25,000 or less per con-
tract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivaleht of
$700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, ih accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review 'by the Associatior of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to- the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1. of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for (i) civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; (ii) for
the first three contracts for civil works for Part E of the
Project estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $200,000;
and (iii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for


﻿- 18 -
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
Copies of   the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph-3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of. the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained  in accordance with    Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿-19-
SCHEDUI 4
Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Implemeting Agencies
to, maintain and operate a Project Implementatiod Unit in each of
the Implementing Agencies with staffing, powers, functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
2.   The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Implementing Agencies
to, carry out the Project in - accordance with an operational
action plan satisfactory to the Association. To that end,' the
Borrower shall, or shall cause the Implementing Agencies to:
i) pFepare and furnish to the Association annual 'updates of
said plan; (ii) carry out the progfams uider said plan after
taking into account the Association's comments thereon or changes
thereof; and (iii) keep the Association informed of the progress
of the implementation of said plan.
3.   The Borrower shall ensure that on-site and off-site sef-
vices, including water supply, electricity, gas,      edudational
and health facilities, are provided to the Project beneficiaries
by the respective authorities responsible for providing suich
services.
4.  'The Borrower shall ensure that a financial institution
satisfactory to the Association: (i) administers, on behalf of
the Borrower, Hire-Purchase Arrangements and Building Loans to
Project beneficiaries on terms satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) collects monthly loan payments through a branch office on
the site in Chittagong; and (iii) prepares quarterly-summaries-of
accounts of such Project beneficiaries and submits said summaries
to the Borrower within 30 days of the end of each quarter.
5.   The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, any Hire-Purchase Arrangement or Building Loan
will be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by
written agreement with the Sub-borrower or by others appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association, including the following terms and
conditions:
(a) interest on Hire-Purchase Arrangements and Building
Loans shall be payable at a rate of at least thirteen percent
(13%) per annum on the original amount of the loan;


﻿- 20 -
(b) down payments on plots shall be at least 10% of the
plot price;
(W) Hire-purchase Arrangements,and Building Loans shall be
repaid over a period not to exceed,twenty five years; and
(d) Hire-Purchase Arrangements.4nd Building Loans shall be
in an amount not to exceed the equivalent of $8,000 each.
6. ..The. Borrower 'shall establish and fill or cause to be.
established and filled and thereafter maintained until completion
of the. Proj.ect, the positions of (i) a chief financial officer
each in. DMC and CMC, and (ii) a financial management officer in
the Local Goyernment Division of the Ministry of Local Govern-
ment, Rural Development.land Cooperatives..
7.   The Borrower shall take all action necessary.on its part,
and shall ensure that DMC shall take all such measures, as shall
be .necessary to ensure that the resettlement of, the Project
Affected gepple, including provision of housing, schools, drains,,
water supply, sanitation facilities, access roads or pathways to
the new site, is carried out in accordance with a resettlement
program satisfactory to the Association.
8. .In order to assist the Borrower, in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower - shall employ or cause to be employed consultants
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory.to the
Association. Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall-employ,.or .cause to be employed by October 15, 1988,.conpul-
tants to carry out the detailed design of the Dholat Khal drain-
age rehabilitation under Part A.1 of the Project and the. Sheik
Mujib road culvert under Part A.2 of the Project.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Implementing Agencies
to, maintain and operate a Project Implementation Unit in each-of
the Implementing Agencies with staffing, powers, functions and
responsibilities satisfactdry to' the-Association.
2.   The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Implementing Agencies
to, carry out the Project in accordance with' an operational
action -plan satisfactory to the Association. To that end, the
Borrower shall, or shall cause the Implementing 'Agencies to:
(i) prepare and furnish to the Association annual updates of
said plan; (ii) carry out the programs under said plah after
taking into account the Assaciatioh's comments thereon or changes
thereof; and (iii) keep the Association informed of the progress
of the implementation of 'said plan.
3.   The Borrower shall ensure that on-site and of f-site ser-
vices, including water supply, electricity, gas, -educational
and health facilities, :are provided to the Project ben6ficiaries
by the 'respective authorities responsible for providing such
services.
4.  The Borrower shall ensure that 'a financial institution
satisfactory to the Association: (i) adiinisters, on -behalf of
the Borrower, Hire-Purchase Arrangements and Building Loans to
Project beneficiaries on terms satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) c&llects monthly loan payments through a branch offict on
the site in' Chittagong; and (iii) prepares quarterly summaries of
acd6unts of such Project beneficiarie' and submits said-summaries
to the Borrower within 30 days of the end of each quarter.
5.   The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, any Hire-Purchase Arrangement or Building Loan
will be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by
written agreement with the Sub-borrower or by others appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Association, including the following terms and
conditions:
(a) interest on Hire-Purchase Arrangements and Building
Loans shall be payable at a rate of at least thirteen percent
(13%) per annum on the original amount of the loan;


﻿- 20 -
(b) down payments on plots shall be at least 10% of the
plot price;
(c)  Hire-Purchase Arrangements and Building Loans shall be
repaid over a.period not.to exceed twenty five years; and
(d) Hire-Purchase Arrangements and Building Loans. shall be
in an amount not to exceed the equivalent of $8,000 each.
6.   The Borrower. shall establish and fill or cause to be
established and filled and thereafter maintained until completion
of the Project, the positions of (i) a chief financial officer
each in DMC and CMC, and (ii). a financial management officer, in
the Local Government Division of the Ministry of Local Govern-
ment, Rural Development and Cooperatives.
7.   The Borrower shall take all action necessary on its part,
and shall ensure that DMC shall take all such measures, as shall
be necessary to ensure that the resettlement of the Project
Affected People, including.provision of housing, schools, drains-,
water supply, sanitation facilities, access roads or pathways to
the new site, is carried out in accordance with a resettlement
program satisfactory to the Association.
8.   In order to.assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower .shall employ or cause to be employed consultants
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Without limitation to the foregoing, the. Borrower
shall :employ or cause to be employed by October 15, 1988, consul-
tants to carry out the detailed design of the Dholai Khal drain-
age rehabilitation under. Part A.1 of the Project and. the Sheik
Mujib road culvert under Part A.2 of the Project.


﻿SCHEDULE 5
Special Account-
1    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedue 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services. required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from   time  to time to    the ·· eligible  Catego¼xies  in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c)  the  term  "Authorized  Allocation" means    4n  amount
equivalent to SDR 1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account  and  deposited  in  the   Special  Account  pursuant -to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
2. Except as the Association' shall otherwise .agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made -exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the-provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been-duly opened, withdrawxle of
the Authorized Allocation and ,subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis .of a- request c. requests by the Borrower
for -a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such tntervals s the
Association shall specify. On the -basis of such - requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and depooit
into the Special Account such amounto as shall be. required 'to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the


﻿22 -
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All   such .deposits  shall be   withdrawn by   the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4,   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this -Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall. reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made. for eligible expen-
ditures. -
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into- the Special Account shall be
made by'the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made directly by
-the Borrower from the Credit Account in accord-
ance with the provisions of .paragraph .(a), of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
* (:ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories for the Project,
minus  the- amount   of  any  outstanding  special
commitment   entered  into   by   the  Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures
as -the Association shall specify by notice to the -Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have 'been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit. in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures,


﻿-23
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association for crediting to the Credit Account)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


