RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                Report No. P - 7 6 7
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND (EGAT)
FOR THE FIRST EGAT POWER PROJECT
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
December 29, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND (EGxTr)
WITH THE GUURANT!E OF THE KINGDOM OF TH17TLAND
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in various currencies equivalent to $46.5 million to h;e EDect< :ctr
Generating Authority of Thailand, to be guaranteed by the Kingdom of
Thailand.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Bank has made four loans to the Ylanhee E1ectricitr Authority
(YEA) for power development in Thailand. These projects have been carried
out satisfactorily. In May 1969, YEA was merged with the Northeast Electric-
ity Authority and the Lignite Authority to form the Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand (EGAT). EGAT, which has assumed all the obligations
of YEA under the loans mentioned above, would be the borrower of the proposed
loan.
3.        Negotiations were held in Washington from December 8 to 12. The
Government delegation was headed by H.E. Sunthorn Hongladarom, the   h&ai
Ambassador in Washington, and EGAT was represented by 1Ir. Kasame Chatika-
vanij, General Manager of EGAT.
4.        The proposed loan would be the twenty-first loan in Thailand and
would increase the total amount lent to $358.4 million net of cancellations.
The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Thailand as of
November 30, 1969:



-2-
Loan                                                      Amount (US $ mi l-ini)
No.    Year      Borrower               Purpose           Bank   Undisbursed
Thirteen loans fully disbursed:                     164.9
394 TH  1964  Kingdom of Thailand  I4eklong Irrigation      22.0       7..7
455 TH  1966  Kingdom of Thailand   National Highways       36.0      11.6
471 TH  1966  Kingdom of Thailand  Vocational Education      6.o       4.3
Yanhee Electricity
489 TH  1967    Authority          Power                     5.0       C.
514 TH  1967 Kingdom of Thailand. Sirikit Dam Irrigation    26.0      7? 2
535 TH  1968  Kingdom of Thailand. National Highways        29.0      1<7
626 TH  1969 Kingdom of Thailand. National Highways         23.0      23.0
Total (net of cancellations)                             311.9
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                                      CLL5
Total now outstanding                                    251.4
Amount sold                      59.4 v/
of which has been repaid       12.6                     456.8
Total now held by Bank                                   204.6
Total undisbursed.                                                  77.0
'/ Of which $41 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.
5.        No IDA credits have been made to Thailand.   IFC holds shares whi-ch
,eost about $193,000 in the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand and in
L969 made a loan of $18 million and.an equity investment of $4.1 million in
the Siam Cement group of companies.
6.        Disbursement of Loan No. 471 TH (Vocational Education Protect) has
been delayed. by slowness in procurement procedures, including difficu ties in
obtaining replacements of damaged equipment.   Construction of the Sirikit
(Phasom) Dam project(Loan No. 514 TH) has been somewhat delayed. as a result of
-mnfavorable geological conditions at the dam site and.the need to redesign
some features of the project.  Otherwise, the implementation of Bank-financed
projects is progressing satisfactorily.
7.        A project to expand Klong Toi Port in Bangkok requiring a loan of
about $12.5 million is expected. to be ready for the Executive Directors, con-
sideration before the end of FY1970. Consideration of a second loan for the
Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand (IFCT) has been postponed.
because IFCT recently obtained a second loan from the Asian Development
Bank which will cover its foreign exchange needs until about Junc.1971
Preparation of a project to improve and expand the fac lities of 1Caseisart
University has been delayed pending agreement on the composition of the proposc:2
project.



-3-
PAET II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.        Borrower:        Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand (EGAT)
Guarantor:       Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:          In various currencies equivalent to
US$46.5 million.
Purpose:         To finance the foreign exchange cost of equ-p-
ment and supplies for the installation of a
third, unit (310 Mw) at the South Banakok
Thermal Station and two ]25 iIw units and
related civil works at the Sirikit Zam;
the construction of about 250 ian of double
circuit 230 kv transmission line; and.
engineering services.
Amortization:    In 20 years including a five-year period
of grace through semi-annual installments
beginning February 15, 1975 and ending
February 15, 1990.
Interest:        7% per annum.
Commitment Charge: 3/4 of 1% per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.        An appraisal report entitled the "First Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand. Power Project" (PU20a) dated. December 29, 1969 on
the proposed project is attached.
10.       With the formation of EGAT in May 1969 the responsibility for
bulk power generation and transmission throughout Thailand. was brought
under a sinlgle authority. This should lead to greater operating efficiency
and consequently some reduction in costs.  Like the former YEA, EGAT is
a public authority with a Board. of Directors appointed.by the Government.
The senior management of YEA has continued as the management of EGAT and
is competent.
11.       Load growth in Thailand. continues to be impressive.  Since 1961
the average annual rate of growth has been over 27% with increases of about



30% in recent years. Past market forecasts have consistently been low with
tiie result that YEA, which generated. over 90% of total energy requirements
in Thailand. up to the time of the establishment of EGAT, has had a difficult
problem in bringing in new capacity fast enough to keep abreast of load growth.
Nonetheless, market demand has been satisfactorily met since l961l
12.       In view of the rapid increase in power demand it has been difficult
to forecast future power requirements and projections of future growth must be
treated with reservation. However, market growth after 1969 is expected to
begin to decrease and the average annual growth rate for the period 1969-197G
Is estimated to be about 18%. EGAT's present generating capacity is about
900 Mw. In order to meet system demand between now and. 1976 EGAT e.pects to
add about 1500 Mw to the system bringing total system capacity to about 2400 NwX.
Total construction costs of this investment would.amount to about $471 millioll.
13.       The Project forms part of EGAT's ccnstructiorn progefam for the period
1969-1976, and consists of the installation of a third unit (310 m4w) at the
South Bangkok Thermal Station with the necessary auxiliary equipment and con-
trols; a power plant at the Sirikit dam consisting of two 125 Mw hydraulic tur-
bine generator units, a switching station with associated controls and related
civil works; a 230 Kv transmission line of about 250 kmn fr6m the sirikit dam
to Nakorn Sawan; and engineering services. The total cost of the Project Is
about $92.4 million.   The estimated total foreign exchange cost is `53-7 rl21lliofl.
The proposed Bank loan of th6.5 million would finance these foreign exchange
costs, other than interest during construction, or about )12i of total project
costs.   The local currency costs are estimated to total $33.7 million equivalent.
DuTring the construction of the project and thereafter, EGAT !Till be required
to meet on average 30S of investment costs from internal cash generation.
The balance of funds required for E3'AT's 1969-1970 construction program Will
be met from a cocabination of loans from the C-overnrient, the proposed 'oan and
other borrowings.
1-4.      The third unit at the South Bangkok Station is expected to be in
service by the end. of 1973 and the two units at Sirikit dam in late 1974. The
additional capacity is required to meet the expected demand for power at that timec
At the present level of power rates, the estinated intornal financial rate of re-
turu for tha South Bangkok unit is approximately 17' and fcr the Sirikit ui;its 9
15.       Civil works at the Sirikit dam and the construction of the trans-
nission line will be carried out by contract; EGAT will be responsible for
6quipment installation, assisted by consultants and suppliers repr-esentatives.
All contracts have been or will be awarded. after international competitive biddingn
Contracts for the supply of electrical and mechanical equipment and for the
tunnel liners at Sirikit dam totalling about $5 million were apprmved for award
in November 1969 under the Bank's normal procurement policies.  This procedure
was agreed with the Bank to enable EGAT to maintain its ccxistruction schedule.
Nt' payments have been made by EGAT in respect to these contracts. Disburserments
from the proposed loan would be made for the actual foreign exchange costs of
the civil wories contract at Sirikit dam, the transmission line construcetion
contract and the c.i.f. #Oosts of eqripiment and Supl-  imporEed by EGATo  In



-5-
respect of one contract for the supply of conductor it has been agreed
that a maximum of 15- preference would be allowed for local suppliers
but disbursement out of the loan, should the contract be awarded to a
local supplier, would be made against the foreign exchange costs of
imported materials used in manufacturing the co'nductor. The balance of the
goods are not produced in Thailand.
16.         Although audited accounts for YEA wJere available at the time
of appraisal, the audit of RGAT's consolidated accounts has not yet been
completed.  However, based on EGAT's provisional opening balance sheet,
EGAT's financial situation is sound. As of May 1, 1969, equity amounted
to 45% of total capitalization and is not expected to go below 40% during
the period to 1976. The Government has exempted EGAT from the payment
of income tax for each of the years 1970 through 1976 and income taxes
previously deferred have been converted into a 15-year loan. EGAT's rate
of return on net fixed assets in operation is expected to rise from 7.72,
in 1969 to about 13% in 1976.  For purposes of debt control it was agreed
with EGAT that it would not incur debt exceeding $20 million in any fiscal
year, nor incur at any time debt maturing within five years exceeding in
the aggregate $5 million,without the prior agreement of the Bank. Debt
service will be covered between 1.3 and 1.7 times between 1970 and 1976.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRTJMENTS ATO ATYHORITY
17.         The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Electricity
Generating Authority of Thailand, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Kingdom of Thailand and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided
for in Article 3, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text
of a Resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
18.         The draft Loan Agreement and draft Guarantee Agreement follow
the general pattern of recent agreements for power projects.
PART V - THE M0NTONY
19.         A report on the "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Thailand" (EAP-la) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
February 12, 1969.
20.         The Thai economy has grown at the satisfactory rate of 8% per
annum during the five years 1965-1969 1/. Over the past five years,
agricultural output has been expanding by 3.5% on average, whereas industry,
construction and mining, taken together, achieved an annual growth rate
of 11.9%. The service sectors, as a group, grew at an average rate of
9.3%. Savings, originating largely in the private sector, went up by
1/ Data relating to 1969 are preliminary. All years are fiscal years ending
September 30th.



-6-
13.3% annually, bringing the savings rate to nearly 24p of G'IP
in 1969. The growth of exchange earnings was 9.8' a year, reflecting
the expansion of agricultural exports and, since late 1965, the large
service earnings from the U.S. military.  Together with increasing capital
inflows from abroad, earnings from these sources permitted Thailand to
finance a doubling of investment between 1964 and 1969 (the ratio of
investment to GDP reached more than 27l` in 1969) as well as to build up
exchange reserves from US$610 million to over US$900 million, equivalent
to eight monthst current payments and more than three times the amount of
public external debt outstanding at the end of 1969.
21.         Despite this favorable growth record, there are a number of
matters to which the Government has not in the recent past paid sufficient
attention. The Government has failed so far to produce workable plans
for regional development, particularly in the North-East, Thailand's
poorest region, where roughly one-third of the population lives. Attention
also needs to be given to increasing agricultural production, particularly
for the export market. Thailand's population growth rate estimated at
3.3% a year is among the highest in Asia, but no official family planning
program has been adopted. On the fiscal side, the Government budget
deficit has risen rapidly in recent years, reaching one-fourth of total
expenditures in 1969. Domestic borrowing (mainly from the banking system)
has become an increasingly important source of deficit financing. So
far this has not resulted in excessive price rises. However, continuing
extensive recourse to bank credit would almost certainly lead to mounting
inflationary pressure or, alternatively a highly restrictive monetary
policy which would put the burden of adjustment on the private sector.
The Government is considering new revenue measures and will shortly
receive I1H assistance in tax administration and reforms;   it has also begun
to give greater emphasis to regional planning.
22.         The need for attention to these matters is becoming increas-
ingly urgent as it seems likely that economic activity will slow down
somewhat after the boom of the recent past; investment and savings are
expected to expand more slowly, export earnings to increase less rapidly
and the resource gap is likely to widen. With growing competition the
marketing of a number of Thailand's most important export commodities is
expected to become more difficult in future.    Moreover, US military ex-
penditures in Thailand, which within three years rose to almost one-fourth
of total exchange earnings covering a large part of the fast-increasing
trade deficit, began to decline in 1969.   Expectations arc that these ex-
penditures will drop to less than one-tenth of exchan"e earnings in 1971l
Thus, despite an estimated slowdown in import growth, the deficit on goods
and services must be expected to grow further.
23.         On the assumption that the political situation remains stable,
private capital inflows are likely to cover a sizable portion of the
projected deficits.   3xchange reserves, wihich at their present level of
over US$900 million afford a comfortable margin of safety, will be



- 7 -
drawn upon to help close the gap. However, in view of the uncertainties
in Thailand's export prospects and the need to carry out a substantial
investment program, Thailand, after several years in which it has required
relatively little development aid, will need to borrow substantially in
the future.
24.         Existing public external debt is small (US$281.2 million) and
taking into account borrowings of the amount required, service on total
external public debt is projected to reach only about 7% of exchange
earnings in 1975. Service on private external debt is estimated at about
the same amount. Thailand may thus be regarded as credit weorthy for
substantial additional external borrowing.
PART VI - CO PLIAMCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEIIENT
25.         I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the
requirements of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - R 3  0J TDATION
26.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. iMcNamara
President
Attachment                                      By:  J. Burke Knapp
Wlashington, D. C.
December 29, 1969



