FLE COPY.
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No.P-1486-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
AND A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROJECT
November 12, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Equivalents
1 Egyptian Pound     =   2.56 US Dollars
1 US Dollar              LE 0.435
1 LE = 100 Piasters  =   1,000 Miliemes
Fiscal Year
3ame as Calendar Year



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT kAN7D RECOMDIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
AND A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF
EGYPT FOR AN AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL
IMPORTS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit of $35 million and a proposed loan of $35 million to the Arab
Republic of Egypt, to help finance the foreign exchange costs of a project
for imports needed to help increase utilization of productive capacity in the
agricultural and industrial sectors and to improve the efficiency of operations
at the Port of Alexandria. The credit would be on standard IDA terms. The
loan would have a term of 25 years including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 8 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic report, "The Egyptian Economy in 1974:     Its Position
and Prospects", dated September 25, 1974 has been distributed to the Executive
Directors. A country data sheet is attached as Annex 1.
Background
3.        The background to, and recent developments in, Egypt's economy have
been elaborated in the economic report. The following paragraphs contain a
summary of the prospects for the future and the position with respect to ex-
ternal assistance and creditworthiness.
Prospects for 1974/75
4.         Egypt appears to be on the threslihold of a new economic era.   Pros-
pects for peace have improved, offering the possibility that resources can
gradually be transferred from military to civilian uses. The "October Paper",
presented bv President Sadat to the people and the Parliament, and approved in
a national referendum, provides a new statement of general principles to guide
Egyptian development; it envisages consolidation of state-owned sectors,
liberalization of the private sector, incentives to private foreign invest-
ment and expanded economic cooperation with Arab countries. Egypt has recently
initiated a number of significant steps in furtherance of these principles.
These would lead to a significant restructuring of the economy. Meanwhile, a
whole new set of external relationships has evolved between Egypt, its oil-
producing Arab and other neighbors, Western countries, and Japan, resulting
in increased official and private capital inflows. These developments are
mutually interdependent and self-reinforcing. Thus, the increased availabil-
ity of capital will permit greater liberalization of the economy, which, in
turn, should improve the investment climate.
5.        Recently, the Govermnent launched an Interim Program for development
in the period July 1974 - December 1975., the purpose of which is to have a



-2-
meaningful development strategy consistent with available resources and, to
commence restructuring the economy on a peace-time development-oriented basis.
It is to be followed by a development plan for 1976-80, work on which was
begun in November, 1974. A sum of hE 520 million ($1,331 million equivalent)
has been budgeted for public sector investment expenditures in 1974. This is
about 20 percent above the 1973 budget level of LE 430 million (actual public
expenditure was hE 380 million).   In 1975 the Government foresees a further
20 percent increase (hE 100 million) over the 1974 target, based on greater
availabilities of foreign project aid, including expenditures on the Suez-
Mediterranean pipeline and Suez Canal. It excludes, however, investments in
joint ventures which are estimated to reach about bE 50 million annually begin-
ning in 1975. The share of private investment, which, in recent years, has
averaged about 10 percent of total investments, is expected to increase to
over 20 percent by 1980.
6.        In large part, Egypt's investment programs for 1974 and 1975 are
li-ited to completing or continuing carry-over projects. They emphasize
fertilizers, cement, tourism (private sector) and petroleum and pipeline
develop:nent -- all high priority projects aimed at increasing production or
saving or generating foreign exchange earnings. In agriculture the priority
given to poultry and development of existing land rather than land reclamation
also seem appropriate to the country's needs. Programs to renovate or improve
the infrastructure (e.g. railways, telecommunications) are clearly urgent
because it had been run-down during years of under-investment. Thus, Egypt's
investment program for the years 1974 and 1975 appears to be in accordance
wqith economic priorities.
7.        The resumption of full-capacity growth and the beginning of recon-
struction is expected to increase import requirements substantially in the
sthort-run, resulting in sizeable deficits in external trade and services (over
$1 billion each in 1974 and 1975). Although part of these deficits can be ex-
pected to be financed through grants from other Arab countries, large amounts
of additional assistance will be required on concessionary terms.
External Assistance
S.        Egypt obtained substantial amounts of external aid until the mid-
1960's. Thereafter, new commitments of Western assistance practically ceased.
The gross inflow of medium- and long-term capital fell by nearly 50 percent
immediately after the 1967 war. Although aid levels gradually rose again,
net inflows averaged only $9 million annually in medium- and long-term capital
over the five-year period FY 1968-1972; amortization payments were $5 million
greater than disbursements in 1973. As indicated in the economic report, the
total capital inflow required to covei the current account deficits for 1974
and 1975 is projected at $1,450 million.   Assuminig net disbursements of $990
million on loans committed as of mid-1974, private capital inflows of $120
million, IMF financing of $48 million and a reduction of $600 million in the
use of short-term foreign financing (cf. para 89 of Economic Report), the
financing gap for the two-year period was projected at $900 million. Also
given the higlh absorptive capacity of the economy, and the low level of invest-
ments over the past decade, the need for external aid commitments in the suc-
ceeding years is expected to remain at a high level.



-3-
Substantial Arab aid was received in 1973 and is continuing.    A
$300 million grant from Saudi Arabia was reported in August 1974, and large
aid offers have been made by Kuwait and other Gulf States. Commitments of
non-Arab foreign aid have also been considerable. Five countries have either
firmly committed new loans to be used over periods varying from two to five
years (Iran $850 million, Germany $225 million, Denmark $9 million) or have
announced their intention to do so (United States $250 million, Japan $100
million). In addition, the Government has concluded two Euro-dollar loans
totalling $180 million and is currently negotiating a third ($100 million).
Also, in August 1974 the DMF extended a credit (first tranche) of $48 million.
A large share of new loans is for unidentified projects and will disburse only
gradually over the next few years. Of the agreements noted above, "program
aid" will be provided by Iran ($100 million), Japan ($50 million), Germany
($25 million) and the USA ($80 million proposed). However, some of this "pro-
gram aid" is intended for import of food items. At the same time, the need
for additional foreign exchange for recurrent imports necessary to increase
utilization of capacity in the industrial and agricultural sectors alone is
estimated at over $570 million for the next two years.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
10.       Egypt's medium- and long-term debt outstanding and disbursed at end
1973 stood at about $2.14 billion. In addition, the country owed close to
$500 million in short-term financial credits, and about $580 million in bila-
teral clearing balances. The USSR was Egypt's principal creditor, followed
in importance by the United States, Kuwait, Italy, Czechoslovakia and Germany.
IBRD/IDA debt comprised less than 1 percent of the total. Of the reported
outstanding medium- and long-term debt at end 1973, about 37 percent was due
to be repaid within two vears, 46 percent within three years, and 53 percent
within four vears. Service payments on these debts were estimated to reach
$530 million in 1974, equivalent to about 30 percent of the country's gross
foreign exchange earnings.
11.       The expected large current deficits in 1974 and 1975 together with
heavy debt service requirements, call for very substantial amounts of foreign
capital in the short-run. As the existing pipeline of projects suitable for
foreign financing is still relatively narrow, much of this assistance will
have to be made available in the form of program aid. The commitments already
made by foreign donors should go a long way to meet these short-term require-
ments, and to enable increased utilization of capacity in the economy.
12.       In the medium- and longer-run, the outlook for Egypt's balance of
payments is much more promising. Foreign exchange earnings are expected to
grow from a level of some $1.7 billion in 1974 to about $4.7 billion in 1980,
because of the reopening of the Suez Canal, operation of the Sumed pipeline,
rapidly rising exports of petroleum and petroleum products, a doubling of
manufactured exports, increased workers' remittances, and the development of
tourism. Imports of goods and services, on the other hand, can be expected
to grow at a slower pace after the drastic increase of import levels over the
next 3 to 4 years. As a result, the deficit on external trade and services
is projected to progressively narrow in the latter part of the decade, signi-
ficantly reducing the required net inflow of foreign capital. Following the
rapid increase in export earnings, and the slower growth and consolidation of
external debt, the debt service ratio could fall to some 15 percent by 1980.



-4-
13.       To attain these objectives, which would permit Egypt to establish
a sound financial position by the end of the decade with rapid growth, it is
necessary that Egypt not only mobilize substantial amounts of capital, prefer-
ablv on concessionary terms from abroad, but also pursue appropriate debt man-
agement, fiscal and aid-utilization policies. In addition, domestic savings
will have to be increased through restraint in public and private consumption.
The Government's determination to continue the liberalization of the economic
system should facilitate this process. In particular, steps will have to be
taken to: rationalize the price system (including the relation to world market
prices), stimulate Egypt's latent private sector, encourage foreign investment,
and improve the management of overall Government economic operations, including
the reduction of bureaucratic bottlenecks and decentralization of decisions to
the firm or enterprise level. The Government has already taken a number of
measures in this direction during this year. Discussions are being conducted
with the DIF towards achieving specific targets with respect to debt management.
Furthermore, active discussions are under way between the Bank Group and Egypt
on these and other matters relating to economic policy. In the course of these
discussions, the Government has indicated that it expects to initiate effective
additional measures on many of the matters referred to above, and to seek as-
sistance, ihere necessary, from the Bank Group in formulating such measures.
Such assistance has already been initiated in the field of debt management,
and an agricultural sector review mission is planned for January 1975. The
next economic mission, scheduled for the Spring of 1975 will carry out a de-
tailed review of the measures taken by the Government.
14.       Assuming that (i) these policy initiatives continue and are imple-
mented, and (ii) the substantial aid offers committed or received can be ab-
sorbed rapidly, Egypt should, while facing a short-term liquidity problem,
experience little difficulty in meeting its external payments obligations in
the medium and long-term. While carrying a heavy short-term debt burden
(1974/76), Egypt can be considered creditworthy for a blend of Bank and IDA
lending in view of its promising medium- and long-term prospects.
The Case for Non-Project Assistance
15.       The 1973 war and the coincident rise in prices for food and other
commodities left the managers of the balance of payments and debt policy very
limited degrees of freedom. In effect, they were forced to increase short-
term borrowing (thereby worsening the debt profile) and reduce imports of
intermediate goods and industrial raw materials. In 1974, despite growing
commitments of official foreign aid and increased interest from private in-
vestors, sufficient foreign exchange is still not available to permit simul-
taneously: (a) the maintenance of heavy food imports (b) a higher level of
imports for investment and reconstruction, (c) a reduction in debt arrears,
and (d) imports of raw materials and other inputs for a fuller utilization
of existing capacity. The problem has been intensified because of the con-
tinued rise in international prices of many necessary imports.
16.       Underutilization of industrial capacity increased sharply in 1974
(to about 35 percent of available capacity), even though official allocations
of foreign exchange for meeting "maintenance" imports have been unchanged.



-5-
There are a number of reasons for the growing underutilization of capacity.
The unit cost of imported materials increased by 50 percent in 1973 and had
further increased by 60 percent by early 1974. Prices of individual key
agricultural and industrial commodities have, in some cases, more than doubled
in the past year. As a result, a unit of foreign exchange buys a much smaller
quantity of material, thus rendering it difficult for industrial enterprises
to maintain even a workable level of inventories. The problem has been exa-
cerbated by changes in the relations with the trade agreement countries. In
a number of cases, Egypt's clearing area trading partners in Eastern Europe
have suspended delivery of goods which can be sold at high prices for con-
vertible currency (e.g., caprolactum, soda-ash, wood pulp, polythene, coking
coal and jute sacking). This has caused dislocation in production, and has
increased the need for convertible currency to finance the import of such
inputs from other sources. At the same time, as part of its policy of liber-
alization, the Government is attempting to shift trade to the convertible
currency countries. Thus the majority of exports is committed to the clearing
area but the majority of the imports are being purchased from convertible
currency countries. Industrial requirements have been pinched in the process.
17.       These circumstances are exacerbated by the long intervals between
placement of orders and actual delivery of the goods; delays occur in adminis-
trative processing, and in shipping. Also, since the foreign exchange alloca--
tions are only released on a quarterly basis to individual enterprises, pur-
chases must be made in the spot market, often at unfavorable times, and long-
term commitments on more favorable terms cannot be made in the absence of a
guarantee of funds.
18.       Notwithstanding the new aid commitments (see para. 9) and the greatly
improved outlook, the Egyptian economy is still in a short-tenm crisis situa-
tion. The irmmediate cause is the shortage of free foreign exchange for financ-
ing imports necessary to maintain productive capacity, increase production,
and thus substitute for other imports and increase exports in the key produc-
tion sectors, agriculture and industry. The budgetary allocation for 1974
and that proposed for 1975 for imports of raw materials, intermediate goods
and spare parts for the six subsectors of public industry and for agriculture
(covering animal feed, agricultural chemicals and spare parts but excluding
fertilizer) are given below together with the additional foreign exchange
required for such imports to meet the production targets:
------------ $ Million Equivalent --
Budget          Additional Foreign Exchange Needs
1974     1975             1974            1975
Industry             412      570              191            218
Agriculture          164      230               70             92
576      800              261             310



-6-
Thus the additional amount required for 1974 and 1975 is some $571 million.
Program aid committed or proposed so far totals $255 million (cf. para. 9),
on all of which disbursements would begin during 1975. As already indicated,
only a portion of this aid is for recurrent imports for these sectors. Thus,
for the next two-year period a considerable need still exists for such assist-
ance if these two key sectors are to achieve full capacity utilization. The
provision of additional foreign exchange for importing additional raw materials,
components and other relevant inputs will almost immediately help to relieve
the pressures on the Egyptian economy and will thus contribute toward more
favorable longer run development prospects. In this context, improved util-
ization of existing capacity and production potential is an important element
in the restoration and strengthening of Egyptian creditworthiness.
19.       Increasing the rate of capacity utilization has received the highest
priority in Government policy. The Government has taken a number of steps
toward this end, and others are being contemplated. A comprehensive review
by the Government of unutilized capacities in the industrial sector was an
important initial step. Second, the institution of the parallel exchange
market in September 1973 (with a rate of exchange 50 percent above the offi-
cial rate), was a measure to encourage exports to convertible currency areas
and to use the proceeds for the recurrent imports and spares required. A
third, and to some extent related development, has been a change in the
approach to the private sector. The environment of uncertainty regarding
nationalization and sequestration in which the private sector was working
has been largely replaced by a recognition of the sector's potential role in
Egyptian development. The parallel market (see Annex IV) has helped to provide
existing private sector enterprises with imported inputs from convertible
currency areas for utilizing existing capacity, as well as for expansion.
The new more liberal private foreign investment law has also encouraged opti-
mism among private businessmen. Fourth, there is general acceptance that the
structure of administrative regulations and procedures needs to be simplified
and overhauled. Specific proposals have been drawn up particularly in the
field of foreign trade. These proposals are in the direction of less central-
ization and a greater (though limited) freedom for public sector enterprise
management. These measures, both implemented and contemplated, are positive
steps and as an indication of the intentions of the Government, deserve to
be supported. In connection with the proposed credit and loan, specific
measures have been agreed upon, that are in line with the Government's ob-
jectives for further widening the scope of the parallel market and stream-
lining of administrative procedures.
20.       The conditions under which program lending may be appropriate, as
stated in paragraph 56 of my memorandum R-70-234 of December 15, 1970, to
the Executive Directors, are:
"(a) A borrowing country presents a development program with sup-
porting economic and financial policies, which is judged to
provide a satisfactory basis for external assistance in a
given amount;



-7-
(b) The needed transfer of resources from external lenders in
support of the development program cannot be achieved ef-
fectively and expeditiously by the financing of investment
projects, including justifiable local currency expenditures
in connection therewith."
The above criteria are met by the current situation in Egypt.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
21.       The proposed credit and loan would be the Bank Group's eleventlh
lending operation in Egypt. It would bring Bank and IDA commitments to $258.6
million. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of
September 30, 1974, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       In view of the overall demands upon IDA monies, and Egypt's substan-
tially increased need for external assistance to help finance an expanded
development program, its size and absorptive capacity, and the several economic
policy measures taken and contemplated by the Government to restore credit-
worthiness, it is proposed to increase significantly the scope of Bank Group
lending from this fiscal year. In this fiscal year available IDA funds will
be blended with Bank funds, and it is expected that projects for Bank Group
lending totalling up to about $200 million will be submitted to the Executive
Directors for consideration. In the context of the expanding economic activity
and the proposed 1976-80 development plan, the Government has requested advice
by the Bank Group in policy matters. Thus technical assistance, both project
and non-project, will also increase significantly; it is seen as an essential
ingredient of Bank Group participation at this crucial juncture in Egypt's
economic development. The dialogue begun recently (see para. 13) will enable
continuous monitoring of progress in implementation of policies for the restora--
tion of creditworthiness and realization of the potential for rapid grotwth.
The Bank Group lending program would support the Government's economic programs
and policies, whiich, as indicated earlier (para. 6) are in accordance with
economic criteria. Progress by Egypt in pursuing sound economic policies
will, it is hoped, enable the Bank Group to continue a blend of IDA/Bank
lending in a program of the magnitude envisaged in this fiscal year. At this
level, Bank Group financing would represent a small portion, less than 10 per-
cent, of Egypt's overall capital inflow requirements (see para 8). It might
be noted that the Government also attaches particular importance to the
catalytic role of Bank Group financing and is actively exploring the interest
of other donors in the complementary financing of projects. The Bank Group's
share of the total external debt outstanding and disbursed was less than I
percent at end 1973. For the future, the Bank/IDA share of total external
debt outstanding and disbursed is estimated to reach about 10 percent in 1978;
the Bank's share in 1978 would be about 7 percent of external debt outstanding
and disbursed. It is estimated that in 1978, debt service payments due tc the
Bank Group, including that on Bank loans will represent about 1 percent of
service payments due on all of Egypt's external debt.
23.       A project covering the second phase of the railway rehabilitation
program and one for the expansion of cement production have been appraised.



-8-
Both projects are likely to be ready for consideration by the Executive Direc-
tors later in FY75. A project to provide certain facilities required in con-
nection with the rehabilitation of the Suez Canal will be presented for
consideration at the same time as the proposed credit and loan for imports.
A telecommunications improvement project has just been appraised and a second
DFC project with the Bank of Alexandria is now being appraised. One of these
projects is expected to be ready for consideration by the end of FY75 and
the other in early FY76. Other projects under preparation for FY76, include
textile rehabilitation, production and export marketing of fruits and vegeta-
bles, and the Port of Alexandria improvement.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE AND INDUSTRY SECTORS
A. Agriculture
Role in the Economy
24.       Agriculture, the most dominant sector in the economy contributes
about 30 percent to GDP and provides about 50 percent of the total employment
and, including processed agricultural products, over 50 percent of total ex-
port revenues. The agricultural growth rate during the decade prior to the
1967 hostilities averaged about 3-3.5 percent per annum; it has since decreased
to 2-2.5 percent. Agricultural output is dominated by field crops, which are
estimated at more than half of the total value of the agricultural production
consisting mainly of cotton, maize, wheat, rice and berseem. These crops cover
some three quarters of the total arable land. Fruits and vegetables account
for less than one fifth of the total output, while animal production accounts
for about one quarter.
25.       Yields for cotton and rice are high by international standards, but
others are relatively low. Cotton and processed cotton products are the major
export items and they provide over 65 percent of national export revenue; the
next largest export crop, rice, accounts for 6-7 percent of export earnings.
The completion of the Aswan Dam permitted emphasis on expansion and led to a
massive new reclamation program totalling some 910,000 feddans (945,000 acres)
of land by early 1973. The most significant achievement in the sixties has
been the increase in yield of maize by the introduction of perennial irrigation
in Upper Egypt and early planting.
26.       Despite the increase in acreage, cotton production has stabilized
at about 1.4 million tons, but for a slight decline in 1973, mainly caused by
bad weather during harvest.  One of the most significant developments in out-
put performance is the increase achieved in wheat yields in recent years mainly
throug,h the introductioni of a new variety. The total wheat output grew from
1.50 millioni tons in 1970 to 1.84 million tons in 1973. The area planted with
new varieties in 1974 is estimated at 685,000 feddans, as compared with 67,000
feddans (out of the total wheat area of 1 ,248,000 feddans) in 1973. The 1974
wheat output is expected to reach over 2.1 million tons. Introduction of a
new variety of sugarcane has also been initiated. Expansion in the livestock



-9-
subsector is limited by the shortage of feed, despite the rapidly growing de-
mand for meat. The Government's poultry production drive has not been as
successful as planned, although the 1974 output is expected to be more than
double the 1971-72 output of 12 million chickens.
Agricultural Trade
27.       The basic picture of Egypt's agricultural trade, dominated by cotton
exports and wheat imports, has not changed, except that a sharp increase in
international prices of certain commodities resulted in an adverse change in
Egypt's agricultural trade balance in value terms. The cotton export/wheat
import dominance of the agricultural trade structure is unlikely to change for
some time because of the growing population and the attendant increases in
food consumption. Since the 1970-71 season, annual cotton exports stabilized
at about 0.95 million tons, except for a slight decline in the 1971-72 season.
However, during the 1973-74 season, cotton export revenues doubled over the
previous season to some $800 million, solely due to price increases. On the
import side, the average annual wheat and flour import since 1972 has been
about 2.8 million tons of wheat equivalent. However, because of increased
wheat prices between 1972 and 1973 the wheat import bill tripled to over $$500
million, and is expected to remain at this high level for 1974. Recently there
has been a noticeable change of direction in Egypt's trade, away from the
USSR and some East European countries, reflected in part in the increasing
cotton sales to convertible currency countries.
Agricultural Policies
28.       One important feature of the agriculture sector in Egypt over the
last decade, has been a high degree of central control. These controls were
designed to organize agriculture so as to satisfy the various, and sometimes
conflicting, demands placed on the sector, such as generation of foreign ex-
change revenue for the economy as a whole (including for financing industrial
growth) and provision of essential food items to consumers at low and stable
prices, while ensuring certain levels of agricultural income and employment.
Although policy measures adopted in the sixties continued, the Government has
not prepared a comprehensive plan for the development of agriculture since 196; .
29.       There are indications that the Government's willingness to reexamine
the basic philosophy which has for so long determined the role and pattern of
development of the agricultural sector. It is widely accepted that higlher
farmgate prices for food grains and cotton are needed, not only to increase
farm production incentives, but also in the interests of social equity. In
1974 farm prices for cotton, wheat, rice and sugarcane were increased by an
average of about 25 percent over the 1973 levels, which seem to be a reflection
of this belief. A growing emphasis is also being pplaced on decentralization
of public sector agricultural organizations, as well as on limiting the crea-
tion of state farms to areas where such farms have a clear advantage in terms
of size of investment and managerial efficiency.



- 10 -
30.       The Government is considering a two-stage agricultural policy at
this time: immediate measures and longer-term strategy. The immediate task
during the next two years, would be to identify those critical agricultural
input and investment needs which would yield increased production from existing
acreages of those commodities which would have the highest net foreign exchange
impact on the economy (either through export earnings or import substitution).
They could typically include increased application of inputs such as fertilizer,
animal feed, pesticide, or high yielding seeds for export or import substitution
crops, which have high output response. They could also include the provision
of spare parts and agricultural equipment. For the longer term, the Government
has not yet pronounced an explicit strategy to be followed, except that it
expects to maintain the current level of cotton exports, and, by increasing
productivity in cotton growing, to free some land for additional wheat produc-
tion to maintain a positive agricultural trade balance. The impact of alterna-
tive policies will be reviewed by an agricultural sector mission which the
Government has requested from the Bank Group and which will begin work in
early 1975. The mission will also identify needs for further technical
assistance to the sector including studies which could be financed under
future projects. It is hoped, that the mission's findings will be of help
to the Government in preparing its 1976-80 development Plan and the long-
term strategy for the sector.
31.       Determining the optimum level of agricultural inputs is a difficult
agronomic and economic question, particularly in a controlled economy. How-
ever, due to the severe foreign exchange constraints which Egypt faces, the
general level of inputs used in agricultural production is considered to be
substantially below the optimum level.
32.       As a consequence, a considerable increase in agricultural output could
be realized in the short-term, with attractive economic returns, through a
higher level of imported inputs particularly in the following areas:
(a) fertilizer needed for high-yielding varieties of wheat and
maize;
(b) spare parts for tractors, irrigation pumps and implements,
to allow adequate preparation and cultivation of irrigated
land;
(c) plant protection chemicals which would allow cotton spraying
to be increased from three to four times a year and thus
reduce losses of this valuable crop; and
(d) increased feedgrain imports to improve the nutritional
balance of animal feed and increase meat production.
33.       The estimated additional needs for foreign exchange for the next
eighteen month period for the agriculture sector--other than for fertilizer
(estimated at $53 million), for which financing is not included under the
proposed project--are as follows:



$ Million
Animal Feed                  98
Agricultural Chemicals       15
Spare Parts                  31
Total                       144
If this amount of foreign exchange were to become available, the estimated
increase in the value of production would be over $400 million.
B. Industry
34.       Structure.   The industrial sector accounts for over 20 percent of
the GDP, 35 percent of total exports, and about 13 percent of total employment.
Thus, it ranks second after agriculture in its importance in the economy.
However, industry is expected to play the leading role in Egypt's future de-
velopment because of serious limitations on the expansion of the arable land.
As a result of the nationalization of industry in the early 1960s, most of the
large- and medium-scale enterprises are in the public sector. The public sec-
tor consists of approximately 200 enterprises, that account for 75 percent of
the value added in industry and for employment of over 500,000 workers. Of
these, 123 companies belonging to the Ministry of Industry cover the main
subsectors and are managed through six "General Organizations: food process-
ing; textiles; chemicals; engineering; building materials; and metallurgical.
Most of the public sector companies have over 500 workers and, indeed, average
4,100 workers per company. The private sector has about 450,000 employees
scattered over some 150,000 establishments, of which only 4,000 are considered
to be factory-type operations.
35.       The growth rate in the industrial sector in 1971-72 fell to 5.8
percent in current prices and to 2.9 percent in calendar 1973. In real
terms aggregate industrial output in calendar 1973 did not increase at all
and it seems likely that 1974 will also show no growth in real output. The
primary reason for this is the severe shortage of foreign exchange for import
of raw materials, intermediate goods, spare parts and necessary equipment
required to utilize existing productive capacity more fully. The details of
the needs by industry groups are discussed in Part IV. For 1974, utilization
of capacity in industry was estimated at some 65 percent. If the foreign ex-
change constraint is removed, it is estimated that output with the existing
industrial capacity and operating practices (viz. shifts) could be increased
by as much as 32 percent and permit close to full utilization. This implies
an increase in industrial output valued at nearly LE 600 million. The in-
creases in output could potentially be realized in 1975, within a short period.
36.       Exports.   In 1973, about 9 percent of industrial output (from both
the public and private sector) was exported; the target for 1974 is the same;
however with the foreign exchange presently available, this figure could drop



- 12 -
to 5 percent. It should also be pointed out that in 1973, 64 percent of manu-
factured exports went to East European countries under trade agreements (the
i"clearing" area) and hence did not produce freely-usable foreign exchange.
Now, however, the Government is shifting the direction of trade towards con-
vertible currencv areas, and a progressively increasing share of exports are
expected to be sold in convertible currency markets.
37.       Investment and Growth.   The 1973-77 investment plan for public sec-
tor manufacturing, prepared in 1972, set a target of investment of bE 1,520
million ($3,496 million) for the five years. Actual investments however fell
short of the target; in 1973, investment amounted to LE 70 million and are
budgeted at LE 78 million for 1974. The shortfall between expectations and
realization is mainly attributable to the lack of foreign exchange. As a
result, more restrictive criteria have had to be applied to determine prior-
ity investment. This has, in general, led to favoring the completion of on-
going projects, a postponement of new ones, and some neglect of maintenance
and replacement of equipment in the key industrial subsectors.
38.       The Problem of Capacity Underutilization.   The total amount and
distribution of underutilization among various subsectors of industry were
evaluated in two Government studies, one in July 1973 to guide budget alloca-
tions later in the year, and a second in February 1974 which was undertaken
because of a rapidly deteriorating position. The information in these re-
ports was supplemented with a detailed financial questionnaire from the Bank
Group, which was completed by about 30 public sector enterprises. These data
and visits by a Bank Group mission in May 1974 to these plants to determine
physical conditions, operating practices and results, confirm the conclusions
of the official studies.
39.       The Government reports were based on estimates of individual enter-
prises. Each enterprise reviewed its production for the last three years
(in physical terms) and the physical volume of imports consumed to achieve
that production. Coefficients of physical inputs per unit output were com-
puted in detail for each product produced or required. Based on the target
production plan for 1974, which was realistic in terms of available capaci-
ties, and costs of inputs at the time, the physical volume of imports was
then computed. At the same time, calculations were made as of January 1,
1974 of all goods in inventory or in transit and funds available for pur-
chase of inputs based on the August 1973 budget allocation. Availability
by source of funds, either clearing area or free currency, was also deter-
mined. These calculations resulted in estimates of the volume of imports
that could be provided from existing resources.
40.       Net import requirements are the difference between the levels re-
quired to meet the production targets, which the Ministry of Industry deter-
mines annually as a realistic maximum, and the amounts already provided under
the budget. The physical volume of imports was translated into value terms
by determining the import prices of goods in February 1974. Thus the total
foreign exchange required for import of raw materials and intermediate goods
was estimated at LE 238 million, to support the 1974 production target of



- 13 -
bE 1,813 million; this figure includes the private sector's target production
level of LE 475 million. The Foreign Exchange Budget (FEB) provides LE 161
million, leaving net import requirements of LE 77 million ($199 million equiv-
alent). The average import coefficient is 13 percent (i.e. LE 238 divided by
LE 1,813). On that basis the output value of the idle capacity is estimated
at LE 590 million ($1,510 million equivalent), or about 32 percent of output
capacity.   In sharp contrast to 1974, the July 1973 report estimated idle
capacity in that year as 14 percent.
41.       The distribution of potentially idle capacity in 1974 varied among
public industrial subsectors as shown below:
Target Production, Idle Capacity, and Imports
(1)            (2)             (3)             (4)
(Additional)
Industry                Target      Idle Capa-      Imports           (3)/(2)
Group                Production     city            Needed               (x)
---------------(LE million)-------------
Food Processing           453            133             13             10
Textiles                  440            102              9                9
Chemicals                 135             57             19             33
Engineering               134             65             13             20
Metallurgical             117             60             18             30
Building Materials         59             14              3             21
Miscellaneous               -               -             2               -
Total              1,338            431             77             13
42.       The measure of capacity output is based on past experience, the
condition of equipment, and current operating practice with regard to the
number of shifts worked, although these considerations normally would lead
to a conservative estimate of capacity. Taking account of the trend in
international prices of the imports required, and assuming some improvement
in industry performance, the need for foreign exchange in addition to that
provided through the FEB for such imports are expected to rise to LE 85 million
($218 million equivalent) in 1975.
43.       The worsening shortage of foreign exchange resulting from the tight
balance of payments position, exacerbated by price increases and the breakdown
in clearing area deliveries is the major reason for severe underutilization of
capacity in industry (cf paras 15 and 16). As a result, the levels of avail-
able inventories of needed imports have been declining below acceptable levels
at the plants. Some plants may have to close down temporarily within a few
months, or at least may have to close down key production lines, while work
in process in other areas accumulates. These effects are likely to be felt
throughout industry, but may become most severe in chemicals and metallurgy.
Other factors were seldom in evidence. In only a few instances are there



- 14 -
management deficiencies of a serious nature. Labor shortages (particularly of
skilled labor) are not regarded as an important constraint, and in no cases do
enterprises face a shortage of working capital.
Port of Alexandria
44.       The Port of Alexandria, at the Mediterranean end of Egypt's trans-
port corridor, has been the country's only port since 1967. The Port is well
connected by rail, road and inland waterways to all areas of economic activity
in Egypt and handles virtually all import and export cargo. Over the last
four years the volume of cargo has averaged about 12-13 million tons per year
of which about four million tons are petroleum products. Of the nine million
tons of dry cargo some 70 percent are imports and 30 percent exports. Between
three and four million tons are general cargo.
45.       Prior to the 1967 hostilities the service provided by the Port of
Alexandria was augmented by Port Said which handled about one million tons in
a peak year, and Port Suez which handled about four million tons in its peak
year. After 1967, these tonnages at Port Said and Port Suez had to be handled
through Alexandria and it is unlikely that this tonnage will revert for some
years until the facilities in the Suez Canal Zone's are sufficiently rehabi-
litated. In these circumstances, the continued efficient functioning of the
Port of Alexandria is essential to the economic well-being of the Egyptian
economy. The immediate needs of the Port were examined by a Bank Group mis-
sion which visited Egypt in June 1974 to appraise the Railways II Project.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
46.        The proposed credit and loan are based on the findings of a Bank
Group mission which was in Egypt in May 1974 to review the problem of capacity
utilization. Negotiations were held in Washington between September 25 and
October 1, 1974. Messrs. Hamid Habib, First Undersecretary, Ministry of
Industrv, Salah Tawfik, First Undersecretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Rafik
Sowelem, Undersecretary, Agency for Arab and International Economic Cooperation
and Younis Omar, Chairman, Port of Alexandria Authority represented the Borrower.
47.       Out of the proceeds of the proposed credit and loan totalling $70 mil-
lion, a major portion ($52 million) will be used for the import of raw materials,
intermediate goods and spares to support current production in industry ($33
million) and relevant inputs for agriculture ($19 million). A portion ($10
million) will also be utilized for financing specific equipment needed to
remove bottlenecks in key production processes. The proposed loan and credit
also contain a separate allocation ($4 million) for private sector industry
imports. Although the private sector has been reasonably well served by the
access to the parallel market for foreign exchange, the rapid growth of the
sector and the prospects for future expansion of exports require provision for
additional resources. Since the private sector is largely composed of smaller-
scale firms producing final goods, the allocation of the credit/loan funds



- 15 -
proposed is sufficient to provide support for expansion of activity in a
variety of industries. Agreement has been reached that eight sub-sectors
in the private sector of industry will be covered (Schedule 4, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
4R.       A portion of the proceeds ($3 million) is allocated to finance
urgently needed equipment and spare parts required to improve the efficiency
of operations of the Port of Alexandria, which, since 1967 has been Egypt's
only port, handling all import and export traffic. A technical assistance
component ($1 million) is also included to support sector studies including
the initiation of sector and enterprise planning for longer-term improvements
in industrial performance, systematic determination of priority needs and
alternative uses of resources so as to lead to longer-term improvements in
the structure of industry. With this combination, the immediate and most
pressing needs of industry and agriculture, and the Port of Alexandria can
he relieved and some inroads can be made in bringing about a fuller utiliza-
tion of existing capacity in all these fields and in long-term developments
in industry. The allocation of proceeds of the proposed credit and loan and
details of the categories of industry and agriculture covered by the credit/
loan, and for the Port of Alexandria Authority are summarized in the Credit/
Loan and Project Summary in Annex III.
49.       The allocation of the proposed credit and loan within the agricul-
tural and industrial sectors and the corresponding estimates of foreign ex-
change needs for the import requirements in the sectors are based on a fore-
cast of import needs over a period of 18 months, December, 1974, to May 31,
1976. It is estimated that the proceeds will cover some 12 percent of the
total needs for additional imports in these sectors, thus allowing for pro-
ductive use of some of the present idle capacity in these areas. It is hoped
that the Bank Group's involvement will encourage a channelling of additional
funds by other aid donors into the same field. Such a combined effort is
essential if Egypt is to be helped towards reaching full utilization of exist-
ing capacitv in agriculture and industry, which is indeed a critical ingredient
for the successful reconstruction of the Egyptian economy and the realization
of its considerable potential for economic growth.
50.       The proceeds of the credit and loan have been allocated in such a
way as to remove specific identified bottlenecks affecting the economy, while
at the same time addressing the global problem of uncovered import requirements
in the key sub-sectors. Thus, funds allocated for agriculture are expected to
cover 13 percent of Egypt's needs (other than fertilizer) over the next eighteen-
month period and are directed towards the import of three sub-categories of
goods in which the maximum productive returns can be achieved in the short run:
animal feed, agricultural chemicals and spare parts. Likewise, in the indus-
trial sector, six specific sub-sectors have been identified to which resources
are to be made available, both for importation of raw materials, intermediate
goods and spare parts and for specific items of balancing equipment for the
purpose of maintenance of capacity. The Government has agreed that any re-
distribution among sub-categories will be made only on the grounds of compelling
reasons and to inform the Bank and Association promptly of any such redistribution
and the reasons thereof (Section 2.02 and Schedule 1, draft Development Credit
Agreement and Supplemental Letter No. 1).



- 16 -
Technical Assistance
51.       A technical assistance component of $1 million is included for
studies on the initiation of sector planning for food processing; chemicals;
engineering; metallurgical; and building materials subsectors. The textiles
subsector is now being studied under terms of reference prepared in consulta-
tion with the Bank Group. The studies will help to determine the directions
for future development, the financial requirements, and the types of new and
rehabilitation investments that should be undertaken to realize the full po-
tential of each sub-sector. They will help towards linking short-term efforts
to longer-term investment requirements and policy directions. Some of the
studies could be carried out by Egyptian specialists and where necessary, the
services of foreign consultants will be utilized. The allocation of $1 mil-
lion is expected to be utilized for the services of experienced expatriate
consultants. The Government has agreed to forward terms of reference for
the studies to the Association for comment not later than March 31, 1975.
Administration of Credit and Loan
52.       The Ministry of Industry is expected to allocate the proceeds of
the credit and loan to the enterprises under its control in the public sector,
and the Industrial Control Board in the Ministry of Industry will be respons-
ible for the allocation to the private sector. The Ministry of Agriculture
will make the allocations of the three approved agricultural commodity groups
to the appropriate agencies under its control. The allocation of the proceeds,
and the items to be procured by the Port of Alexandria Authority have also
been agreed upon with the Government (Schedule 1, draft Development Credit
Agreement, and Supplemental Letter No. 3).
Parallel Market Mechanism for Channelling Credit/Loan
53.        In September 1973, the Government announced the creation of a paral-
lel foreign exchange market, where a premium of 50 percent for buying and 55
percent for selling free currencies is paid over the prevailing "official"
rate of $2.56 for LE 1 (see Annex IV). The parallel market replaced the
restricted system of multiple exchange rates, including a 50 percent premium
rate for some transactions, which existed since 1969 and were modified in
May 1972. The two primary objectives for its creation were to: (i) increase
the inflow of free foreign currency resources, particularly by tapping assets
held by Egyptians overseas, and by encouraging exports to free currency areas;
and (ii) make these resources available primarily to industry and selected
service sectors for increasing production, tourism and exports. Since the
creation of the parallel market, the availability of free foreign exchange
for recurrent needs of the private sector has substantially increased. While
the policy was designed to use parallel market resources primarily for meet-
ing import needs of the tourism industry and the private sector, since April,
1974, given the extreme shortage of foreign exchange funds for recurrent im-
ports for public sector industrial enterprises, $50 million have been provided
to them through the parallel market after a case-by-case review.



- 17 -
54.       Foreign exchange scarcity is the dominant constraint to Egypt's
growth, and an important step towards improving the process of allocation of
foreign exchange will be to further extend the parallel foreign exchange
market, as recommended by the IMF, i.e., to include virtually all transactions
with convertible currency countries, excepting exports of petroleum, cotton
and rice, and imports of certain basic "supply" (mainly food) items. This is
clearly a step towards rationalizing the exchange system. The Government has
undertaken a policy of expanding the scope of the parallel market and in par-
ticular, as far as the industrial sector is concerned, steps have already
been taken to channel parallel market funds for imports (see para 52). As a
further step towards this end, the Government has confirmed that procurement
of all imports financed under the proposed credit and loan will be transacted
at the applicable parallel market rate of exchange (Section 3.01(b)(ii), draft
Development Credit Agreement and Supplemental Letter No. 2). Procurement of
imports financed under the credit and loan at the parallel market rate will
help to ensure that the proceeds are allocated in agriculture and industry on
the basis of highest priority, and within industry to the most competitive
subsectors and to those with maximum potential for generating export earnings
or substitution of imports.
Financing of Recurrent Imports
55.       Foreign exchange for recurrent import needs is provided from three
main sources: (a) Foreign Exchange Budget (FEB) allocations, (b) a part of
the enterprise's retained export earnings made available for this purpose;
and (c) special allocations through the parallel market. Of these, the FEB
allocations are by far the most important source -- particularly for public
sector. The parallel market has been the main source for the private sector.
(A description of the process of allocation is given in Annex V.) Public
sector applications for imports are forwarded by enterprises through the
General Organizations for approval by the Ministry of Industry or Agriculture.
Industrial private sector applications are subject to approval by the Indus-
trial Control Board of the Ministry of Industry. The Port of Alexandria
operates like a General Organization, and receives its allocations from the
Ministry of Maritime Transport. In order to ensure that the capacity utiliza-
tion is increased, the Government has confirmed that the proceeds of the credit
and loan shall be in addition to, and not substitute for, other funds allocated
under the FEB for recurrent imports for agriculture, industry and the Port of
Alexandria for 1975 and 1976 (Supplemental Letter No. 2). The Government has
also agreed that it will forward statements of approved budgetary allocations
for such imports in each of these fiscal years, promptly upon completion of
necessary Governmental approval of the budget (Section 3.04 (a) (ii), draft
Development Credit Agreement and Supplemental Letter No. 2).
Import Procedures
56.       Determination Committees are the key organizational units in the
current import procedures and are attached to the respective General Organiza-
tions. Each Determination Committee is responsible for the import of a number



- 18 -
of commodities. The Committee decides on all import applications for the com-
modities under its jurisdiction. A separate Committee also makes recommenda-
tions concerning all recurrent imports by the private sector. Each Committee
is authorized to approve import applications within the overall foreign ex-
change allocations from the Ministries for various commodities. Their approval
of an application is treated as final for imports and is equivalent to the im-
port licenses granted in the past. Frequently, imports needs of several
enterprises are bulked together to obtain better prices. For free currency
imports, the Committee invites bids, on the basis of advertisements, from
foreign suppliers, and Government-owned trading companies and, after evalua-
tion of prices, delivery and quality selects the "best" bid. For the clearing
area imports, it requests bids through the trading companies. The offer ac-
cepted is transmitted to the recipient enterprise, trading company and the
banking system to enable them to proceed with the actual import.
57.       Under the Government's present regulations, all imports, private or
public sector, must be channeled through one of the ten Government-owned
trading companies. They perform a control function to cross-check that the
imports are effected at competitive terms. The system as it operates has two
major defects. First, the absence of clear and objective criteria for alloca-
tion leaves much scope for bargaining and arbitrariness. Secondly, enterprises
are subjected to much red tape and administrative delays in securing their ex-
change allocations. In order to ensure that the enterprises which require the
imports receive them as promptly as possible, the Government has confirmed that,
under the proposed loan and credit, procurement of items to be financed there-
in shall be procured by public sector enterprises and the Port of Alexandria
which shall invite bids, carry out the evaluation and make the final recommenda-
tion for award of contracts (Supplemental Letter No. 2). This would represent
a significant step towards simplifying procedures and decentralizing the
decision making processes to the enterprise level. For the private sector,
the present procedure will be continued.
Counterpart Funds
58.       It has been agreed (Section 4.02(a), draft Development Credit Agree-
ment) that on receipt of payment by the Association or the Bank in respect of
withdrawal requests (other than for technical assistance), the Central Bank
shall credit an equivalent amount of Egyptian pounds at the parallel market
rate of exchange to a counterpart fund designated "The Project Account". With-
drawals from this account will be made for development expenditures authorized
under the budgets for 1975 and 1976; it has also been agreed that the Central
Bank shall forward quarterly statements of deposits in, and withdrawals from,
the Project Account, to the Association for its review not later than thirty
days after the end of the quarter (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.02(b) and (c)).
Procurement
59.       Contracts for the purchase of standardized bulk items to be financed
out of the loan and credit (i.e. animal feed, and agricultural and industrial
chemicals) estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, will be let



- 19 -
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines. With respect to any other contract, except for proprietary
items, to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan and credit estimated to
cost $100,000 equivalent or more, offers shall be invited from not less than
three of the major suppliers from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland,
and the contract shall be awarded to the supplier whose offer is the lowest
evaluated offer. Any contract to be financed out of the loan and credit es-
timated to cost below $100,000 equivalent, or any contract for proprietary
items (e.g. spare parts and some balancing equipment) will be let after nego-
tiations without competitive bidding. The details of the bid invitations,
bids received and the criteria on which the lowest evaluated bid has been
accepted shall be submitted to the Central Bank for onward transmittal to the
Association prior to submission of the first withdrawal application under any
contract.
Disbursement
60.       Disbursements will be made against the c.i.f. costs of qualifying
imports and the foreign exchange costs of the sector studies. Withdrawal
applications submitted by the Central Bank will contain a statement certifying
that the goods have been supplied from Bank member countries or Switzerland
and that they have not been previously financed by any bilateral or other
multilateral source (Schedule 3, draft Development Credit Agreement). With-
drawal applications will be supported by the appropriate documentation.
61.       To the extent practicable, the proceeds of the credit will be dis-
bursed before disbursements of the proceeds of the loan are made. The proceeds
of the credit are expected to be fully disbursed within 18 months of the date
of the credit, i.e., by about June 30, 1976. Because of possible delays in
delivery of manufacturers of specific items of equipment and spare parts,
the Closing Date of the loan will be about 2 years after the date of the
Loan Agreement, by which time the entire proceeds of the loan should also
be fully disbursed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic
of Egypt and the Association, the draft Loan Agreement between the Arab
Republic of Egypt and the Bank, the draft letters supplemental thereto concern-
ing: (i) the detailed allocation of the proceeds of the Loan and the Credit;
(ii) procurement, the rates of exchange at which the proceeds of the Credit
and the Loan shall be made available to the Eligible Enterprises and the Port
of Alexandria Authority, the sector studies, and the provision by the Borrower
of foreign exchange for agricultural and industrial imports; and (iii) the
utilization of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan allocated for Part B
of the Project are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, the Report of the Committee



- 20 -
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and the text of draft resolutions approving the proposed Credit and
Loan are also being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Features of the Development Credit and Loan Agreements and of the
draft letters supplemental thereto of special interest are referred to in
paragraphs 46, 49, 51, 53 and 54 and 57 of this Report
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit and loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreements of the Association and the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit
and loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 12, 1974



Pege I of 3 poems
COUW=T DATA - EtYPT. AMA REP. 0
AREA                                              POPUL.ATIONmsT
1,011  .,2                                  34.84. aiih).oo (nid-19,72)                      9~37  Par beSof atble bind
SOCIAL 32hDICATORS
Reference Countries
WI? PER CAPITA USA (ATlAS BASIS) ~                                 .         210/O           220 I.        370 /a     1, 210 A
=40GRAPHIC
ZrlIOe bTFth, rteo (per tho.aand)                               4.3         35,             15LA          38a9~        20
CMod death~ rae. (par thouaond)                                 17          13/             172Z,        137C           9
Wafnt   feolt0ity rat. (pat th-oooe   lieo birth.)             109         119              80          l145    ~      28
Lit f.0."C.001y 00 birth (year.)                                51i/A       50 Lo.d         58           557F          71
Owooc eepred0cti-  ztote                                        .          3.0              3.3          2.6 Ie h     1.4.
Pnn.l.ti.. gr.o0th tat.                                        2.6         2.5 /13.0/1r                                :1
Popu1ation grooth veot  - urban                                  6/l.          7 _           4           4.72r
Ag. t-tr..to  (pa,omot)
10-1!.                                                       4.3/o        44              4.31.2                    28
15-61                                                        54 73       52               53           54.          63
65 Ned .-or                                                    373         41              4.            1            9
Oo-edanos ratio IL                                             1.57    ~   1.1 La.r        1.3 lbj       1.2          1.0
U~rban popal.tton so porce.,,  of total                         38/k        42/A            32 /1         39           1.9 /d,.
Famil  plmoing    No of acceptors o.uo,.4tir, (tho,u.)          4...109
No. of oare (4 of a-w 4em.o)                               ..               8E           8 Z
?RoTalrlabor f.rou  (thbousads)                              7,800 /a    8,300 /q.t     13,200 /b     11,500 I     12,700 /d
Ptrc-otego exployed io agriculb,re                            57 7-a      53 7-           56 79         59           29 7
P-rtootat uneOployed                                           5           2               7 7S          4            2
I10Poooto nattOtal 100       o.io     y highoot 5%               .                           25 lb v       32 If in a
Percent of ootto.a. I000.c,  -eteived by highoot 20%             .                          51.7          60 /..
ecetf- atiol inoose received by 101,at 208                  4...3 fia
Percent of .ationa t1 ncoee received by 1loooot 1.0%                                        12 ..10 
MSITRIBUTrON OF LN   IIKSI
I o.md by top 10 oQ.   nnr                                       .           .                             53
I OOnOd by saallsot 10% of O000,                                                                           .9
HEALTH AND1 NUJTRITION
Fnpolattoo Pot Phyoictl                                      2,500I      1,910 Ia        9,100 Iao     2,220          750 /a
Popolatino per nursing porson                                2,30/        b 1 6b07-      5,3)90 7"-   1,880 /ob     1,13o 7f
opul.ttoo pot hoopit.l bed                                    500~       14.0-            850 7fat      1.90         220 7Y
Pot oapita oolori: 0820 mpl 8..  of requtrooots                U1. /ad     103              87 /ao       113 /0f      111 l.a
Pao 0.pit. protei  eepply, toa   (gro, Pot d.Y; /.6             77 77       83 leo          53 T71        78 71!       80:1
DOf which, arteol and pol1s                                    17 7Z       16 727e         22 1          22 71!       1.0 7~
Neth rate 1.1. years IT                                        39an,                        771          15 71r      0.
1  djRto  /S p,inory ethool eorolloant ratto                     66          70             fly /ah.      Illo          83
AdJuoted Z!  e-ondary school enrofluqot ratio                   16          33              4.5 7r        28           4.9
Y o. s of e6hooling p-ocd.d, first and eooood level             12          12              10           131           13
Vo.-tio..1 e-rollsent as 6 of a... echool onrollomnt            22          19              10 /o.baj     14.          20
Achult litatry rate, 8                                          20 /d,'     4.0 /b          72 Id         55 lak       91 I. __
Average  t.- of porso, pot roo (urban)                         1.6 /d        .                           1.9
P.o,Mt1    orc-pld ,.,to -tbhout piped blota                    60 7-o      ..               6    h       64. le
A..,$,', -eetoot      (ee % of tolu1 population)                38 7-                       23            4  M
?4o-n-eo;f ft,el posroltion --ooct.d to electricity             .                            6 /f         18
telorretro pot 11130 population                            58         132              4.5 /f        89          211. /.c
?o :o-rOt Pe, 100 Population                                3 / q       4                841                      71
Electric p-.    won..ptiOo (kh,d p.c,)                         102         228              229          21.5       2,627
W..Sptiot oon.n.nption p.o. kg Pot year                        1.3         1.0             1.8 Iu,       2.0          5.8
Vot1eo, figures refr either to the latest perbodo or to            aooouot of envtro.nnonta te,pe.tr,     od  olht,     n
the lotoet years. Latest periods Wafr is principle to              dietribution by age ed A"0 Of mti100. POPol1ltoos.
tho Years 1956-60 or 1966-70; tb. lOteet years in prot,        /   Proteto standards (ma9os.eeote) for a11 countries 0.0 atab-
oilp. to 1960 And 1970.                                            li.hed by USDA Roon,ooE.Reasrob Service provide for . eioi..m
ito1 Pe, Copito GNP ..Li eate t1 1 t -kt pri..o for              ofloos. of 60 gr-nt of total protin por day, and 20 grom     of
-y,ro oth- thorl20 olooe          by t!,. ooo. ootweroton        ariaal and pulee protein, of ohioh 10 gr"oa ehould be .01..,.
t.ch.iq.e no tho 1972 Wnr1d Baonk Atint.                       protet. Thw.e standarde are soewebat love    the. th8,0. of 75
2 Aorage obabr of d.oghterp par Moon of roprducotiv.               grame of total prtotin aaod 23 gre.. of anil..) protein as an
oge.                                                           avergae for the wold, prop-ced by F40 to the Third Norld Food
12  PbPutolAon g-t.h roico tre for the d-od- o-ding in             Surey.
1960 ood 1970.                                                 Don  Studtoe have suggesead that oode death rat.. of ch,ildren.
4LRatto of under 15 cod 65 nod over ago brackets to              age. I through 4 moy be o.ed ae . fir.t ePproaleatton tnode of
thooe in labor forc  bracket of -gee 15 through 64..           ealutrition.
TAO raforano otondord. reP-.oet phy.iologiool re.          L   Percentage enrolled of corr,esponding population of ochool aW
qoirexa.nts f- or 0000  oottvity nod heolth, inking   ~         edefined for eaoh oontutry.
/a17;   /b 1i7n.    Ic  i965-70;   /d    htlloptS;  /0  Derived fr   am .ple survey eStt.ateo (240,000 peo"ono), oexuding
17 ee.t.rn prootoceer /f  1968;  A  1961,  A  _TM6-67~  IA  196o-72;  /   1957-69;   /k   Oover,,rat. of Cairo,
Ala.nndrto, Po.t Said, T-N-ilia aned Ste.; froptier goverorat. and capital. of _.       oenre        . .1    edoro
oopltale;  /A   For the definition of urwban. aee  U.N. Duexgapio Yearbook17, page 16           L   Ado,inietrative cnter.
of proietncoand districts. (nvllaY*t' and 'ka..' conleod3 /7      ltoaitIi oe     1,0 o orcoe       biibtwtan;  A   teclud.
tog PoPo1otton of ocall agg1Oasertionp in the frentier diatrttEs, uocbering 10,25pren;           1   NAtio Of Population
under 15 and 65 and oer to tota1 T&b.hr (orve;    a   1966,   /r  Ratio of pouation under 1      R   & over to labor force age
12-61. 200r01  /o  Figooe relates to peroone 6 years Of age e2 ovar, excludes noecad population (101,225) and foreign
peroono (11., 31~7;  /t~ Figuro rel-at   to potrona 12-6). yoar. of age;  I- 196h.dwne 1971. (86 Percent being lUoD);
~ 1< y-eora and over;  71Houoeholdo;  ~  DI.spooa ro nomo  ly  1962;- /n  Umb.er on the registar, not all, ~Orking
/di. the country;    oa-Personesl in governsent services onl;      /ab  boolude1-aeietat nureee and eld&doa; /me        1969;
1060.62;    'ao  191269;             -6;4o169f              /a),     7;   /    Includes oeerg.a    Otdoent.;  6'j-pbklo
td ...tine onli;  /Nk  6 yei~_i an=vr;     /Al7 Definition    oootnO;  /,,  Inside or outaide;  I/     Percentage of d-11-i
iogs cith itnrt~)ghting; ~a            Dt. _m7ar to reeldentilo) b.idtl;js;   Lg    urban. on,;        taldn     gorte
-htiole.;   lar  Inperts only.ny                                                                  Z       Ecuiggvrst
SPucnMs snoccessf.1 di-eraifiction of ito cooneaci atruotur, degree Of indust.rialization and dvelopoent of toorio
eubo it so oppropriat. eobjectivee oOUntry.
AShb I!!.13 Novenbor 8, 1971.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1973                                 ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.      %                          1960-65         1965-70           1973/
GNP at Market Prices         9,281     100.0                          6.3            2.3             3.93/
Gross Domestic Investment    1,143I     12.3                        -14.9           -3.9             6.7
Gross National Saving          593-./    6.1/
Current Account Balance       -549./    -5.9I/ 
Exports of Goods, NFS        1,329      14.3                          5.7             -4-           14.7
Imports of Goods, NFS        1,830      19.7                        11.2              - 4/          10.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1973
Value Added                          Employment                   V.A. per Worker
US$ Mln.           %                  Mln.           2                ii~_          %
Agriculture                     2,607           31                  4.18           47                624          67
Industry                        1,806           22                  1.16           13              1,557        167
Services                        2,335           28                  1.97           22              1,185         127
Unallocated                     1,617           19                  1.67           18                968         104
Total/Average            8,365          100                 8.98           100                932        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(US$ Mln.)                           2.% of GDP
1973(est.)                  1973                  1969-71
Current Receipts                          1,892                     20.3                   21.3
Current Expenditure                       1 944                     20.8                   20.7
Current Surplus (excluding Emergency
Fund)                                    -52                     -0.5                    0.6
Emergency Fund                            1,027                     11.0                    9.2
Capital Expenditures                        979                     10.5                   11.7
External Assistance (net)                    76                       .1                   -0.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
L968/69        1969/70          1971           1972           1,973
(Million tE outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                  1,005           1,106          1.166          1,345           1,637
Bank Credit to Public Sector           1,028          1,133           1,038          1,164          1,336
Bank Credit to Private Sector            435            456             549            553             560
(Percentages or index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP       37.3            37.2           ..             39.7           44'.9
Consumer Price Tndex (1966/67 - 100)5/106.1            109.2          113.6          116.3          i19.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer Price Index                     4.0             2.9            4.0-           2.4            2.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector             5.2           10.2            ..             12.1           14.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector            7.4            4.9            ,               0.7            1.3
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
1/  Excluding unrequited transfer receipts.
2/ At 1972 prices except for GDP at 1972 factor cost.
3/  Figure refers to GDP at 1972 factor cost.
4/  Accurate constant price growth rate are not available due to insufficient information concerning trade
deflators.  Moreover, the export growth rate for this period is biased by the drop in Suez revenues
after 1966/67. Between 1967/68-1970/71, exports (in current prices) rose on the average by 12.5
percent annually, imports by 10.6 percent a=nually.
5/ Due to non-availability of data on calendar year basis for 1971, 1972 and 1973, dara r*.fzrs u:u "fisc51"
Years 1970/71. 1971/72 and 1972/73.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-73)
1971     1972      1973
(Millions US $)                                   US $ Mln.          %
Exports of Goods                   850       813    1,014    Raw Cotton                    432            47.2
Imports of Goods                 1,244     1,286    1.593    Rice                           50             5.4
Trade Balance (deficit    -)      -394      -473     -579    Manufactured goods            343            37.5
All other commodities          90             9.9
Services (net)                     -92         7        7         Total                    915           100.0
Net Transfers                      279       295      649
Balance on Current Account        -207      -171       77    EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1973
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                                        US $ Mln
Disbursements                  (297)     (358)    (328)
Amortization                    (150)    (213)    (333)   Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed        2,139
Subtotal                        147       145       -5      Of which medium and long-term             (1,698)
Other Capital (net)                -93        -5      -86
Overall Balance (deficit = -)     -153       -31      -14    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1973-!
Gross Reserves (end year)          289       263      551
Net Reserves (end year)           -722      -697     -613    Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed         28.7
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING, SEPTEMBER 30, 1974 (Million US $)
Through - January 1973                                                                         IBRD       IDA
US $ 1.00 = LE 0.435
LE    1.00 = US $2.30                                      Outstanding and Disbursed            0.0       14.1
Undisbursed                          -        117.8
Since - February 1973                                      Outstanding including Undisbursed   0.0       131.9
US $ 1.00 = LE 0.390
LE    1.00 - US $2.56
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
Not available
November 11, 1974






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1974)
Loan or                                           Amount in million US Dollars
Credit                                                      Less cancellations
Numbers          Year       Borrower       Furpose  Bank     IDA Undisbursed
Ln 243-UAR       1959     Suez Canal     Suez Canal 56.5     --        --
Authority      Expansion
Cr 181-UAR       1970     UAR           Nila Delta    --    26.0      16.4j
Drainage
Cr 284-UAR       1972     ARE           Railways      --    30.0       8.3
Cr S-13-UARL/    1972     ARE           Cotton Gin- --       0.2       --
ning Engr.
Cr.393-UAR       1973     ARE            Upp3r Egypt  --    36.0      36.0
Drainage
Cr 412-UAR       1973     ARE           BOA           --    15.0      14.0
Cr 423-UAR       1973     ARE            Cot-ton      --     18.5     18.0
GimLing
Cr 437-UAR       1973     ARE            Population   --     5.0       4.9
Cr S-15-UAR_/    1973     ARE            Talkha Engr. --     0.4       0.2
Cr 484-UAR       1974     ARE            Talkha       --    20.0      20.0
Fertilizer
56.5   132.1     117.8
of which has been repaid                            56.5     0.2
Total now outstanding                                0.0   131.9
Amount sold                                  6.0
of which has been repaid                     6.0
Total now held by Bank and IDAe                      0-0   131.9
Total undisbursed                                          117          .
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1974)              Nil
aRefinanced under Credit 423-UUAR
jz Refinanced under Credit 484-UAR
Excluding exchange adjustments



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage Project; US$26 million Credit of April
17, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
In 1973 a revised implementation program was prepared, extending
this project until 1978, and the government agreed to take a number of actions
recommended by IDA to improve project performance and provide effective man-
agement. In February 1973, the National Drainage Development Authority (NDDA)
and the Egyptian General Authoritv for Drainage (EGAD) were merged in the
Egyptian Public Authority for Drainage Projects (EPADP) established by Presi-
dential Decree. A new Chairman and Vice Chairman for the Nile Delta and Upper
Egypt Drainage Projects were appointed and the staff reorganized and strengthened
bv the appointment of additional qualified personnel. A panel of experts was
nominated to undertake project evaluation, and action is being taken to replace
the consultants who advise and assist the Authority on the implementation of
both the Nile Delta and Upper Egypt projects. The new Authority is actively
working on the arrangements for the maintenance of equipment and the storage
of spare parts and has drafted the terms and conditions under which project
equipment will be transferred to local contractors for construction of drain-
age works and for the manufacture of drainage tiles. Earlier this year, super-
vision missions expressed concern that sufficient local currency funds has not
been budgeted to keep project implementation up to the pace agreed in the
revised schedule; this matter was discussed with the Government in May and
again in September 1974, and a small supplementary allocation has been made
to permit continued implementation for the rest of 1974.
Cr. No. 284-UAR - Egyptian Railway Project; US$30 million Credit of February
9, 1972. Closing Date: (i) December 31, 1973, for track materials, loco-
motives and spare parts; and (ii) September 30, 1976, for signalling and
telecommunications equipment and installation.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily. Most of the
procurem,ient contracts have been awarded, and the credit is entirely committed.
Cr. No. S-13-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Engineering Project;
US$175,000 Credit of November 17, 1972; Closing Date: November 30, 1973.
This Credit was approved on November 7, 1972, and was declared
effective on June 15, 1973. It has been fully disbursed and subsequently
refinanced under Cr. 423 below.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage Project; US$36 million Credit of June
8, 1973; Closing Date:   December 31, 1979.
Progress in implementing the project has been slow. A supervision
mission earlier this year reported insufficient budgeting of local currency
funds for the current fiscal year. The matter was taken up with the Govern-
ment, in May and again in September 1974 and a small supplementary allocation
was made to enable project implementation to continue. The schedule for work
in 1975 is satisfac4ory.
Cr. No. 412-UAR - Bank of Alexandria Project; US$15 million Credit of June 29,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
This Credit became effective on November 29, 1973. Since then, BOA
has approved several subprojects. As of September 1974, about $1 million of
the credit had been committed. The balance is expected to be committed within
about a month. A second project is presently being appraised.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
This Credit became effective on February 15, 1974. A program for
retraining of displaced workers, prepared by Egypt has been reviewed by IDA
and implementation will commence shortly. Prices of bids received in May 1974
for major equipment packages were much higher than expected, and the total
estimated foreign exchange cQst is presently estimated at $43 million. At
IDA's suggestion', the Government is seeking the additional funds required from
other sources since the returns of the project to the economy will still re-
main satisfactory as a result of the increase in cotton prices since appraisal.
So far no other funds have been secured and the Government is considering
making budgetary provision for the additional foreign exchange needed until
other funds become available.
Cr. No. 437-UAR j Population Project; US$5.0 million Credit of November 6,
1973; Closing Date: becember 31, 1977.
This Credit was declared effective on March 25, 1974. The architects
have been appointed, and work is underway on other elements of the project.
Cr. No. S-15-UAR - Tal1ha Urea Fertilizer Engineering Project; US$400,000
Credit of November 20, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1975.
This Credit was declared effective on April 24, 1974. Meanwhile, a
consulting firm, appointed as the technical advisors, did some of the work
covered by this crfdit and was paid by Egypt. The credit will be refinanced
under Cr. 434 below, when the latter is declared effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24, 1974; Closing Date: April 1, 1979.
This Credit was approved by the Executive Directors on June 18,
1974, and signed on June 24, 1974. It has not yet been declared effective.
MIeanwhile, work has advanced the selection of the General Contractor.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
November 12, 1974



ANNEX III
Appendix I
Page 1 of 3
AGRICULTURAL AND INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS PROJECT
Credit/Loan and Project Sunmary
Borrower:                Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:           (i) The agriculture sector; (ii) up to 123 public
sector enterprises in the priority sub-sectors of indus-
try and private industrial sector; and (iii) the Port
of Alexandria Authority.
Credit
Amount:            US $35 million
Terms:             Standard
Loan
Amount:            US $35 million
Interest Rate:     Standard
Amortization:      25 years, including 5 years of grace
Project Description:     The credit and loan will help finance (i) a portion
of the foreign exchange required for the import
of raw materials, intermediate goods, balancing
equipment and other inputs to improve utilization
of existing productive capacities in the agricultural
and industrial sectors; (ii) the foreign exchange
required for some urgently needed equipment and
spare parts to improve the efficiency of operations
of the Port of Alexandria; and (iii) provision of
technical assistance in selected sub-sectors of
industry.



ANNEX III
Appendix I
Page 2 of 3
Allocation of Proceeds
Additional7    Proceeds of      Bank Group
Foreign       Credit/Loan     Participation
Exchange        Intended          % of
Requirements    Distribution    Requirements
(US $ million)  (US $ million)
Agriculture
Animal Feed                              98              10             10.2
Agricultural Chemicals                   15               4             26.6
(Pesticides, etc.)
Spare parts                             31                5             16.2
1 44             19             13.2
Public Sector Industry
Raw Materials, Intermediate Goods
and Spare Parts
Food Processing                          56               3              5.4
Textiles                                 41               4              9.8
Chemicals                                80              10             12.5
Engineering                              56               6             10.7
Building Materials                       15               1              6.6
Metallurgy                               72               9             12.5
320              33             10.3
Balancing Equipment and Major Spare
Parts for Maintenance of Capacity
Food Processing                          24               3             12.5
Textiles                                  5               1             20.0
Chemicals                                15               2             13.3
Engineering                               5               2             40.0
Building Materials                        5               1             20.0
Metallurgy                                9               1             11.1
63              10             15.9
Private Sector Industry                                      4
Technical Assistance                                         1
Spare Parts and Balancing Equipment
for Port of Alexandria                    15               3             20.0
TOTAL LOAN AND CREDIT AMOUNT                                70
Estimated Disbursements:                  Calendar 1975          Calendar 1976
(by quarter)            (by quarter)
2nd   3rd   4th      lst   2nd   3rd   4th
Credit   (US $ million)                10    15    10             -     -     -
Loan     (US $ million)                -     -      8       10   8     5     4
1/ For an eighteen-month period.



ANNEX III
Appendix I
Page 3 of 3
Procurement Arrangements:    (i) Procurement of standardized bulk items
(i.e., animal feed, industrial and agri-
cultural chemicals), estimated to cost over
$100,000 equivalent, will be carried out on
the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
(ii) For contracts for goods other than the stan-
dardized bulk items, and proprietary items,
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or
above, offers will be invited from not less
than three of the major suppliers from member
countries of the Bank and Switzerland, and
the contract shall be awarded to the supplier
whose offer is the lowest evaluated offer.
(iii) Any contract estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $100,000, or any contract for
proprietary items, will be awarded after
negotiations without competitive bidding.
Consultancy Services;        Industrial engineering and economic consultants
will be appointed for carrying out studies of
industrial sector and enterprise planning for
the Food Processing, Chemicals, Engineering,
Metallurgical and Building Materials sub-sectors.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
November 12, 1974



ANNEX III
Appendix II
Page 1 of 6
CATEGORIES COVERED BY CREDIT/LOAN
AGRICULTURE AND INDUSTRY
A.   Agriculture Sector
1.        Animal Feed.   The most seriously underutilized capacity in agricul-
ture is in the livestock sub-sector. The demand for meat and poultry has
been rising steadily as a result of the increase in population. It is esti-
mated that livestock and poultry feed requirements amount to 7.8 million tons
of starch equivalent and 1.2 million tons of digestible protein. The major
shortage is in starch equivalent. The digestible protein is largely supplied
by cottonseed cake, but due to starch shortage, feed concentrate containing
65 percent cottonseed cake has been produced. This is an excessively high
protein proportion. Experiments in other countries indicate that it may have
a seriously adverse effect on animal fertility, which could make a build-up
in the animal herd very difficult. The feed mills will have the capacity to
produce about 1.5 million tons of pellets and coarse ground feed by 1975.
Besides grain, all the raw materials required for this are available locally
in adequate quantities. The annual import of 375,000 tons of grain and util-
izatio of about 285,000 tons of locally available wheat and rice bran would
allow production at full capacity of 1.5 million tons of feed containing only
50 percent oil seed cake, also making it nutritionally better balanced and
improving reproductivity, thus helping to increase meat output. by an additional
30,000 tons per year, valued at $54 million.
2.        Agricultural Chemicals.   About half of Egypt's cotton is early matur-
ing and requires three sprayings. The late-maturing variety requires four
sprayings. In the recent past, the shortage of foreign exchange has prevented
increases in imports to allow for four sprayings and there has been an increase
in infestation by the American boll worm. As a result it is estimated that
cotton valued at about $30 million is lost each year. The cost of an addi-
tional spraying is estimated at some $7.5 million for a year. Availability
of foreign exchange for import of insecticides for a fourth spraying would thus
result in a substantial increase in the output of this valuable export commo-
dity.
3.        Spare Parts.   Possibly the most neglected shortage in agriculture
is that of spare parts for tractors, irrigation pumps, and implements. Al-
locations of foreign exchange have remained at about half the amount required.
The Ministry of Agriculture estimates that only 60 percent of the total num-
ber of tractors are in working order and that over the next two years the
remaining 40 percent will require an average of LE 5-million ($12 million)
annually in spare parts. Spares for irrigation pumps, plant protection
equipment, and vehicles are the other major components in this category.
The availability of spare parts for the idle agricultural equipment such as
tractors, pumps and implements will go a long way to help improve preparation
of land for irrigation, proper planting, spraying and threshing, and thereby



ANNEX III
Appendix II
Page 2 of 6
help increase crop output. The net benefits are estimated at about fourfold
the cost of the spares for which $5 million are allocated under the credit
and loan.
B.   Industrial Sector
4.        The allocation for importation of raw materials and intermediate
goods for industry is divided in two parts, $33 million for public sector
enterprises and $4 million for the private sector. Within the total allocation
for the public sector, the distribution among sub-categories may be modified
depending on the urgency of the individual industry group needs, as determined
by the Ministry of Industry after taking account of other sources of funds.
However, the distribution agreed upon (see Supplemental Letter No. I and Annex
III) was on the basis of relevant criteria. For instance, priority in the
allocation was given to industries, such as chemicals, metallurgy and textiles,
the forward linkages are strong. Support for those industries that might have
the capability to expand exports also entered into the allocations and is re-
flected, for example, in the allocation to engineering. Finally, it is recog-
nized that some industries (e.g., food processing) may receive somewhat prefer-
ential treatment now following long periods of neglect. These considerations
are guidelines, but are not meant to impose a limitation on reallocations
among industry groups in the light of other criteria or imperative market
needs.
5.        Although the provision of raw materials and intermediate goods to
support current production is by far the most pressing need, the provision
of balancing equipment necessary for maintenance of the level of existing
capacity is essential if permanent deterioration in the ability to produce
is to be avoided. Given the minimal investments that have been made in pro-
ductive facilities over the past decade and the pressure to meet production
targets, there has been a tendency to operate machines without adequate main-
tenance and to delay the replacement of key items of equipment. The $10 mil-
lion allocation is therefore made separately to cover: (i) major spare parts
for the maintenance of existing machines, and (ii) replacement of specific, key
pieces of equipment, where these have already been identified and where this
can be done quickly. Through the work of the enterprises themselves and the
"General Organizations" (see para 33) of the specific groups bottleneck areas
and equipment required to balance the production line have been identified
and the equipment item can be specified.
6.        Food Processing.   Presently, there are 25 member companies which
operate under the General Organization for Food Industries, and of these, two
companies are involved in fruit and vegetable processing, packing and market-
ing. Inventory levels of recurrent items required by most of the companies
have been decreasing in the last year from an average of 4 to 5 months' sup-
ply to 1 to 2 months' supply; as of May 1974 some companies had less than
one month's supply of inputs. A major shortage among those processing food



ANNEX III
Appendix II
Page 3 of 6
products has been the lack of tinplate for fabricating cans for processed
food. Tinplate prices have doubled in the past year, and as a result, Egypt
has been able to import less tinplate than had been budgeted for. In 1973,
the canning industry processing capacity was 60,000 tons of tinned food pro-
ducts, of which 25,000 tons was unutilized due to the lack of 5,000 tons of
tinplate. Total requirements for tinplate are 25,000 tons, of which only
2,000 tons can be produced domestically. The General Organization projects
that 15,000 tons tinplate can be purchased from funds allocated in the 1974
budget and from foreign exchange earnings the companies generate, leaving
8,000 tons for which some $38 million in foreign exchange is needed; at a
minimur, 8,000 tons would also be required in 1975. Increase in the utiliza-
tion of capacity would substitute for some imports and much of the production
could also be exported.
7.        Seven of the 25 public sector companies under this General Organiza-
tion produce soap, cottonseed cake, edible oils, feeds, detergents, cheese,
margarines, hydrogenated oils, chemical compounds and glycerine for the domes-
tic market. Plants operated by most of these oil and soap companies are old
and based on obsolete systems. The companies continue to utilize old hydraulic
presses to extract oil from the cottonseed obtaining about 20 percent less
yield and poorer quality oil. Between these companies, they have 180,000 tons
of solvent extraction capacity which was unutilized in 1974 due to the lack of
foreign exchange to procure solvent. Their annual capacity to produce oil
based soaps is 180,000 tons; utilization in 1973 was, however, 130,000 tons
while domestic demand was some 160,000 tons.    The primary reason for not fully
using this capacitv was insufficient funds for imports of inedible tallow oils
and minor ingredients. Increase in the utilization of capacity in this branch
of industry would result in additional production to substitute for imports.
There is also an urgent need for key pieces of equipment and for replacement
of equipment and modernization in various plants both in food processing and
oil and soap production. Some actions could be taken in a short time, with
the funds available, while other investment decisions should be deferred until
a development plan for this sub-sector is prepared.
8.        Textiles.   The textile industry is one of the major industries in
Egypt under the General Organization Spinning and Weaving. The overall import
requirements of this industry are relatively small particularly for those com-
panies manufacturing cotton textiles which depend largely on locally produced
cotton, which is available in adequate quantities. Textile enterprises pro-
ducing wool, rayon, synthetic and jute products, however, depend heavily on
imported materials.
9.        Shortages of synthetic materials and intermediate goods dates back
to mid-1973, and have been particularly acute since the beginning of 1974.
Consequently, capacity utilization has deteriorated rapidly. For wool yarn
and fabrics, capacity utilization is about 40 percent; for staple fibers,
rayon filament and cellophane, it is about 55 percent; it is 68 percent for
jute products. Although, for cotton textiles, capacity utilization is about



ANNEX III
Appendix II
Page 4 of 6
74 percent, in their case spare parts have a particular significance. At
present 10 percent of cotton yarn and 35 to 40 percent of fabric manufactured
for export are, reportedly, rejected at export inspection due to quality prob-
lems associated with poor state of machinery. This would mean that the coun-
try suffered a loss of about LE 20 million (US$51 million) in foreign exchange
in 1973 that might have been earned, as compared with actual exports of LE 44
million worth of cotton yarn and LE 30 million of cotton fabrics. Provision
of funds for this subsector would not only increase foreign exchange earnings
but also help through increased production of inputs for private sector weav-
ing plants which rely on the public sector enterprises for yarn.
10.       Chemicals.   The chemical industry is controlled by the General Or-
ganization for Chemical Industries and consists of 29 companies operating
72 plants. The products include fertilizers, plastics, paper, tires, wood
products, matches, paints, etc., besides chemicals.
11.       The cost of raw materials accounts for about 54 percent of the total
inputs; consequently, the recent escalation in the world prices has had a
measurable effect on the profitability of thc industry as well as on capacity
utilization. Production of plastics, tires, and paper accounts for 57 per-
cent of the total output of the companies, and capacity utilization has been
estimated as follows: plastics 48 percent, tires 40 percent, paper 67 percent.
The capacity underutilization is invariably traceable to the lack of imported
raw materials; the shortage of spare parts is less important. The plants are
managed by competent staff and there is no shortage of skilled labor, super-
visory personnel, power, or infrastructure. The most urgently required raw
materials are polyvinyl chloride, natural rubber, and wood pulp, but there
are additional requirements for other materials.    The additional production
from increased utilization of existing capacity would serve to substitute for
imports of finished chemical products whose value is estimated at about double
the cost of the imported raw materials.
12.       Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Industries.    The Egyptian
industrial firms of any significant size in the engineering, electrical and
electronics field are wholly, or at least majority-owned by the Government
and are distributed over 21 enterprises, whose output in 1972 was estimated
at LE 100 million. Many firms produce intermediate goods which form inputs
to other industries and therefore have to be imported. Thus fuller utiliza-
tion of capacity will, to some extent, serve to substitute for such imports.
W4ithout any discernible exception, the plants are operating below the capacity
which the available equipment would inherently be capable of achieving. The
lack of sufficient funds for raw materials and intermediate goods and compo-
nents, as well as for equipment maintenance and replacement is the largest
single factor for underutilization of capacity. Increased production will
serve to substitute for imports of finished and semi-finished goods.



ANNEX III
Appendix II
Page 5 of 6
13.       There are, however, other areas which need and will receive attention
for the longer-run. First, production costs are high by international stand-
ards, partly due to lack of technical skills and partly due to product designs
which are obsolete.
14.       Some of the larger plants manufacturing durable consumer goods have
inherent productive capacities which seem large, relative to the potential
domestic demand. Particularly where new investments are contemplated, a
careful analysis of existing opportunities should be made, both within and,
where applicable, outside Egypt. Exports will only be possible where products
are competitive both in price and in function. The sector study proposed under
the project should result in recommendations on the most competitive product
mix and design.
15.       The Building Materials Industry.   The General Organization for Build-
ing Materials and Refractories includes 14 enterprises manufacturing pipes,
cement, ceramic porcelain, glass and other products for the construction in--
dustry. In the plants visited by the capacity utilization review mission,
much of the equipment was badly in need of repair, mainly due to the lack of
foreign exchange to purchase parts and equipment. Five companies of the
fourteen in the General Organization were considered to be in the most serious
difficulties with raw materials needs accounting for about 60 percent of the
total needs, and spare parts and equipment accounting for the remaining 40
percent. Cement plants remain underutilized due to lack of funds for key
imports, such as balancing equipment and spares and for kraft paper used for
packing. Capacitv in one cement plant is seriously impaired due to repairs
required for the kiln. There are plans for major expansion in cement manu-
facturing capacity, but these may need redefinition in terms of realistic
domestic demand forecasts and prospects for exports in competition with other
producers. Regardless of these longer-run considerations, there is a clear
need for short-term support for production given the heavy demand for con-
struction materials in the country as a whole. A long-term market and distri-
bution study which will also project investment requirements in facilities
for the whole cement industry is to be carried out in conjunction with the
recently appraised Tourah Cement expansion project (cf para 23), utilizing
funds under the present loan and credit for technical assistance.
16.       Metallurgical Industries.   The General Organization for Metallurgi-
cal Industries includes eight enterprises producing basic steel and rolled
products, castings, forging, steel pipe, non-ferrous metal products, and a
variety of other metal products. In addition to the public sector enterprises
there are a number in the private sector, mostly small in size, but, some that
are specialized, produce key items used in the public sector plants in the
engineering industries. About 90 percent of output is consumed domestically
by the automotive industries, cement, transport equipment, and the other
engineering industries. Products like cold rolled sheets and over 50 percent
of forgings are exported to the Eastern bloc under trade agreements in payment
for the importation of coking coal, slabs and other products. This trade has



ANNEX III
Appendix II
Page 6 of 6
not been up to expectations, and there is a growing shortage of coke, slabs,
and scrap; as a result, the preferences for source of supply are shifting
toward the convertible currency areas, resulting in additional pressure for
foreign exchange. Improvement in performance of this industry will help
considerably in terms of import substitution by other industries in Egypt
which rely on metallurgical products as inputs.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
November 12, 1974



ANNEX III
Appendix III
Page 1 of 2
CATEGORIES COVERLD BY CREDIT/LOAN
PORT OF ALEXAN4DRIA
1.        The Port of Alexandria Authority estimated its total demands for
spare parts and replacement and additional equipment at about LE 12 million
(US$30 million) excluding contingencies. Much of this requirement, however,
represents significant additions to, and changes in, the methods of utilizing
port equipment and facilities which would require full appraisal to justify
Bank Group participation. The items recommended for emergency procurement,
needed essentially to maintain or restore existing handling capacity, are
estimated to require the following amounts in foreign currency:
US$
(a)  Spare parts for existing equipment                    1,425,000
(b)  Motor boats (2)                                          85,000
(c) Mobile Cranes
1 x 50T                                             200,000
10 x 15T                                           1,000,000
4 x 1OT                                             320,000
(d) Fork Lift Trucks
44 x 3T                                              528,000
3,558,000
(e) Tugs
2 x 1000 HP                                       1,500,000
5,058,000
The Government has confirmed that the proposed allocation of US$3 million,
would be utilized for procurement of items (a) to (d) (Supplemental Letter No.
3) and is likely to seek bilateral financing for item (e).
2.        The spares are necessary to maintain existing equipment and to re-
store to service many items now idle. Mobile cranes and fork-lift trucks are
principally replacements for over-aged cargo-handling equipment which can no
longer be repaired. The purchases will enable operations to be restored to
the level achieved prior to the restriction of foreign exchange resources
but will not permit any increase in throughput previously obtained at the
port. Any increase in throughput would require a thorough reevaluation of
the cargo-handling systems employed and perhaps, more importantly, a com-
plete re-surfacing of most of the working areas in the port. The require-
ment for additional floating craft notably the need for additional tugs is
of great urgency, as the three tugs presently available offer no margin of



ANNEX III
Appendix III
Page 2 of 2
safety. The need for the oil catching equipment is based primarily on safety
considerations and Qperating conditions. The equipment for the transfer of
petroleum products is itself in need of replacement or repair, and inefficient
operation of that equipment results in numerous small spills occurring in the
petroleum basin. The economic justification for the procurement of the emer-
gency items is self-evident. The operation of the Port of Alexandria is being
continued with a bare minimum of facilities and any further deterioration would
result in mounting delays and congestion of import and export traffic which
would have an extremely damaging effect on the country's economy.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
November 12, 1974



ANNEX IV
Page I of 2
TIHE PARALLEL FOREIGN EXCHANGE MARKET
1.        The parallel market was created in September 1973 by the Government
of Egypt in order to encourage the inflow of free foreign currency resources
and to improve the process of allocation of foreign exchange by levying a
premium of 50 percent above the official rate for buying and 55 percent for
selling free currencies.
Sources of Funds
2.        The major sources of funds for the parallel market, are:    (i) remit-
tances by Egyptians working abroad (expected to be around 50 percent of total
in 1974); (ii) receipts from foreign tourists (about 35 percent of total);
(iii) exports of non-traditional items (i.e. excluding cotton, yarn, textiles,
rice, fresh onions, garlic, potatoes, cement, and re-exports) both from public
and private sector; (iv) 50 percent of yarn and textile exports in excess of
official export targets; (v) transfers by Arabs and other foreign nationals,
except for those related to investments.
3.        The major usages are:   (i) imports of industrial raw materials and
intermediarv goods, essentially for the private sector at least in 1974 (fore-
cast to total 70 percent of all uses); (ii) import of tourism-related goods
and materials; (iii) other invisibles, including commercial and financial ex-
penses, patent fees, royalties, etc. but excluding shipping, insurance and
government account transactions.
Organization and Procedures
4.        The primary responsibility for policv-decision, recommending changes,
and reviewing the operations of the parallel market lies with the Parallel
Market Committee, which works under the general direction of the Higher Com-
mittee for Planning of Foreign Trade.
5.        The dav-to-dav banking operations concerning the parallel market are
supervised by the Central Bank, as in the case of all foreign exchange transac-
tions. The Central Bank has designated four commercial banks for handling all
banking transactions in this field: Bank Misr, Bank of Alexandria, Banque du
Caire and National Bank.
6.        The government has nominated the Misr Import and Export Company for
handling all applications, or public sector, concerning imports through the
parallel market. All special cell, Commercial Agency for Parallel Market
Operations (CAPMO), in the MIisr company created to perfom this function, works
under the general directions given by the Parallel Market Committee.
Import Procedures
7.        Private Sector.   The procedures applicable to the private sector
have recently been streamlined to expedite the processing of applications.
It is hoped that the time between the submission of application and opening



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
of letter of credit will be reduced from 2-3 months to 15 days. These mea-
sures are also designed to increase the demand on parallel market resources.
8.        The major reform concerns the role of the Industrial Control Board.
Now the Board prepares a list of authorized imports for each private sector
enterprise at the beginning of the year. This list is sent to the Misr Company.
As a result, the Misr Company no longer refers individual import applications
to the Ministrv of Industry. Instead, it directly approves applications by
referring to the lists of approved imports. Other steps in the procedure
remain the same.
9.        So far, private enterprises submit their import requests twice a
year. To simplify the procedures, it is planned that in future enterprises
submit their applications for annual import needs at one time. This will
reduce the red tape and permit the enterprises to plan their production on
an annual basis.
10.       Public Sector.   Public sector applications are approved as a special
case by a special Determination Committee when the allocations under the
Foreign Exchange Budget are considered inadequate and the imports of inputs
through the parallel market are not expected to adversely affect the end
product prices to the consumer. Thus the Determination Committee not only
studies the prices (as in the case of the private sector) but also determines
the desirability of the import.
Recent Changes in the Parallel Market
11.       On June 1, 1974, the effective rate in the parallel market became
subject to change by a committee established for this purpose. However, the
Egyptian authorities have indicated that the rate will not be reduced from
its present level in the near future. In addition a substantially larger
list of commodities was established which could be imported through the
parallel market. The commodities are mainly for "productive" purposes but
include items like frozen and canned meat and television sets of sizes not
produced in Egypt.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
November 12, 1974



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 2
FOREIGN EXCHANGE ALLOCATION AND IMPORTS LICENSING SYSTEM
FOR RECURRENT IMPORTS
Foreign Exchange Budget: Allocation Process
1.        For the past few years, the formulation of the FEB has been the
basic mechanism through which foreign exchange allocations are made to enter-
prises.
2.        Around June of the preceding fiscal year, each public sector enter-
prise prepares estimates for its import need for the succeeding year; the es-
timates are broken down by free currency and clearing account needs. Request
from the enterprises are reviewed by the concerned General Organization, and
then forwarded to the Ministry. The Ministry, in turn, discusses these esti-
mates with the General Organization in light of the preceding year's perform-
ance, production targets for the next year, actual inventory levels, prices,
relative priorities, etc., and then submits its request to the Ministry of
Foreign Trade.  The allocations of foreign exchange by this Ministry are ap-
proved by the Cabinet.
3.        The allocations to the Ministry are then allocated among organiza-
tions and/or commodities by the Minister concerned. The General Organization
concerned in turn allocates funds to individual enterprises. Each General
Organization has its own criteria for allocating foreign exchange amongst
enterprises. For example, the General Organization for Textiles gives
higher priority to the import of raw materials over import of spare parts
and accessories in order to keep its factories running in this period of
severe foreign exchange shortages. It also uses input/output coefficients
to determine the areas/enterprises which can maximize increases in production
with the limited allocated resources.
4.        For the clearing account imports, the allocations are released for
the full year at the beginning of the year. However, for free currency im-
ports, allocations are released every quarter. The FEB is amended every quar-
ter according to the latest developments in Egypt's balance of payments sit-
uation and the changes necessitated by variations in world prices of commodi-
ties (e.g. food) which must be imported in pre-determined quantities.
Financing Recurrent Imports for Private Sector
5.        Since the creation of parallel market, no provision for recurrent
imports needs of the private sector is made in the FEB, but the availability
of foreign exchange to the private sector has increased substantially. Pri-
vate enterprises now have two main sources for financing their imports: (i)
proceeds from own exports, (ii) allocations from the parallel market. Private
enterprises are authorized to use their export earnings for importing approved
raw material, spares and equipment within six months of receipt of their export



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 2
earnings.  After this period, an unused export earnings are sold to the parallel
market (i.e., at 50 percent premium over the official exchange rate). Private
enterprises, both exporters and non-exporters, are in a position to purchase
foreign exchange in the parallel market for importing approved materials.
6.        Before the beginning of a fiscal year, private sector enterprise
file their import requests to the Industrial Control Board in the Ministry
of Industry. After reviewing the validity of their request, the Board con-
solidates the total import needs of the private sector and submits them to
the Ministry. The Ministry reviews this request and, as in the case of
General Organizations, makes its own recommendations to the Ministry of
Foreign Trade. On receipt of its total allocation from the Cabinet, the
Ministry decides the allocation for the private sector -- both for free
currency and clearing agreement imports. Within this allocation, the Import
Control Board then determines the quantity of various commodities to be im-
ported by the individual firms during the year. The list is further broken
down by free currency and clearing agreement imports. The former list is
sent to the Determination Committe for the private sector while the Board
itself determines imports authorized for the full year from clearing agree-
ment countries.
Import Procedures
7.        Since September 1973, the decision-making process for granting
import licenses has been decentralized. Instead of a central import licens-
ing office, imports are now authorized at the sector level: coordination
between different sectors at the national level is achieved primarily
through the FEB.
8.        Determination Committee are the key organizational units in the
current import procedures. Presently, there are 23 such committees attached
to various ministries. Under the changes now being considered, their number
will increase to 46, each attached to a General Organization.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
November 12, 1974






)  '<   ' ; 0 t  ; '  <       %  j* '      \ t     S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N A I ; 
I -----------------t 
I~~~~~~~~ -a-                            .    9x>        -\     ta nn-                O04
*1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e,ea' a,, S/aa // _
,.!-  -A--                             C---- -
<   . 3   Rgibo, d>b8llnDlecl Irmls   o,  25  o;/  e  rm  W  ro  _  ,  S N  /  i
Xao      -4          +                                                                  C-Z r  f <  B"\
ARAB* REPUBLIC OFl 
1 ......
KS  \~~~~~.      E YP
-                                   K                  K   SIN AI      Si -4 ...I-.



