CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 524 EGT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural and Industrial Imports Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 20, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 524 EGT
Development Credit
Agreement
(Agricultural and Industrial Imports Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 20, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1974, between the ARAB REPUBLIC
OF EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower desires to improve the efficiency in the
utilization of its existing agricultural and industrial productive capacity by increasing
the foreign exchange resources that will be available for imports of raw materials,
intermediate goods, spare parts and balancing equipment;
(B)   To that end, the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement by extending a credit in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000) (hereinafter called the
Credit);
(C)   The Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan
Agreement) the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000) (hereinafter called
the Loan);
(D)   The Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on
account of expenditures on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of
the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were


﻿4
fully set forth herein subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development C.edit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
Section 2.01(9) is deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
"9. The term 'Project' means the Project or program for which the
Credit is granted, as described in the Development Credit Agreement and
as the description thereof may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower, the Association and the Bank."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the Project, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and the Schedule to the Loan Agreement;
(b)   "Loan" means the Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Loan Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of
the Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Public Sector Enterprise" means any public organization or public
sector company subject to the provisions of the Borrower's "Law No. 60 of the
year 1971 concerning Public Organizations and Companies of the Public Sector";
(c)   "Private Sector Enterprise" means any enterprise owned by a private
juridical or natural person;
(f)   "Eligible Enterprises" means such Public and Private Sector Enterprises,
as shall be notified from time to time by the Borrower to the Association, in
the sectors listed in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association; and


﻿5
(g)   "Port of Alexandria Authority" means the General Authority for the
Port of Alexandria established by Law No. 6 of the year 1967 of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 21, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November 15 commencing
May 15, 1985, and ending November 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on November 15, 1998 to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposeL of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon receipt of appropriate
applications from Eligible Enterprises or the Port of Alexandria Authority, as the
case may be, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to carry out Part A or Part B of the Project; and (ii) make available, or cause
to be made available, promptly as needed, to Eligible Enterprises and the Port
of Alexandria Authority, all foreign exchange which shall be required for the
carrying out of the Project at rates of exchange agreed upon between the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association
for its comments, not later than March 31, 1975, or such other date as shall be
agreed with the Association, the terms of reference for the studies referred to
under Part C of the Project.
(b)   The industrial engineering and economic consultants who shall assist
the Borrower in carrying out Part C of the Project and whose services are to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan shall have qualifications
and experience, and shall be employed on terms and conditions of employment,
which shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance thereof, against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation (i) all plans and programs for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request; and (ii) statements of budgetary allocations of foreign exchange
for agricultural and industrial imports in the fiscal years 1975 and 1976.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and


﻿7
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
*         Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank of Egypt to
open an account (hereinafter referred to as the Project Account), in the name
of the Borrower and shall credit the Project Account, upon each withdrawal of
proceeds of the Credit or the Loan, as the case may be, on account of expenditures
on Part A or Part B of the Project, with the equivalent in Egyptian Pounds of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn (such equivalent to be determined as of
the respective dates of such withdrawals at the rates of exchange referred to in
Section 3.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement).
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the amounts credited
to the Project Account shall be used exclusively to finance such development
expenditures as shall be authorized in the Borrower's budgets for the fiscal years
1975 and 1976.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause the Central Bank of Egypt to prepare
quarterly statements of the deposits in, and withdrawals from, the Project Account
and to forward said statements to the Association for its review not later than
thirty days after the end of each quarter.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date March 20, 1975 iL hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Chairman of the Agency for Arab and International
Economic Cooperation of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Agency for Arab and International
Economic Cooperation
Midan Abbasiah
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
Agency for Arab and International
Economic Cooperation
Abbasiah, Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By   /s/ Ashraf Ghorbal
Aiuthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
0


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Credit and the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the allocation of amounts
of the Credit and the Loan to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit and of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                          Dollar Equivalent)
Agriculture
(1)   Animal feed; Chemicals                               19,000,000
(other than fertilizers);
Spare parts and balancing
equipment
Public Sector Industry
(2)   Raw materials, inter-
mediate goods and spare
parts used in the manufac-
turing by Eligible
Enterprises for:
Food Processing; Textiles;                           33,000,000
Chemicals; Engineering:
Building Materials; Metal-
lurgy
(3)   Balancing equipment and major
spare parts for maintenance of
capacity in Eligible Enterprises
for:
Food Processing; Textiles;                           10,000,000
Chemicals; Engineering;
Building Materials; Metal-
lurgy
Private Sector Industry
(4)   Raw materials, intermediate goods,                    4,000,000
balancing equipment and spare
parts


﻿11
Amount of the
Gredit and of the
Loan Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                        Dollar Equivalent)
(5)  Technical Assistance                                  1,000,000
(6)   Spare parts and balancing equip-                     3,000,000
ment for the Port of Alexandria
TOTAL         70,000,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods or services
supplied from, the territory of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the Bank shall.
otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn
or committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account except under
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
0


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A
The importation into the territories of the Borrower of additional raw
materials, intermediate goods, balancing equipment and spare parts to
improve utilization and maintenance of productive capacity of Eligible
Enterprises in industry and agriculture.
Part B
The provision of spare parts and balancing equipment for the improvement
of the operations of the facilities of the Port of Alexandria.
Part C
The carrying out of studies of industrial sector and enterprise planning.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.1. Any contract for the purchase of standardized bulk items, namely, animal
feed, and chemicals, estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, shall
be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    With respect to each contract governed by the preceding paragraph, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association and the Bank, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association or the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit or the Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Association
and the Bank shall reasonably request. The Association or the Bank shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
.        or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
B. 1. With respect to any contract for the purchase of goods, other than the
standardized bulk items referred to in paragraph A.1. above and the proprietary
items referred to in paragraph C below, estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(i)        offers shall be invited from not less than three of the major
suppliers from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland;
and
(ii)       the contract shall be awarded to the supplier whose offer is the
lowest evaluated offer.
2.    The Borrower shall cause each Eligible Enterprise, and the Port of Alexandria
Authority in respect of the contracts under Part B of the Project, to submit to
the Central Bank of Egypt all ielevant documentation relating to contracts financed
in whole or in part, out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the Loan, including
without limitation, the details of the offers sought, the names of the suppliers
invited to submit offers, the analyses of the offers, recommendations for award
and two conformed copies of each such contract, for submission to the Association
or the Bank.


﻿0
14
3.    Applications for withdrawal in respect of contracts awarded to the lowest
evaluated offer shall be submitted to the Association or the Bank with a certificate
indicating that the conditions set forth in paragraph B. 1. above have been satisfied,
and with documentation on evidence of payment, if any, and of shipment together
with the supplier's invoice.
C.    Any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or of the
Loan, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000, or any contract
for proprietary items, may be let after negotiations and without competitive
bidding.
D.    The Borrower shall submit to the Association or the Bank, together with
any application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account, two certificates prepared by the Ministry which has jurisdiction over the
beneficiary Enterprise, stating that (i) the goods in respect of which the withdrawal
is requested are for the account of, and have been or will be delivered to, an Eligible
Enterprise or to the Port of Alexandria Authority, as the case may be; and (ii)
no wit,.drawal for these same goods has been or will be made from the proceeds
of any other loan financing made available from any public multilateral or external
governmental source.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 4
Eligible Sectors
A.    Public Sector
1.   Food processing
2.   Textiles
3.   Chemicals
4.    Engineering
5.   Metallurgical
6.   Building materials
B.   Private Sector
1.   Food processing
2.   Textiles
3.   Chemicals
4.    Engineering
5.   Metallurgical
6.   Building materials
7.    Leather goods
8.   Wood products (including furniture)


