Document of
The Av'ir}i i3anh
FOR OFFICIAL UJSE ONLY
Report No. 1603
IMPLEMENTATION CONIPLETVION IREPORT
PHI LII PIN FS
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRIU TION  O'K().II:(T
LOAN 3263-PIU)
Mav 2? '. 1(9)7
Infi-astructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and n-mjy b)e used by recipients only in the!
performance of their official duties. Its contents may riot othervwise be disclosed without i
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit= Philippine P'eso (P)
(monthly average values)
2/90   US$ 1.00 = P22.600
2/91   UJS$1.00 = P28.125
2/92   US$1.00 = P26.i00
2/93   US$ 1.00 = P25.2'50
2/94   US$1 .00  P27.700
2/95   lJS$1 .00 = P`5.700
2/96   US$1.00 = P26.205
2/97   UJS$1.00 = I'26.')35
UNITS OF MEASUJREMENT
Systeme Internationale
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB         -      Asian Development Bank
COA         -      Commission on Audit
DBM         -      Department of BLudget and Management
DILG        -      Department of Interior and Local Government
DOF         -      Department of Finance
DOH         -      Department of Health
DPWH        -      Department ol Public Works and Highways
DSWD        -      Department of Social Welfare and Development
GOP         -      Government of Philippines
ICR         -      Implementation Completion Report
NAMRIA    -        National Mapping and Resource Information Authority
NlIA        -      National Housing Authority
NIA         -      National Irrigation Administration
PCR         -      Project Completion Report
PHIVOLCS  -        Philippine Institute ot Volcanology and Seismology
GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
Vice President              :    Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director                    :    Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi. EAI
Division Chief                    I. Shivakumar, EA I IN
Task Manager                :    Kevin Page, EAI DR



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3263-PH)
Table of Contents                                                  Page No.
Preface .................................................i
Evaluation Summary ................................................                                                ii
Implementation Assessment
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .
B. Achievement of Objectives                                               .2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                           .4
D. Project Sustainability                                              .5
E. Bank Performance                                                  .6
F. Borrower Performance                                                 .6
G. Assessment of Overall Outcome                                              .7
H. Future Operations                                                 .7
I. Key Lessons Learned                                                 .8
Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .............................................9
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans ............................................                                 10
Table 3:  Project Timetable ............................................                                  10
Table 4:  Cumulative Disbursements: Planned v. Actual .....................................  11
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ........................................... 12
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ............................................                 12
Table 7:  Studies Included in the Project ............................................                    12
Table 8A: Project Costs ............................................ .13
Table 8B: Project Financing .................................. ........... 13
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ............................................. 13
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................. 14
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................ 14
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................                       14
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ............................................                           15
Appendixes:
A.   Borrower's Contribution ............................................                                 16
B.   ICR  Mission's Aide Memoire ............................................                             30
C.   Maps(IBRDNos.22617,22618, andc22619) ............................................  32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3263-PH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Earthquake
Reconstruction Project in the Philippines, for which Loan 3263-PH in the amount of
US$125 million equivalent was approved on October 9, 1990 and made effective on
December 12, 1990.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1996, compared with the original closing
date of March 31, 1995. The final disbursement took place on May 13, 1997, at which time
the balance of US$15,694,374.13 equivalent was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Messrs. Peter Long, Highway Engineer, EAlIN, and
Kevin Page, Operations Officer, EAlDR, and was reviewed by Messrs. J. Shivakumar,
Chief, EAIIN; and Walter Schwermer, Projects Advisor, EAIDR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission. It is
based on material in the project file, site visits by the ICR mission, and the comprehensive
Project Completion Reports provided by the four implementing agencies, Department of
Public Works and Highways, Department of Health, National Irrigation Administration,
and National Housing Authority, during the ICR mission which took place between March
4 - 14, 1997. The Borrower's Executive Summary of these four Completion Reports is
attached as Appendix A. The final draft of this ICR was provided to the Borrower for
comment, and comments received were incorporated into the final report.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3263-PH)
Evaluation Summarv
Background
i.    In July 1990, an earthquake registering 7.7 on the Richter scale shook Luzon
causing high loss of life and wide ranging destruction ot' intrastructure. The Government
and the international donor community reacted quicklv to assess and respond to the
disaster. The Government's emergency response opened roads and established emergency
housing and health care arrangements within days of the earthquake; the Bank loan of
US$125 million equivalent was identified. prepared. appraised and negotiated within two
months of the earthquake and began financing longer-terin reconstruction within six
months of the earthquake. A similar Asian Development Bank (ADB) loan was also made
available, and although no formal linkage betweeln the B3anks' loans existed, their
implementation was marked by close and effective collabioration, particularly in the
highway sector.
ii.   In June 1991, Mount Pinatubo erupted causing exen greater damage. The Bank loan
was amended and also used to mitigate some of the pressing problems created by this
second natural disaster, including retargeting the housing component assistance and
funding some civil works and consultancy from the Department of Public Works and
Highways component. The project closing date was extenided to March 31, 1996 and
subsequently to December 31 1 1996 to permit the compIction of the Pinatubo works and
consultancy.
Project Objectives
iii.   The objectives of the multisectoral pro jectL as amended, were to: (i) minimize the
adverse economic impact of the July 1990 earthquake and the Pinatubo eruption by
assisting in the reconstruction of essential infrastructure and other facilities to promptly
restore economic activity in the affected area; and (ii) introduce measures to reduce the
negative impact of future disasters. These objectives and the Bank's intervention strategy
were consistent with the Bank's Operational Directive 8 50 of November 28, 1989. and
were appropriate in this case.
iv.   The OD 8.50 called for the following project desrgn considerations: (i) early
involvement of Bank staff; (ii) prior working relationship with the country and sector
agencies; (iii) strong government commitment to recovery, and access by the emergency
coordination unit to the highest levels of government; (iv) limited objectives and realistic
time schedule; (v) rapid agreement with the government on the strategy and scope of the
overall recovery program; (vi) conditionalities linked directly to the emergency, rather than
to long-term macroeconomic policies; (vii) commitment to restoration of standard cost
recovery practices; (viii) simple implementation arrangements and full use of existing



iii
institutions, including sector agencies, NGOs, and community groups; (ix) use of disaster-
resilient reconstruction design standards; and (x) inclusion of measures for preventing and
mitigating the impact of future disasters.
v.    Each of these criteria was included in the project design. Bank staff were on the
scene the day after the earthquake in 1990. The Bank-financed components were selected
on the basis of ongoing working relationships with the sector agencies. A Presidential Task
Force in the Philippines was responsible for coordination of the international reconstruction
efforts. The Project had limited objectives and a planned implementation schedule of 3.75
years, which was extended 1.75 years to accommodate activities related to the Pinatubo
disaster that occurred a year after the earthquake. Agreement on the overall scope was
reached with the Government within two months of the earthquake, and specific
interventions were defined during implementation. Conditionalities were limited and linked
to the emergency; they also encompassed standard cost recovery for the appropriate sectors.
Implementation arrangements, though somewhat complicated by the number of agencies,
were straight-forward. The use of disaster-resistant designs was introduced during
implementation and had significant institutional impact which should mitigate future
earthquake damage.
Implementation Experience and Results
vi.   Implementation experience was very positive overall and the results satisfactory. In
general, works carried out under thousands of small contracts were completed on or ahead
of schedule and to an acceptable level of quality. A US$25 million component to supply
retroactive financing of critical construction materials and commodities was also
successfully completed. Work was largely carried out as planned in three sectors,
highways, irrigation and health with some small reallocations made to respond to the
Pinatubo eruption. The description of the fourth component for housing was amended after
the eruption of Pinatubo. Instead of providing housing finance to earthquake victims, the
loan was amended to allow for the creation of resettlement sites for some of the thousands
of families dislocated by the lahar flows. While the results were generally good, one aspect
of implementation that was not fully satisfactory was the delay in submission of withdrawal
applications that was one of the main reasons for the cancellation of US$15.7 million from
the Bank loan and the government's financing of a higher-than-planned portion of the
reconstruction effort.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
vii.   The project met its development objectives. The works and materials financed by
the Bank allowed for the rapid economic restoration that occurred in Luzon, despite the
Pinatubo eruption a year later. In addition, the Bank financed important technical assistance
that has introduced and disseminated more sustainable earthquake-resistant designs for
roads, bridges, hospitals, and other structures subject to seismic failure as well as better
defining seismic hazard zones. These designs and other awareness-raising activities have
improved the chances that newer and retrofitted structures will survive future seismic
events. Since much of the work was rebuilt to a higher standard and is being maintained,
sustainability of the Project benefits is considered to be likely.



iv
viii.  The project design, although complicated by the number of implementing agencies
and the large number of contracts, was essentially quite simple. This simplicity, along with
clear Borrower ownership, were key elements of the Project's success.
ix.   The Bank was able to react quickly, with negotiations completed within two months
of the earthquake. In spite of this fast-tracking the performance of the Borrower and the
Bank in project implementation was at least as good or better than most projects prepared
and appraised in a conventional manner and time frame.
x.    Lessons Learned:
(a)   The project design criteria established in the Bank's Operational Directive
8.50 were appropriate and successful in this project. This reinforces the
suitability of OD8.50 (since replaced by Operational Policy/Bank Procedure
8.50) for future emergency operations (paras. 2 - 4.)
(b)   For emergency projects, which are generally prepared quickly, a substantial
project review should be conducted after one year of implementation. This
may also be appropriate for non-emergency lending operations (para. 28.)
(c)   The disbursement system needs to be improved to assure smooth
implementation of future emergency projects in the Philippines (paras. 30 -
32.)






I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3263-PH)
IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
I.    The objectives of the project were to: (i) minimize the adverse economic impact of
the July 1990 earthquake by assisting in the reconstruction of essential infrastructure and
other facilities to promptly restore economic activity in the affected area; and (ii) introduce
measures to reduce the negative impact of future earthquakes. These were amended as of
March 8, 1992 to include the Pinatubo eruption.
2.    The objectives of this multisectoral, emergency operation were consistent with the
Bank's OD8.50 (dated November 28, 1989) and, most important for the success of the
project, those of the Borrower. Further, the project's intervention strategy of reconstruction
of infrastructure and quick disbursing budget support for a positive list of imports (needed at
a time of budget constraint in the Philippines) was well thought through, appropriate, and
timely.
3.    The OD 8.50 called for the following project design considerations: "(i) early
involvement of Bank staff; (ii) prior working relationship with the country and sector
agencies; (iii) strong government commitment to recovery, and access by the emergency
coordination unit to the highest levels of government; (iv) limited objectives and realistic
time schedule; (v) rapid agreement with the government on the strategy and scope of the
overall recovery program; (vi) conditionalities linked directly to the emergency, rather than
to long-term macroeconomic policies; (vii) commitment to restoration of standard cost
recovery practices; (viii) simple implementation arrangements and full use of existing
institutions, including sector agencies, NGOs, and community groups; (ix) use of disaster-
resilient reconstruction design standards; and (x) inclusion of measures for preventing and
mitigating the impact of future disasters."
4.    Each of these criteria was included in the project design. Bank staff were on the scene
the day after the earthquake in 1990. The Bank components were selected on the basis of
ongoing working relationships with the sector agencies. A Presidential Task Force in the
Philippines was responsible for coordination of the international reconstruction efforts. The
Bank-assisted Earthquake Reconstruction Project had limited objectives and a realistic time
schedule. Agreement on the overall scope was reached with the Government within two
months of the disaster, although specific interventions were defined during implementation.
Conditionalities were limited and linked to the emergency; they also encompassed standard
cost recovery for the appropriate sectors. Implementation arrangements, though somewhat
complicated by the number of agencies, were straight-forward. The use of disaster-resistant
designs was introduced during implementation and had significant institutional impact which
should mitigate future earthquake damage.



2
Achievement of Objectives
5.    The objectives were achieved. The works and materials financed by the Bank allowed
for the rapid economic restoration that occurred in Luzon, despite the Pinatubo eruption a
year later. The influx of ODA, including the Bank loan, was critical in allowing the
Government to finance the restoration of the areas and people affected by those disasters.
Without Bank assistance, the Government's emergency reconstruction efforts would have
been very difficult to sustain due to lack of funds, with less satisfactory medium- and long-
term results for the affected population. In addition to aiding in the restoration of critical
transportation, health, housing, and irrigation infrastructure, the Bank loan injected needed
capital into the devastated region during the economic downturn following the disasters,
helping to reduce the economic dislocation.
6.    The Bank and the ADB Earthquake Loans financed important technical assistance
that has introduced and disseminated earthquake-resistant designs for roads, bridges,
hospitals, and other structures subject to seismic failure. These designs and other awareness-
raising activities have improved the chances that newer and retrofitted structures will survive
future seismic events. The achievement of the objectives is described in more detail, by
component, below.
7.    Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH). Damage was widespread and
reconstruction sub-projects were implemented in six regions. A total of 1,164 civil works
sub-projects were implemented under the IBRD-assisted project, for a total value of Pesos
2.2 billion. Scheduled at appraisal to be completed by mid-1994, these sub-projects were
substantially completed by the end of 1993, and have significantly contributed to the
objective of minimizing the adverse economic impact of the earthquake.
8.    The objective of future mitigation was pursued in several ways. Buildings, water
supply facilities and retaining walls were rebuilt to higher standards, new bridges were
designed to current international seismic codes, and other bridges strengthened. DPWH
Standard Designs for bridges, retaining walls, school buildings, other public buildings and
elevated water tanks were revised and updated. Some forty seminars and workshops on
earthquake related topics were held. Three specialized Bridge Inspection Vehicles were
procured to assist with bridge inspection, repair and maintenance. Soon after the earthquake a
private firm had flown a Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) survey of the affected area. The
data imagery from this survey was procured and, under a separate consulting assignment, this
was interpreted to produce geologic and regional and urban hazard intensity maps. Training
and equipment was provided under the project to the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and
Seismology and to the National Mapping and Resource Information Authority to give these
agencies the capability to continue to make such analyses for other areas of the Philippines.
9.    Another technology introduced as part of the Earthquake Reconstruction Project was
the use of Vetiver grass for slope stabilization. The use of this special grass to inhibit slope
erosion has been shown in other parts of the world to be an environmentally sound mitigative
measure. It is also often less expensive than building rip rap and other retaining structures,
themselves subject to failure during a seismic event. The DPWH Bureau of Maintenance,
with assistance from the Project Management Office of the National Irrigation
Administration's Irrigation Watershed Management Project, is pursuing pilot projects in the



3
Philippines to introduce Vetiver and to assess its value as part of an ongoing maintenance
program. Two pilot projects are underway, on the Famy-Infanta and Nueva Vizaya -
Benguet roads. DPWH has established two Vetiver nurseries and has had several expressions
of interest from local farmers willing to grow seedlings for sale to the Government and
contractors.
10.   National Housing Authority (NHA). The original purpose of this component, to
provide housing finance to earthquake victims, was amended to allow use of the original
funds to develop resettlement sites for people displaced by the eruption of Mount Pinatubo.
The funds were used to finance horizontal and vertical infrastructure for ten upland and two
lowland sites, as well as to finance building materials which were provided directly to
displaced families. The sites were completed in the third quarter of 1993, earlier than had
been programmed for the original housing component. The quick dex'elopment of the sites
helped to alleviate the significant suffering of displaced families that had been temporarily
relocated from the deadly slopes of Mount Pinatubo to highly concentrated and disease-prone
emergency camps.
11.   The upland sites were specifically developed for habitation by indigenous Aeta
families that had lived on the slopes of Mount Pinatubo, and were prepared taking into
account the customs and preferences of the affected tribes. Ultimately, permanent relocation
has been voluntary, with some 4,200 of 9,300 families evidently having chosen to move
elsewhere, either back to dangerous areas around Pinatubo or to lowland settlements. For the
5,100 families that remain in the upland sites, there is excellent access to education, health
facilities, water supply and job opportunities other than those offered by subsistence farming.
The infrastructure appears to be in good shape, but funds and training for maintenance and
operation of the water supply systems, in particular, appear to be lacking. Sustainability,
however, in terms of utilization of the sites appears to be good four years after the
establishment of these communities.
12.   The two lowland sites outside of Angeles City cater to 3,236 families affected by the
Pinatubo eruption. The sites' horizontal infrastructure was built to very high standards and
appears to be maintained regularly by the responsible Local Government Unit. Vertical
infrastructure, such as schools and water supply, fall within the responsibility of various
agencies and the city and appear to maintained to a satisfactory standard. The families
resettled after the Pinatubo eruption suffered from a loss of livelihood, exacerbated by the
general economic downturn in the Angeles area after the closure of Clark Air Force Base.
However, economic activity has picked up in recent years with the introduction of a Clark
duty free and industrial zone. While inhabitants of the two resettlement sites may have lower-
than-average incomes, they enjoy better-than-average facilities and appear to be thriving
communities.
13.   It is worth noting that the original housing finance scheme, while consistent with
housing finance policies agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, was complicated and
suffered from initial delays due to difficulties in obtaining full agreement with the Borrower
as to the precise terms and conditions to be placed on the funds to ensure the appropriate
targeting of beneficiaries. It appears likely that the use of funds to mitigate the effects of the
Pinatubo disaster speeded the implementation of the component and may have led to a more
successful outcome in terms of rapidly improving conditions for disaster-affected people.



4
14.   National Irrigation Administration (NIA). Reconstruction activities were successful,
covering 19 national and 567 communal irrigation schemes and restoring over 127,000
hectares of land to full productivity. The implementation schedule slipped about two years
due to insufficient counterpart budget allocations, despite the availability of loan funds and
higher disbursement percentages after September 1990. While implementation was delayed,
final disbursement performance was superior to that of the other components, which failed to
fully utilize their respective portions of the loan proceeds despite some degree of
overprogramming. Maintenance of the works appears to be satisfactory.
15.   To mitigate against future earthquake damage, NIA undertook efforts to improve
slope stability, including piloting the use of Vetiver grass. As a large part of the damage
caused by the earthquake involved siltation, stabilization of slopes should mitigate the need
for future dredging.
16.   Department of Health (DOH). Initial implementation of civil works under this
component went well, with 85 percent completed by December 1992. However,
disbursement performance lagged severely, a problem which was compounded by a three-
year suspension of disbursements due to DOH's failure to comply with audit covenants. By
the closing date of December 31, 1996, only US$4 million had been utilized from the loan
proceeds out of the US$ 10.1 million envisioned at appraisal. Of the remaining 15 percent of
civil works, most had been completed by loan closing, with the remainder to be completed by
the end of 1997. The delays resulted from three primary factors, namely: (i) inadequate local
funds to complete the works without Bank funding; (ii) delays caused by difficulty in
acquiring the land for relocating facilities, which resulted in cost increases; and (iii) the
devolution of hospitals in 1993 to the LGUs, which changed the funding arrangements.
17.   In terms of sustainabilty and mitigation of future risk, the reconstructed hospitals
were inspected by engineers and in many cases were retrofitted to improve seismic
resistance. Many newer hospitals have benefited from earthquake-resistant improved designs
including, in some cases, relocation to areas less prone to severe earthquake damage based on
studies carried out under the Earthquake Reconstruction Project.
18.   Department of Finance (DOF). A US$25 million component was included for import
of critical construction materials and commodities from a positive list including cement,
lime, ingots, iron, steel, roof sheets, pipes, pipe fittings, timber and critical commodities
(petroleum). The Department of Finance handled the procurement of the commodities
according to procedures agreed with the Bank. Disbursements proceeded very quickly for this
component, with $20 million disbursed within a week of loan effectiveness and the
remaining $5 million disbursed within the first year of implementation. The component
provided important budget support soon after the earthquake and helped to achieve the
objective of rapidly restoring economic activity to Luzon.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
19.   The largest factor affecting the Project was the eruption of Mount Pinatubo in June
1991. The Pinatubo disaster was of even greater scope than that of the 1990 earthquake, and
continues to affect vast areas of Luzon. In response to Pinatubo, the Earthquake
Reconstruction Loan Agreement was amended to redirect the funds intended to develop



5
housing for earthquake victims toward the development of resettlement sites for thousands of
families dislocated by the eruption. The eruption generated billions of cubic meters of lahar, a
mud/ash slurry with a high specific gravity. When mobilized by the annual monsoons, lahar
moves quickly like very dense water, and has washed away infrastructure and buried large
areas around the Pinatubo volcano. The redirected loan funds helped the Government to
move more quickly to relocate some families whose towns had been (or were in imminent
danger of being) completely destroyed.
20.   In addition to the changes in the housing component, the Government requested and
the Bank agreed to reallocate part of the project funds to consultancy services and civil works
for the eruption-affected area. The reallocated funds were managed by the Mt. Pinatubo
Reconstruction Project Management Office. The project closing date was extended to March
31, 1996 and subsequently to December 31, 1996 to permit completion of the Pinatubo works
and consultancy.
21.   Other factors that affected the project were lack of counterpart funding and
disruptions caused by the Persian Gulf War. The Philippines portfolio generally suffered
from a shortage of counterpart funds in the early 1 990s due to macroeconomic conditions that
were exacerbated by the onset of the Gulf War and increased prices for oil. In recognition of
the hardships posed by the war, the Bank raised the disbursement percentages for several
projects in the Philippine portfolio, including the Earthquake Reconstruction Project. Despite
the increased disbursement percentages and a somewhat overprogrammed rehabilitation
program, problems with collecting documentation for reimbursement from Local
Government Units and national departments' regional offices led to failure to fully utilize the
loan proceeds.
Project Sustainability
22.   None of the physical components of the project were revenue-generating. The
sustainability of the project therefore rests on the maintenance of the works produced. Most
of the works financed by the project consisted of rehabilitation or reconstruction of
previously existing infrastructure which was already part of the regular maintenance
program. The works are being maintained to the standards set by the various Departments,
which is in most cases adequate.
23.   An exception to the above situation was the development of resettlement sites under
the Pinatubo housing component. Responsibility for maintenance of the lowland sites has
been assigned to the relevant LGU and appears to be taking place. However, while
maintenance responsibility has also been assigned for upland sites, concern was expressed to
the mission that inconsistent funding and training has led to a suboptimal level of
maintenance. Additional training was requested, particularly for maintenance of the water
systems. The mission agreed to explore the possibility of addressing these issues as part of
the Indigenous People Development Plans being generated under the Second Subic Bay
Freeport Project.
24.   Supervision missions by both the Bank and ADB in 1991 identified problems with
the quality of the implementation of some of the civil works under the project. As a result,
DPWH produced an action plan to address these issues, one element of which was the



6
approval of all works under the project by the international consultants before being accepted
for funding under the project. As a result, works approved for Bank financing have generally
been of adequate quality.
25.   Except for the housing component infrastructure, the assets reconstructed under the
project were already part of the overall Philippine assets managed by the various agencies.
Maintenance and operation are therefore covered under the annual maintenance programs, to
a similar standard as the rest of the assets managed by each agency. Responsibility for
maintenance of the housing assets have generally been assumed by the local governments
and, in some cases, by national agencies. As reconstructed facilities are built to higher
standards of seismic resistance than the original works, the sustainability in the event of a
future seismic event has been enhanced.
Bank Performance
26.   Bank performance during identification, preparation, appraisal and negotiations was
highly satisfactory. Project negotiations were completed less than two months after the
earthquake. The Project became effective less than six months after the disaster. The project
design, developed closely with the Government and other donors, was sound and met
immediate needs. The design and preparation were also consistent with the OD8.50, dated
November 28, 1989, Emergency Recovery Assistance. One exception was that while the OD
called for projects to be completed within a limited period, normally three years, the
Earthquake Reconstruction Project was scheduled to be substantially completed within 3 1/2
years, with disbursements completed within 4 3/4 years. As it turned out, the bulk of the
project's civil works were substantially completed within 3 1/2 years, with disbursements
lagging by a greater degree. The project was extended to allow for completion of the
Pinatubo component (not anticipated at appraisal) and to complete longer-term technical
assistance to mitigate against future earthquakes.
27.   Supervision performance was satisfactory. Because the diverse components of the
project involved four different agencies, supervision of each component was generally
carried out by independent sectoral missions, the findings of which were consolidated into an
overall annual project review by the task manager. The Bank proved to be flexible during
implementation, allowing not only for reallocation and formal amendments of project
description to accommodate the Pinatubo eruption, but also the problems caused by events in
the Middle East.
28.   At the end of the first year of implementation, after the international consultants were
in place, there were concerns about the quality of some of the civil works carried out in the
first year. Together with ADB, the Bank organized a review of this problem which resulted in
an action plan by DPWH to improve the quality of works. This action plan was supervised
carefully, and resulted in appreciable quality improvements and rejection of Bank financing
for poor quality work. Although some instances of substandard work continue to appear, the
awareness of the Bureau of Maintenance in DPWH to such problems has been raised and is
increasingly being addressed. Given the compressed preparation schedule for the project, the
thorough supervision review at the end of the first year of implementation proved to be
highly useful, both in keeping the project on track and in providing an opportunity for



7
enhanced institutional development. This type of review after the first year should be
incorporated into other project designs.
Borrower Performance
29.   Borrower performance during preparation was highly satisfactory. The Presidential
Task Force on Rehabilitation in conjunction with the respective agencies' Regional and
District Offices did an excellent job of generating, validating, and summarizing proposed
reconstruction proposals. The implementation performance varied by agency, but was
satisfactory overall. The projects were mostly completed on time and within budget. One area
in which all the agencies, except NIA, needed improvement was in obtaining the necessary
documentation for reimbursement under the loan, which slowed disbursements.
30.   Slow disbursements resulted from several factors. First, local governments and
regional offices of the national agencies received direct budget allocations from Department
of Budget and Management to perform the work under the project. Assembling the
documentation needed to submit for reimbursement under the SOE procure was not clearly
understood and proved time-consuming. Additionally, since the Bank's reimbursement was
made to the Department of Finance, and not the LGUs and regional offices, this received low
priority at these levels. As a result, loan proceeds remained unliquidated at the close of the
project due to the fact that many activities eligible for Bank financing were not submitted for
reimbursement.
31.   To rectify this situation in future emergency operations, the Bank, working closely
with Commission on Audit (COA), at project launch (or before) should produce a brief and
specific set of guidelines, tailored to the Philippines, detailing the documentary requirements
for reimbursement. These guidelines must be understandable by local authorities with no
previous experience with Bank procurement. Further, some mechanism should be in place to
create an incentive for regional offices and LGUs to submit SOE withdrawal applications.
32.   A further problem, which hampered disbursements, were the audits of the project
expenditures by COA, which was unable to certify some project expenditures due to lack of
documentation. Partly because the headquarters COA auditors waited to receive audits for the
regional COA auditors, audits were invariably presented to the Bank well after the covenant
time limit of six months after the close of each fiscal year. This was a particular problem with
the DOH audits, which remained unresolved for three years during which time disbursements
were suspended. Resolution only occurred after staff had changed and a general Audit
Action Plan was agreed between COA and the Bank. However, problems were also
experienced with the DPWH audits and the Bank suspended processing of SOE withdrawal
applications for ten months in 1993/4 until the 1992 audit report was submitted.
Assessment of Overall Outcome
33.   The overall outcome was satisfactory. The project met the two major development
objectives of helping to rapidly restore economic activity and introducing measures to
mitigate future earthquake damage. Infrastructure was reconstructed under the project in a
timely manner. A significant degree of technology transfer took place, with the development
of seismic resistant designs and of updated Philippine building codes.



8
Future Operations
34.   Future operation is a matter of continued maintenance of the works and procedures
established under the project. Maintenance is ongoing and satisfactory. The institutional
developments under the project, such as promulgation of updated designs, SAR mapping, and
use of Vetiver grass for slope stabilization should continue to be promoted and integrated
into planning. As noted above, maintenance and operation are covered under the general
annual maintenance programs, to a similar standard as the rest of the assets in stock.
35.   Two studies carried out under the project were of particular interest for future
operations. The first was the review of Philippine bridge design standards in the light of
updated methods recently developed in California, which showed that most bridges in the
Philippines, even recently constructed ones, need retrofitting to strengthen them to withstand
seismic events. A pilot program for this was started in the earthquake affected area under the
parallel ADB project. This program should be extended to cover the whole country.
36.   The second was the Bank financed hazard zonation mapping. This showed that a
large area of the town of Dagupan is built on soils susceptible to liquefaction under seismic
events with the consequent danger of collapse of buildings. This awareness has led to efforts
to improve location and design of facilities to withstand earthquakes. Other cities in the
Philippines (for example in Mindanao) are thought to have similar problems, and it is highly
desirable to extend the hazard zonation type of analysis to other areas in order to guide future
decisions on urban planning and zoning, and on building codes to be applied in such areas.
Key Lessons Learned
37.   The primary lessons that emerge:
(a)    The project design criteria established in the Bank's Operational Directive
8.50 were appropriate and successful in this project. This reinforces the
suitability of OD8.50 (since replaced by Operational Policy/Bank Procedure
8.50) for future emergency operations (paras. 2 - 4.)
(b)   For emergency projects, which are generally prepared quickly, a substantial
project review should be conducted after one year of implementation. This
may also be appropriate for non-emergency lending operations (para. 28.)
(c)    The disbursement system needs to be improved to assure smooth
implementation of future emergency projects in the Philippines (paras. 30 -
32.)



9
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives Substantial    Partial    Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                                               /
Sector Policies                                              V
Financial objectives                                         /
Institutional development V
Physical objectives    /
Poverty reduction                                            V
Gender issues                                                V
Other social objectives                                      V
Environmental objectives                                     V
Public sector management                                     V
Private sector development                                   /
Other (specify)                                              /
B. Project sustainability         Likely          Unlikely    Uncertain
V/
C. Bank performance          Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                V
Preparation assistance        V
Appraisal                     V
Supervision
D. Borrower performance      Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                   V
Implementation                                 V
Covenant compliance                            V
Operation (if applicable)                      V
Highly                                  Highly
E. Assessment of outcome Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
v



10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
There were no previous emergency loans made to the Philippines.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle      Date planned         Date actual
First mention in files                             07/17/90
Identification                                     08/09/90
Appraisal                                          08/09/90
Negotiations                                       09/12/90
Board presentation                                 10/09/90
Signing                                            11/8/90
Effectiveness                                      12/12/90
Project completion            9/30/94              12/31/96
Loan closing                  03/31/95             12/31/96



11
Table 4: Cumulative Disbursements (Planned v. Actual)
(US$ Million Equivalent)
FYI                                           Cumulative Disbursements
Semester                          Planned             Revised /1           Actual
1991
December, 1990                       25.00               19.98               19.98
June, 1991                           35.00               25.39               25.39
1992
December, 1991                       40.00               29.64               29.64
June, 1992                           49.00               36.24               36.24
1993
December, 1992                       64.00               54.50               54.50
June, 1993                           78.00               75.27               75.27
1994
December, 1993                       93.50               86.75               86.75
June, 1994                          107.50               87.66               88.07
1995
December, 1994                      117.70               95.00               96.75
June,1995                           125.00              105.00              100.15
1996
December, 1995                      125.00              115.00              102.06
June, 1996                          125.00              121.00              105.17
1997
December, 1996                      125.00              125.00              107.57
April 30, 1997                      125.00              125.00              109.31
140
120
80
60
40      -             X                     ' ,                   -    cc l  l
I r                       , nr s            .- -s  'd  .p .- r: fo  Pi
1/ There were no formal revisions made to the disbursement schedule, despite the restructuring for Pinatubo.



12
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
No implementation indicators were required or developed for the project.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No operations phase indicators were required or developed for the project.
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study Name           Purpose as defined at  Status    Impact of Study
Appraisal/redefined
Geologic             The work was          Complete  SAR data has been collected and
Interpretation of    undefined at appraisal,         interpreted for all Luzon and is
Synthetic Aperture   but was designed to             available for design and policy
Radar Data for Luzon   provide maps detailing        consideration. It has been used, for
and Preparation of   seismic risk for policy         example, by the Bridge Retrofit
Seismic Hazard Maps  (zoning) and design             Program and to relocate several
consideration.                 hospitals under the Project.
Environmental        Undefined at          Complete  The guidelines handbook was
Guidelines and       appraisal; a handbook           completed and multiple seminars
Proposals for Post-    for environmental             and briefings held to disseminate
Earthquake           considerations in               results. Copies of the guidelines are
Infrastructure Projects  infrastructure projects     widely held and used in design and
implementation.
Reconstruction       Proposals upon which   Complete  As anticipated at appraisal, the
Proposals (Baguio    the selection of World          Reconstruction Proposals provided
City, Dagupan City,    Bank-financed                 the basis for selection of projects
and Agoo)            reconstruction projects         eligible for Bank financing.
would be based.
Hydrogeological and   To update information  Complete  The studies' methodologies and
Structural Survey of    on the hydrogeological       conclusions were questioned by the
Masiway and          nature of the                   Bank's irrigation specialist.
Pantabangan Dams     watersheds and to
assess the extent of
damage to the dams
caused by the
earthquake.



13
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ Millions)
Local             Foreign            Total
SAR      Actual    SAR    Actual   SAR    Actual
Roads and Bridges              35.7      37.5     47.0     49.3    82.7    86.8
Housing /I                      9.4       8.8      4.2      4.0    13.6    12.8
Medical Facilities              5.2       5.3      6.4      6.5    11.6    11.7
Irrigation Systems              9.7      11.3      6.5      7.6    16.2    18.9
Critical Construction
Materials and Commodities       -         -       25.0     25.0    25.0    25.0
Technical Assistance            2.0       1.5      6.5      4.7     8.5      6.2
Physical Contingencies          6.0       -        6.5      -       12.5     -
Price Contingencies             8.4       -        4.2      -       12.6
Total Project Cost          76.4      64.4  1 06.3       97.1   182.7   161.5
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ Millions)
Local             Foreign            Total
SAR      Actual    SAR    Actual   SAR A  Actual
Government                     57.7      52.2        -        -    57.7    52.2
IBRD                           18.7      12.2    106.3     97.1   125.0   109.3
Total Financing               76.4      64.4    106.3 "   97.1   182.7   161.5
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic costs and benefits of this Emergency Lending Operation were not required to be
calculated during appraisal and have not, therefore, been calculated for the ICR.



14
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section         Covenant Description   Status            Comments
3.01 (b)        Borrower shall relend a    NA            This covenant was made
portion of the proceeds to               unnecessary by the Pinatubo
NHMFC under a                            amendment.
subsidiary loan agreement
3.01 (d)       NHMFC shall onlend the   NA               This covenant was made
proceeds of the subsidiary               unnecessary by the Pinatubo
loan to the housing entity               amendment.
as construction loans and
then to mortgage loans to
the beneficiaries
4.01            Borrower shall submit    NC              While audits were ultimately
audited financial                        received and acceptable, they
statements for the project               were consistently very late,
accounts, including the                  necessitating suspension of
special account, as well as              disbursements, in some cases
a separate opinion on                    for up to 2 1/2 years.
SOEs by June 30 of each
year
Schedule 5     Borrower shall prepare    C               Proposals offered by the
reconstruction proposals                 implementing agencies were
for the affected area by                 acceptable to the Bank.
3/31/91 and submit them
for review by a panel of
experts                  _
KEY: NA = Not Applicable; NC = Not Complied; C   Complied
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There was no significant lack of compliance with the Operational Directives, which were
followed quite closely during project design.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Project Stage       Staffweeks              Dollars
Preparation            13.9                 40,800
Appraisal              13.2                 37,000
Negotiation/Board       7.4                 24,900
Supervision           99.1                312,500
ICR                     7.0                 23,600
Total                 140.6                438,800
Source: Staff Use and Schedule (Product View) Report COSR20



15
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Mission Type     Mission Dates        Mission Personnel
Initial Assessment 7/17/90            Resident Representative, highway engineer, port
consultant
Appraisal/Negot.  8/9 - 9/14/90       Financial analyst (TM), seismic engineer,
housing specialist, urban planner/engineer,
water engineer, highway engineer, lawyer
Supervision I    11/5 - 11/9/90       Financial analyst (TM), housing specialist
Supervision II    12/90               Sr. Architect, health facility expert
Supervision III    1/27 - 2/1/91      Irrigation specialist
Supervision IV   5/20 - 5/26/91       Financial Analyst (TM)
Supervision V    7/91                 Sr. Architect, health facility expert
Supervision VI    9/12/91             Highway engineer
Supervision VII   11/5 - 11/15/91     Financial Analyst (TM), housing specialist,
geographical information systems specialist
Supervision VIII  2/3 - 2/5/92        Sr. Architect
Supervision IX    3/23 - 3/27/92      Highway engineer
Supervision X    3/1 - 3/16/92        Housing specialist
Supervision XI    5/1 - 5/8/92        Irrigation specialist
Supervision XII   9/7 - 9/11/92       Financial analyst (TM)
Supervision XIII  10/12 - 10/19/92    Sr. Architect
Supervision XIV   10/19 - 10/30/92    Housing specialist
Supervision XV    6/17 - 6/22/93      Sr. Architect, housing specialist
Supervision XVI   5/18 - 5/27/94      Financial analyst (TM), highway engineer
Supervision XVII  11/14 - 11/18/94    Financial analyst (TM)
Supervision XVIII 3/1 - 3/3/95        Sr. Economist (irrigation expert), 2 consultants
Supervision XIX   11/1 - 11/21/95     Highway engineer (TM)
Supervision XX    3/20 - 3/22/96      Highway engineer (TM)
ICR Mission      3/4 - 14/97          Highway engineer (TM), Operations Officer



16                           Appendix A
PHILIPPINES
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (LN. 3263-PH)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BORROWER'S PCR EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
FOREWORD
This Executive Summary presents an overall review of the Earthquake
Reconstruction Project (ERP) - its objectives, scope, costs, financing arrangements,
implementation, compliance with Loan covenants, an assessment of the benefits and
beneficiaries, and conclusions, lessons learned and recommendations. The Project was
supported by ADB Loan No. 1053-PHI(SF) ($100.0 million) and IBRD Loan No. 3263-PH
($125.0 million). The Summary draws on the individual Projects Completion Reports
(PCRs) prepared by the four Implementing Agencies - the Department of Public Works and
Highways (DPWH), the Department of Health (DOH), the National Housing Authority
(NHA) and the National Irrigation Administration (NIA); these PCRs are attached in full as
Annexes. The ADB loan was administered solely by DPWH; all four Agencies were
assisted by the IBRD loan.
The IBRD loan closed on December 31, 1996; the ADB loan will close on June 30,
1997. This Executive Summary and the DPWH PCR present the status of the Project as of
December 31, 1996; these Reports will be updated after the closure of the ADB loan.
A. Project Description
1. Objectives
The main objective of the multisectoral project was to minimize the adverse
economic and social impact of the magnitude 7.7 earthquake which struck Luzon on
July 16, 1990, affecting an area of about 100,000 sq. km., by reconstruction of
essential public infrastructure including roads, bridges, Governmnent buildings,
schools, hospitals, health centers, housing and water supply, flood control and
irrigation systems. These measures were intended to ensure that normal economic
and social activities could resume promptly in the affected areas. The total cost of
repairing the damage sustained by public facilities was estimated at 15.0 billion,
(about $600 million).
In addition, steps were to be taken to reconstruct the damaged facilities to a
condition at which risk of future damage by natural disasters would be minimized,
and to strengthen existing structural codes and their enforcement. Training and
transfer of technology from international experts to the Government Agencies, local
consultants and contractors were also prime objectives of the project.



17                          Appendix A
2. Official Development Assistance
In August, 1990 the Government of the Philippines (GOP) allocated 10.0
billion (about $400 million) for the public infrastructure rehabilitation and relief
effort; this sum was to be financed from GOP sources and foreign loans and grants.
The principal loans received were from the Asian Development Bank ($ 100.0
million) and the World Bank ($125.0 million). Assistance was also provided by
Denmark, the European Union, Germany, Japan, Switzerland, the USA (through
USAID) and the United Kingdom. The ERP, the subject of this Report, was assisted
by the World Bank/IBRD and ADB loans. A portion of the Government's
counterpart funds was sourced from OECF Emergency Commodity Loan PH-CI5.
3. Executing Agencies and Project Components
Four Executing Agencies were involved in the implementation of the Project:-
(i) the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) (ADB and IBRD
assisted) with responsibility for the rehabilitation of roads, bridges, schools,
colleges, water supply and flood control systems and a limited number of
ports, wharves and Government buildings.
DPWH (together with Local Government Units LGUs) implemented:
a)  1,760 (ADB 596, IBRD 1,164) road and bridge projects
Repair of settled areas, damaged asphalt and concrete pavements;
reshaping of cut and fill slopes; repair of longitudinal and cross
drainage; removal of slipped materials from carriageways; construction
of stone masonry and gabion retaining walls. Replacements of bridge
bearings, repair of bridge decks, handrails, steel trusses, replacement of
Bailey panels; in certain cases, construction of new, replacement
bridges, temporary road detours and temporary bridges. Repair and up-
grading of bridge foundations, piers and abutments, and associated scour
protection works.
b)  57 flood control projects (ADB-assisted)
Reconstruction of failed spur dikes, river banks, bunds; construction of
new river training works. Clearing of channels filled with loose debris
from unstable slopes.
c)  84 water supply projects (ADB-assisted)
Cleaning, redrilling, repairing shallow and deep hand wells. Repair of
water tanks, reservoirs, water treatment plants, storage and distribution
systems, including pipe-work.



18                          Appendix A
d)  2,203 school and college building projects (ADB-assisted)
Repair and strengthening of foundations, footings, floor slabs, beams,
columns, ceilings, roofs, drainage, windows, internal and external walls,
electrical, mechanical, water and sewerage systems.
e)  62 other infrastructure projects (ADB-assisted)
Repairs to public buildings and markets, health centers, ports and
wharves.
In addition, with ADB assistance, 96 important bridges in Luzon,
including 23 in Metro Manila, were seismically retrofitted under the
Bridge Retrofitting Program (BRP) and consulting services, equipment
and incremental DPWH costs were financed. IBRD assisted in financing
limited civil works for the Mount Pinatubo Rehabilitation Project, in
consulting services, equipment procurement, hazard mapping and
training.
(ii) the Department of Health (DOH) (IBRD assisted), which handled the repair
and reconstruction of hospitals and health centers. Eighty-three hospitals,
three DOH Offices, 120 Main Health Centers and 314 Barangay Health
Stations were repaired or reconstructed. In the case of seven of the hospitals,
temporary facilities were provided to allow these hospitals to maintain their
operational capability. NHA assisted DOH in the provision of the temporary
facilities. A total of seven hospitals had to be relocated as the original
buildings were situated in areas of seismic risk. In additional, medical
equipment was procured to replace equipment destroyed by the earthquake.
(iii) the National Housing Authority (NHA) (IBRD assisted); the original housing
component was programmed to reconstruct or repair homes destroyed or
damaged by the earthquake in seven urban areas. However, at the request of
the Government, the loan proceeds were reallocated to assist in the
resettlement of the victims of the Mount Pinatubo volcanic eruption of June,
1991, and the component became the Mount Pinatubo Housing Component,
under the administration of the Presidential Task Force for Rehabilitation
(Mount Pinatubo). Despite the revised use of the loan proceeds, the
component remained within the ERP, and the Implementing Agency was
NHA. NHA constructed ten upland resettlement sites for indigenous tribes
people who had lived on the slopes of Mt. Pinatubo, and two lowland
resettlement sites, for people displaced by ashfall and lahar destruction in the
areas surrounding the volcano.
The works for the upland settlements included site development, roads
drainage, and provision of materials and tools to the beneficiaries to allow
them to construct their own houses, to approved standard plans. The loan
proceeds financed site development, horizontal infrastructure, communal



19                          Appendix A
facilities including health clinics, toilet facilities, school buildings and
markets, and housing construction materials and carpentry tools. For the two
lowland settlement areas NHA provided and prepared sites for basic
communal facilities such as school buildings, health centers and markets,
together with concrete roads, drainage, elevated water tanks sourced by deep
wells and individual house water connections.
(iv) the National Irrigation Administration (NIA) (IBRD assisted), which
implemented the reconstruction of 19 damaged national and 567 communal
irrigation systems including canals, canal structures, diversion works and
roads; 127,080 has. of affected service area were restored. NIA also procured
cranes equipped with draglines, and portable pumps, to desilt canals and
provide temporary water supplies for irrigation respectively. The IBRD loan
also financed technical assistance for the hydro-geological and structural
evaluation of two major dams, including the procurement and installation of
seismological instruments to established a seismic monitoring network.
(v)  $25.0 million was allocated by IBRD for the importation of essential
construction materials required for the Project; this procurement was handled
by the Department of Finance (DOF). Materials imported included cement,
steel, and fuel.
With the agreement of the GOP and ADB, 110 Metro Manila school building
projects in the DPWH program were implemented by the Department of Education,
Culture and Sports (DECS); similarly, certain DPWH water supply projects outside
Manila were undertaken by the Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA).
LWUA's project scope of 52 projects included rehabilitation of intake structures,
pipelines, reservoirs, pumping equipment, pumphouses, power lines, chlorinating
facilities, generator sets, service connections, drilling of new wells and demolition
of old concrete reservoirs and other structures. Close technical coordination was
maintained between DPWH and these Agencies, and their withdrawal applications
to ADB were checked and finalized in the DPWH Project Implementation Unit
(PIU).
The total programmed allocations per Agency (after two reallocations of
IBRD loan proceeds in 1992 and 1993) were:
Agency          Loan Proceeds: $m      GOP input: $m    Totals: $m
equivalent
IBRD         ADB
DOF                    25.00       -                              25.00
DPWH                   64.80       100.00          64.72         229.52
DOH                    10.10       -                3.78          13.88
NHA                    10.60                        4.49          15.09
NIA                    14.50       -                7.75          22.25
Total                 125.00       100.00          80.74         305.74



20                          Appendix A
4. Changes in Project Components
For the IBRD-assisted components, the main changes were the reallocation of
the Housing loan proceeds to the Mt. Pinatubo resettlement areas, handled by NHA,
and realignment of $4.92 million dollars from the roads/bridges and equipment
categories to finance consultants and civil works associated with the rehabilitation
following the Mt. Pinatubo eruption. The Mt. Pinatubo consultancy and civil works
were under the purview of the DPWH Mt. Pinatubo Rehabilitation Project
Management Office; this Office had the administrative and technical responsibility,
and prepared and sent withdrawal applications directly to IBRD.
IBRD-financed Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) imagery was procured for the
whole of Luzon (excluding the Bicol Region) and seismic hazard maps were
prepared for the same area by international consultants. The provision of strong-
motion equipment was deleted from the original project scope, as this was provided
under a separate Japanese-assisted project. A slope stabilization program using
vegetation (vetiver grass) was initiated and three bridge inspection vehicles were
procured, all of which had not been originally foreseen.
For the ADB-assisted components, DPWH and the Bank agreed to implement
a Bridge Seismic Retrofitting Program (BRP) under which 300 bridges in Luzon
were studied and 96 seismically retrofitted. The DOH and NIA components had no
major changes in scope.
B. Project Implementation
1. Implementation Schedules, Planned and Actual
Appendix A shows how the actual implementation schedules compared with
those planned at appraisal of the two loans in 1990. The ADB loan closing date was
rescheduled from December 31, 1994 to June 30, 1997 in three stages. The IBRD
loan closing date was revised from March 31, 1995 to December 31, 1996 in two
steps. In the case of DPWH, the ADB-assisted components (apart from the BRP
activities, which are expected to be completed in June, 1997) were finished by the
end of 1993, as envisaged at appraisal. The IBRD-assisted civil works components
were also completed by the target date of December, 1994, although the seismic
mapping project and bridge inspection vehicle procurement, (not envisaged
originally), were completed in April, 1995 and December, 1996 respectively.
NHA's implementation proceeded smoothly, and the civil works for both
upland and lowland resettlement areas were completed in the third quarter of 1993,
earlier than had been programmed for the original housing project component.
NIA's target completion date was December 31, 1993. However, due to inadequate
budgetary allocations, NIA continued with minor works on its final irrigation
projects until December, 1996, although the bulk of the NIA civil works had been
completed by late 1995. Consultants' services for flood prediction training and



21                          Appendix A
software procurement were only partly completed by the revised loan closing date,
due to time constraints.
The major part (85%) of the DOH civil works were completed by December,
1992. Thereafter limited civil works continued intermittently until the loan closing
date, on specific hospitals in Metro Manila, Baguio City and Kayapa (Nueva
Viscaya), but at a slow pace, due to difficulties experienced in acquiring new sites
for relocated facilities, and funding problems due to the suspension by the Bank of
SOE reimbursements. Completion of the last projects is expected by the end of
1997.
2. Implementation Methods Used
A Presidential Task Force on Rehabilitation (PTFR) was created in August,
1990 to oversee, coordinate, monitor and report on the rehabilitation activities.
DPWH, DOH, NHA and NIA implemented their respective components
independently; DPWH was responsible through its Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) for overall monitoring and reporting to the Banks on the implementation of
the ERP by the four Agencies concerned, on a quarterly basis.
Immediately after the earthquake, each Agency's Regional and District staff,
assisted by LGUs identified, listed and summarized the damage to individual public
infrastructure facilities. These lists were sent to PTFR in Manila, which
consolidated them. Specialized facilities such as airports were handled by the
Department of Transportation and Communications (DOTC), and were not included
in the Bank-assisted ERP.
Each of the four ERP Agencies engaged local consultants as necessary, who
assisted in the validation of projects, designs, bidding, and supervision of
construction. International experts were recruited by DPWH to provide advice not
only to DPWH but to the other Agencies, in fields such as earthquake engineering,
slope stability, building reconstruction, environmental aspects and road and bridge
reconstruction and project implementation. These experts supervised and assisted
the local consultants as well as assisting the Agencies. Project Implementation Units
(PIUs) were established in the Central Office of each Agency, which handled the
day-to-day technical and administrative activities. Civil works were carried out by
local contractors after competitive bidding procedures, by the Agencies themselves
(NHA and LWUA) and partly by beneficiaries (NIA and NHA). Simplified bidding
procedures and negotiated contracts were permitted only until February, 1991;
thereafter normal bidding procedures were followed rigidly. Both Banks agree that
LGUs could implement DPWH projects within their technical and financial
capabilities, provided that appropriate standards and procedures were followed and
that DPWH retained overall responsibility.
NIA implemented its project using a participatory approach in which farmers
were involved in the actual rehabilitation works. Works such as desilting of canals
and repair of minor structures were assigned to groups of farmers on a small



22                          Appendix A
contract basis. Major works were undertaken either by NIA itself or by contractors.
NIA utilized its Regional Offices in Regions 1, 2, 3, and CAR as direct
implementors.
NHA staff designed the civil works, awarded the contracts though simplified
bidding procedures and supervised construction. Resettled beneficiaries constructed
the upland area housing themselves, with materials and tools furnished by NHA.
DOH's Health Infrastructure Services (INFRA) was designated to act as the
DOH PIU, and INFRA was responsible for planning, design, bidding and award,
construction supervision and submission of withdrawal applications to the Bank. In
the design phase DOH utilized its in-house capabilities, DPWH services, and
consultants; the last also provided supervision services. DOH Regional Offices
awarded and administered contracts within their delegated authority limits. The
Hospital Operations and Management Services of DOH handled the procurement of
the medical equipment.
3. Costs and Financing Arrangements
The GOP fully financed all DPWH original ERP civil works and DPWH
claimed reimbursement from both Banks as documents for completed projects
became available. The BRP and Mt. Pinatubo contractors were paid directly by the
Banks. DOH, NHA and NIA also used the reimbursement procedure. Seven local
consulting firms recruited by DPWH were initially financed from GOP sources and
reimbursement claimed later from the ADB loan. The BRP local consultants were
paid directly by ADB; all international consultants were paid directly by ADB,
except the Program Advisors, financed from the IBRD loan.
The importation of construction materials, the procurement of the bridge
inspection vehicles and consulting services were paid directly by IBRD.
The Department of Budget and Management (DBM) initially disbursed ERP
funds directly to certain LGUs and DPWH Regional and District Offices. Such
direct allocations led to problems for the DPWH Central Office, PCU (and later
PIU) in keeping track of the allocation and utilization of ERP funds.
The total costs presented in this Report are the sum of the total costs of all
subprojects or individual contracts to which the Bank(s) made some financial
contribution. Works 100% financed by the GOP and for which no reimbursement
was made by the Banks have been excluded, since such projects generally had
unacceptable technical or contractual features, or insufficient documentation,
rendering them ineligible for Bank financing.
The DPWH had available from the ADB loan $100.0 million, and from the
IBRD loan $64.8 million. DPWH completed 1,760 road and bridge projects (P3.954
billion), 57 flood control projects (P147 million), 84 water supply projects (P54
million), 2,203 school building repairs (P765 million), 62 other infrastructure



23                           Appendix A
projects (P144 million) and the bridge retrofitting civil works are expected to cost
P516 million. The Pinatubo consultants' and civil works' costs totalled P127
million. Consultants' fees and expenses, procurements and the ADB service charge
accounted for the balance of the two loans utilized. However, $9.88 million of the
IBRD loan is scheduled to be cancelled, principally as a result of the non-
availability of acceptable documents to allow any further claims for reimbursement
of civil works costs to be made by DPWH.
NHA's share of the IBRD loan was $10.6 million and this (less $1.65 million
to be cancelled) was used to finance P321.0 million worth of civil works for the
resettlement areas. NIA utilized $14.63 million of loan proceeds and $0.520 million
reallocated from IBRD Loan No. 2948-PH Irrigation Operations Support Project
(ISOP). On the ERP, total costs were $0.6 million higher than programmed, but
$0.52 million of this was financed from Loan No. 2948-PH.
DOH was not able to use all the $ 10.1 million available from the IBRD loan
due to funding problems (partly the result of IBRD's suspension of loan
disbursements from August 1993 to December 1996. $6.0 million of the DOH
allocation is expected to be cancelled.
As of December 31, 1996, the total cost of the ERP is estimated at $282.77
million, of which $192.20 million (68.0%) was financed by the Bank loans, and
$90.57 million equivalent (32.0%) by the Government. Details of the project costs
and sources of financing are presented in Appendix B. $17.43 million (13.9%) of
the IBRD loan is scheduled for cancellation.
4. Consultants and Training
In late 1990 DPWH recruited seven local consulting firms for the ERP civil
works, and subsequently a total of 15 international consultants (7 from firms, 8 as
individuals). The international experts served for periods ranging from 2 months to
6< years as Program Adviser (1), Program Coordinator (1), Technical Specialists (9)
and Implementation Specialists (4). Consulting firms (international) were engaged
for the acquisition of SAR data and the hazard mapping component; for the design
and supervision of the BRP, a local firm was recruited.
DOH utilized local consultants for design and supervision of the large hospital
projects, while NHA relied almost exclusively on in-house staff for design and
implementation. NIA engaged two international consulting organizations for
hydrogeological evaluation and structural evaluation of major dams respectively.
The hydrogeological aspects included a review of the Upper Parnpanga Basin and
activities comprised predicting design storms, reviewing flood forecasting
procedures, providing advice on possible flood damage due to dam breaching and
training of NIA staff in flood forecasting and risk assessment. Two major dams in
Luzon were studied for safety when subjected to seismic forces, and
recommendations made for rehabilitation works.



24                          Appendix A
During the ERP implementation period the international consultants attached
to DPWH participated in 40 earthquake-related workshops, training sessions and
seminars (some conducted outside Manila), and usually as resource persons.
During the hazard mapping contract implementation, two specialized courses
were conducted by the consulting firm concerned on interpretation of radar imagery.
The internatioi.al consulting team after completion of the hazard mapping
component made presentations of the results to the Philippine Institute of Civil
Engineers, and to senior staff of DPWH, other Agencies and academics.
5. Procurement, and Recruitment of Consultants
The essential construction materials ($25 million) comprising cement, steel,
gasoline and diesel were procured as commodities from overseas by DOF. The three
bridge inspection units were procured through ICB. NIA procured cranes, portable
pumps and seismological instruments.
The original seven local consulting firms were appointed directly by DPWH,
with the approval of ADB. The acquisition of SAR data for Luzon was
implemented on a sole-source basis, with the agreement of IBRD, while the
DPWH/IBRD-financed seismic mapping consultants were engaged following
international competitive recruitment. The BRP local consultants were selected
competitively, while all international individual consultants were selected following
requests for and submission of bio-data by firms and individuals, and evaluation by
DPWH. The Banks concurred with the evaluations. DPWH civil works contracts
were generally awarded following LCB procedures acceptable to both Banks.
NHA engaged their contractors through LCB, as did DOH and NIA. Local
consultants were recruited through comparison of technical proposals and
international experts mainly on the basis of experience as demonstrated in their bio-
data, following IBRD guidelines. NHA implementation did not utilize any
consulting services. DOH's local consultants were engaged following the
Government's procedures.
6. Loan Covenants
All four Implementing Agencies complied with most of the loan covenants,
which were not onerous, given the emergency nature of the Project. However,
DPWH, DOH, and NHA all had difficulty in meeting the deadlines for annual
submission of audited projects accounts and financial statements, and at various
times IBRD suspended processing of withdrawal applications. Submission to the
Banks of audit reports with qualifications also resulted in queries from the Banks.
Apart from Audit Reports, the only delayed compliance was the late submission to
the Banks by DPWH of Reconstruction Proposals for the affected areas. Given the
speed of repair and rehabilitation, and the delayed recruitment of international
consultants, it was not practicable for the Government to prepare in time detailed
proposals for every major urban area in Luzon affected by the earthquake;



25                           Appendix A
eventually detailed proposals were submitted by DPWH to the Banks for only
Agoo, Baguio City and Dagupan City, and the Banks raised no objections.
7. Environmental Impacts
The pre-earthquake environment in Luzon was very seriously affected by the
earthquake and its aftershocks. In particular, landslides devastated hillsides, roads
and river systems. Debris from steep slopes found its way into the rivers and the bed
levels aggraded. Vegetation was destroyed, irrigation, flood control and water
supply systems destroyed or damaged, and the earthquake had devastating impacts
on the lives and well-being of millions of people in Luzon.
Most of the infrastructure repair was directed at the restoration of the pre-
earthquake facilities, with strengthening where practicable. But the reforestation and
vegetation of barren slopes and removal of debris from rivers will take many years
to complete. DPWH and NIA have started to use vetiver grass to stabilize hill
slopes and river and canal banks. To the extent possible, the civil works were
carried out to repair as much of the environmental damage as possible without
causing further problems. But depositing surplus material over cliff edges and
undercutting already steep slopes along hill roads was often the only way to reopen
blocked roads providing access to remote communities. An Environmental
Specialist visited all parts of Luzon advising Government officers, consultants and
contractors on the main environmental issues. He drafted new Environmental
Guidelines which were distributed throughout the country, and he prepared five
reports, each dealing with the environmental problems and proposed rehabilitation
in a particular Region of Luzon.
C. Initial Operations
1. Initial Operations Following Rehabilitation
The Government reacted very quickly to the extensive damage to
infrastructure resulting from the earthquake, and, with the Banks' assistance, roads
were reopened, dangerous buildings condemned, temporary repairs to schools and
hospitals effected and plans put in place for the longer term repair or reconstruction.
Basic communications were re established within one week, but devastating
typhoons later in 1990 and in 1991, and the eruption of Mt. Pinatubo in June, 1991
further aggravated the already precarious infrastructure fabric of Luzon.
Nonetheless, life returned rapidly to niormal and initial operation are considered to
have been satisfactory, with roads and bridges reopened (or detours built), schools
reopened and temporary classrooms organized, and makeshift water supply and
health care facilities organized quickly.
Plans were made at an early stage for the medium and long-term rehabilitation
works required, and overall the initial responses to the earthquake are considered to
have been above expectations; the longer term measures are now also mostly in
place. However, it is considered that the engagement of the international experts at



26                           Appendix A
an earlier stage (they did not commence work until February, 1991, 6<< moths after
the earthquake) would have provided expert advice at the time it was most needed.
2. Maintenance and Sustainability
Since most of the damaged facilities were already part of the Government
stock, they were included in annual maintenance programs. Accordingly, after
repair, the facilities have continued to be maintained with annual budgetary funding.
On the advice of both Banks maintenance procedures (in DPWH) are being
reviewed and revised, and features such as maintenance by contract rather than by
administration have already been implemented. Maintenance of damaged facilities
is now more focussed, since local engineers responsible appreciate the need for
regular maintenance, and understand better the mechanism of and potentials for
failure under natural calamities. The introduction of vegetation (vetiver grass) for
stabilization of slopes, now utilized by DPWH and NIA, is another sound
development, as is the use of flexible gabion-based structures for earth-retaining
walls, training works and bridge foundation protection, rather than the traditional
rigid and brittle rubble masonry.
The bridge seismic retrofitting program has lessened the potential for major
failures of 96 bridges in Luzon during an eartlhquake.
3. Benefits and Beneficiaries
The Project achieved its main objective of assisting the Government to restore
quickly infrastructure damaged by the earthquake. Although the Government itself
initially financed the ERP civil works, the Bank loans ensured early reimbursement
of eligible expenditures. The Banks had envisaged at appraisal that the
reconstruction works would be completed by the end of 1993, and this was
substantially achieved, (except for the seismic retrofitting of bridges which was
implemented under a later component, commenicing in July, 1994).
Buildings, water supply facilities and earth-retaining structures were rebuilt to
higher standards, improving their capabilities to withstand future natural disasters.
New bridges were designed to current internationally accepted seismic codes, and
the bridges requiring retrofitting were strengthened to current seismic standards.
Major bridges and flyovers in Metro Manila and bridges on the North and South
Expressways were checked under the BRP; some of the major bridges in Metro
Manila were retrofitted. DPWH Standard Drawings for bridges, school buildings
from one to four stories, gymnasia, public market buildings, other public buildings
and elevated steel water tanks were revised and updated.
Simple environmental guidelines for infrastructure projects were prepared and
distributed. A program for environmental stabilization of river banks and roadside
slopes through planting of vetiver grass was formulated under the ERP. A Unit
within the DPWH Bureau of Research and Standards was strengthened to provide



27                           Appendix A
geotechnical and geological advice to Government designers and supervisors, based
on the results of the hazard mapping work for Luzon carried out under the Project.
NHA were able to develop 10 Upland Settlement areas which were occupied
by about 5,129 families. 380 has. were developed for residential purposes while
3,000 has. were reserved for communal farming. 3,236 residential plots were
prepared in the two lowland sites.
NIA benefitted from the work of international consultants on hydrogeological
and structural aspects of dam safety.
The SAR and Mapping Projects for Luzon brought the Philippines into the
forefront in geologic mapping and lhazard risk assessment. This will enable
planners, designers and contractors in the future to introduce appropriate hazard risk
mitigation measures into infrastructure projects.
Technology transfer was achieved through interaction between the
international consultants and Government and LGU officers, local consultants, and
contractors. Philippine structural codes were revised on the basis of up-to-date
information, largely obtained by the international consultants. With the assistance
(in part) of UNCRD, over forty separate seminars and workshops on earthquake-
related topics were held, with the international consultants usually being the chief
resource persons. Throughout the country a very much wider appreciation of the
need to design, construct and strengtlheni facilities to withstand future earthquakes
and other natural disasters has been developed.
No financial or economic justifications for this emergency project were
prepared by the Banks at appraisal; consequenitly no quantified benefit data are
presented in this Report. The civil work packages were all carried out by local
contractors, generating employment for both skilled and unskilled labor at a time
employment was needed most; in the case of the civil works, most materials were
procured locally. The economic benefits, although not quantified, were substantial
and are considered to have reached the targeted beneficiaries, and normal economic
activities in the affected areas resumed quickly.
D. Conclusions, Lessons Learned and Recommendations
1. Conclusions
It is concluded by the four Agencies concerned that the project was generally
successful. Infrastructure damaged and destroyed by the earthquake was repaired or
replaced in a timely manner. Normal social and economic life in the affected areas
resumed quickly. Technology transfer and upgrading of Government standard
designs and specifications were implemented and the larger structures repaired
during the later stages of the project had adequate seismic-resistant features
incorporated. Government officers in Manila and the Regions, consultants and
contractors were exposed to up-to-date seismic design and construction techniques.



28                           Appendix A
National building codes were updated and state-of-the-art geologic and seismic
hazard maps prepared for the whole of Luzon. The use of local labor and materials
in the reconstruction measures aided the recovery of economic activity in the areas
affected.
Considerable experience was gained by the Agencies in the implementation of
large foreign-assisted projects, and data bases and computer techniques were
developed which are now proving useful in the implementation of regular projects.
However, all Agencies stressed the need for rapid and full release of funds by
DBM; delays in the release of funds prevented timely completion of rehabilitation
works.
2. Lessons Learned
The Principal lessons learned were:
i)  it is essential that systems are established in Government Agencies so that
they can implement at short notice large emergency projects: data bases
should be set up, staff trained in disaster-related activities and a record-
keeping system set in place so that a sudden expansion of the work-loan can
be accommodated;
ii)  if international technical assistance is required, experts should be recruited
quickly, since their most useful advice can be given at the commencement of
rehabilitation efforts. A data base of international consultants (individuals and
firms) experienced in disaster-related projects should be set up in concerned
Government Agencies;
iii)  the early allocation of adequate ftnds is vital to the implementation of disaster
relief efforts. However, direct disbursement of Government funds to Regions
and LGUs may not be the best procedure. Allocation to the Agency's central
office, with subsequent reallocation to the Regional Offices of the Agency,
allows close central control and monitoring of scarce resources;
iv)  after ODA loans have been approved, the Government's budgetary allocations
to the Agencies concerned should be revised to take account of the newly
available (and additional) funds;
v)  it is important that the lessons learned from the Luzon earthquake be
promulgated throughout the Government and to Agency Regional Offices,
since a similar intensity earthquake (or other national calamity) could occur at
any time in any part of the country; and
vi)  NHA considered that its close and focussed project supervision was a crucial
factor in the timely completion of this component; delegation of authority to
the project supervisor and clear delineation of responsibilities facilitated
appropriate responses.



29                            Appendix A
3. Recommendations
i)  the Bridge (Seismic) Retrofitting Program should be extended to all parts of
the country;
ii)  the geological and seismic hazard mapping completed for Luzon should be
expanded to cover the whole of the Philippines;
iii)  the relevant national building and structural codes should be revised whenever
new seismic data become available and thereafter the revised versions should
be disseminated to all Government Agencies concerned;
iv)  the vetiver grass slope and bank stabilization pilot project should be expanded,
and the use of vetiver encouraged;
v)  flexible gabion retaining walls, dikes and river training works should become
standard, rather than the traditional rubble masonry structures;
vi)  in emergency projects the early recruitment of international experts should be
a priority; their most useful input can be made immediately after the disaster;
vii) a network of instruments to measure and record strong seismic motions should
be set up throughout the country;
viii) a Housing Program for families affected by national disasters should be
formulated dealing with various disaster scenarios; in this way the correct
response to a particular calamity can be quickly identified;
ix)  NHA recommends the decentralization of its activities and delegation of
authority to its offices in the Regions;
x)   Government fund allocation procedures should ensure that immediately after
ODA loans become available following a disaster, information on the fund
allocations is passed to the Agencies concerned;
xi)  the Banks should prepare jointly a brief and specific set of guidelines detailing
the documentary requirements for reimbursement purposes on multi-contract
emergency projects; and
xii) COA should be requested to prepare a similar handbook detailing the
requirements for preparation of annual project Audit Reports on large-scale,
multi-contract, emergency projects.



30                           Appendix B
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (LN. 3263-PH)
FINAL AIDE MEMOIRE
OF THE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) MISSION
UNDERTAKEN DURING THE PERIOD MARCH 4 -14,1997.
1.    A completion mission of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank), comprising Messrs. Peter Long, Highway Engineer and Kevin
Page, Operations Officer, visited the Philippines from March 4 - 14, 1997 to review the
implementation of the Earthquake Reconstruction Project (Ln. 3263-PH) and to prepare the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) to be submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors
no later than June 30, 1997.
2.    The mission would like to thank the officials of the four implementing agencies for
the courtesies extended and their excellent cooperation in reviewing and compiling the data
for the ICR. The mission's findings are subject to clearance by Bank Management in
Washington, DC.
Implementation Results
3.    The mission has thoroughly reviewed the four PCRs produced by the various
implementing agencies, reviewed the Project with counterpart staff, and undertaken a two-
day site inspection of representative work accomplished under the Project. Based on its
findings, the mission recommends that the ICR include an overall satisfactory rating for the
outcome of the project. The implementation results would have been highly satisfactory
except for some of the early delays related to lack of counterpart funding and the overall
failure to liquidate the full loan despite the need for the funds.
Main Lessons Learned
4.    Three primary lessons that emerge:
(a)   The project design criteria established in the Bank's Operational Directive
8.50 were appropriate and successful in this project. This reinforces the
suitability of OD8.50 (since replaced by Operational Policy/Bank Procedure
8.50) for future emergency operations.
(b)   The disbursement system needs to be improved to assure smooth
implementation of future emergency projects in the Philippines.



31                           Appendix B
(c)   For emergency projects, which are generally prepared quickly, a substantial
project review should be conducted after one year of implementation. This
may also be appropriate for non-emergency lending operations.
Further Actions
5.    Copies of the Draft ICR were left with the respective implementing agencies for
comment prior to finalization of the ICR. Comments were received and incorporated. The
Bank will send the final ICR to the respective agencies after it is printed.






IBRD 22617
21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
PHILIPPINES                                                                                        1220
EARTHQUAKE
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT,-,,
SEISMIC INTENSITY OF                      Laoag            -
JULY 16, 1990 EARTHQUAKE
180
_  AqAYA \
Intensity VIII-IX
Intensity VIII                      -
Intensity VII-VIII
Intensity VI-Vi.
!   Intensity V-VI     Vigan         Bn    d                                             Tuguegarao
i 49> f    (3angued\
0     Selected cities and towns                /abuk
     Province copitals                 /                                  a
Province boundaries                     $   /
.4.   Epicenter of July 16, 1990   ',///'                                  .
-ra      earthquake                   , ,                /                                              llgan
-17,               S e a          X      t                                                      '                   I SABE LA
1616, I                                                                        uis
'7      7.. o Ae                                   I  I    7i
15 rt,,.tosb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~enjr7                                                          'S f e at,'.
anatuanki't-/                 .2,(
eS /lb
CHN
-15,                                                                                                  NAM~~~~7/    /-Phlppn
0 Th.    -k ..d th. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~0                                  5507
;711y, .. th. P."                                        aloyanh.KILOMETER
W.rB.ZAMBALES                  TIA\~                                                                        MALAYSI.M.&AOPT        Paic
-h 6-6,;.,       Balan    o   An    e                                                                   Sot
1201         MSaaFrnndnSiloWmE
15~~~~ Tfiism~~~~~~~hasb..ner.pondbu  -  .  ~ ~   ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     EPEMBR 99






IBRD 22618
6 w,'od--s07p .d#d; . .                                                            . 120 O  -e      1250    PHILIPPINES
fo    r I   h  -mnioft dcrs                           ........ 01u 
- f . WSa-1 -"d^t H.'                               ,vEARTHQUAKE
11T,.. d.oo.ooo.o.    jo   6
=x1f.m.,                                               a                    RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
200 '4-.'.(                                                                               SELECTED TECTONIC ELEMENTS
occon osub .ovwd. d-i-                  Z
1981                                           -:Pacific Cordilleron System
1981
0                   *A .  Active trenches
1931                                           A   A -    Inactive trenches
40 
1983    0                     ~Fut
1619          iFults
00    Epicentersof destructive earthquakes
LUZON                                         Epicenter of July 16, 1990 earthquake
_                   1a~~~~'o   /
150       1970 7
-~~~~~~                                                      ~     ~~                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;  i 2"  p 'j    i n e 
15                                                1 869                                                                                 15 18   t 17  -
C hin a                                                                 A8A\9\
100                                                                                                            1008*  9<<<syi,918
S e -  t/~~~~~~~~~~"   NEGROS    BOHOLL                                              t        100
18520  1943     ~          88      902                       99
0
01889 ~ ~ ~ 88
*.*1902 \ 
CHINAI1918DORO                           MNAA
1873~~~~~~~~~~(
G,                                                  1069~~~~~~~~   ~   11
CHINA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.   jHONG KONG, U.X.   ~        50                                                              -591
'   MAcAO, POIIT.                                                        BATE
')VIET                                                                                              0I) 1
/ .         ~~~PHItIIPPINES
KILOMETERS
MbUNRI ,}0                                                                                                100      200      300
MALAYStA z'                                                                                                          l P
0,                                                                                                  0             100            200
I N D O N E S INA                                                                                       MILES
..  1200                                        1251
SEPTEMBER 1 990






IBRD 22619
PHILIPPINES                                       1lo2
EARTHQUAKE                                                                                              2
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECI
ROAD REHABILITATION WORKS  9 Laoag
ROADS:                                                                                                                          18
--------    Project roads                                                                       CAGAYAN
Passable
Impassable due to          !
earthquakes
*0*000*    Alternate route
Dote reopened to    Viga7       X Bangued
traffic/                      @Bage                                                  Tgero
0     Selected cities and towns                                           Tabuk  3
O     Province capitals
Province boundaries
*c    Epicenter of July 16, 1990
earthquake
;                              1               <3 l~~~~~~~~~~~~~lagan
/Bontoc
-17                                                             Z                                                 ISABELA                      170-
Halsema Hwy.                                                        Banaue
(1 Sept.J
(I 9 July                        /L                             B         Lagowe
ULA    )f               :Nea Vizcoya
;                 J,  *- J '\s,               b B~~~~~~engue1Rd
(31 Aug.J   San Fernando                     it               --               _
Bouan           X   +     * ,/ Bayombon    
Cabarroquis\ 
(T. Sison Bridge)                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~ritaoo.   N
6 Aug.)  Damortisn  -   .                                                   ./AURORA
Coivo Bige                &                \id  Sante Fe 
Mendoz. Bri dge\                          sl 
11 Aug.)             Dctgupotn -                   
eta                                                                                         160
PAGASINAN: Liwyet  
osales                     San Jose-Santa Fe Rd.
.- Basm an~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                           /tI A 9 l u.) 
t  )   .         \    Sa~~~~Sn Jose                   BaleE&
\   a    _,- '    .  \   /  . s         W     f_  ~~~~~~~Malikba Bridge
/ Camilsg _- ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(21 July)
F   **i\   ong n0  25  50        75
KILOMSETERS
Cabonatuan City                                 1220
li) Iba    9                        .                                                              CHINA
ZAMBALES\.          r~   ~  -    .                      .                                    .       1-H0Nr,KONG, U.K.
\i                     _                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MACAO, POAT.
ngeles                                                                     (M.  Area
.> It ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of
San Fernando d                                                                 VIET              map
-15  TI,). ,.,.p Ao b..o pw w...dby           -                                                                15   INAJ
AhWrSdfio#ssbffluni_lr   >   J i ry  -  {                               /                PIIILIPPINES
bnA/ll  F   -di-. C.rpoI
6.. &H. .- - thi ..P J.Malolos                                                                               I RUNEI,.j
Fo d..oob .. Cmpom,..          MBATAAr                                                                              i MALAYSIA 7
.ueo.pOoomo.od,Ao.,d.doolt>                                                        
horiloryorn,y*#Balango ^3.
I NDONESIA
120'                                     Manila *
SEPTEMBER 1 990






I



IMAGING
Report No.:          18803
Type:     ICR



