C RCUILATNG COPY
FILE  COPY  TO BE RETURNED TO REP0RT DEES"
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1452-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LENDING
TO
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL C-REDIT PROJECT
May 24, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. it may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



J
CURRENCY EJQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit                           Yugoslav Dinar (Din)
Us$1                     =              Din 16.50
Din 1                                   US$0.0606
fln 1,000                               us$60.60
Din 1,000,000                           Us$60,606
Fiscal Year                             January 1 to December 31
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
The currency equivalents given above are as of January 31,
1974.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
STOPANSKA BANRA SEOPJE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLTC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS) with the guarantee of the Socialist Fed-
eral Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY), for an amount equivalent US$28 million,
to help finance the foreign exchange costs of investments in medium and small
scale industry in two of the four less-developed regions of Yugoslavia.
The loan would bear interest at 7-1/4 percent per annum and would be repaid
according to a schedule reflecting the composite amortization schedules of
the sub-loans financed but not to exceed 15 years including 2 years of grace.
US$16.6 million of the loan would be onlent to the Kosovska Banka Pristina
(KBP) on the same terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (R74-1) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic updat-
ing mission visited the country in October 1973 and its findings are reflected
in the report. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth and significant
structural change during the past two decades. GDP at constant prices in-
creased by about 5.5 percent per year and per capita GDP by over 4.5 percent
per year. Average per capita GDP is estimated at about US$900 (1973). The
number of people engaged in agriculture has decreased both absolutely and as
a percentage of the labor force, while the number engaged in industry and
services has correspondingly increased. However nearly half of the labor
force is still engaged in agriculture, most of it on small private farms.
Industry accounts for 23 percent and services for 26 percent of the labor
force.
4.        Economic development has taken place during a transition from a
centrally planned to a largely market-oriented economy, aimed at evolving an
economic system characterized by efficiency and social justice.  Workers'
self-management and decentralization of decision-making are key characteris-
tics. The economic reforms of 1965 and the constitutional changes implemented
in 1971, were important landmarks in the evolution. Increased reliance on the
market mechanism and the opening-up of the economy to international trade were
important policy objectives in the pursuit of efficiency.



-2-
5.        The leading role in economic and social development has been played
by the social sector, which includes government, large scale enterprises and
institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theaters, schools, and which accounts
for 85 percent of the GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. All
the enterprises and institutions are under workers' self-management and re-
sources are under social ownership. There is a private sector predominantly
comprised of peasant farms (with a 10 hectare limit on land holdings), and in-
cluding small enterprises (with a 5 person limit on the number of non-family
workers), mainly in handicraft, construction, transport and tourism. In the
past the private sector has been relatively neglected by government policy.
However, the government has lately been devoting more attention to the private
sector in agriculture with a view to accelerating the growth of agricultural
production.
6.        Despite a policy of fostering accelerated growth in the less-de-
veloped regions, there are major differences in the levels of development
among republics. The more-developed regions are located in the north and
include 65 percent of the population. But this area includes sizeable
pockets of poverty, particularly in private agriculture. The less-developed
regions are in the south and are generally more mountainous and less densely
populated. This makes agriculture and transportation more difficult. The
southern regions are rich in minerals, coal and hydro-power generating po-
tential. The development of these resources has provided the major stimulus
for growth.
7.        Although the economy of the less-developed regions has been grow-
ing at almost the same rate as the more advanced areas, per capita income
has lagged behind because of faster population growth (1.6 percent per year
as compared with 0.7 percent in the more-developed regions). Consequently,
regional inequalities have widened. Average per capita GDP in the less-
developed regions now amounts to about 50 percent of that of the rest of
the country. Yugoslavia's development policy aims at reducing regional in-
equalities by transferring investment funds from the more advanced to the
less-developed regions. In 1972 these transfers amounted to almost US$300
million, about one-third of the less-developed regions' investment expenditure.
8.        In addition to significant regional income differences there are
substantial sectoral income differences. For example, per capita GDP in
private agriculture in Kosovo (by far the poorest region), is just over US$100
or about one-ninth of the national average.  Many private farmers there sup-
plement their incomes by working in the social sector but are not able to
maintain an adequate standard of living. Although incomes in private agri-
culture are somewhat higher in other parts of the country, they remain far
below those obtaining in non-agricultural activities.
9.        Thus far Yugoslavia has had some success in tackling its employment
problem through a combination of relatively slow growth of the labor force
(about 0.8 percent per year), fairly rapid increase in social sector employ-
ment (averaging about 2.9 percent per year since 1968) and a high level of
migration of workers to Western Europe in the second half of the 1960s.
There is still a significant degree of "surplus" labor mainly in peasant



-3-
agriculture. A feature of the employment situation is the growing regional
imbalance between labor demand and supply with the underdeveloped regions
possessing labor surpluses and the developed regions the prospect of growing
labor scarcities.
Recent Developments
10.       Rapid economic growth since 1968 was accompanied by inflation and
balance of payments problems. Many enterprises experienced financial diffi-
culties primarily as a result of over-zealous investment programs and a lack
of financial discipline. To counter inflation and improve the external pay-
ments position the Government, in 1972 and 1973, adopted measures aimed at
restricting monetary expansion, limiting public expenditure, temporarily
strengthening price controls, reducing the growth of personal incomes, im-
proving the financial structure of enterprises and imposing limitations on
external borrowing. In addition, to neutralize the inflationary pressure
on the balance of payments, the dinar was devalued by 16.6 percent in
January 1971, and again by 18.8 percent in December 1971. Since July 1973
the dinar has been floating.
11.       As a result of these measures exports increased rapidly in 1972
and 1973 and imparts stagnated. Aided by a sharp rise in workers' remit-
tances, up 36 percent in 1972, the current account showed a surplus of about
US$420 million in 1972, the first surplus since 1965. A surplus is also ex-
pected for 1973, although not as large as in 1972. Foreign exchange reserves
have risen from the equivalent of about one month's merchandise imports in
1971, to nearly 6 months at present. There has been no slowdown in the rate
of inflation, however, and most prices continue to rise at the rate of 15-20
percent per year.
12.       While the restrictive measures have been successful in improving
the external payments position and the financial situation of enterprises,
they have reduced economic growth. Real GDP increased by only 4.4 percent
in 1972 as against 8.8 percent in 1971; for 1973 real economic growth is
estimated at about 5 percent.
13.       The Social Development Plan for 1971-75 projected an average GDP
growth of 7.5 percent per year in real terms. Meanwhile it has become clear
that this will not be realized.  Even if economic growth in 1974 and 1975
would reach that level, average growth during the period would amount to
around 6.5 percent due to the slowdown caused by the 1972/73 stabilization
measures. Given the slow population increase this would still be rather
high, and compare well with growth during the preceding five-year period
(6.3 percent per year).
The Energy Sector
14.       On a calorific basis 67 percent of Yugoslavia's energy nieeds in
1973 were met from domestic sources. Domestically mined coal remains an
important source of fuel. Practically, all thermal Dower plants are coal
fired. About 39 percent of the oil consumed is of domestic origin. More-
over, Yugoslavia generates more than half of its electricity from hydro



- 4 u
plants despite the fact that hydro capacity has been developed only to about
one-third of its potential. The shortages of electricity that are emerging
are not due to the lack of hydro generated potential, coal or oil, but rather
to insufficient plant capacity, delayed construction and a country-wide
drought which has reduced hydropower output. Yugoslavia maintains friendly
relations with nearby oil producers, so that its oil imports are assured.
15.       In spite of Yugoslavia's relatively low dependence on imported oil,
increases in the price of oil are bound to affect the government's efforts
to improve the external payments position. In 1973 oil imports amounted to
an estimated US$259 million, or 5.4 percent of goods and services imports.
For 1974 incremental oil import payments will be of the order of US$900 mil-
lion, at an average c.i.f. price of US$100 per m.t. (US$13 per barrel),
equivalent to about 15 percent of imports of goods and services. The impact
on the balance of payments vill probably be to create a substantial current
account deficit in 1974 and later years, instead of the surpluses Yugoslavia
has enjoyed recently.
16.       Apart from the adverse balance of payments effect, the indirect
consequences of the world energy crisis are unclear. On the positive side
the heavy reliance on coal and hydropower should improve the country's inter-
national competitive position. On the other hand job opportunities for
Yugoslavs working abroad will diminish if economic growth in Western Europe
slows down. Returning migrant workers would exacerbate unemployment and
housing problems and workers' remittances, which have played a dynamic role
in the economy, may suffer. Moreover stagnation in economic activity abroad
would affect Yugoslavia's exports. The rise in the cost of automobile and
air transportation may influence tourism unfavorably, although it is also
conceivable that the country would attract tourists who would otherwise have
gone further afield and therefore the tourist sector would gain on balance.
Capital Requirements
17.       Yugoslavia is dependent to a large degree on imported equipment
for its economic development. As a result the country has to borrow sub-
stantial amounts abroad. Gross capital inflows have more than tripled
during the last five years, reaching US$1,250 million in 1973, mostly in
medium-term commercial credit. However, due to rapidly rising amortization
payments, an increase of US$746 million in gross inflows between 1967 and
1972, resulted in an increase in the net inflow of only US$224 million. The
growing discrepancy between gross and net inflows reflects a shift, following
the 1965 Economic Reforms, from long-term official loans to medium-term com-
mercial credits as a result of the limited availability of official capital
and the liberalization of foreign trade and borrowing. The United States,
the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, Italy and the United Kingdom
have provided most of the commercial credits. IBRD, the Federal Republic of
Germany, and the USSR have been the principal sources of long-term official
capital.



18.       Until recently it was thought that much of the foreign exchange
needed to finance imports would come from the growth of workers' remittances.
However remittances will suffer as job opportunities decline. Moreover, the
Government wishes to limit the migration of Yugoslav labor abroad. Therefore
the country will need to maintain a high level of foreign borrowing.  Its
gross long-term capital requirements are tentatively estimated at around
US$2.0 billion per year during 1974-79. Around US$500 million of this may
be provided in the form of official development assistance from bilateral
and multilateral sources. The remainder will come mainly from foreign banks
and suppliers. Raising such large sums will be a formidable challenge, but
Yugoslavia's success in the past in obtaining the funds it requires from the
capital markets, and its continued good credit standing, give grounds for con-
fidence that it will be able to obtain the capital inflow required to finance
its development efforts.
Creditworthiness
19.       In spite of the present unsettled international conditions, the
prospects for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade
are good. The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its rela-
tively low dependence on imported energy sources, its pragmatic approach to
economic problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, com-
bine to give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects.
20.       External public and publicly-guaranteed debt outstanding as of
December 31, 1972 was US$1,730 million.  In addition there was US$1,820
million non-public external debt outstanding. Total (public and non-public)
debt service payments in 1972 were US$859 million (mostly in convertible
currencies) equivalent to 20 percent of foreign exchange earnings (24 per-
cent if the debts and earnings in non-convertible currencies are excluded).
With external borrowing projected at around US$2.0 billion per year during
1974-79, the debt service ratio would remain at about the 1972 level, if
exports grow at 15 percent per annum which seems reasonable in the light of
recent export performance and the increases in international prices of
Yugoslav exports. Taking into account Yugoslavia's debt service record
and the measures taken to control external borrowing, as well as the pros-
pective growth of production and foreign exchange earnings, Yugoslavia
should remain creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
21.       High priority projects in Yugoslavia, especially those designed to
improve infrastructure and accelerate development in the less-developed re-
gions, have low foreign exchange components due to the relatively advanced
stage of Yugoslav industry and the competitiveness of Yugoslav contractors.
Were the Bank to confine its lending to the foreign exchange costs of proj-
ects, an adequate contribution to Yugoslavia's external capital needs could
be made only by spreading the lending over a large number of projects, in-
cluding some of lesser priority, thus restricting the Bank's ability to
provide support for specific structural reforms. It, therefore, seems
reasonable to provide some measure of local expenditure financing in the
Bank's lending program.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
22.       The Bank has made 27 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$828
million. Bank lending has generally focussed on infrastructure including
transportation (10 loans totalling US$394.4 million), power (3 loans total-
ling $135 mlllion), telecommunications (one loan for US$40 million) and three
multipurpose projects (totalling US$103 million). Seven loans have been made
for industry including three, totalling US$48 million, direct to social sector
enterprises during the current financial year. Loans have also been made for
tourism and agricultural industries. The proposed loan and an identical loan
for the Privredna Banka Sarajevo being submitted to the Executive Directors
at the same time, would be the fifth and sixth loans to Yugoslavia during
the current fiscal year, bringing the level of commitments to US$128 million.
IFC has made eight investments totalling about US$80 million in Yugoslavia.
23.       There have been delays in the execution of several projects, par-
ticularly the Railway Modernization Program of FY65 (Loan 395-YU), the
Belgrade-Bar Railway Project of FY68 (Loan 531-YU) and the Babin Kuk Tourism
Project of FY71 (Loan 782-YU), stemming in part from the decentralization
of political and economic management in Yugoslavia. Earlier problems were
exacerbated by technical difficulties, inflation, cost overruns and the
shortage of domestic financing. The Bank has stepped up its efforts to deal
with these problems including by increasing the number of supervision and
other missions. The situation is improving. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as at April 30, 1973 and notes
on the execution of on-going projects.
24.       The major objectives of Bank lending to Yugoslavia are to accelerate
development in the less-developed regions of the country; to promote agricul-
tural development, particularly in the private sector, by providing basic
infrastructure and credit for the financing of farm development, equipment
and processing facilities; to promote structural reforms in major sectors of
the economy through improved coordination, the strengthening of institutions
and technical assistance; and to provide Yugoslavia with long-term external
capital and thus help reduce the country's dependence on short-term external
borrowings. These objectives are basically the same as those which have
guided lending in previous years, but efforts to give special support to the
Less-developed regions and the small farmers in the private sector, are being
strengthened.
25.       In pursuit of these objectives loans for expanding the port of Bar,
water supply/sewerage in Dubrovnik, urban pollution control in Sarajevo,
highways, power generation ane transmission, multi-purpose irrigation (two)
and an oil pipeline are planned over the next two years. A fourth loan for
the railways will be presented shortly. An agricultural credit project, with
some of the institution-building characteristics of the proposed loan, is also
being prepared. It would assist pri,'ate and social sector farmers. IFC is
currently investigating several new investment opportunities to encourage
joint ventures which would provide technical, management and marketing ex-
pertise as well as long-term capital.



26.       In addition the Bank's technical assistance has included reviews
of the power, tourism and transportation sectors. Other current Bank activi-
ties include EDI assistance for a project appraisal training institution,
assistance with a study of the Yugoslav capital market which should help im-
prove resource mobilization and allocation; and help in establishing a train-
ing program for auditors in the Social Accounting Service (SAS), which audits
all enterprises and government activities, including several Bank-financed
projects.
27.       Bank commitments to Yugoslavia have averaged close to US$100 mil-
lion annually in the last three years. Although this represents only a rela-
tively small proportion of the country's need for external finance, it is
equivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official capital in-
flow in convertible currencies. Assuming that the level of Bank lending
rises substantially during the next five years, the outstanding debt to
the Bank could rise from 12 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt
in 19712, to 19 percent by 1978. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of
total debt service would increase from 4 percent to 7 percent during the
same period.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
28.       Industry has been the lead sector in Yugoslavia's rapid economic
growth over the last twenty years. Its share of GDP, 36 percent in 1972, has
doubled in the same period. Unlike the situation in many other developing
countries, industrial growth has been generally outward-oriented. The major
growth industries, all capital-intensive, were electrical equipment, chemicals,
petroleum and pulp and paper. Average growth took place in rubber products,
iron and steel, and food processing. Leather, textiles and wood products were
typical of the slower-growing industries.  Both market and supply constraints
slowed industrial growth towards the end of the sixties, due partly to the
country's balance of payments difficulties. A more significant constraint was
the structural imbalance in the sector. In the second half of the sixties,
by comparison with the first, there was a sharp increase in the ratio of new
capital investment to new jobs created. Production in all branches of indus-
try tended to become more capital-intensive. The share of capital-intensive
industries in industrial employment similarly increased. The decentralization
of economic management contributed to the making of some imprudent investments
in steel, chemicals and pulp and paper, i.e. those industries whose product
prices were generally higher in relation to world market prices than those of
more labor-intensive industries. However there were major achievements in,
for example, the automotive and electrical equipment industries.
29.       The main thrust of industrial development throughout the country is
presently towards more balanced growth of both capital and labor-intensive
industries.  The basic industries will contint.e to be of primary importance
for some time to come, and the concomitant structural and employment problems
will remain.



- 8 -
30.       Enterprises employing more than 1000 persons predominate in the
industrial sector, accounting for nearly 63 percent of the social product
(1970). Enterprises with 125 persons or less account for only 3 percent.
This concentration in larger units is an unusual characteristic in develop-
ing countries and one which the figures understate since many Yugoslav en-
terprises are linked either horizontally or vertically in "kombinats".
Tntegration clearly brings economies of scale and strengthens world market
competitiveness. It can also weaken the edge of an enterprise within
Yugoslavia, by depriving it of competitors.
31.       External trade in manufactures plays an important role in Yugoslavia.
From 1961 to 1971, industrial exports grew on average by 14 percent per annum,
considerably faster than industrial output. Exports were diversified, metal
products and engineering goods accounting for one-third of the total. By
1970 industrial exports amounted to 85 percent of total exports. Industrial
imports, meantime, grew pari passu. In 1971, as in 1955, they were twice the
level of industrial exports. Significantly the ratio of direct and indirect
industrial imports to the value of industrial production has risen. A policy
of import substitution would not be appropriate. The raw materials and intiBr-
mediate goods which make up the bulk of imports could not be produced in
Yugoslavia at acceptable cost. Furthermore they can be imported on attractive
terms from countries with which it has clearing accounts, in exchange for
domestic finished products which are sometimes difficult to sell elsewhere.
32.       The major industrial incentives have traditionally worked through
the foreign exchange, import duties - export subsidies and price control sys-
tems, and low interest rates. With the opening-up of the economy there has
been a general reduction in quantitative restrictions and import duties. The
average duty on all imports in 1971 was 12 percent. But more than one-half
of total imports fall outside the restrictive regime. In line with decreasing
tariff protection, export subsidies have been reduced. Export premiums have
been replaced by foreign exchange retention quotas, which give enterprises
unrestricted use of a portion of the foreign exchange they earn (usually 20
percent of export proceeds in the industrial sector). The effective level
of protection varies in different branches of the industrial sector according
to the mix of tariffs, retention quotas and taxation. In general effective
tariffs are higher than but closely correlated with nominal tariffs and, in
relation to other countries, quite low. Most price controls have been removed
or relaxed, especially since 1972, although basic industries are still more
subject to them than processing ones. Interest rate ceilings were removed in
1971 but real interest rates have remained low.
33.       The growing autonomy of enterprises in the late sixties led to a
rapid increase in personal compensation for tLe workers, partly in line with
official policies. The trend has given rise to concern and the prevalent
feeling in Yugoslavia is that enterprise self-financing is too low, bearing
in mind the very high level of gross national savings (27.7 percent in 1971).
Some basic industries in the less-developed regions borrow from federai. sources
at a rate as low as three percent and -nhis encourages distortions and exces-
sively capital-intensive designs for industrial plants. Moreover the system



of price and income formation has contributed to a lack of inter-industry and,
in particular, inter-regional mobility of capital. Adequate legislative pro-
tection has existed since 1967 to encourage foreign investment, generally in
the form of joint ventures with 51 percent of the shares being held locally.
Some of the more successful ventures under this umbrella have been in the
automotive industry.
34.       Within the basic macro-economic framework prepared by the Federal
Planning Institute, individual enterprises, through their Republics or Prov-
inces, participate actively in the formulation of the regional development
plans. Implementation of the plans rests primarily with the enterprises,
guided by market forces and the availability of finance. The Republics also
play an important role through the preferential financing they have at their
disposal.  Industrial production during the current national development plan
(1971-75) is projected to grow at 8 percent per year. Special emphasis is
being given to those basic industries whose development lagged in the past,
and to the less developed regions.
35.       Bank lending strategy in the industrial sector since 1967 has been
to help finance the modernization of key enterprises which were unable to
find the necessary foreign exchange on suitable terms elsewhere. It is like-
ly that fnuture lending to the industrial sector will be concentrated on further
lines of credit made available to thH less-developed regions, to finance the
importation of equipment for the smal-ler, more labor-intensive entexprisese IFC
is likely to concentrate, as in the past, on promoting joint ventures.
Less-Deloped  'gions
36.       Development policy in Yugoslavia has continued to focus on the
growth of the four less-developed regions - Kosovo, Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro which have an average per capita income of US$422
(1972), about half the national average. The regions are characterized by
different ethnic groups and languages. Although these regions have achieved
average rates of growth over the past twenty years approaching that of the
rest of the country, the income gap between them and the more developed re-
gions has widened, primarily because of the poorer regions' higher population
growth. Together the poorer regions comprise 35 percent of the population
but contribute only 21 percent of GDP. Underemployment in these regions is
a significant problem. All the regions are rich in natural resources like
minerals and hydro-power potential. Since World War II the policy has been
to concentrate on developing the power, mining and heavy industries, with
impressive but not always structurally balanced results. Approximately half
of Yugoslavia's steel capacity is located in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro
and Macedonia. The first two regions also have sizeable deposits of bauxite
and expanding aluminum industries. Macedonia and Kosovo harbor the nation's
aeAn lead and zinc mines. There also exists considerable scope for develop-
ing the agricultural and tourist sectors, especially in Macedonia.



- aiJ -
37.       As the main instrument for the transfer of investment resources to
the less-developed regions, the Federal Fund for Financing the Accelerated
Development of The Lass-Developed Regions was established. Federal Fund re-
sources made available to the four regions for all sectors during 1971-73
amounted to Din. 11.2 billion, about one-third of the regions' total invest-
ment resources. Federal, republic and commune funds together make up about
52 percent of the available development finance for social sector industries*
in the four regions; the regional banks provide 30 percent and self-financing
18 percent.  The enterprises' self-financing level is half that of the resi-
of the country.  It should be noted that, since investment data is based on
cash transactions, self-financing includes the repayment of suppliers' credits,
which account for about half of the self-financing figure.
38,       The banks were formed out of the mergers of commercial and investment
banks in their regions. The recipients of the proposed loan are not the only
banks operating in the regions--banks from other regions have branch offices
there--but they do 90 percent of the commercial business and are the only ones
making long-term investments. They acquire their resources from individual
and enterprise savings and foreign financing credits. Federal funds and other
regional resources are channelled through the banks, which thus furnish about
80 percent of the financing of industrial investment. Since the mid-sixties
private foreign capital has been the main source of external funds for the
country as a whole although the banks in the four regions have not been par-
ticularly successful in attracting foreign loans. Most imports have been fi-
nanced through suppliers' credits guaranteed by the banks, sometimes on unfavor-
able terms. The Federal Government is now regulating access to this form of
financing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The Federal Government first approached the Bank in 1966 about the
possibility cf IBRD financing medium and small industrial projects through
some kind of development finance company. The search for a suitable inter-
mediary went on for several years. The main difficulty was the continuing
changes in the banking system at a time when the way was being paved for major
reforms, a process largely completed by the Federal Banking Law of 1971.  At
-he 1972 Annual Meeting the Federal Government suggested that a number of
lines of credit be established to help finance imports for small and medium
size industrial projects in the four Less-developed regions.  This suggestion
was taken up by the Bank during several visits to Yugoslavia, culminating in
an appraisal during September 1973. The proposed project is sum-arized in
Annex III and described in detail in the report "Appraisal of Industrial Credit
Project", Report No. 364a-YU' dated May 9, 1974 which is being distributed sep-
arately to the Executive Directors. It recommends lending US$50 million equiv-
alent through two loans, one for US$22 million to Privredna Banka Sarajevo
*    All industries except handicrafts employing less than 5 non-family
workers.



- t1 -
in association with Investiciona Banka Titogracd and the other for US$28 mil-
lion to Stopanska Banka Skopje in association with Kosovska Banka Pristina.
The Report and Recommendation of the Presidant to the Executive Directors on
the proposed loan to Privredna Banka Sarajevo, Report No. P-1408a-YU dated
May 24, 1974 is being distributed together with this report. The loans were
negociated simultaneously in Washington during April 1974.  The Yugoslav dele-
gation, which was led by Mr. Gavra Popovic, Assistant Federal Secretary for
Finance, included representatives from the four banks concerned.
40.       Both SBS and KBP assumed their present form in recent years follow-
ing mergers of commercial and investment banks in their respective regions.
They are mixed banks offering a full range of banking services, including
long-term lending.  The Federal Banking Law of 1971 lays down the required
financial and organizational structure. Each bank must have at least 25
founders, usually all but the smallest enterprises in each region and in-
cluding a small number of socio-political institutions, and a minimum of
Din. 50 million in founders' capital. SBS is the larger of the two banks
with total assets at the end of 1973 of Din, 25.7 billion.  For KBP, the
comparable figure is Din. 9.2 billion (at the end of 1972). No founder can
hold more than 10 percent of the Founders Fund (the capital contributed by
the founders). Voting in the Founders Assembly is proportionate to a founder's
contribution to the fund. In addition to tne 1971 law, the banks have to com-
ply with directives from the Federal Government and the National Bank of
Yugoslavia covering, inter alia, liquidity and write-offs against income of
uncollected interest. The banks are required to establish reserve funds for
writing-off bad debts. Both banks are authorized by the National Bank to
carry out foreign exchange transactions to meet their clients' trading re-
quirements.  Founders have unlimited liability for their bank.
41.       As a general policy, the short-term resources of the banks are used
almost exclusively for short-term investments and long-term resources for
long-term investments. Most short-term resources are deposits and borrowings
from the National Bank of Yugoslavia through rediscount facilities. At the
end of 1973 for SBS and 1972 for KBP, short-term commitments matched short-
term resources. The situation with respect to long-term funds is rather dif-
ferent in that the banks have a substantial resource gap as evidenced by the
advance commitments of expected Federal Fund allocations. This has the ef-
fect of delaying lower-priority projects.
42.       The banks' income statements for 1971 through 1973 (1972 for KBP 1/)
underline the fact that they do not seek to maximize profits. The statements
reveal that the banks get a low spread on their operations. Gross incomes
less direct financial expenses (including provisions against loss), as a
percentage of total assets, were about 1.2 for both banks. Administrative
costs in both cases were reasonable. Nc distribution of net income has been
made thus far; dividends are ploughed back into the Founders Funds. The
Founders Assemblies were authorized to issue cash dividends from 1973 but
are not expected to do so in the near future. The balance sheets as of
December 31, 1973 (1972 for KBP 11) show that) as may be expected with
1/   1973 data for KBP has not yet been received.



- 12
rixed banks, current assets and liabil ties constitute about 20-30 percent
tf total assets and liabilities. The NatioTIJI Banr has established the
rules for and supervises the liquidity of the banks.
43.       Since the Federal Social Accounting Service (SAS) does not verify
the existence of each bank's assets nor opine whether they are fairly stated,
an evaluation of the banks' portfolios is difficult. There is no proper ag-
Zregating of loans by borrower. Nor do the banks periodically review their
portfolios by individual borrower nor the need for provision against poten-
tial loss on a case by case basis. In each bank the amount of principal and
interest in arrears was covered by provision against loss. But the data on
portfolios in arrears appear to be incomplete and the exact picture on over-
dues is not clear. The position of both banks is expected to improve in 1974
once the Republics carry out a decision to convert some existing federal loans
to the enterprises into grants.  Both bank:s have a relatively high exposure
in one or two "kombinats".
44.       In summary, a full evaluation of the banks' financial status has
not been possible. But both banks are considered able to meet their obliga-
tions under the proposed loan and are considered suitable borrowers. Founders
have unlimited liability. Financial management is sound. The high debt/equity
ratios are mitigated by the fact that a substantial part of the debt derives
from federal funds. But perhaps most important the banks are closely inter-
woven in the economic fabric of their regions and they manage, at no risk to
themselves, substantial funds for their respective Republic or Provincial gov-
ernments and other socio-political organizations.
Audit
45.       Despite the fact that the banks are deemed capable of assuring
their obligations under the proposed loan, it is -mportant that a proper
evaluation of their portfolios should be carried out. Although this has
not hitherto been possible under the auditing procedures of SAS, it has
for some time, been carrying out, with the full support of the Bank and
the help of a foreign firm of consultants, a training program for its in-
spectors aimed at making the level of its audits acceptable by international
standards. With this in mind, it was agreed (recorded in Sections 4.02 of
the Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) that the Borrower and
the Associated Bank would have their accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by the Social Accounting Service or another competent
and independent accounting organization. The Borrower, the Guarantor and
the Associated Bank gave informal assurances that the 1974 accounts of the
Borrower and the 1975 accounts of the Associated Bank, would be audited in
accordance with IBRD guidelines for auditing development finance companies,
and in consultation with the Bank on procedures. The SAS and the Bank would
formulate guidelines setting out the preparatory work necessary for these
audits by the end of 1974.



- 13 -
Management and Organization
460       The banking law, the statutes and the self-management agreements
of the banks allow considerable flexibility in the operation of the banks.
The banks' statutes lay down the powers and responsibilities of the various
management bodies. The Founders' Assembly approves business policy and the
distribution of income. The Assembly appoints the bank's senior executives,
nominates some of the founders to the executive board and the credit commit-
tee, and approves operating policies. The chief executive is the general
manager, supported by assistant general managers who supervise operational
departments. The general manager sits on the executive board (the chief
management body). The credit committee approves loans within specified
limits. As in all Yugoslav enterprises, employees elect a workers' coun-
cil. Unlike other enterprises, however, the council is limited to repre-
senting the s-aff in administrative and operational matters, since the
founders exercise the other traditional functions and responsibilities.
47.       SBS has about 1,300 employees.  KBP is much smaller.  Senior managers
in both banks are competent and experienced. Staff involved with the banks'
long-term lending operations in the industrial sector are qualified and exper-
ienced but not well versed in the economic and financial evaluation of projects
by IBRD standards. A seminar on appraisal techniques will be run by the IBRD
in June 1974 for staff from all four banks concerned with the project. The
head and branch office organizations vary somewhat. But each bank has at
least one department handling long-term project financing by sectors, e.g.
agriculture, industry and mining. Each branch has a separate Founders As-
sembly, Founders Fund and, except for branches of KBP, an executive board
and enjoys considerable autonomy in its operations.
48.       Each bank is the principal channel for financing social and private
sector development in its region. Each handles about 80 percent on average
of the investment funds flowing into the region. Thus its business policy,
which is endorsed by the annual meeting of the Founders Assembly, is closely
allied to the regional five-year development plan. However the banks retain
control over individual investment decisions and there are no restrictions on
a bank's borrowings. It can lend as much as it considers prudent to an enter-
prise. The risk of one enterprise absorbing too much of the bank's resources
is somewhat offset because each bank's founders are also its borrowers and
they generally ensure a wide distribution of loans among themselves.
49.       The real interest rates for long-term funds to industrial enterprises
in recent years have been negative due to inflation. Interest rates charged
by the banks on Federal funds are about 4 to 5 percent per annum (3-4 for
Kosovo) and, on the limited amount of loans made from their own funds, between
8 and 12 percent per annum. IBRD has stressed, through its economic missions
anA disc'lssions with the Government on the study of the Yugoslav capital mar-
ket, the importance of higher real interest rates. The banks have agreed
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, paragraph C5(f) and Subsidiary Loan Agreement,



4
Schedule 2, paragraph C5(f) that the rate to sub-borrowers for funds from the
proposed loan would be at least 9-1/2 Percent per annum.  This wold  be higher
than the 9 percent charged in the two industrial projects (I=  a-d FOB) ap-
proved by the Executive Directors in February 1974, reflecting the recent up-
ward trend in market rates for foreign borrowing.  The sub-borrowers would
assume the foreign exchange r4.sk. It was not considered advisable to attempt
to apply the rate for IBRD furds to the total amount of financing to be pro-
vided for sub-projects since this would penalize such projects vis-a-vis other
projects financed by the banks.  By adhering to agreed financial rates of
return in sub-projects, normally at least 10 percent (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 3, paragraph C5(d) and Subsidiary Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, para-
graph C5(d), sound financing principles can be safeguarded.
50.       The financing of long-term investments in Yugoslavia presents an
unusual problem. Balance sheets for new enterprises show little or no
equity since the initial funds mobilized are usually borrowings. Equity
is built up in the form of retained earnings but debt/equity ratios in es-
tablished enterprises remain generally far higher than in other countries,
especially less-developed ones. This had led to liquidity problems during
periods of economic difficulty. To meet this danger the banks traditionally
and successfully resort to reschedulings, new !endings and occasionally stronger
measures like forcing a change of management. It has recently been recognized
that the system tends to encourage poor financial management and measures
have been taken to encourage enterprises to make a more substantial contribu-
tion to their own investments.
51.       In order to encourage the maintenance of a sound financial struc-
ture in the enterprises seeking TBRD funds, it was agreed that the enterprises
would normally be required to present a financing plan including a financial
structure in which its business funds and reserve funds (equity) would be not
less than 25 percent of its total capitalization (equity plus long-term debt).
Exceptions would be allowed if the sub-project concerned had special financial
and economic merit and the enterprise agreed with the lending bank to increase
its equity over a suitable time to at least 25 percent of its total capitaliza-
tion (recorded in Schedule 3, paragraph C5(e) of the Loan Agreement and Schedule
2, paragraph C5(c) of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement).
Projecte:tions
52.       Both banks do little by way of investment planning except for the
one-year forecast in their business policy statement. Medium-term planning
is furnished by the regional development plans.  A forecast of long-term in-
vestments for the period 1974 through 1976 has been prepared and discussed
with the banks and the other authorities concerned. It shows that, for in-
vestments in all sectors, total long-term investment requirements for both
regions will exceed the financing available from all sources by about US$500
million. The gap is mainly a foreign exchange gap and is expected to be fi-
nanced mainly through suppliers' credits and some additional foreign loans.
About half of the resource gap can be attributed to the industrial sector



- 15 -
and represents an important part of each bank s resource requirements, es-
pecially the foreign exchange requirements of imvorted equipment for mediu.n
and small projects, for which a total of about US$100 million in foreign ex-
change will be needed by the two regions.  Medium and small projects, as a
proportion of total industrial investments, are about 30 percent for SBS
and about 25 percent for KBP. Although each bank is increasingly trying to
obtain foreign exchange loans on its owr. account, the amount of such finan-
cing in relation to total investments over the next three years is unlikely
to exceed 10 percent. The proposed loan would be a modest coritribution to
these efforts.
53.       For illustrative purposes a tenative list of projects for financing
by the proposed loan was drawn up by the banks in April 1974. The average
size of these projects is about US$3.5 million. The projects cover a fair
mix of industries.  More than half are new projects, providing for new plants
at existing enterprises. The others are mainly modernization and expansion
schemes.
The Loan
54.       The proposed loan would be for US$28.0 million, of which US$16.6
million would be on-lent to KBP. The terms would be standard for this type
of loan with amortization over 15 years, including about two years of grace,
according to an amortization schedule based on approximate composite of in-
dividual amortization schedules for sub-loans.  Each of the less-developed
regions would receive a share of the proposed loan related to its allocation
from the Federal Fund. The concept of one loan with a portion being on-lent
to an associated bank is a compromise.  A loan to the SFFY or a federal bank
would have been counter to the principles of decentralization and would, from
IBRD's point of view, have hindered contact with the regional banks. The al-
ternative of )_wo loans would have posed problems for supervision. The pro-
posed loan would be made to the bank considered best equipped to carry out
the obligations of a borrower. It provides for a coordinating mechanism using
the staff and facilities from each of the banks for processing and sUVpesrVs4ng
sub-loans in accordance with the agreed Statement of Operations and Policies
(Loan Agreement Schedule 3, Section C and Subsidiary Loan Agreement Schedule
2, Section C).
55.       The loan would cover about one-third of the banks' foreign exchange
needs over the next two years for medium and small industrial projects,  In
order to encourage the prompt disbursement of the proceeds of thle lending,
the amount allocated to each bank in accordance with the Federal Fund for--
mula (i.e. SBS US$11.4 million and KPB US$16.4 million) would pertain only
up to March 31, 1976, after which the uncommitted portions oF the loar would
be reallocated according to investment opportunities in the twqo regions.
56.       Disbursements from t:he loan account would be made on the 'Dasis of
the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment and against 70 percent of the cost of
imported goods purchased in Yugoslavia, representing the estimated c.i.f. cost.



- 16 -
57.       To cover a significant part of the foreign exchange needs, the pro-
posed loan should embrace about 5-10 projects annually from each region accord-
ing to the size of the region.  Assuming an average project size of about US$3
millilon, with a foreign exchange component of US$1-2 million, lending of US$28
million should be suitable. The loan would provide for a maximum of US$2 mil-
lion to be disbursed for any one project:  the balance of foreign exchange
requirements would come from other sources like suppliers' credits or the
foreign exchange retention quotas of the enterprises themselves.
58.       The proposed loan would be subject to the conditions normally ap-
plied to development finance company loans, such as a free limit on sub-projects
and an aggregate free limit. In this case the limits would be US$200,000 on
individual projects and, for the aggregate, about 25 percent of a recipient
bank's share of the loan. This would allow the IBRD to review about one-half
of all sub-projects financed.
Implementation
59.       The banks would form a Unit, composed of three representatives each
from the Borrower and the Associated Bank, for the purpose of giving guidance
on and reviewing the individual banks' appraisals, carrying out supervision
and being the main point of contact with the Bank. The banks have already
nominated staff to serve on the Unit including, from each bank, an assistant
general manager. The establishmeni: of the Unit would give both banks an
opportunity to participate in the preparation and approval of the projects
which they would be financing. The banks have agreed to establish and main-
tain the Unit and ensure that it operates in accordance with the Statement
of Operations and Policies of the unit (Loan and Subsidiary Loan Agreements,
Section 3.01 (b)).
60.       The power to approve or reject projects would rest with the execu-
tive board and credit committee of each bank, acting on the recommendation
of the unit. However since the borrower bank would have a responsibility
vis-a-vis the World Bank for the total amount of the individual loan, it would
have a final right of approval of the projects approved by the associated bank.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft loan agreements with Stopanska Banka Skopje and the Bank,
the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately, together with a draft subsidiary loan agreement between
the Borrower and the Associated Bank (KBP) which has been agreed with the
parties concerned. The draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements conform to the
normal pattern for loans for development finance company projects but the
Loan Agreement has been modified to reflect the onlending arrangements for
the Associated Bank.



- 17 -
62.       Particular attention is called to:
(i)  Section 3.01 (b) (i) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section
3.01 (b) of the draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement relating to
the maintenance of the Unit;
(ii) Section 3.01 (b) (ii) and (c) of the draft Loan Agreement
relating to the re-lending of a portion of the loan to the
Associated Bank and the re-allocation of the loan between
the two banks after March 31, 1976;
(iii) Section 8.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement which requires the
establishment of the Unit and appointment of its members as
a condition of effectiveness; and
(iv) Section 2.02 of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement which would
give SBS the final right to approve submission of any sub-
loan to the Bank for approval or disbursement which does
not conform to the Statement of Operations and Policies or
sound economic and financial criteria.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 24, 1974



ANNEX I
YUGOSlAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                              Page 1 of 3 pages
AREA                                                           POPULATIOU.                                                 DENSITY
255,800 km                                                         20.8 million (mid 1972)                                      8[ per km2
255,800 k-                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~210 per km2 of arable land
Reference Comparisons
Yugoslavia              Mexico       Spain        Italy
1960         1970           1970         1970          1970
GNP per Capita US$ (Atlas basis)                                                         375           650            670        1,020        1,760
Demographic                                                                                                            44           20            14
Crude birth rate (per thousand                                                          24           18
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                                         10            9               9            8             9
Infant mortality rate (per thousand live births)                                        88           49              67           28           29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                                        62           65              62           71           72
Gross reproduction rate  /I                                                              1.3           1.3            3.1          1.4           1.3
Population growth rate   /2                                                              1.2           1.0            3.5          1.1          0.8
Population growth rute - urban                                                           4.5          3.3             5.0
Age structure (percent)
0-14                                                                                 31           28              46           28           25
15-64                                                                                 63           64              50           63           65
65 and over                                                                            6            8               4            9           10
Dependency ratio /3                                                                      0.9          0.8 /a          1.6 /a       1.0 /a        1.0 Ia
Population density per sq. km.                                                          73           80              26           66          178
Urban population as percent of total                                                    28            35             59
Family planning:  No. of acceptors cumulative (thousand)                                  ..           ..
No. of users (% of married women)                                     ..           ..
Employment
Total labor force (thousands)                                                        8,735        8,700          15,900       12,593 /b   19,534  /b
Percentage employed in agriculture                                                    57           52              47           30 /b        21  /b
Percentage unemployed                                                                  6.7 /c       7.7             ..           1.5/b        3.1
Income Distribution
Percent of -a..onal income received by lowest 20%                                       14.5/e        13.5/d
Percent of national income received by highest 5%                                        9.2/e        13.1/d
health and Nutrition
Population per physician                                                             1,400  /c   1,000            1,850  /d      760  /b      550
Population per nursing person                                                             ..        750  /d           ..       1,430  Id
Population per hospital bed                                                            190  /c      180             550  Id      220  Id      100  /k
Per capita calorie supply as % of requirements  /4                                     119  /f       125  /d        108  /d      111           121
Per capita protein supply, total (grams per day)  IS                                    91  If        92  /d         66  /g       80            88
Of which, animal and pulse                                                            27  /f       29  /d          28  /g       40           42
Death rate 1-4 years  /6                                                                 4.7/c         2.6/d          8.9/b        ..            l.l/d
Education
Adjusted /7 primary school enrollment ratio                                              ..           94  /b         71           91           106  /b,h
Adjusted /7 secondary school enrollment ratio                                           34            45  lb         19           45            56  /b
Years of schooling provided, first and second level                                     12            12             12           15            13
Vocational enrollment as % of sec. school enrollment                                    75            59  /b         23  /k       22  /k       26  lb
Adult literacy rate %                                                                   77            85             76           94  Id        91  Ti
Housing
Average No. of persons per room (urban)                                                  4.5/j,1       4.1/i,l        2.5          0.9/i         1.lIi.i
Percent of occupied units without piped water                                           55  /n        37  In         51           52  /i        28  /i
Access to electricity (as % of total population)                                        94  /m        98  /m
Percent of rural population connected to electricity                                      ..           ..
Consumption
Radio receivers per 1000 population                                                     84           164            276          214  /b       218
Passenger cars per 1000 population                                                       5   /c       28             25           70          190
Electric power consumption (kwh p.c.)                                                  530        1,140  /b         525  /b   1,502  /b   2,123  /b
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                                                   1.5           4.3            3.1          5.8           5.3
Notes:  Figures refer either to the latest periods or to                                  by age and sex of national populations.
the latest years.  Latest periods refer in principle to                                /5 Protein standards (requirements) for all countries as estab-
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in prin-                                   lished by USDA Economic Research Service provide for a minimum
ciple to 1960 and 1970.  Only significantly different                                     allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and 20 grams of
periods or years are footnoted separately.                                                animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
/1 Average number of daughters per woman of reproductive age.                             protein.  These standards are somewhat lower than those of 75
/2 Population growt  rates are for the decades ending in                                  grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
1960 and 1970.                                                                         average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
/3 Ratio of under 15 and 65 and over age brackets to                                      Survey.
those in labor force bracket of ages 15 through 64.                                 /6 Some studies have suggested that crude death rates of children
/4 FAO reference standards represent physiological require-                               ages I through 4 may be used as a first approximation index of
ments for normal activity and health, taking account of                                malnutrition.
envirommental temperature, body weights, and distribution                           /7 Percentage enrolled of corresponding population of school age
as defined for each country.
/a Ratio of p pulation under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force:                  lb 1969;   /c 1962;    /d 1968;    /e 1963;    /f 1960-62;
/g 1964-66;    /h Includes average students;    /i 1961;    /i Urban and rural; jk 1967;   /1 Data refer to dwellings;
Im Dwellings with electricity as % of total dwellings.           /n Urban units only.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
May 8, 1974



ANNEXI I
Page 2 of 3 pages
YUGOSLAI      CNMCDVLPETDT   HE
(amso.nts in mcillions of U.S. dollars)
Actual                   __      rojected                   1960-    1965-    1970-    1974-
1965     1970    , :1972-          1973    1974      1979            1965     1970      1973     1979         1960      1970     1979
3-Year Averagest16-99Pis                   &Exchange Rates            Average Asnnual Growth Rate              As Perceot of CDY
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Dnoestic product                   9-543   12033    13570            14455   15539   22308               6.2      4.7       6.8       7.5       100.6    100.1       99.7
Gairs from Terms of Trade 1+)               7     - 13      - 18            - 3      - 19        69          -29.0     12.5                  -6                             03
Gross Domestic Icm                       9536   12020    13553             14426   15520   22376               6.3       4.7      6.8       7.6       100.0    100.0    100.0
Imports (imd. NFS)                       1626     2800     3154             3267    3571       6175            1.7      11.5      7.4     11.6          15.3     23.3      27.6
Expors(d   N5.Iprts              Capal -1572    -2209   -2533              -2696   -2863   -4876              13.1       7.7      7.2     01.2        -11.7   -18.4    -21.8
Resource Gap                              104      591       622             571       709     1300          -16.1    41.4        6.3      12.9          3.6      4.9       5.6
Consumptiun Expenditure                  6539     8943      9690           10091   10963   15712               4.9       6.2      5.7       7.7         73.3     73.6      70.2
Iovcscmest (incc. stocks)                3101     3761     4495             4916    5366       7964            7.9       4.0      9.1       6.2         30.2     31.3      35.6
Domestic laviogs                         2997    3178      39 73            4345    4658       6664            9.8       1.2      9.6       7.4         26.7     36.4      29.9
National Savings                         3043     3535      4543            5060      5376     7472             9.2      3.0     10.2       6.9         27.9      29.4     33.1
MBRCMANiDTSE TRADE                                      AnsIDt   tCretPie                                                                                   sPreto    oa
Imports
Capital goods                         256       615      685             991      1032     1724             1.6     19.2      14.0     10.9         28.5    21.3       16.9
lntersediate goods  eai   fuel)  728          1679      1867            2422     2522    5324             11.4      19.2     13.0      16.1         51.3   58.4        52.2
Fuels and related materials            72       139     -17 6            314      1010    1572              9.9     13.9     49.0      -9.2          5.4     4.8       15.4
of which:  Petroleum                (32)     (99)   (-161)            (259)    (927)  (1.420)           (2.7)  (25.3)   (17.0)    (9.3)           (3.3)  (3.4)    (13.9)
Coesumption goods                     232       443      505             655       7-60    1369           13.9      13.8     14.4      15.6         14.0    13.4       13.3
Total March. Imports (c.i.f.)    1288         2974      3235            4292      5324   10199             9.3      17.4   -16-.7      1-7 .6      100.0  100.0o    100.0-,
Emports
Primacy products (axeD,  fuels)    322          610      752              921      949     1701             9.9     13.6     11.1      12.5         37.1    36,4       31.5
Fuels and related materials            11        20       19               20       20       20            6.6      12.7        -        -           1.4     1.2        0.4
of shiRch:  Petroleum               (10)     (12)       (9)       1)  (13)           (13)              (27.1)    (3.8)      (..)      (-)         (0.5)   (0.7)      (0.2)
Manufactured goods                    758      1045     0467            1576      1819    34698           16.8       6.6     15.0      11.0         61.5   62.4        98.1
Total March. Exporta (f.o.b.)    1091         1675      2237            2420      2791     5392           14.0       9.0     13.6      14.0        100.0  100.0       100.0
Tourism & Boriur, Crade                  81      275      463              528      620     1358            42.0     29.0      22.3     17.0
VALUE 3D00D BY SECTOR  I/                  Annual Data at 1967-69 prices and Exchang9e Eaten
Agriculture                              2009     2221      2322            2453     3590    3340              4.3       2.0      3.9       5.2         28.4     19.6      15.0
Industry                                 3648     4772      5477            5930     6422    9576             10.7       5.5      7.7       8.4        32.6      40.0     43.0
Service                                  3771     4944      5624            6046     6499    9353              7.5       5.6      7.1       6.0         39.0     41.4      42.0
Total                                    9427    11942   13423             14429    15511   22269              7.0       4.6      6.8       7.5        111 .0    1u00.0    160-0.
PUBLIC PINANCE   2/                                                                                                                                       As Percent of G1DP
Current Receipts..                                4272    4573              4871     5237      751168.                            5.2       7.5..                35.5      33.7
Current E.penditur-.                              3742      4112            4380     4799      6759            5.        .         .9       7.5          .       31.1      30.3
BuiRetary Savings                         .        530       461             491       529      759..                    ..       1.4       7.5          ..       4.        3.4
Other Public Sector                                 -         
Puhlic Sector Invstmet..                           530       461             491       329      359..                    ..       1.4       7.5          .        4.4       3.4
DETAIL ON                     At 1967-69 PIER    As percent Total
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                 Actual                        Est,               PUBLIC SECTOR               Last Plan  New Plan  Last  Iam  New Plan
lAs Ii Tntal Current Expend.)              1965        1970       1971        1977        19 73              INVESTMENT PROGRAM 31    (1968-3D)  219r'-75)   1968-78   (1973-75)
Education                               .         18.4        17.7        18.         180 
Other Sociul Service                               6.4         8.6         6.1         8.4              Social Seotoras.
Agriculture                             .          0.2         0.2         0.1         o.i              Agriculture
other Econom.ic Serviues                ..          .8         5.8         6.2        9.5               Enduatry and Power
Deferss                                           642         594         6.4        6.                 Transpnrt & Conmmunications
Adm,inistration 4 Other       )6.                             594          74        6.1Other
Total Current Expenditures              .        100.0       100.0       100.0      110.0               Total Expenditures
1960-         1965-          1970-           1974-               FINANCING
IELECOTND INDICATORE                       0965          1970            1975            1179
(calculoted from 3-year averaged duosa)                                                                      Public Sector Ea-ings            . 
Average ICOR                            5.4           6.6            4.3             4.7                Domestic Borrowing (net)
I~mport Elasticity                      1.3           2.2            1.6              1.6               Foreigo Borrowing (net)           .
Marginal Domestic Eavings Rate           .46           .04             .27             .29               (ditto in current U.1.$).        .            ..                       
Margisal National la-ings Rate           .45           .14             .32             .30              Total Financing..                             ..
Total Lahor Force                      Value Added Per Worker (1967-69 Prices & Exich. Rates) 4/
LABOR FORCE ARND                          Cm Millions          7. of Total      1960-1970            In G.S.Dollars        N of Average         1960-1970
OUTPUT PER WORROR                       1960 4!   197E 4/   1960       1970  Growth Rate              ItL2       1970      1960       1970   Growth Rate
Agriculture                        4.69       3.93         56       47       -1.7                  428       565       50.5      39.2         2.6
Industry                           1.46       1.89        18        23        2.6                1579       2527     186.4      175.5         4.8
Services                           1.36       1.80         16       22         2.68              1259       2001      149.6     139.0         4.7
Other isl  nmlvd                    .83        .67        10         8       -2.0                                                              -
Total                              8.34       9 82-9     1700-     lID O-      .1                  147      14-40     1 0-0.0   100.0         5.
not upplicabhle
cot available
1/ GDP at market prices
2/   Peieral regionxal and local govereasents, plus specialized funds,
3/ Due to decentralication the public sector only plays a residual role in carrying out investment.  Socialist self managing
e-t-rprises are the prime agents Roe implemeting is...cst-tc plans
4/ Based on data for 1961 and 1971.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Mlay 8, 1974



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3 pages
UGOSLAVIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS . PXT23fNAL MN  DEBT PROJECTIONS
(amoumts in m3illions of U.S. dollars at current priCes)
Avg. Anal
Actual               Estimated                  Projected                      G
1969    1970    1971    1972       1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979       1979
SUMNARY BALANCE OF PAYENTS
Exports (inel. NFS)              2134    2489    2722    3315       3963   14351    5029    5791    6633    7581    8660       15.0
Imorts (incl. NFS               2405    3220   37LO0   399          4l816   6033    6800    7651    8747    9982   11360       13.5
Rosource Balance (I-N)           -271    -731             _ 1i7     -85    -1      -O                       -       - 2700
Interest (net)                  - 90   -109    -128    -148        - 182   - 2314  - 240  - 249   - 256   - 279   - 314         6.0
Direct Investment Incono           -     -  1    -  2    -  3      - 3   - 8   -  14 -  23   -  34   -  46   -  59             49.0
Workers' Remittances              206     440     652     889       1170    12140    1315    1393    1477    1566    1660       6,0
*  Current Transfers (net)       ~45       61     140     152         78      88      98     110      123   _138      155      12.0
Balance on Current Account      -110    -3140    :                   210   - 596   - 612   - 628            -1022   -1268
Private Direct Investment           5      10      20      30         50      75     100     130      150     150     150      14.9
official Capital Grants            -       -       -        -         -       -       -       -        -       -       -         -
Public N&LT Loans
Disbursements                  206      210     275     340        585     711    555      581     527      540     538      -4.5
- Rersvnents                      155    -135    -131    -200       -291    -341   -h52    -472    -454    -384    -343         0.0
Net Dlsbursesents                   i      7      1                  2       370    10      109        72   4          195       89
Other XS&TT Loans
Disbursements                  313      469     723     732       665      807     975    11143   1485    1829    2200       30.0
- J'epayments                   -109    -205    -391    -494        -539    -618    -648    -17    -877  -1098   -1253         15.1
NEt Disoursoments                 2 U             332     2'         )I2             327          5   608    731      947
Capital Transaction n.e.i.      - 72    - 99   -206    - 20           70    - 38    - 82    - 36       26   - 14    - 24        6.8
Change in Net Reservoe          - 78       90      66    -804       -750       0       0        0       0       0       0
GRAND AID) LOAN CQSI"0Zrh
Official Grants and Grant-like    -        -       -       -          -                                                                           Ent.
Publie N&LT Loans 1/                                                        DE33T AND DE   SERV}CBS         V9TO  V70.   1972 
IERD                            30       99     110      83       100       Public Debt Out.    3 *isbursed    1196    1216    1355    1729     2023
IDA                             -        -       -       -          -
Other                           -                                             Interest on Public Debt          53      72       52      63        92
Other Multilateral               -       _       _       _          _         Paymen's on Public              160     169      131     155       291
Goveroments                      77      30     130     875        145        Total Public Debt Service      .213     242      183     218       383
Suppliers                         8      31      13      -          -         Other Debt Service (net)        146     243      468     550        882
Financial lrstitutlons          11       12      -       -                    Total Debt Sarvico (net)        359     484     652      768      1265
Bonds                            -       -       -       -
Public Loans n.e.i.             -        -        1      -         _        Burden on Export IEr.-x-ngs (%)
Total Public R3dT Lc  rs          1       172     25      *9        =2
Public Debt Ser-ic3             8i.9    8.1     5.2      5.0       7.8
Total DeAt Scrvice            15.0    16.2    18.5    17.6        19.4
TOS+Dire't- Thvestavnt Inc.    15.0    16.2    18.5    17.7       19.5
Atual Debt Outstandint on Lec. 31. 1972        Convertible Debt Service       23.6    24.9    24.3    25.2       25.0
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED                     Dieb. On2y              cent               Ratio  2/
EXTF_NAL DEi3T:
Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                                 316                 8.9              Int. as % Prior Year DO&O       4.6     6.o     4.3     3.9        5.3
IDA                                         --2mr.a,'1.
Other Multilateral                           7                 0.2              Asrt. ar B Prior lear DO&D   13.9    14.2    10.8    17.3         16.8
Governments                                859                24.2            lbID Debt Ou s. & Disbursed       216     244     277     316        368
Suppliers                                 187                  5.3             l4D as % Public Debt 060        18.1    20.0    20.4    18.3       18.2
Financial Institutions                     339                 9.5            IB]D as % Public Debt Service    8.5      9.5   114.6    10.5        9.0
Bonds                                       19                 0.5
Public Debts n.e.i.                         2                  0.1
Total Public M&LT Debt                   1729                                 IDA Debt Outstanding & Disbursed  -        -       -        -         -
IDA. as % Public Debt 0&D          -       -       -        -         -
Other M&LT Debt (Non-Public              1822                 51.1           ID, as % Public Debt Service        -       -       -        -
Debt)
Total NMgLT Debt                            1                100.0
not applicable.
nil or negligible.
Ex Fxcluding loans repayable in donestic currency.
i/ Debt service in convertible currency over convertible foreign exchange earnings.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
May 8, 1974



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at April 30, 1974)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number   Year             Borrower                Purpose           Bank   Undisbursed
Eleven Loans fully disbursed                                        296.2
531      1968    Yugoslav Investment Bank         Railways           50.0       3.9
608      1969    Social. Fed. Republic of
Yugoslavia (SFRY)            Roads               30.0       1.5
654      1970    Yugoslav Investment Bank         Industry           18.5        .2
657      1970    Yugoslav Investment Bank         Telecommuni-       40.0      13.5
cations
678      1970    SFRY                             Roads              40.0      15.8
751      1971    SFRY                            Roads               35.0      20.1
752      1971    Hotel "Bernardin", Piran         Tourism            10.0       9.1
777      1971    SFRY                            Multi-purpose       45.0      42.0
Water
782      1971    "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                     Tourism             20.0      18.1
836      1972    Eleven Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia   Power                 75.0      73.1
894      1973    Stopanska Banka, Skopje          Agricultural
Industries      31.0      30.7
916       1973    Naftagas                        Gas Pipeline       59.4      59.4
947*      1973    Kikinda                         Iron Foundry       14.5      14.5
965*     1974   IMT                               Tractor Factory   18.5       18.5
966*      1974    FOB                             Iron Foundry        15.0     15.0
tba*     1974    Bosnia-Herzegovina Road Fund Roads                  30.0      30.0
Total (less cancellation)                                828.1    76.4
of which has been repaid                               100.6
Total now outstanding                                     727.5
Amount sold                               7.6
of which:  Amount repaid                6.1               1.5
Total now held by Bank**                                  726.0
Total undisbursed                                                  365.4
*    Not yet effective.
*<': Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at April 30, 1974*).
Type -of      Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                     Business       Lo.n   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment Corpora-    Investment        -       2.0      2.0
tion for Yugoslavia                Corporation
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.    Automotive        5.0     8.0    13.0
Industry
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev        Automotive
2laribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry         7.5     2.1      9.6
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAkIOS Belgrade/Daimler            Automotive    12.5      2.8    15.3
Benz A.G.                            Industry
1972   Sava/Semperit                          Tires           4.0     1.5      5.5
1973   Belisce/Bell                           Pulp and       13.1      -      13.1
Paper
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/AEMCO               Special steel 10.0       -      10.0
Total Gross Commitments                                 52.1    16.4    68.5
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                                2.2      2.3     4.5
Total Commitments held by IFC                           49.9    14.1    64.0
Total Undisbursed                                       24.9     5.1    30,0
*    In addition, a US$10 million loan for the Salonit Anhovo-cement plant
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 14, 1974.



ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Loan 395 Railway Modernization Program: US$70.0 million Loan of December 11,
1964.
The loan was fully disbursed on October 31, 1972, after the Closing
Date had been postponed from December 31, 1969. However, completion of the
project has been delayed to 1976, duie to financial and technical difficulties.
Project cost estimates increased nearly threefold in dinars (twofold in US
dollars) between 1963 and 1973 because of inflation, devaluation of the dinar,
revaluation of some European currencies and as a consequence of additional
increases in quantities. After 1966 the Yugoslav Railways suffered a con-
tinuous deterioration of their financial position and liquidity for a number
of related reasons. Payments for railway freight services were held back by
the lack of liquidity in the whole economy. The five Railway Transport Enter-
prises which, under the Yugoslav system, are expected to operate on a commer-
cial basis, were restricted by Government regulations in their ability to
respond to changed market conditions. Furthermore, the responsibility of
the Federal Government to meet railway deficits has been transferred to the
Republican Governments, which only now are in a position to assume it.
In order to be able to make proposals for dealing not only with the
difficulties with the Bank project, but also with the difficulties facing the
Yugoslav railways as a whole, it was agreed with the Government in 1971 that
the Bank would undertake a thorough review of the railways' problems. Follow-
ing this review, which was carried out with the assistance of a consulting
team, the Bank discussed its findings with the Federal and Regional Governments
and the Railways. The response of the Governments and the Railways was very
favorable and they agreed to take concerted action to improve the railways'
situation. In vie w of this, the Bank agreed to consider making a further
loan (proposed for FY74) to assist completion of the 1964 modernization
program, provided that certai-n conditions could be met. These are the clari-
fication of government responsibility for the railways and an overall plan of
action both for the Yugoslav railways as a whole and for each Railway Enterprise
(including clear marketing and related operational and financial objectives),
a revised tariff policy, investment and disinvestment proposals, and proposals
for dealing with labor redundancy problems and for improvement in management.
The Governments and the railways have taken and are taking measures to meet
these conditions, and a mission visited Yugoslavia in November/December 1972
to assist in the preparation of new action plans.  Tne appraisal mission
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to raoort any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation or strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
visited Yugoslavia in December 1973. The final size of the proposed project
has now been determined, as the Republics have clarified the availability of
local resources and local agreements have been worked out to clarify the re-
spective responsibilities of the Governments and Railways. Negotiations for
the proposed fourth loan were substantially completed on May 2, 1974, and a
recommendation t:o the Executive Directors is expected to be made in the near
future. This new financial assistance would be concentrated on the comple-
tion of the 1964 modernization program of main lines.
Any further delay in carrying out a minimal modernization program
could further jeopardize the competitive position of the railways in relation
to road traffic and would extend the perioc. in which the economy would not
benefit fully from the large investments in the Modernization Program made
with Bank assistance since 1964.
Loan 531 Belgrade-Bar Railway: US$50.0 million Loan of March 22, 1968;
Closing Date: December 31, 1975.
The completion of this project was originally scheduled for 1973
but geo-technical and other construction difficulties in mountainous terrain
are expected to delay operation of the line at least until 1975. The Closing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1973 to December 31, 1975.
As a result of inflition and cost overruns, the total project cost
has increased from $225.5 miliion to $290.0 million. There is at present a
financing gap of about $35 million. The Federal Government and the Republic
Governments of Serbia and Montenegro have already taken some measures to close
this gap so that financing for all the works to be carried out in 1974, as well
as part of works in 1975 is identified. The necessary financing for the bal-
ance of work to complete the project is expected to be secured in the course
of this year.
Loan 608 Third Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of June 5, 1969;
Closing Date: August 31, 1974.
Construction works under the loan have been substantially completed,
except for the access road in Zagreb, which is expected to require several
additional months. The Closing Date of the Loan was postponed from December
31, 1972 to December 31, 1973. A second postponement to August 31, 1974, has
been agreed. In view of increases in costs, the disbursement percentage has
been reduced from the original 42 percent to 27 percent, in order to continue
disbursements until the completion of these works. Disbursements are proceed-
ing on schedule. A supervision mission is scheduled for May 1974.
Loan 654 Industrial Projects - 1970: US$18.5 million Loan of January 1970;
losing Date:  July 31, 1974.
All three sub-projects under the loan are making satisfactory pro-
gress after experiencing delays of up to 18 months due to slow deliveries of



ANNEX II
Page 5
local and imported goods. The Closing Date was postponed from June 30 to
December 31, 1973, to allow payments of 10 percent retention money under
already concluded contracts of Crvena Zastava and Sisak, and a second time
on December 28, 1973 by seven months to July 31, 1974, to allow disbursements
of final guarantee payments.
Loan 657 Telecommunications: US$40.0 million Loan of February 20, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975.
Delays in civil works have occurred which will delay completion of
the project until late 1975. With the exception of the earth satellite
station, only preliminary works have been completed. A cost overrun for
orders already placed amounting to US$5.1 million, is expected due to cur-
rency revaluations. Following a revision of the disbursement schedule, dis-
bursements are now in line with the revised projections.
Loan 678 Fourth Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of May 28, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1974.
After an initial delay of about one year in starting work on the
Sarajevo-Zenica sections because of difficulties in acquiring the right-of-way,
work on all sections is proceeding satisfactorily and six of the nine sections
have been substantially completed. However, due to delays on the remaining
sections, the completion of the project is likely to be delayed substantially
beyond the present Closing Date.
Inflation and the delays in starting construction caused an increase
over the appraisal cost estimate of about 10 percent. On the basis of a re-
vised cost estimate of construction work in January 1973 the disbursement
percentage has been revised from 43 to 40 percent, effective March 1, 1973.
Disbursement is proceeding in line with the revised projection. A supervision
mission, scheduled for May 1974, will review the revised cost estimate, and
the need for changes in disbursement percentages and for postponement of the
Closing Date.
Loan 751 Fifth Highway: US$35.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971;
Closing Date: September 1, 1976.
After a delay of about eight months in fulfilling the conditioas 2or
effectiveness of the loan, construction work is now making satisfactory prog-
ress on all sections. A 10 percent increase in the appraisal cost estimiate is
expected, and the disbursement percentage will be revised when more accurate
revised cost estimates are available. Disbursement under the loan Ls about
one year behind the appraisal estimate. A supervision mission is seheduled
for May 1974.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan 752  Bernardin Tourism:  US$10.0 million of Loan of June 18, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
After the loss of more than one year owing to delays in making the
loan effective and in appointing consultants, the implementation of the proj-
ect experienced a further delay of one and a half months. As a result, dis-
bursements are behind schedule. Preliminary estimates indicate that the
project, if it were to be implemented as originally envisaged (2,500 beds)
would cost approximately US$34 million instead of US$24 million. This in-
crease is mainly due to rapid inflation, but also to realignment in exchange
rates. As only a small amount of additional financing appears to be forth-
coming, the project might have to be reduced to some 1,500 to 2,000 beds by
eliminating, the most expensive structures with the lowest returns. Such re-
duction will result in a less favorable economic rate of return, but it is
expected that the project would still be viable.
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1976.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. However, the
responsible agency, the Ibar-Lepenac Enterprise, is now well established and
good progress is being made in constructing the project. It should be pos-
sible to complete most of the project by the end of 1976 (i.e., one year
later than originally planned). Disbursements are proceeding in line with
the revised schedule.
Loan 782  Babin Kuk Tourism:  US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971;
Closing Date: July 31, 1976.
There have been delays in the implementation of the project due to
delays in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants.  Because
of these, disbursements are behind schedule. Although these problems have
now been largely resolved, the project is almost two years behind schedule.
This period has been one of rapid inflation in Yugoslavia and project costs
are now estimated to have increased by 50 to 60 percent over the estimate at
the time of appraisal. Unless additional finance can be found the project
will have to be reduced in scale. This is most likely to affect the economic
rate of return adversely, but preliminary calculations indicate that a re-
duced project would still be viable. The consultants are now performing
fairly well and construction of the project is due to start in the third
quarter of 1974.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
After some delays in preparing tender documents, bidding procedures
are now under way. Following the supervision mission in October 1973, pro-
curement is moving faster. The Bank has already approved proposals to award
contracts, representing about 50 percent of the loan amount. However, due



ANNEX II
Page 7
to complex procedures for procurement among the eleven borrowers, disbursements
have only recently started. A supervision mission is scheduled for May 1974.
Loan 894  Agricultural Industries (Macedonia):  US$31 million Loan of May 25, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
This loan became effective on November 28, 1973. The supervision
mission in January 1974 found that there was strong credit demand with many
credit applications expected to be received in early 1974. Stopanska Banka
has already granted 13 subloans and disbursements have begun on schedule.
Loan 916  Naftagas Pipeline:  US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
This loan became effective on March 22, 1974, after almost six
months' delay. Procurement of pipes has been delayed due to the need to re-
tender. These delays are now expected to postpone the start of construction
by six to nine months. Disbursements are about six months behind the appraisal
estimates. A supervision mission visited Yugoslavia in April 1974.



ANNEX III
YUGOSLAVIA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS).
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:             US$28 million in various currencies.
Beneficiaries:       SBS would receive US$28 million of which US$16.6 million
would be passed on to Kosovska Banka Pristina (KB?).
Terms:              The loan would bear interest at 7-1/4 percent per annum
and would be repaid according to a schedule reflecting
the composite amortization schedules of the sub-loans
financed but not to exceed 15 years including 2 years
of grace.
Project             Lending to help finance the foreign exchange cost of
Description:        imported equipment for investments in medium- and small-
scale industrial projects in the Republic of Macedonia
and autonomous Province of Kosovo during FYs 75 and 76.
Final Date for
Project
Submissions:       December 31, 1976.
Free Limit:         US$200,000 for individual projects up to an aggregate of
about 25 percent of the loan.
Special Under-      To establish a unit for the purpose of reviewing project
taking by          appraisal, supervision and liaison with the Bank.
Beneficiaries:
Estimated            Calendar Year             1974  1975   1976   1977   1978
Disbursements:      US$ million:
Annual                0.4   5.7   12.1    8.1
Cumulative            0.4   6.1   18.2   26.4   28.0
Appraisal            Report Number:  364a-YU
Report:            Date:  May 9, 1974



