TR1W*cPY                     ICIRCULATNG COPY
JO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No P-1408a!:'YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LENDING
TO
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 24, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may-not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURBICY EUIVAL2S  *
Currency Unit                          Yugoslav Dinar (Din)
US$l                                   Din 16.50
Din 1                                  US$0.0606
Din 1,000                              US$60.60
Din 1,000,000                          US$60,606
Fiscal Year                            January 1 to December 31
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
The currency equivalents give above are as of January 31,
19714.



INTFRNATIONAI. BANY FOF R- -CONSTRUCTZ.Oii A.ND DEVEL40;  L 
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION' OF T1E PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED TLoP& TO
PRITREDNA BANEA SARAJEVO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        i submit the following report and reccmm.endaticn on a proposed loan
to the Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS2 with the guarantee of the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY), for an amlount equivalent to US$22 mil-
lion, to help finance tthe foreign exchange costs of investments in mnedium-
and small-scale industry in two of the four less-developed regions of Yugos-
lavia. The loan would bear interest at 7-1/4/ percent per arnum and would be
repaid according to a schedule reflecting the composite amortization schedules
of the sub-loans financed but not to exceed 15 years includirng 2 years of grace.
US$6.0 million of the loan would be onlent to the Investiciona Banka Titograd
(IBT) on the same terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMIY
Introduction
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (R74-1) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974.  An economic updat-
ing mission visited the country in October 1973 and its findings are reflected
in the report. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I,
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth and significant
structural change during the past two decades. GDP at constant prices in-
creased by about 5.5 percent per year and per capita GDP by over 4.5 percent
per year. Average per capita GDP is estimated at about US$900 (1973). The
number of people engaged in agriculture has decreased both absolutely and as
a percentage of the labor force, while the number engaged in industry and
services has correspondingly increased.  Howiever nearly half of the labor
force is still engaged in agriculture, most of it on small private farms.
Industry accouxAts for 23 percent and services for 26 percent of the labor
force.
4.        Economic development has taken place during a transition from a
centrally planned to a largely market-oriented economy, aimed at evolving an
economic system characterized by efficiency and social justice. Workers'
self-management and decentralization of decision-making are key characteristics.
The economic reforms of 1965 and the constitutional changes implemented in
1971, were important landmarks in the evolution. Increased reliance on the
market mechanism and the opening-up of the economy to international trade
were important policy objectives in the pursuit of efficiency.



Th.-e leading role in economi c and social development has been -played
by the scc1al sector, which includes government, large scale enterprises and
institutlions such as libraries, hospitals, theaters, schools, and which accounts
for 85 -oercent o'f the GDP and employs over hal f of the total labor force.  All_
the enterprises and instituticns are under workers' self-managerment and re-
sources are- under social ownership.  There is a private sector predominantly
comp.Drisedf of peasant farms (with a 10 hectare limit on land holdings), and in-
Cluding small enterprises (with a 5 person limit on the nuimber O  non f amily
workers), mainlv in handicraft, construction, transport and tourism.  In the
past the private sector has been relatively neglected by goovernmnent policy.
However, the government has lately been devoting more attention to the private
sectcr in agriculfture with a view to accelerating the growth of agricultural
production.
6.        Despite a policy of foster4ing accelerated groethl in the less-de-
velopecn regions, there are major differences in the levels of development
among republics.  The more-developed regions are located in the north and
include 65 percent of the population. But this area includes sizeable
pockets of poverty, particularly in private agriculture. The less-developed
regions are in the south and are generally more mountainous and less densely
Doou1'ated.  This rmakes agriculture and transportation more difficult,  The
southern regions are rich in minerals, coal and hydro-power generating po-
tertial.  The development of these resources has provided the major stimulus
for growth.
7.        Although the economy of the less-developed regions has beer. grow-
ing at a'most tl-e same rate as the more advanced areas, per capita income
has lagged behind because of faster population growth (1.6 percent per year
as compared with 0.7 percent in the more-developed regions). Consequently,
regional inequalities have widened. Average per capita GDP in the less-
developed regions now amounts to about 50 percent of that of the rest of
the country.  Yugoslavia's development policy aims at reducing regional in-
equalities by transferring investment funds from the more ad-vanced to the
less-developed regions. In 1972 these transfers amounted to almost US$300
million, about one-third of the less-developed regions' investment expenditure.
8.        In addition to significant regional income differences there are
-i':;sant4al sector-lI income differences. For example, per capita GDP in
private agriculture in Kosovo (by far the poorest region), is just over US$100
or about one-ninth of the national average. Many private farmers there sup-
plement their incomes by working in the social sector but are not able to
mainitain an adequate standard of living. Although incomes in private agri-
culture are somewhat higher in other parts of the country, they remain far
below those obtaining in non-agricultural activities.
9.        Thus far Yugoslavia has had some success in tackling its employment
problem thirough a combination of relatively slow growth in the labor force
(about 0.8 percent per year), fairly rapid increase in social sector employ-
ment (averaging about 2.9 percent per year since 1968) and a high level of



- 3 -
migration of workers to Western Europe in the second half of the 1960s, There
is still a significant degree of "surplus" labor mainly in peasant agriculture.
A feature of the employment situation is the growing regional imbalance between
labor demand and supply with the underdeveloped regions possessing labor sur-
pluses and the developed regions the prospect of growing labor scarcities.
Recent Developments
10.       Rapid economic growth since 1968 was accompanied by inflation and
balance of payments problems. Many enterprises exoerienced financial difficul-
ties primarily as a result of over-zealous investment programs and a lack of
financial discipline. To counter inflation and improve the external payments
position the Government, in 1972 and 1973, adopted measures aimed at restrict-
ing monetary expansion, limiting public expenditure, temporarily strengthening
price controls, reducing the growth of personal incomes, improving the finan-
cial structure of enterprises and imposing limitations on externa'l borrowing.
In addition, to neutralize the inflationary pressure on the balance of payments,
the dinar was devaltued by 16.6 percent in January 1971, and again by 18.8 per-
cent in December 1971. Since July 1973 the dinar has been floating.
11.       As a result of these measures exports increased rapidly in 1972
and 1973 and imports stagnated. Aided by a sharp rise in workers' remit-
tances, up 36 percent in 1972, the current account showed a surplus of about
US$420 million in 1972, the first surplus since 1965. A surplus is also ex-
pected for 1973, although not as large as in 1972. Foreign exchange reserves
have risen from the equivalent of about one month's merchandise imports in
1971, to nearly 6 months at present. There has been no slowdown in the rate
of inflation, however, and most prices continue to rise at the rate of 15-20
percent per vear.
12.       While the restrictive measures have been successful in improving
the external payments position and the financial situation of enterprises,
they have reduced economic growth. Real GDP increased by only 4.4 percent
in 1972 as against 8.8 percent in 1971; for 1973 real economic growth is
estimated at about 5 percent.
13.       The Social Development Plan for 1971-75 projected an average CDP
growth of 7.5 percent per year in real terms. Meanwhile it has become clear
that this will not be realized. Even if economic growth in 1974 and 1975
would reach that level, average growth during the period would amount to
around 6.5 percent due to the slowdown caused by the 1972/73 stabilization
measures.  Given the slow population increase this would still be rather high,
and compare well with growth during the preceding five-year period (6.3 per-
cent per year).
The Energy Sector
14.       On a calorific basis 67 percent of Yugoslavia's energy needs in
1973 were met from domestic sources. Domestically mined coal remains an
important source of fuel. Practically, all thermal power plants are coal



-4-
fired.  About 39 percent of the oil consumed is of domestic origin.  Moreover,
Yugoslavia generates more than half af its electricity from hydro plants
despite the fact that hydro capacity has been developed only to about one-
third of its potential. The shortages of electricity that are emerging are
not due to the lack of hydro generation potential, coal or oil, but rather
to insufficient plant capacity, delayed construction and a country-wide
drought which has reduced hydropower output.  Yugoslavia maintains friendly
relations with nearby oil producers, so that its oil imports are assured.
35.       In spite of Yugoslavia's relatIvely low dependence on imported oil,
increases in the price of oil are bound to affect the governmlentts efforts
to improve the external payments position.  In 1973 oil imports amounted to
an estimated IJS5259 million, or 5.4 percent of goods and services imports.
Fo-.r 1974 incremental oil import payments will be of the order of USS900 mil-
lion, at an average c.i.f. price of US$100 per m.t. (US$'13 per barrel),
equivalent to about 15 percent of imports of goods and services. The impact
on the balance of payments will probably be to create a substantial current
account deficit in 1974 and later years, instead of the surpluses Yugoslavia
has enjoyed recently.
16.       Apart from the adverse balance of payments effect, the indirect
consequences of the world energy crisis are unclear. On the positive side
the heavy reliance on coal and hydropower should improve the country's 4inter-
national competitive position. On the other hand job opportunities for
Yugoslavs working abroad will diminish if economic growth in Western Europe
slows down. Returning migrant workers would exacerbate unemployment and
housing problems and workers' remittances, which have played a dynamic role
in the economy, may suffer.  Moreover stagnation in economic activity abroad
would affect Yugoslavia's exports. The rise in the cost of automobile and
air transportation may influence tourism unfavorably, although it is also
conceivable that the country would attract tourists who would otherwise have
gone further afield and therefore the tourist sector would gain on balance.
Capital Requirements
17.       Yugoslavia is dependent to a large degree on imported equipment
for its economic development. As a result the country has to borrow sub-
stan'tial armounts abroad. Gross capital inflow,s have more than tripled
...n, tthe last five years, reaching US$1,250 million in 1973, mostly in
med-iulm-term commercial credit, However, due to rapidly rising amortization
payments, an increase of US$746 million in gross inflows between 1967 and
1972, resulted in an increase in the net inflow of only US$224 million. The
growing discrepancy between gross and net inflows reflects a shift, following
the 1965 Economic Reforms, from long-term official loans to medium-term com-
mercial credits as a result of the limited availability of official capital
and the liberalization of foreign trade and borrowing. The United States,
the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, Italy and the United Kingdom
have provided most of the commercial credits. IBRD, the Federal Republic of
Germany, and the lUSSR have been the principal sources of long-term official
capital.



- 5 -
18.       Until recently it was thought that much of the forei;n exchange
needed to finance imports would come from the growtL ofL workers' remitctances.
However remittances will suffer as job opportunities decline. Nlioreover, the
Government wishes to limit the migration of Yugoslav labor abroad.  Therefore
the country will need to maintain a high level of foreign borrowing. Its
gross long-term capital requirements are tentatively estimated at around US
US$2.0 billion per year during 1974-79.  Arounld US$500 million of this may
be provided in the form of official development assistance from bilateral and
multilateral sources. The remainder will come mainly frcm foreign banks and
suppliers. Raising such large sums will be a formidable challenge, but
Yugoslavia's success in the past in obtaining the funds it requires from the
capital markets, and its continued good credit standing, give grounds for
confidence that it will be able to obtain the capital inflow required to fi-
nance its development efforts.
Creditworthiness
19.       In spite of the present unsettled international conditions, the
prospects for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade
are good. The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its rela-
tively low dependence on imported energy sources, its pragmatic approach to
economic problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, com-
bine to give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects.
20.       External public and publicly-guaranteed debt outstanding as of
December 31, 1972 was US$1,730 million. In addition there was US$1,820
million non-public external debt outstanding. Total (public and non-public)
debt service payments in 1972 were US$859 million (mostly in convertible
currencies) equivalent to 20 percent of foreign exchange earnings (24 per-
cent if the debts and earnings in non-convertible currencies are excluded).
With external borrowing projected at around US$2.0 billion per year during
1974-79, the debt service ratio would remain at about the 1972 level, if ex-
ports grow at 15 percent per annum which seems reasonable in the light of
recent export performance and the increases in international prices of
Yugoslav exports. Taking into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and
the measures taken to control external borrowing, as well as the prospective
growth of production and foreign exchange earnings, Yugoslavia should remain
creditworthy for a substantial amount of'Bank lending.
21.       High priority projects in Yugoslavia, especially those designed to
improve infrastructure and accelerate development in the less-developed re-
gions, have low foreign exchange components due to the relatively advanced
stage of Yugoslav industry and the competitiveness of Yugoslav contractors.
Were the Bank to confine its lending to the foreign exchange costs of projects,
an adequate contribution to Yugoslavia's external capital needs could be made
only by spreading the lending over a large number of projects, including some
of lesser priority, thus restricting the Bank's ability to provide support
for specific structural reforms. If, therefore, seems reasonable to provide
some measure of local expenditure financing iln the Bank's lending program.



- 6 -
PART #I - BANK GROUP OPERATIONNS IN YUGOSLAVIA
22.      amhe Bank has mlade 27 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about US$828
nmillion. Bank lending has generally focussed on infrastructure including
transportation (10 loans total'ling US$304.4 millior.), power (3 loans total-
lin- $135 mil1lion), telecommunications (one loan for US$40 million) and three
multipurpose projects (totalling US$103 million).  Seven loans have been made
for industry including three, totalling US$48 million, direct to social sector
enterprises during the current financial year.  Loans have also been made for
tourism and agricultural industries.  The proposed loan and a loan for the
Stopanska Banka Skopje being submitted to the Executive Directors at the
samLŽ tirme, would be the fifth and sixth loans to Yugoslavia during the current
rlscal y.ar, bringing the level of cormitments to US$128  million.  IFC has
rade eight investments totalling about US$80 million in Yugoslavia.
23.       There have been delays in the execution of several projects, par-
ticularly the Railway Modernization Program of FY65 (Loan 395-YU), the
Belgrade-Bar Railway Project of FY68 (Loan 531-YU) and the Babin Kuk Tourism
Project of FY71 (Loan 782-Y ), stemming in part from the decentralization
of political and economic management in Yugoslavia. Earlier problems were
exacerbated by technical difficulties, inflation, cost overruns and the
shortage of domestic financing.  The Bank has stepped up its efforts to deal
with these problems including by increasing the number of supervision and
other missions. The situation is improving. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as at April 30, 19;3 and notes on
the execution of on-going projects.
24.       The major objectives of Bank lending to Yugoslavia are to accelerate
development in the less-developed regions of the country; to promote agricul-
tural development, particularly in the private sector, by providing basic
infrastructure and credit for the financing of farm development, equipment
and processing facilities; to promote structural reforms ir. major sectors of
the economy through improved coordination, the strengthening of institutions
and technical assistance; and to provide Yugoslavia with long-term external
capital and thus help reduce the country's dependence on short-term external
borrowings.  These objectives are basically the same as those which have
gu-ded lending in previous years, but efforts to give special support to the
1ess-developed regions and the small farmers in the private sector, are being
strengthened.
25.       In pursuit of these objectives loans for expanding the port of Bar,
water supply/sewerage in Dubrovnik, urban pollution control in Sarajevo,
highways, power generation and transmission, multi-purpose irrigation (two)
and an oil pipeline are planned oover the next two years. A fourth loan for
the railways will be presented shortly. An agricultural credit project, with
some of the institution-building characteristics of the proposed loan, is also
being prepared. It would assist private and social sector farmers. IFC is
currently investigating several new investment opportunities to encourage
joint ventures which would provide technical, management and marketing expert-
ise as well as long-term capital.



- 7 -
26.       In addition the Bank's technical assistance has -included reviews
of the power, tourism and transportation sectors. Other current Bank activi-
ties include EDT assistance for a project appraisal training institution,
assistance with a study of the Yugoslav capital market which should help im-
prove resource mobilization and allocation; and help in establishing a train-
ing program for auditors in the Social Accounting Service (SAS), which audits
all enterprises and government activities, including several Bank-financed
projects.
27.       Bank commitments to Yugoslavia have averaged close to US$100 mil-
lion annually in the last three years.  Although this represents only a rela-
tivelv small proportion of the country's need for external finance, it is
equivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official capital in-
flow in convertible currencies. Assuming that the level of Bank lending
rises substantially during the next five years, the outstanding debt to the
Bank could rise from 12 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt in 1972,
to 19 percent by 1978. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt
service would increase from 4 percent to 7 percent during the same period.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
28.       Industry has been the lead sector in Yugoslavia's rapid economic
growth over the last twenty years. Its share of GDP, 36 percent in 1972,
has doubled in the same period. Unlike the situation in many other develop-
ing countries, industrial growth has been generally outward-oriented. The
major growth industries, all capital-intensive, were electrical equipment,
chemicals, petroleum and pulp and paper. Average growth took place in
rubber products, iron and steel, and food processing. Leather, 'textiles and
wood products were typical of the slower-growing industries. Both market
and supply constraints slowed industrial growth towards the end of the
sixties, due partly to the country's balance of payments difficulties. A
more significant constraint was the structural imbalance in the sector. In
the second half of the sixties, by comparison with the first, there was a
sharp increase in the ratio of new capital investment to new jobs created.
Production in all branches of industry tended to become more capital-intensive.
The share of capital-intensive industries in industrial employment similarly
increased. The decentralization of economic management contributed to the
making of some imprudent investments in steel, chemicals and pulp and paper,
i.e. those industries whose product prices were generally higher in relation
to world market prices than those of more labor-intensive industries. How-
ever there were major achievements in, for example, the automotive and
electrical equipment industries.
29.       The main thrust of industrial development throughout the country is
presently towards more balanced growth of both capital and labor-intensive
industries. The basic industries will continue to be of primary importance
for some time to come, and the concomitant structural and employment problems
will remain.



- 8- -
30.       Enternrises employin- mor. than 1000 persons predominate in the
incustrial sector, accounting for nearly 63 Dercent of the social. product
(1970),  Enterprises with 125 persons or less account for only 3 percent.
This concentration in larger units is an unusual characteristic in develop-
ing countries and one which the figures understate since many Yugoslav en-
terprises are linked either horizontally or vertically in "konsinats".
Tntegration clearly brings economies of scale and strengthens vorld market
conpetitiveness.  It can also weaken the edge of an enterprise within
Yugcslavia , hy depriving it of competitors.
31,       `,,xternal trade in manufactures plays an important role in Yugoslavia,
Froe, 1961 to 1971, industrial exports grew on average by 14 percent per annum,
considerably faster tban industrial output.  Exports were diversified, metal
products and engineering goods accounting for one-third of the total By
1970 industrial exports amounted to 85 percent of total exports.  Industrial
imports, meanti.e, grew pari passu. In 1971, as in 1955, they were twice
the level of in&ustrial exports. Significantly the ratio of direct and in-
direct industrial imports to the value of industrial productioni has risen.
A policy of Import substitution would not be appropriate. The raw materials
and intermiediate goods which make up the bulk of imports could not be produced
in Yugoslavia at acceptable cost, Furthermore, they can be imported on attrac-
tive terms rron countries with which Yugoslavia has clearing accounts, in
exchange for domestic finished products which are sometimes difficult to sell
elsewhere.
32.       The major industrial incentives have traditionally worked through
the foreign exchange, import duties - export subsidies and price control sys-
ters, and low interest rates. With the opening-up of the economy there has
been a general reduction in quantitative restrictions and import duties. The
average duty on all imports in 1971 was 12 percent. But more than one-half
of total imports fall outside the restrictive regime. In line with decreasing
tariff protection, export subsidies have been reduced. Export premiums have
been replaced by foreign exchange retention quotas, which give enterprises
unrestricted use of a portion of the foreign exchange they earn (usually 20
percent of export proceeds in the industrial sector). The effective level
of protection varies in diffelent branches of the industrial sector according
to the rix of tariffs, retention quotas and taxation. In general effective
riffs ar'   hl-- r  t.han but elosely correlated with nominal tariffs and, in
relation to other countries, quite low.  Most price controls have been removed
or relaxed, especially since 1972, although basic industries are still more
subjech, to them than processing ones.  Interest rate ceilings were removed in
1971 but interest rates have remained low.
33.       The growing autonomy of enterprises in the late sixties led to a
rapid increase in personal comnensation for the workers, partly in line with
official policies. The trend has given rise to concern and the prevalent
feeling in Yugoslavia is that enterprise self-financing is too low, bearing
in mind the very high level of gross national savings (27.7 percent in 1971).
Some basic industries in the less-developed regions borrow from federal sources



- 9 -
at a rate as low as three percent and this encourages distortions and exces-
sively capital-intensive designs for industrial plants. Moreover the system
of price and income formation has contributed to a lack of inter-industry and,
in particular, inter-regional mobility of capital. Adequate legislative
protection has existed since 1967 to encourage foreign investment, generally
in the form of joint ventures with 51 percent of the shares being held locally.
Some of the more successful ventures under this umbrella have been in the
automotive industry.
34.       Within the basic macro-economic framework prepared by the Federal
Planning Institute, individual enterprises, through their Republics or Provinces,
participate actively in the formulation of the regional development plans. Im-
plementation of the plans rests primarily with the enterprises, guided by market
forces and the availability of finance. The Republics also play an important
role through the preferential financing they have at their disposal. Indus-
trial production during the current national development plan (1971-75) is
projected to grow at 8 percent per year. Special emphasis is being given
to those basic industries whose development lagged in the past, and to the
less developed regions.
35.       Bank lending strategy in the industrial sector since 1967 has been
to help finance the modernization of key enterprises which were unable to
find the necessary foreign exchange on suitable terms elsewhere. It is
likely that future lending to the industrial sector will be concentrated on
further lines of credit made available to the less-developed regions, to
finance the importation of equipment for the smaller, more labor-intensive
enterprises. IFC is likely to concentrate, as in the past, on promoting
joint ventures.
Less-Developed Regions
36.       Development policy in Yugoslavia has continued to focus on the
growth of the four less-developed regions - Kosovo, Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro which have an average per capita income of USS422
(1972), about half the national average. The regions are characterized by
different ethnic groups and languages. Although these regions have achieved
average rates of growth over the past twenty years approaching that of the
rest of the country, the income gap between then and the more developed
regions has widened, primarilv because of the poorer regions' higher popula-
tion growth. Together the poorer regions comprise 35 percent of the popula-
tion but contribute only 21 percent of GDP.  Underemployment in these regions
X           is a significant problem.  All the regions are rich in natural resources like
minerals and hydro-power potential. Since Wlorld War II the policy has been
to concentrate on developing the power, mining and heavy industries, with
impressive but not always structurally balanced results. Approximately half
of Yugoslavia's steel capacity is located in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro
and Macedonia. The first two regions also have sizeable deposits of bauxite
and expanding aluminum industries. Macedonia and Kosovo harbor the nation's
main lead and zinc mines. There also exists considerable scope for developing
the agricultural and tourist sectors, especially in Macedonia.



- 10 -
37.       As the main instrument for the transfer of investment resources
to the less-developed regions, the Federal Fund for Financing the Accelerated
Development of The Less-Developed Regions was established. Federal Fund
resources made available to the four regions for all sectors during 1971-73
amounted to Din. 11.2 billion, about one-third of the regions' total invest-
ment resources. Federal, republic and commune funds together make up about
52 percent of the available development finance for social sector industries*
in the four regions; the regional banks provide 30 percent and self-financing
18 percent. The enterprises' self-financing level is half that of the rest
of the country. It should be noted that, since investment data is based on
cash transactions, self-financing includes the repayment of suppliers' credits,
which account for about half of the self-financing figure.
38.       The banks were formed out of the mergers of commercial and investment
banks in their regions. The recipients of the proposed loan are not the only
banks operating in the regions--banks from other regions have branch offices
there--but they do 90 percent of the commercial business and are the only
ones making long-term investments. They acquire their resources from indivi-
dual and enterprise savings and foreign financing credits. Federal funds and
other regional resources are channelled through the banks, which thus furnish
about 80 percent of the financing of industrial investment. Since the mid-
sixties private foreign capital has been the main source of external funds
for the country as a whole although the banks in the four regions have not
been particularly successful in attracting foreign loans. tMost imports have
been financed through suppliers' credits guaranteed by the banks, sometimes
on unfavorable terms. The Federal Government is now regulating access to
this form of financing.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The Federal Government first approached the Bank in 1966 about the
possibility of the IBRD financing medium and small industrial projects through
some kind of development finance company operation. The search for a suitable
intermediary went on for several years. The main difficulty was the continuing
changes in the banking system at a time when the way was being paved for major
reforms, a process largely completed by the Federal Banking Law of 1971. At
the 1972 Annual Meetings the Federal Government suggested that a number of
lines of credit be established to help finance imports for small and medium
size industrial projects in the four less-developed regions. This suggestion
was taken up by the Bank during several visits to Yugoslavia culminating in
an appraisal during September 1973. The proposed project is summarized in
Annex III and described in detail in the report "Appraisal of an Industrial
Credit Project", Report NTo. 364a-YU dated MIay 9, 1974 which is being distri-
buited separately to the Executive Directors. It recommends lending US850
million equivalent through two loans, one for IJSS22 million to Privredna
Banka Sarajevo in association with Investiciona Banka Titograd and the other
for US$28 million to Stopanska Banka Skopje in association with Kosovska
*    All industries except handicrafts employing less than 5 non-family
workers.



- Ii -
Banka Pristina.  The Report and Recommendation of the President to the
Executive Directors on the proposed loan to Stopanska Banka Skonje, Report
No. P1452-YU dated May 24, 1974 is being distributed tcgether with this report.
The loans were negotiated simultaneously in Washington during April 1974.  The
Yugoslav Delegation, which was led by Mr. Gavra Popovic, Assistant Federal
Secretary for Finance, included representatives from the four banks concerned.
40.       Both PBS and IBT assumed their present form in recent years follow-
ing mergers of commercial and investment banks in their respective regions.
They are mixed banks offering a full range of banking services, including
long-term lending. The Federal Banking Law of 1971 lays down the required
financial and organizational structure. Each bank must have at least 25
founders, usually all but the smallest enterprises in each region and in-
cluding a small number of socio-political institutions, and a minimum of
Din. 50 million in founderst capital,  PBS is the larger of the two banks
with total assets at the end of 1973 of Din. 32.1 billion, For IBT, the
comparable figure is Din. 6.8 billion, No founder can hold more than 10 per-
cent of the Founders Fund (the capital contributed by the founders), Voting
in the Founders Assembly is proportionate to a founder's contribution to the
fund. In addition to the 1971 law, the banks have to comply with directives
from the Federal Government and the National Bank of Yugoslavia covering,
inter alia, liquidity and writa-offs against income of uncollected interest.
The banks are required to establish reserve funds for writing-off bad debts.
Both banks are authorized by the National Bank to carry out foreign exchange
transactions to meet their clients' trading requirements. Founders have un-
limited liability for their bank.
41.       As a general policy the short-term resources of both banks are used
alrmost exclusively for short-term investments and long-term resources for
long-term investments. Most short-term resources are deposits and borrowings
from the National Bank of Yugoslavia through rediscount facilities. At the
end of 1973 PBS had a surplus of short-term funds, a portion of which was
used for long-term investments (in accordance with National Bank controls)
and IBT had temporarily used some long-term funds to meet short-term invest-
ment demands. Both banks face a substantial long-term resource gap as evi-
denced by the advance commitments of expected Federal Fund allocations.
This has the effect of delaying lower-priority projects.
42.       The banks' income statements for 1971 through 1973 underline the
fact that they do not seek to maximize profits. The statements reveal that
the banks get a low spread on their operations. Gross incomes less financial
expenses (including provisions against loss), as a percentage of total assets,
were about 1.2 for both banks. Administrative costs in both cases were rea-
sonable. No distribution of net income has been made thus far; dividends
are ploughed back into the Founders Funds. The Founders Assemblies were
authorized to issue cash dividends from 1973 but are not expected to do so
in the near future. The balance sheets as of December 31, 1973 show that,
as may be expected with mixed banks, current assets and liabilities constitute
about 20-30 percent of total assets and liabilities. The National Bank has
established the rules for and supervises the liquidity of the banks.



- 12 -
43,       Since the Federal Social Accounting Service (SAS) does not verify
the existence of each bank's assets nor opine whether they are fairly stated,
an evaluation of the banks' portfolios is difficult,  There 4s no proper ag-
gregating of loans by borrower. Nor do the banks periodically review their
portfolios by individual borrower nor the need for provision against potential
loss on a case by case basis. In each bank the amount of principal and in-
terest in arrears appeared to be covered by provision against loss,  But the
data on portfolios in arrears are incomplete and the exact picture on overdues
is not clear.  The position of both banks is expected to improve in 1974 once
the Republics carry out a decision to convert some existing federal loans to
the enterprises into grants. PBS is able to spread its risks evenly; IBT
has a relatively high exposure in one or two "kombinats".
44.       In summary, a full evaluation of the banks' financial status has not
been possible. But both banks are considered able to meet their obligations
under the proposed loar and are considered suitable borrowers. Their Founders
have unlimited liability. Financial management is sound. The high debt/
equity ratios are mitigated by the fact that a substantial part of the debt
derives from federal funds. But perhaps most important the banks are closely
interwoven in the economic fabric of their regions and they manage, at no risk
to then-selves, substantial funds for their respective Republican governments
and other socio-political organizations.
Audit
45.       Despite the fact that the banks are deened capable of assuming their
obligations under the proposed loan, it is important that a proper evaluation
of their portfolios should be carri2d out. This has not hitherto been possible
under the auditing procedures of SAS. But for some time SAS has been carrying
out, with the full support of the Bank and the help of a foreign firm of con-
sultants, a training program for its inspectors aimed at making the level of
its audits acceptable by international standards. With this in mind it was
agreed (recorded in Sections 4.02 of the Loan Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement) that the Borrower and the Associated Bank would have their accounts
and financial statements for each fiscal year audited in accordance with ap-
propriate auditing principles consistently applied by the Social Accounting
SService or another competent and independent accounting organization. The
Borrower, the Gu,arantor and the Associated Bank gave informal assurances
-.hat the 1974 accounts of the Borrower and the 1975 accounts of the Associated
Bank would be audited in accordance with IBRD guidelines for auditing develop-
ment finance companies, and in consultation with the Bank on procedures. The
SAS and the Bank would formulate guidelines setting out the preparatory work
necessary for these audits by the end of 1974.
Management and Organization
46.       The banking law, the statutes and the self-management agreements
of the banks allow considerable flexibility in the operation of the banks.
The banks' statutes lay dowr. the powers and responsibilities of the various



- 13 -
management bodies. The Founders Assembly approves business policy and the
distribution of income. The assembly appoints the bank's senior executives,
nominates some of the founders to the executive board and the credit commit-
tee, and approves operating policies. The chief executive is the general
manager supported by assistant general managers who supervise operational
departments.  The general manager sits on the executive board (the chief
management body). The credit committee approves loans within specified
limits. As in all Yugoslav enterprises, employees elect a workers' council.
Unlike in other enterprises, however, the counicil is limited to representing
the staff in administrative and operational matters since the founders exer-
cise the other traditional functions and responsibilities.
47.       PBS has over 2500 employees.  IBT is much smaller.  Senior managers
in both banks are competent and experienced. Staff involved with the banks'
ternm lending operations in the industrial sector are qualified and experienced
but not well versed in the economic and financial evaluation of projects by
IBRD standards. A seminar on appraisal techniques will be run by the IBRD
in June 1974 for staff from all four banks concerned with the project. The
head and branch office organizations vary somewhat. But each bank has at
least one department handling long-term project financing by sectors, e.g.
agriculture, industry and mining. Each branch has a separate Founders Assembly,
Founders Fund and executive board and enjoys considerable autonomy in its
operations.
Operating Policies
48.       Each bank is the principal channel for financing social and private
sector development in its region. Each handles about 80 percent on average
of the investment funds flowing into the region. Thus its business policy,
which is endorsed by the annual meeting of the Founders Assembly, is closely
allied to the regional five-year development plan. However the banks retain
control over individual investment decisions and there are no restrictions on
a bank's borrowings. It can lend as much as it considers prudent to an enter-
prise. The risk of one enterprise absorbing too much of the bank's resources
is somewhat offset because each bank's fotnders are also its borrowers and
they generally ensure a wide distribution of loans among themselves.
49.       The Real interest rates for long-term funds for industrial enter-
prises in recent years have been negative due to inflation. Interest rates
charged by the banks on Federal funds are about 4 to 5 percent per annum
(3-4 for Kosovo) and, on the limited amount of loans made from their own
funds, between 8 and 12 percent per annum. IBRD has stressed, through its
economic missions and discussions with the Government on the study of the
Yugoslav capital market, the importance of higher real interest rates. The
banks have agreed (Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, paragraph C5(f) and Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, paragraph C5(f)) that the rate to sub-borrowers
for funds from the proposed loan would be at least 9-1/2 percent per annum.
This would be higher than the 9 percent charged in the two industrial projects
(IMT and FOB) approved by the Executive Directors in February 1974, reflect-
ing the recent upward trend in market rates for foreign borrowing. The sub-
borrowers would assume the foreign exchange risk. It was not considered



- 14 -
advisable to attempt to apply the rate for IBRD funds to the total amount of
financing to be provided for sub-projects since this would penalize such
projects vis-a-vis other projects financed by the banks. By adhering to
agreed financial rates of return in sub-projects, normally at least 10 percent
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, paragraph C5(d) and Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
Schedule 2, paragraph C5(d)), sound financing principles can be safeguarded.
50.       The financing of long-term investments in Yugoslavia presents an
unusual problem. Balance sheets for new enterprises show little or no
equity since the initial funds mobilized are usually borrowings. Equity
is built up in the form of retained earnings but debt/equity ratios in es-
tablished enterprises remain generally far higher than in other countries,
especially less-developed ones. This had led to liquidity problems during
periods of economic difficulty. To meet this danger the banks traditionally
and successfully resort to reschedulings, new lendings and occasionally
stronger measures like forcing a change of management. It has recently been
recognized that the system tends to encourage poor financial management and
measures have been taken to encourage enterprises to make a more substantial
contribution to their own investments.
51.       In order to encourage the maintenance of a sound financial struc-
ture in the enterprises seeking IBRD funds, it was agreed that the enterprises
would normally be required to present a financing plan including a financial
structure in which its business funds and reserve funds (equity) would be
not less than 25 percent of its total capitalization (equity plus long-term
debt). Exceptions would be allowed if the sub-project concerned had special
financial and economic merit and the enterprise agreed with the lending bank
to increase its equity over a suitable time to at least 25 percent of its
total capitalization (recorded in Schedule 3, paragraph C5(e) of the Loan
Agreement and Schedule 2, paragraph C5(e) of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement).
Projected Operations
52.       The banks do little by way of investment planning except for the
one-year forecast in their business policy statement. Medium-term planning
is furnished by the regional development plans. A forecast of long-term
investments for the period 1974 through 1976 has been prepared and discussed
with the banks and the other authorities concerned. It shows that, for in-
vestments in all sectors, total long-term investment requirements for both
regions will exceed the financing available from all sources by about US$700
million. The gap is mainlv a foreign exchange gap and is expected to be fi-
nanced mainly through suppliers credits and some additional foreign loans.
About half of the resource gap can be attributed to the industrial sector
and represents an important part of each bank's resource requirements,
especially the foreign exchange requirements of imported equipment for medium
and small projects, for which a total of about US$100 million in foreign
exchange will be needed by the two regions. Medium and small projects, as
a proportion of total industrial investments, are about 30 percent for PBS



- s -
and about 25 percent for IBT. Although each bank is increasingly trying to
obtain foreign exchange loans on its own account, the amount of such financing
in relation to total investments over the next three years is unlikely to
exceed 10 percent. The proposed loan would be a modest contribution to these
efforts.
53.       For illustrative purposes a tentative list of projects for finan-
cing by the proposed loan was drawn up by the banks in April 1974. The aver-
age size of these projects is about US$3 million. The projects cover a fair
mix of industries. More than half are new projects providing for new plants
at existing enterprises. The others are mainly modernization and expansion
schemes.
The Loan
54.       The proposed loan would be for US$22.0 million, of which US$6.0
million would be on-lent to IBT. The terms would be standard for this type
of loan with amortization over 15 years, including about two years of grace,
according to an amortization schedulie based on an approximate composite of
individual amortization schedules for sub-loans. Each of the less-developed
regions would receive an amount of the proposed loan related to its allocation
from the Federal Fund. The concept of one loan with a portion being onlent
to an associated bank is a compromise. A loan to the SFRY or a federal bank
would have been counter to the principles of decentralization and would, from
IBRD's point of view, have hindered contact with the regional banks. The
alternative of two loans would have posed problems for supervision. The
proposed loan would be made to the bank considered best equipped to carry out
the obligations of a borrower. It provides for a coordinating mechanism using
staff and facilities from each of the banks for processing and supervising
sub-loans in accordance with the agreed Statement of Operations and Policies.
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Section C and Subsidiary Loan Agreement, Schedule
2, Section C).
55.       The loan would cover about one-third of the banks' foreign exchange
needs over the next two years for medium and small industrial projects. In
order to encourage the prompt disbursement of the proceeds of the loan, the
amount allocated to each bank in accordance with the Federal Fund formula (i.e.
PBS, US$16 million and IBT US$6.0 million) would pertain only up to March 31,
1976 after which the uncommitted portion of the loan would be reallocated
according to investment opportunities in the two regions.
56.       Disbursements from the loan account would be made on the basis of
the c.i.f. costs of imported equipment and against 70 percent of the cost of
imported goods purchased in Yugoslavia, representing the estimated c.i.f. cost.
57.       To cover a significant part of the foreign exchange needs, the
proposed loan should embrace about 5-10 projects annually from each region
according to the size of the region. Assuming an average project size of
about US$3 mlllion, with a foreign exchange component of US$1-2 million, a
loan of US$22 million should be suitable. The loan would provide for a
maximum of US$2 million to be disbursed for any one project: the balance of



. 16 -
foreign exchange requirements would come from other sources like suppliers'
credits or the foreign exchange retention quotas of the enterprises themselves.
58.       The proposed loan would be subject to the conditions normally
applied to development finance company loans, such as a free limit on sub-
proiects and an aggregate free limit. In this case the limits would be
US$200,000 on individual projects and, for the aggregate, about 25 percent
of a recipient bank's share of the .oan.  This would allow the IBRD to review
about one-half of all sub-projects financed.
Implementation
59.       The banks would form a Unit, composed of three representatives each
from the Borrower and the Associated Bank, for the purpose of giving guidance
on and reviewing the individual banks' appraisals, carrying out supervision
and being the main point of contact with the Bank. The banks have already
nor.inated staff to serve on the Uinit including, from each bank, an assistant
general manager. The establishment of the TJnit would give both banks an oppor-
tunity to participate in the preparation and approval of the projects which
they would be financing. The banks have agreed to establish and maintain the
Unit and ensure that it operates in accordance with the Statement of Operations.
and Policies of the unit (Loan and Subsidiary Loan Agreements, Section. '10~ (b))5
60.       The power to approve or reject projects would rest with the execu-
tive board and credit committee of each bank, acting on the recommendation
of the Unit. However since the borrower bank would have a responsibility
vis-a-vis the World Bank for the total amount of the individual line of
credit, it would have a final right of approval of the projects approved by
the associated bank.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUM4ENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement with Privredna Banka Sarajevo and the
Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed loan, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately, together with a draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Borrowqer and the Associated Bank (IBT) which has been agreed with the
parties concerned. The draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements conform to the
normial pattern for loans for development finance company projects but the
Loan Agreement has been modified to reflect the onlending arrangements for
the Associated Bank.
62.       Particular attention is called to:
(i) Section 3.01 (b) (i) of the draft Loan Agreement and Section
3.01 (b) of the draft Subsidiary Loan Agreement relating to
the maintenance of the Unit;



- 17 -
(ii) Section 3.01 (b) (ii) ard (c) of the draft Loan Agreement
relating to the re-lending of a portion of the loan to the
Associated Bank and the re-allocation of the loan between
the two banks after March 31, 1976;
(iii)  Section 8.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement which requires the
establishment of the Unit and appointment of its members
as a condition of effectiveness; and
(iv) Section 2.02 of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement which would
give PBS the final right to approve submission of any sub-loan
to the Bank for approval or disbursement which does not
conform to the Statement of Operations and Policies or
sound economic and financial criteria.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMME1NDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 24, 1974



ANNEX I
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                               Page 1 of 3 pages
AREA                                            E9!~~~~~~~~~~~~~POUATIOm.                                    DENSITY
255,800 km2                                                        2O.  miilion (mid 1972)                                        10 per km2 of arable lad
Reference Comparisons
Yugoslavia              Mexico        Spain        Italy
1960         1970            1970         1970         1970
GNP per Capita US$ (Atlas basis)                                                           375          650             670        1,020        1,760
Demographic
Crude birth rate (per thousand                                                           24            18                           20            14
Crude death rate (per thousand)                                                           10            9               9            8             9
Infant mortality rate (per thousand live births)                                          88           49              67           28            29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                                          62           65              62           71            72
Gross reproduction rate  /1                                                                1.3          1.3             3.1          1.4           1.3
Population growth rate   /2                                                                1.2          1.0             3.5          1.1           0.8
Population growth rute - urban                                                             4.5          3.3             5.0
Age structure (percent)
0-14                                                                                  31            28             46            28           25
15-64                                                                                  63            64             50            63           65
65 and over                                                                             6             8              4             9           10
Dependency ratio /3                                                                        0.9          0.8 /a          1.6 /a       1.0 /a        1.0 /a
Population density per sq. km.                                                            73           80              26           66          178
Urban population as percent of total                                                      28           35              59
Family planning:  No. of acceptors cumulative (thousand)                                   ..           ..
No. of users (% of married women)                                      ..           ..
Employment
Total labor force (thousands)                                                         8,735         8,700         15,900        12,593 /b   19,534  /b
Percentage employed in agriculture                                                     57            52             47            30 /b        21  /b
Percentage unemployed                                                                    6.7 Ic       7.7             ..           1.5/b         3.1
Income Distribution
Percent of netional income received by lowest 20%                                         14.5/e       13.5/d
Percent of national income received by highest 5%                                          9.2/s       13.I/d
Health and Nutrition
Population per physician                                                              1,400  /c   1,000            1,850  /d       760  /b       550
Population per nursing person                                                              ,,         750  /d           ,,       1,430  /d
Population per hospital bed                                                              190  /c      180             550  /d      220  /d       100  /k
Per capita calorie supply as % of requirements  /4                                       119  /f      125  /d         108  /d      111           121
Per capita protein supply, total (grams per day)  /5                                      91  /f       92  /d          66  /g       80            88
Of which, animal and pulse                                                             27  /f        29  /d          28  /g       40           42
Death rare 1-4 years  /6                                                                   4.7/c        2.6/d           8.9/b         ..           l.l/d
Education
Adjusted /7 primary school enrollment ratio                                                .,          94  /b          71           91           106  /b,h
Adjusted /7 secondary school enrollment ratio                                             34           45  /b          19           45            56  /b
Years of schooling provided, first and second level                                       12           12              12           15            13
Vocational enrollment as % of sec. school enrollment                                      75           59  /b          23  /k       22  /k        26  /b
Adult literacy rate %                                                                     77           85              76           94  /d        91  /i
Housing
Average No. of persons per room (urban)                                                    4.5/j;1      4.1/j,l         2.5          0.9/i         1.l/iL
Percent of occupied units without piped water                                             55  /n       37  /n          51           52  /i        28  /i
Access to electricity (as % of total population)                                          94  /m       98  /m7
Percent of rural population connected to electricity                                       ..           ..
Consumption
Radio receivers per 1000 population                                                       84          164             276          214  /b       218
Passenger cars per 1000 population                                                         5   /c      28              25           70           190
Electric power consumption (kwh p.c.)                                                    530        1,140  /b         525  /b   1,502  /b   2,123  /b
Newsprint consumption p.c. kg per year                                                     1.5          4.3             3.1          5.8           5.3
Notes:  Figures refer either to the latest periods or to                                    by age and sex of national populations.
the latest years.  Latest periods refer in principle to                                 /5 Protein standards (requirements) for all countries as estab-
the years 1956-60 or 1966-70; the latest years in prin-                                     lished by USDA Economic Research Service provide for a minimum
ciple to 1960 and 1970.  Only significantly different                                       allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day, and 20 grams of
periods or years are footnoted separately,                                                  animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
/1 Average number of daughters per woman of reproductive age.                               protein.  These standards are somewhat lower than those of 75
/2 Population growt  rates are for the decades ending in                                    grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
1960 and 1970.                                                                          average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
/3 Ratio of under 15 and 65 and over age brackets to                                        Survey.
those in labor force bracket of ages 15 through 64,                                  /6 Some studies have suggested that crude death rates of children
/4 FAO reference standards represent physiological require-                                 ages 1 through 4 may be used as a first approximation index of
ments for normal activity and health, taking account of                                 malnutrition.
environmental temperature, body weights, and distribution                            /7 Percentage enrolled of corresponding population of school age
as defined for each country.
/a Ratio of p pulation under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force:                   /b 1969;   /c 1962;    /d 1968;    /e 1963;    /f 1960-62;
/g 1964-66;    /h Includes average students;    /i 1961;    /j Urban and rural; /k 1967;   /1 Data refer to dwellings;
/m Dwellings with electricity as % of total dwellings.            /n Urban units only.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
May 8, 1974



ANINEX I
Page 2 of 3 pages
YUGOSLAI      CNMCDVLPETDT   HE
(amounts is millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual                          Projected                   1960-   1965-   1970-    1974-
1965     1970    A17               i973    1974      1979           1965      1970     1975      1979         1960     1970      1979
NATIONAL ACCOLI3-YarNAvrage  at 196716   rcs6Exchange Rates                                           Average Acacal Growth gate               As Percent of GUY
Gross Domestic Product                  9543    1103    13570              14455   15539   22308               6.2      4.7      6.9       7.5        100.6   105.1       99.7
Gsien from Terms of Trade ()                7    - 13      -128                       19         6                                                      _      __        __
G,os.D..esie In...                                            --:~       ~ 19___L               -29.0      12.5        -        .          - .6     - .1      -0.3
Gross Domestuc Iscome         ~~~9536    12020    13353         1.4426   13520   22376              6.3       4.7      6.9       7.6       100.      10 T 0.0o   100.0
Imports (fool. NFS)                      1626     2600     3154             3267    3371      6175             9.7     11.3       7.4     11.6         15.3     23.3      27.6
Esports (md. EEl. UsiportsCaps) -1122    -2209    -2533           -2696   -2863    -4876             13.1       7.7      7.7      11.2       -11.7   -18.4   -21.8
Resource Cop                  ~~~~     ~~~~104  591  622          571       709     1300          -16.1     41.4       6.3      12.9          3.6      4.9       1.9
GoCo...ptio- Expenditure                 6539     8943     9080            10091   10963    13713              4.9      6.2       5.7      7.7         73.3      73.6     70.2
I-uctmeot ~Incl, storks)                3101      3768     4491            4916    5366       7964             7.6      4.0       9.1      9.2         30.2     31.3      35.6
Domes,tic Savings                        1997    3178      3973             4345    4658       6664            9.8      1.2       9.6      7.4         26.7      26.4     29.8
National Savings                         1043     3535     4543             5060    3376       7472            9.2       3.0     10.2       6.8        27.9      29.4     33.1
MERCHANDISE TEADE                                        nulDt   tCretPie                                                                                   sPreto    oa
Imports
Capit.1 goods                         256      613       685             891    1032       1724            1.6      19.2     14.0     108.          28.5   21.3       16.9
Intersediate goods (earl,  fuel)  728    1678           1967            2422    2522       5324           11.4     19.2      13.0     16.1         51.3   58.4        52.2
Puels and related materials            72      138      176              314    1010    1572               9.9     13.9      49.0     -9.2          5.4      4.8      15.4
of sehich:  Petroleum               (32)     (99)   (161)             (259)    (927)  (1420)            (2.7)   (25.3)   (57.0)    (9.3)         (3.3)  (3.4)    (13.9)
Co.susptiom goods                    232       443      505              655      760     1569           13.9      13.8     14.4      15.6         14.0    15.4       15.5
Total Merds. Imports (cif)           19        84       33               22      52       108               .        74      1.        7.          0.       0.        0.
BEportta
Prinary products (gaol,  fuels)    322         610       752             821       949     1701            8.9      13.6     11.1      12.5        37.1   36.4        31.3
Fuels and related materials            11        20       18              10        20       20            6.6      12.7       -         -           1.4     1.2        0.4
of swhich:  Petroleum               110)     (12)       (9)            (13)     (13)      (13)         (27.1)    (3.9)      (-)      ¼-)         (0.5)   (0.7)      (0.2)
Manufactured goods                    759     1045      1467            1576    1819       3669           16.9       6.6     15.0     15.0         61.5   62.4        69.1
Total Merck. Exports (f.o.b.)    1891         1675      2237            2420    2791       5392           14.0       9.0     13.6     14.0        100.0  100,0       100.0
Tuoriso S Border Trade                  81       275      463              528      620     1358           42.0    28.0    22.5         17.0
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR  I/                  Annual Dots at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates
Agriculture                              2008     2221      2322            2453    3390      3340             4.3      2.0       3.9      5.2         28.4      19.6     15.0
In,dustry                               3618      4777     5477             5930    6422      9576            10.7      5.5       7.7      9.4         32.6     40.0      43.0
Service                                 3771    4944       5624             6046     6499     9353             7.5      5.6       7.1      9.1         39.0     41.4      42.1
Total                                    9427    11942   13423            174429   15511   22269               7.0      4.8       6.8      7.5        100.0    100.0    100.5
PUBLIC PENANCE  2                                                                                                                                        As Percent of GDP
Correct Rece.ipts .                               4272     43573            4971    1237       7518            .         .        5.2      7.5                   3  5.5   33.7
Curret Expenditure                        .       3742    4102              4380    4788      6759             ..~                5.9      7.5..                 31.1     30.3
Bodgetary Saviegs            ..       u~~~~~~~.3O  461          491      329       759            .         .        1.4      7.5          .          .        .
Other Fohlio Sector                                -         --                                                                                                    
Public Sector Incvestment                 ..       510      461              491      519       719..                    .        1.4      7.5          .         4.4      1.4
DETAIL ON                     At 1967-69 PEER -        As Percent Total
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                                Actual                         Est.              PUBLIC SECTOR                Last Plan  New Plan  Last K0an  New Plan
(As 1., Total Current Expend.)             1961       1970        1971        1972        1973              INVE9T.MPNT PROGRAM 31    (1968-7111 f19fl-753   (1968-7D) (1971-75)
Ed.cation..                                       18.4        17.7       15.1        18.0
Other Social Service                    .          8.4         8.8         8.1        8.4               Social Sectors
Agriculture                                        0  .2       0.2         0.1        1.1               Agriculture
Other Economic Services                 ..          .9         5.8         6.2        9.5               Industry sod Power
Deese                                           64.2       59.4        67.4        63.0              Transport 6 C osocuications   . 
Ad=  nistrat ion 4 Other      ,i___                         ___         ___Other
Total Current. Expenditures            ..        100.0       100.1      110.0       101.1               Total Expendituren
1960-         1961-          1970-           1974-               FINANCING
SELECTED INDICATORS                        1965          1970           1975             1979
(-calculted from 3-year averagcd date)                                                                      Public Sector Savings            ...
Average ICOR                           5.4            6.6            4.3             4.7                Domestic Borrawlg (net)          . 
Import Elasticity                      1.3           2.2             1.6             1.4               Poreigo Burrowing (net)           .            
Marginal Domestic Davings Rare           .46           .04            .27              .29              (ditto in current U.S.9~)        ..
Ma1rginal National Savings Bate          .45           .14            .32             .30      j        Total Fimanciug                  ...
Total Labor Force                      Value Added Per Esther (1967-69 Prices 6 Ench. Bates) 4/
LABOR PIECE ABD                           In Millions          7, of Total     1960-1970            to t.S.Dollars        7, of Average        1960-1970
OUTPUT FER WIOBREB                      1960 4/   1970 4/   1961       1970  Growth Rota              2itQ      1930       1960      1970   Growth Rate
Agriculture                        4.69      3.93         56        47       -1.7                 428        565      50.1       39.2         2.8
Industry                           1.46      1.99         18       23         3.6                1579      2527      186.4     135.5          4.8
Services                           1.36      1.80         16        22        2.8             .  29         20        4.         3.            .
O th er   l   nmlyd                 .83        .67        10         8       -2.0             -29           20        4.         3,            .
Total                  8~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~. 3-4    -9.29  tO-O    -1100  v:- .1  937      144-0    TO18.0     10O.0         5.5
sot applicable
sot avilable
1/   GDP at market prices
TIFederal regional and local goeytieTsets, plus spefialiced funds,
3/ Doe to dece-traliiation the public sector only plays a residual role in carrying out investmet.  Socialist self managing
enterprises are the prime agents for implemeeting ifevet-et plans.
4/   Bused on data for 1961 and 1971.
Europe, Middle East and NortCh Africa Region
M4ay 9, 1974



ANNEX I
Page 3~ of 3 pages
YUGOSL.VI.& - BALANCE OF PAYNENTS, EXTEBNAL AND DEBT PROJECTIONS
(amounts in mililons of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. A-nual
Actual               Estimated                  Projected                       Growth Rate
1969    1970    197     1972       1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979        1979
SUOMNARY BALANCE OF PAYMENNS
Exports (incl. NFS)              2134    2489    2722    3315       3963    4351    5029    5791    6633    7581    8660       15.0
Diports (inel. NFS)             2405    3220    3740   3790         L816     63    6800    7651    8747    9982   21360        13.5
Resource Bsls;a1an 7-M)          -271    -731                       -      -16                              -2401   - 2700
Interest (net)                   _ 90   -109    -128    -148       - 182   - 234   - 240   - 249   - 256   - 279   - 314         6.0
Direct Investment Income           -     -  1    -  2     -       3   - 3   - 8  -  14   -  23   -  34   -  46   -  59          49.0
Workers' Remittances              206     440     652      889      1170    1240    1315    1393    1477    1566    1660         6.0
Curret Transr   et)                 5      61     140     152         78      88      98      110      23   _138       155      12.0
Lalance on Current Account      -110    -30    :,                    210   - 96 - 612   - 628         0        2    -1268
= =     =                  =       --~~~~~~~~~--   _=  I  _         = 1E
Private Direct Investment           5      10      20      30         50      75     100     130      150     150      150     14.9
Official Capital Grants            -       -       -        -         -       -       -        -       -       -        -         -
Public 15&LT Loans
Pblicsb Lreements                 206     210     275     340        585     711     555     581      527     540      538     -4.5
- Reosvrents        1           55    -135    -131    -200        -291    -341    -452    -472    -454      38k    -343        0.0
Net Disbursements             g                                      29      370    103    1           72              195
Other MyLT Loans
Disbursements                   313     469     723     732        665     807     975    1143   11485    1829    2200       30.0
-109    -205    -391    -494 1      539   -618    -648              -877   -1098   -1253       15.1
Net Disuursements                 205     2        32       3        12      T                          327   731     947
Capital Transaction n.e.i.       -72    - 99    -206    - 20          70    - 38    - 82    - 36       26   - 14    - 24         6.8
Change in Net Ressry*            -78       90      66   -804        -750       0       0        0       0       0       0
GRUIM AID MU  CamgI51S
Official Grants and Grant-like    -        -       -        _         _
Est.
Publio  &LP Loans 1/                                                        DEBT AND DEBT SERVIrTS             V6      A197     V71    172         m
IBRD                             30      99     110       83       100      Public Debt Out. & Lisbursed    1196    1216    1355    1729         2023
IDA-                                     -       -       -          -
Other                            -       -       -        -         -         Interest on Public Debt          53       72      52      63         92
Other Multilateral                                                            Payments on Public              160      169     131     155        291
Governments                      77      30     130     875        145        Total Public Debt Service       ,213     242     183     218        383
Suppliers                         8      31      13      -          -         Other Debt Service (net)        146      243     468     550        882
Binoncial Ir.stitut!noc          11      12      -                            Total Debt S-rvice (net)        359      484     652     768       1265
Bonds                                                          
Puxblic Loans n.e.i.                    _         1      _          -       Burden on Export L,rnvlngs (%)
Total Public M5LT Lc-;ns    17     2                       9t        2
Public Debt Service             8.9     8.1     5.2      5.0       7.8
Totil Debt Service             15.0    16.2    18.5    17.6       19.4
Actual Debt Otit                  ~~~TflSeDre,tInete,       Inc.    15.0    16.2    18.5    17.7      19.5
^1TRNAL DBT:Actunl Debt 0utstanding on Dec. 31. 1972  Conavertible Debt Service  23.6    24.9    24;3    25.2     25.0
ACTTJAL AD POJECTED                      Disb. only"           Percent              Rto2
Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                                 316                 8.9
IDA   B                                                                         Int. as ,5 Prior Year DO&D      4.6     6.0     4.3      3.9       5.3
Other Multilateral                           7                 0.2             Amort. as Z Prior Year DO&D   13.9    14.2    10.8    17.3         16.8
Governments                                859                24.2           IE'D Debt Ou;. & Disbursed        216     244      277     316       368
Suppliers                                  187 353                            IE LD as % Public Debt 00       18.1    20.0    20.4    18.3       18.2
Financial Institutions                     339                 0.5            Ipso es % Public Debt Service    8.5      9.5    14.6    10.5        9.0
Bonds                                      19                  0.5
Public Debts n.e.i.                          2                 0.1
Total Public Mt-LT Debt                   7l29                                ID,, Debt Cutstanding & Disbursed  -       -        -       -          -
1Db,' as % PubISe!  Debt 060-D              -      -         -
Other M&LT Debt (Non-Public              1822                51. 1            ID1 as % Public Debt Service       -        -       -
Debt)
Total M&LT Debt                          3551                100.0
not applicable.
- nil or negligible.
E/ Bcluding loans repayable in docestic currency.
i/ Debt service in convertible currency over convertible foreign exchange earnings.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
May 8, 1974



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at April 30, 1974)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number   Year            Borrower                Purpose           Bank   Undisbursed
Eleven Loans fully disbursed                                       296.2
531      1968    Yugoslav Investment Bank        Railways           50.0       3.9
608      1969    Social. Fed. Republic of
Yugoslavia (SFRY)            Roads              30.0       1.5
654      1970    Yugoslav Investment Bank        Industry           18.5        .2
657      1970    Yugoslav Investment Bank        Telecommuni-       40.0      13.5
cations
678      1970    SFRY                            Roads              40.0      15.8
751      1971    SFRY                            Roads              35.0      20.1
752      1971    Hotel "Bernardin", Piran        Tourism            10.0       9.1
777      1971    SFRY                            Multi-purpose      45.0      42.0
Water
732      1971    "Babin Kuk" liotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                     Tourism            20.0      18.1
836      1972    Eleven Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia   Power                75.0      73.1
894      1973    Stopanska Banka, Skopje         Agricultural
Industries      31.0     30.7
916      1973    Naftagas                        Gas Pipeline       59.4      59.4
947*     1973    Kikinda                         Iron Foundry        14.5     14.5
965*     1974    PIT                             Tractor Factory   18.5       18.5
966*     1974    FOB                             Iron Foundry       15.0      15.0
tba*     1974    Bosnia-Herzegovina Road Fund Roads                 30.0      30.0
Total (less cancellation)                                828.1    365.4
of which has been repaid                               100.6
Total now outstanding                                    727.5
Amount sold                               7.6
of which:  Amount repaid               6.1               1.5
Total now held by Bank**                                 726.0
Total undisbursed                                                 365.4
*    Not yet effective.
**   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at April 30, 1974*).
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                     Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment Corpora-    Investment        -        2.0     2.0
tion for Yugoslavia                 Corporation
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.    Automotive        5.0      8.0    13.0
Industry
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev        Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-H.umboldt    Industry         7.5     2.1      9.6
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler             Automotive    12.5       2.8    15.3
Benz A.G.                            Industry
1972   Sava/Semperit                          Tires           4.0      1.5     5.5
1973   Belisce/Bell                           Pulp and       13.1       -     13.1
Paper
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special steel 10.0        -     10.0
Total Gross Commitments                                 52.1    16.4    68.5
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                                 2.2     2.3      4.5
Total Commitments held by IFC                           49.9    14.1    64.0
Total Undisbursed                                       24.9      5.1    30.0
*    In addition, a US$10 million loan for the Salonit Anhovo cement plant
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 14, 1974.



.aease 
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 395  Railway Modernization Program: US$70.0 million Loan of December 11,
1964.
The loan was fully disbursed on October 31, 1972, after the Closing
Date had been postponed from December 31, 1969.  However, completion of the
project has been delayed to 1976, due to financial and technical difficulties.
Project cost estimates increased nearly threefold in dinars (twofold in US
dollars) between 1963 and 1973 becatse of inflation, devaluation of the dinar,
revaluation of some European currencies and as a consequence of additional
increases in quantities. After 1966 the Yugoslav Railways suffered a continuous
deterioration of their financial position and liquidity for a nutmer of related
reasons. Payments for railway freight services were held back by the lack of
liquidity in the whole economy. The five Railway Transport Enterprises which,
under the Yugoslav system, are expected to operate on a commercial basis, were
restricted by Government regulations in their ability to respond to changed
market conditions. Furthermore, the responsibility of the Federal Government
to meet railway deficits has been transferred to the Republican Governments,
which only now are in a position to assume it.
In order to be able to make proposals for dealing not only with the
difficulties with the Bank project, but also with the difficulties facing the
Yugoslav railways as a whole, it was agreed with the Government in 1971 that
the Bank would undertake a thorough review of the railways' problems. Follow-
ing this review, which was carried out with the assistance of a consulting
team, the Bank discussed its findings with the Federal and Regional Governments
and the Railways. The response of the Governments and the Railways was very
favorable and they agreed to take concerted action to improve the railways'
situation. In view of this, the Bank agreed to consider making a further
loan (proposed for FY74) to assist completion of the 1964 modernization
program, provided that certain conditions could be met. These are the clari-
fication of government responsibility for the railways and an overall plan of
action both for the Yugoslav railways as a w,hole and for each Railway Enterprise
(including clear marketing and related operational and financial objectives),
a revised tariff policy, investment and disinvestment proposals, and proposals
for dealing with labor redundancy problems and for improvement in management.
The Governments and the railways have taken and are taking measures to meet
these conditions, and a mission visited Yugoslavia in November/December 1972
to assist in the preparation of new action plans. The appraisal mission
visited Yugoslavia in December 1973. The final size of the proposed project
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should,be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



Page 4
lhas now been determined, as the Republics have clarified th.e availability of
local re-.ou-ces and local agreem-ents have been worked out to clavAify the
respective responsibilities of the Governments and Railways.  Negotiations for
the nroposed fourth loan were substantially completed on May 21, 1974, andi a
recommendation to :-he Executive Directors is expected to be made in the near
future.  This ne-wz financial assistance would be concentrated ona the completion
of the I64.  modernization progr>am of main lines.
kny -further delay in carrying out a mi£nimal modernIzat-Lon pr,c ram
could further jeonardize the comnetitiewe position of the r              Ain re.ation
to road traffic and would extend the period in wnich the econOv w-o>ld nOt
benef-it fully from the large investments in the Modernizati or. Pr    made
with Sank assistance since 1964.
Loan 531  Be'gade-Bar Railway:  US$50.0 million Loan of  arch 2.1i
Closing Date:  December 31, 1975.
The completion of this project was originally scheduled for 1973
but g-eo-iechnical and other construction difficulties in mountaLious terrain
are ex ected to delay operation of the line at least until 1975, The  losing
Date has been postponed from December 31, 1973 to December 31, 1975.
As a result of inflation and cost overruns, the total project cost
has increased from $225.5 million to $290.0 million.  There Is at present a
financing gap of about $35 million. The Federal Government and the Republic
Governments of Serbia and Montenegro have already taken some measures to close
this gap so that financing for all the works to be carried out in 1974, as
well as part of works in 1975 is identified. The necessary financing for the
balar-ce of work to complete the project is expected to be secured in the
course of this year.
Loan 608  Third Highway:  US$30.0 million Loan of June 5,* 1969
Closing Date: August 31, 1974.
Construction works under the loan have been substantially completed,
except for the access road in Zagreb, which is expected to requiLre several
additional monchs. The Closing Date of the Loan was postponed from December
31i 1972 to December 31, 1973. A second postponement to August 31, 1974, has
an e-reed.  -a view of increases in costs, the disbursement percentage has
Deen reduced from the original 42 percent to 27 percent, in order to continue
disbursements until the completion of these works.  Disbursements are proceed-
ing on schedule. A supervision mission is scheduled for May 1974.
Loan 654  Industrial Projects - 1970:  US$18.5 million Loan ofJna 19;
Closing Date: July 31, 1974.
All three sub-projects under the loan are making satisfactor-y pro-
gress after experiencing delays of up to 18 mornths due to slow deliveries of
local and imported goods. Tne Closing Date was postponed from June 30 to



AIN:xE I i
Page 5
December 31, 1973, to allow payments of 10 nercent retention money under
already concluded contracts of Crvena Zastava and Sisak, and a second time
on December 28, 1973 by seven months to July 31, 1974, to allow disbursements
of filial guarantee payments.
Loan 657  Telecommunications:  US$40.0 milifon Loa-n of February 20  1970;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1975.
Delays in civil works have occurred which will delay completion of
the project until late 1975.  W4ith the exception of the earth satellite
station, only preliminary works have been completed. A cost overrun for
orders already placed amounting to US$5.1 million, is expected due to cur-
rency revaluations. Following a revision of the disbursement schedule, dis-
bursements are now in line with the revised projections.
Loan 678 Fourth Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of May 28, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1974.
After an initial delay of about one year in starting work on the
Sarajevo-Zenica sections because of difficulties in acquiring the right-of-way,
work on all sections is proceeding satisfactorily and six of the nine sections
have been substantially completed. However, due to delays on the remaining
sections, the completion of the project is likely to be delayed substantially
beyond the present Closing Date.
Inflation and the delays in starting construction caused an increase
over the appraisal cost estimate of about 10 percent. On the basis of a re-
vised cost estimate of construction work in January 1973 the disbursement
percentage has been revised from 43 to 40 percent, effective March 1, 1973.
Disbursement is proceeding in line with the revised projection. A supervision
mission, scheduled for May 1974, will review the revised cost estimate, and
the need for changes in disbursement percentages and for postponement of the
Closing Date.
Loan 751 Fifth EIighway: US$35.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971;
Closing Date: September 1, 1976.
After a delay of about eight months in fulfilling the conditions for
effectiveness of the loan, construction work is now making satisfactory prog-
ress on all sections. A 10 percent increase in the appraisal cost estimate is
expected, and the disbursement percentage will be revised when more accurate
revised cost estimates are available. Disbursement under the loan is about
one year behind the appraisal estimate. A supervision mission is scheduled
for May 1974.



A JNEX II
Page 6
Loan 752  Bernardin Tourism:  US$10,0 million of Loan of 3une 18  I97i1'
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
After the loss of more than one vear owing to delays in aia  t:.e
loan effective and in appointing consultants, the implementation of the pro
ect experienced a further delay of one and a half months.  As a result5 di5s'
bursements are behind schedule.  Preliminary estimates indicate that the
project,, if it were to be implemented as originally envisaged (2,500 beds'J
would cost approximately US$34 million instead of US$24 rillion.  This
crease is mainly due to rapid inflatior, but also to realignment in exc3bauge
rates. As only a small amount of additional financing appears to be 'Zorrit-
coaming, the project might have to be reduced to some 1,500 to 2,00a  beds 'v
eliminating the most expensive structures with the lowest retur.s.  Such re-
duction will result in a less favorable economic rate of return, but it is
expected that the project would still be viable,
Loan 777  Tbar Multipurpose Water:  US$45.0 million Loan of  une 397;
Closing Date:  December 31 , 1976.
The start of project work was delayed for one year.  However, the
responsible agency, the Ibar-Lepenac Enterprise, is now well established and
good progress is being made in constructing the project. It should be pos-
sible to complete most of the project 'by the end of 1976 (i.e., one year
later than originally planned). Disbursements are proceeding in line with
the revised schedule.
Loan 782  Babin Kuk Tourism:  US$20.0 million Loan of                  ;
Closing Date:  July 31, 1976.
There have been delays in the implementation of the project due to
delays in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Because
of these, disbursements are behind schedule. Although these problems h'ave
now been largely resolved, the project is almost two years behind schedule.
This period has been one of rapid inflation in Yugoslavia and project costs
are now estimated to have increased by 50 to 60 percent over the estimate at
the time of appraisal.  Unless additional finance can be found the project
will have to be reduced in scale.  This is most likely to affect the economkic
rate of return adversely, but preliminary calculations indicate that a re-
u e+. pro-ect ic-uld still be viabl.e.  The consultants are now performing
,alrly well and construction of the project is due to start in the third
quarter of 1974.
Loan 836  Power Transnission:  US$75.0 million Loan of June 23  1972;
Closing Date: June 3C. 197.
After some delays in preparing tender documents, bidding procedures
are now under way. Following the supervision mission in October 1973, pro-
curement is moving faster.  The Baniz; has already approved proposals to award
contracts, representing about 50 percent of the loan amount. However, due
to complex procedures for procurement among the eleven borrowers, disbursements
have only recently started. A supervision mission is scheduled for May 1974.



A4NNEX II
Page 7
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31 million Loan of May 25, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
This loan became effective on November 28, 1973. The supervision
mission in January 1974 found that there was strong credit demand with many
credit applications expected to be received in early 1974. Stopanska Banka
has already granted 13 subloans and disbursements have begun on schedule.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
This loan became effective on March 22, 1974, after almost six
months' delay. Procurement of pipes has been delayed due to the need to re-
tender. These delays are now expected to postpone the start of construction
by six to nine months. Disbursements are about six months behind the appraisal
estimates. A supervision mission visited Yugoslavia in April 1974.



ANN EX III
Page 1 of I
YUGOSLAVIA: INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:          Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS)
Guarantor:           Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:             US$22 million in various currencies.
Beneficiaries:      PBS would receive US$22.0 million, of which US$6.0
million would be on-lent to the Investiciona Banka
Titograd (IBT).
Terms:               The loan would bear interest at 7-1/4 percent per
annum and would be repaid according to a schedule
reflecting the composite amortization schedules
of the sub-loans financed but not to exceed 15 years
including 2 years of grace.
Project             Lending to help finance the foreign exchange cost of
Description:        imported equipment for investments in medium- and small-
scale industrial projects in the Republics of Bosnia-
Herzegovina and Montenegro during FYs 75 and 76.
Final Date for
Project
Submissions        December 31, 1976
Free Limit:         US$200,000 for individual projects up to an aggregate
of 25% of the loan.
Special Under-      To establish a unit for the purpose of reviewing project
taking by          appraisal, supervision and liaison with the Bank.
Beneficiaries:
Estimated            Calendar Year             1974  1975   1976   1977   1978
Disbursements:     US$ million:  Annual        0.3   4.5    9.5    6.5    1.2
*                                                Cumulative  0.3   4.8   14.3   20.8   22.0
Appraisal Report:   Report Number:  364a-YU
Date: Mlay 9, 1974



