Report No. 364a-YU
Appraisal of an                                                                   t 3S
i dustria Cred°t Project
Yugoslavia
May 9, 1974
Industrial Credit and
Development Finance Companies Division
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Deveiopment
International Development Association
Thi, report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not bt published,
quoted or ciled without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not atcept responsibility
for the accura y or completeness o)f the rtport.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
From January 23, 1971 to December 22, 1971
1 US Dollar   -   15.0  Dinars
1 Dinar            6.67 US Cents
From December 22, 1971 to July 12, 1973
1 US Dollar   r   17.0  Dinars
1 Dinar       -    5.89 US Cents
Since July 12, 1973
The Dinar has been floating. The rate
in January/February, 1974, which is
used for forecasts in this report:
1 US Dollar       16.50 Dinars
1 Dinar            6.06 US Cents
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
GMP         -     Gross Material Product
IBT         -     Investiciona Banka Titograd
KBP         -     Kosovska Banka Pristina
PBS         -     Privredna Banka Sarajevo
SAS         -     Social Accounting Service
SBS         -     Stopanska Banka Skopje
SFRY        -     Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia
FISCAL YEAR, OF THE BANKS
(PBS, SBS, IBT, KBP)
January 1st to December 31st



APPRAISAL OF
AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUNMARY AND CONCLUSIONS           ........................i
I.   INTRODtTCTION          ........................................
Background    .......... .                                    1
Formulation of the Project .................        ...       2
II.   TIIE ECONOMIES AND INDUSTRIAL SECTORS OF THE LESS
DEVELOPED REGIONS ................................                3
A.   The Economies ............................               3
B.   The Industrial Sectors ....           ...............    5
C.   Resource Mtobilization ....................              7
III.    SUTNARY APPRAISAL OF TIE INSTITUTIONS ...........         ...      10
A.    Institutional Aspects ....................             10
B.   Operations ...............................              17
C.   Financial Aspects ........................              19
IV.   FORECAST OF INTVESTMENTS ANI) BANKS' OPERATIONS ......              26
V.   TiE PROPOSED LOANS ......          ...........................      31
A.   Amount ...................................              31
B.    Implementation Scheme ....................             32
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS         ...................   .................     34
This report was prepared by Messrs. J. Coudol, V.K. Chaudhry,
HL. Griesshaber, and A. Haji (Operations Officers) and Mrs. P. Valad
(Editor).



LIST OF ANNEXES
1        Highlights on the Economy of the Four Underdeveloped Regions
2        Legal, Financial and Operational Framework Within Which the
Yugoslav Banks Operate
3        Organization Charts of PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP
4        Summary of Operations:  1971-1973
5        Summary of Loan Operations by Sectors:  1971-1972
6        Summary of Operations - Industrial Sector:  1971-1973
7        Long-Term Loans to Industrial Sector:  1971-1972
By Sub-Sectors, Size and Maturity
8        Statement of Resources as at December 31, 1973
9        Statements of Income and Expenditures:  1971-1973
10        Balance Sheets as at December 31, 1971-1973
11        Long-Term Loans Arrears at December 31, 1973
12        Forecast of Long-Term Loans:  1974-1976
13        Forecast of Long-Term Loans - Industrial Sector:  1974-1976
14        Forecast Statements of Source and Application of Funds:  1974-1976
15        Composition, Functions and Statement of Operations and Policies
of the Unit
16        Members of the Units
17        Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of the Proposed IBRD Loans



APPRAISAL OF
AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Financing of manufacturing in Yugoslavia through one or more finan-
cial intermediaries was discussed between the Government and the Bank for over
seven years. After considering several alternatives, it was agreed to explore
loans to banks in the four less developed regions: the Republics of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo.
These loans would be similar to those of IBRD to development finance companies.
However, the proposed borrowers are large mixed banks in the regions, operat-
ing under a system of ownership, policies and practices substantially different
from other development finance companies associated with the Bank. Therefore,
the initial relationship between IBRD and the banks would focus more on the
projects to be financed out of the IBRD loan than on the overall operations
of the banks.
ii.       The economies of the four less developed regions are considerably
behind those of the more developed regions. Per capita income is much lower:
in the three Republics it is about one-half and in the Autonomous Province it
is about one-fourth that of the developed regions. To varying degrees, the
four regions have high unemployment and unbalanced growth resulting from a
late start and from priority given to basic industries, mining, and power at
.the expense of more labor-intensive processing industries. Growth over the
past twenty years has been impressive, however, especially in industry. As
in the rest of Yugoslavia, the economies of the four regions are guided by
Five-Year Development Plans which have put priority on industrial development,
especially basic industries.
iii.      Each of the four regions has essentially one bank.  For long-term
financing, the banks rely largely on Federal Fund resources, collected from
all Yugoslav enterprises and allocated to the less developed regions as long-
term, low-interest loans. In the past, the supply of long-term funds has not
been sufficient, however, especially for processing industries. The Govern-
ment's request for IBRD assistance in financing medium- and small-scale indus-
tries reflects a growing concern about imbalances in industrial development.
iv.       The form of assistance IBRD could provide to the four regions had
to take into consideration several factors. First, lending to the four
banks through separate loans would put a very heavy burden on IBRD. Second,
only two banks appear suitable to meet the standards expected of IBR) borrowers:
namely, Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS) in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Stopanska
Banka Skopje (SBS) in Macedonia, the latter having already received an IBRD
loan for agro-industries. It would be important, however, to associate the
banks in the two other regions, namely, Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT) in
Montenegro and Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) in Kosovo, where needs for IBRD
funds are equally important. The proposed project was thus formulated as



- ii -
follows: IBRD would provide two loans, one to PBS and the other to SBS with
each undertaking all obligations of an IBRD borrower. Both PBS and SBS would
on-lend part of IBRD funds to the two other banks, IBT and KBP respectively,
under an allocation system and subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to IBRD.
To provide uniform procedures and benefits to each pair of borrower and asso-
ciated banks under each loan, each pair would form an operating Unit. The two
Units would be responsible for appraising and supervising projects to be fi-
nanced with IBRD funds, and reporting to IBRD on all uses of these funds. In
the last resort, however, especially as regards presentation of subprojects to
IBRD for approval, each borrower would retain full responsibility for the work
and recommendations of the Unit and for the operations of the loan.
v.        The major characteristics of the four banks is their very close in-
tegration into their regions. They are owned by the social sector community
and have to pay considerable attention to the Five-Year Development Plan of
their respective regions. In fact the banks have far-reaching responsibilities
in carrying out the Plans. Their organization, especially that of the proposed
borrowers, reflects sound management and, overall, appropriate appraisal and
supervision criteria, although several improvements are recommended for the
proposed loan8. The four banks are large institutions with assets ranging
between Din 6.8 billion and Din 32.1 billion, more than half of which are long-
term investments. Although creditworthiness of these banks cannot, at present,
be established along conventional lines, they are all considered suitable for
the proposed IBRD loans.
vi.       As for other projects financed by IBRD in Yugoslavia, auditing of
the proposed borrowers remains an issue. Until now, IBRD has waived the im-
plementation of its normal audit requirement during a transitional period,
provided that a suitable alternative is worked out in Yugoslavia. IBRD agreed
with the Government that the Social Accounting Service (SAS) would audit IBRD
projects after SAS staff has been trained to perform internationally accepted
audits. The program to train SAS staff is currently underway, with assistance
from a well-known foreign audit firm. In a year or two, satisfactory audit of
IBRD projects, including the four banks in this project, is expected to start.
vii.      The two borrowers and the Units should be able to perform project
appraisals according to IBRD standards although strengthened appraisal tech-
niques would be needed. Enterprises benefitting-from IBRD funds would be re-
quired to maintain or achieve a suitable financial structure.
viii.     The banks' resource gap is likely to continue for several years and
their foreign and local currency needs are such that IBRD alone would not be
able to meet them. The economic growth of the regions will continue to be
constrained by resources, and the targets of the regional development plans
are most likely too optimistic. Unemployment problems and imbalances in
economic development will continue, but IBRD assistance would yield substan-
tial benefits especially in emphasizing attractive projects in light and
processing industries.



- iii -
ix.       IBRD expects to receive at least five to ten investment proposals
every year from each region. Thus, for the four regions, about 30 projects
are expected to be financed annually under the loans to cover part of the banks'
foreign exchange needs for about the next two years. An amount of US$50 mil-
lion is considered sufficient to meet that objective divided in two loans:
US$22.0 million to PBS, out of which US$6.0 million is for IBT; and US$28.0
million to SBS, out of which US$16.6 million is for KBP. The terms and con-
ditions of the IBRD loans to PBS and SBS will be similar to those applied to
recent loans to development finance companies and will finance the foreign
exchange costs of investment projects in the four regions. In selecting
projects for financing with IBRD funds, a limit of US$5 million will normally
be set on the total cost of an investment project; IBRD funds for any invest-
ment project shall generally not exceed US$2 million.



APPRAISAL OF
AN INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Between 1967 and 1973, IBRD lending to industry in the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) has resulted in three loans totalling
US$45 million for which Yugoslav Investment Bank (YIB) was the channel for
co-financing the modernization and expansion of 19 industrial projects. These
loans were complex, requiring extensive time and involvement by IBRD staff.
1.02      IBRD lending strategy for the industrial sector has been, since
1967, to help finance the modernization of key industrial enterprises which
were unable to find the necessary foreign exchange elsewhere. This is in
keeping with the Bank's role as a lender of last resort. Earlier this fis-
cal year the Bank made three loans directly to large industrial projects:
Kikinda Iron Foundry, US$14.5 million; UMI-FOB Iron Foundry, US$15.0 mil-
lion; and, UMI-IMT Tractor Plant, US$18.5 million. No further direct lend-
ing for industrial projects is being considered at this time. It is likely
that future lending to the industrial sector will probably be concentrated
on further industrial credits for the less developed regions, to help fi-
nance the importation of equipment for the smaller, more labor-intensive
enterprises. IFC is likely to concentrate, as in the past, on promoting
joint ventures.
Background
1.03      In 1966, the Federal Government asked IBRD to consider financing
medium and small industrial projects through a development finance company
operation. Several possibilities were explored over the past seven years,
including using YIB (1969) and the National Bank of Yugoslavia (1971) as
channels. But a project could not be developed that was mutually satisfactory
to Yugoslavia and IBRD.
1.04      At IBRD's Annual Meeting in September 1972, the Government of
Yugoslavia suggested that one or more loans be made for investment financing
through banks in the four less developed regions of Yugoslavia 1/: the
1/ Regions having a GMP per capita below the national average.



-2-
Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro, and Macedonia, and the Autonomous
Province of Kosovo. The loan(s) would enable the banks to aid medium and small
industrial projects, many of which lack long-term financing, by providing im-
port financing. This request reflected a growing awareness in the Government
that a shift in emphasis from basic industries, power, and minerals to light
industries would result in a better balanced industrial growth in the four
regions.
1.05      IBRD missions visited Yugoslavia in March, July, September 1973 and
January 1974 to work out and appraise this project. This report, based on
the findings of the missions, recommends that two IBRD loans totalling US$50
million be granted: US$22.0 million to Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS) of the
Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina for use there and in the Republic of Montenegro,
and US$28.0 million to Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS) of the Republic of Macedonia
for use there and in the Autonomous Province of Kosovo. Associated with PBS
will be the Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT) of Montenegro and associated with
SBS will be the Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) of Kosovo.
Formulation of the Project
1.06      For the purpose of lending for industrial development of the
less developed regions, any alternative channel for IBRD funds would have
involved all the four banks in these regions (PBS, SBS, IBT and KBP) since
almost all investment financing in these regions is channelled through
their respective banks. The major considerations in formulating the project
were to: establish between IBRD and the four banks of the less developed
regions an effective operating system that would ensure maximum economic
benefits for the regions; improve identification, appraisal, and supervi-
sion techniques for projects financed by the four banks out of IBRD funds;
and promote institution building in the four banks through their association
with IBRD.
1.07      The Federal Government at first suggested separate loans to each
of the four banks since in the decentralized Yugoslav system each of the
four regions enjoys autonomy in managing its economic and political systems.
The Bank on the other hand would have preferred to have only one loan for
operational and administrative reasons. This would have required extensive
coordination among the four regions which would have been difficult for
this first industrial credit project. A compromise approach of two loans
was therefore agreed upon by the Bank and the Government. It was felt
that the knowledge gained from this initial approach would itself bring
forth better alternatives, if any, for channelling IBRD funds for industry
through future industrial credits.
1.08      The two loans are proposed to be made, one each, to PBS (Bosnia-
Herzegovina) and SBS (Macedonia). PBS and SBS in turn would extend a
part of the proceeds of the IBRD loans to IBT (Montenegro) and KBP (Kosovo)
respectively. Among the four banks, the two proposed IBRD borrowers are



- 3 -
the largest organizations which were found to be the most suitable first time
borrowers. Because of regional proximity, PBS will be associated with IBT and
SBS with KBP. Specific arrangements will be provided to associate each pair
of banks. Some coordination problems will still exist in this approach, but
they should be more manageable than those for four separate loans. IBRD
appraised this alternative and aided in drawing up the necessary linking
mechanism.
1.09      IBRD's Relations with the Four Banks.  Given the size, mixed nature,,
policies and economic environment of the four banks, IBRD's relations with
them, at least initially, cannot reach the depth as they normally do with de-
velopment finance companies. The proposed loans are, therefore, in part a
starting base from which it is expected that both the Yugoslavs and IBRD can
act in concert on furthering the industrial development in Yugoslavia and re-
fine methods for its acceleration. They should also serve as a basis for
identifying ways to achieve a closer relation between IBRD and the banks, which
may be required for any future loans to these banks.
1.10      IBRD's impact on the total operations of these four large banks (their
resource mobilization, general lending policies and resource allocations) will,
to start with, not be sizeable.  But IBRD will not skimp on its objective of
seeing to it that projects financed with its funds are attractive and of high
economic merit.
II. THE ECONOMIES AND INDUSTRIAL SECTORS OF THE LESS DEVELOPED REGIONS
A. The Economies
2.01      IBRD/IDA Report R74-1 "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia", of
November 26, 1973 analyzed Yugoslavia's economy through 1971. The following
paragraphs briefly discuss the economy since 1971 and highlight the situation
of the four less developed regions. Annex 1 outlines this situation for each
region.
2.02      In 1972, Yugoslavia's Gross Material Product (GI4P) 1/ grew, according
to preliminary estimates, by about 5% in real terms, compared with over 8% in
1971 and a Plan Target during 1971-1975 of 7.5% annually. Industrial produc-
tion rose by 8%1 in 1972, somewhat lower than the 10% growth in 1971. The pre-
dominant feature of Yugoslavia's recent economic development is a sharp re-
versal in the balance of payment in 1972 when the current account deficit of
1/   The principal difference between GMP and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is
that the former excludes "non-productive" services classified as those
rendered to individuals (education, health and other public services).
Historically, in Yugoslavia, GDP is about 14% higher than GMP.



-4-
1971 was converted to a surplus of nearly US$200 million. This improvement
was achieved by a 21% increase of exports of goods while imports grew only
2%, and a large increase in tourism earnings and workers' remittances. In-
flation pressures continued in 1972 and 1973 to be high with cost of living
increases of 17% and about 20% respectively.
The Development Gap
2.03      Regional development policy continued to focus on growth in the
less developed regions by transfer of resources through the Federal Fund for
the Accelerated Development of Less Developed Regions (Federal Fund) (para 2.20).
The four regions considered as less developed and consequently recipients of
these resources are the intended beneficiary regions of the proposed IBRD
loans. In 1972, they included 35% of Yugoslavia's population, but contributed
onlv 21% of GMP.
2.04      The disparity in per capita income is considerable between the four
less developed regions and the more developed regions. In 1972, the four re-
gions together had a per capita GMP of US$422, or about half of that of the
developed regions. Of the four regions, Kosovo had the lowest per capita GMP,
US$205, and the other three regions came close to one another: Bosnia-
Herzegovina, US$477; Macedonia, US$471; and Montenegro, US$453.
2.05      Despite substantial achievements between 1953 and 1972, the economies
of the four regions have been growing at a slower pace (6.7% annually) than
those of the more developed regions (7.4% annually). An important cause of
income disparity has been the population growth rate in the four regions
(highest in Kosovo with 2.5% annually during 1961-71), which exceeded that
in the more developed regions. Productivity and sectoral distribution of
labor force, productivity of investments, and social factors such as per-
centages of illiteracy, infant mortalitv, population per hospital bed, etc.,
also are factors influencing the regional inequalities in Yugoslavia.
2.06      To a varying extent, unemployment (and underemployment in agriculture)
constitutes a serious problem in the four regions and is not expected to be
solved soon. This is acknowledged by the current Development Plans (1971-75)
of the four regions which, in addition to employment generation within their
regions, have been promoting higher mobility of labor abroad and to the more
developed regions of Yugoslavia. However, migration within Yugoslavia remains
limited. Recent developments in industrialized European countries, especially
Germany, may curtail immigration of labor, thus affecting the unemployment
situation in Yugoslavia. Estimates of total registered and unregistered un-
emplovment of the potential labor force vary from 10% (Montenegro) to over
40% (Kosovo). 1/
1/   Statistics are available for registered unemployment only.



- 5 -
2.07      Economic development in the four less developed regions started only
after World War II, at a time when the northern regions of Yugoslavia, although
harmed during the war, had a better economic base to allow for fast recons-
truction and growth. Iiowever, the less developed regions, more than the rest
of Yugoslavia, had a considerable wealth of natural resources in mining and
energy which could serve as a catalyst for faster development than agriculture
alone could offer. The option taken then was to give priority to industry
and mining. This strategy was aimed at providing power, minerals and raw
materials for processing industries in developed republics and for export.
The option taken was not basically wrong. But results could have been con-
siderably better if the industrial strategy itself had been better balanced
and implemented more rationally. 1/
B. The Industrial Sectors
2.08      Over the past 20 years, the share of industry in GMP in the four
regions grew faster than in the other regions 2/, doubling over that period,
and reaching 36% in 1972 (Din 19.2 billion of a Din 53.4 billion GMP). Bosnia-
Herzegovina had the highest share of the four regions, with almost 40%. The
more developed regions' share of industry in GMP in 1972 was 38%, only slightly
higher than that of the less developed regions.
2.09      Generally, Yugoslavia's industrial enterprises are large 3/, and
those with more than 1,000 workers account for more than 60% of industrial
GMP. At the other end, small industrial enterprises with less than 60 workers
contribute only 10%. Often enterprises group with others in the form of
"kombinats" (united enterprises), which usually provide assistance in re-
search, procurement, marketing, engineering, and finance to enterprises in
the group.
2.10     1Mining and production of base metals play an important role in the
four less developed regions. Approximately half of Yugoslavia's total steel
capacitv is located in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia. Consider-
able deposits of bauxite have enabled a rapid expansion of the aluminum indus-
try, centered in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Montenegro, which produces aluminum
for domestic use and significant quantities of alumina for export. Yugoslavia's
main lead and zinc resources are mined, refined, and smelted in Macedonia and
Kosovo.
1/   See IBRD/IDA, R74-a, Vol. III, page 132-133.
2/   Statistics on Yugoslav industry in this report include those for mining
and power.
3/   There is no private ownership in industry, as small manufacturing enter-
prises having less than five workers (requisite for private enterprises)
are classified under handicrafts.



- 6 -
2.11      Because of the dominance of basic industries in the four less de-
veloped regions, a number of which have sub-optimal capacities, the industrial
pattern in these regions is more capital-intensive than in the more developed
regions. There have been important examples of inefficient use of capital
in basic industries. In the past decade, energy, mining, steel, noln-ferrous
metals and non-metallic minerals absorbed more than half of industrial invest-
ments in the four regions. The share of processing or fabricating industries
like those for metal products and textiles, which are more labor intensive,
is substantially below the Yugoslav average.
Protection and Incentives
2.12      Over the recent years, Yugoslav industry, including that of the
four less developed regions, has been increasingly exposed to international
competition. 1/ The tariff protection enjoyed by local industries is moderate 2/
(the average nominal duty on all imports was 12% in 1971 with further reduc-
tions in mid-1972 and the effective protection in most industries d:id not ex-
ceed 30%). Prices of most industrial products are now broadly in line with
international prices.
2.13      In line with the decreasing protection from imports, export subsidies,
which were substantial in the 1950's, gradually tapered off in the 1960's.
In 1965, export premia were abolished and replaced by "retention quotas" (see
Annex 2, para 2) amounting at present to about 20% of export proceeds for most
industrial sectors, but up to a 100% for others.
2.14      Price controls, which affected most industries in the late sixties,
have now been relaxed or removed, especially since 1972. In generaL, basic
industries are still more subject to price control than processing industries.
Low priced energy constitutes an indirect incentive for industrialization.
As pointed out in the Economic Report, the implications of the pricing policy
are ambiguous. It is expected that the role of the price control system will
diminish with the further opening up of the Yugoslav economy.
2.15      Yugoslav authorities consider low interest rates on investment capi-
tal a major tool for promoting the development of industry and other economic
sectors in the less developed regions of Yugoslavia. Most of these low cost
resources are provided through the Federal Fund and to a lesser extent through
budgetary allocations by Republics and local governments (Communes). This
policy may have distorted resource allocation in favor of capital-intensive
industries and techniques. Interest rates in Yugoslavia are determined by
the banks' founders (share-holders) who tend to keep interest rates down,
since most of them are enterprises who also borrow from the banks. Interest
rates are discussed further, in para. 3.16-3.19.
1/   IBRD/IDA, R74-1, Vol. III, pages 133-141.
2/   The branches "metal products" and "electrical equipment" are exceptions,
the average import duty amounting to 25% and 22%, respectively.



2.16      Low interest rates, which tend to favor capital intensive industries,
appear also to have worsened to some extent the unemployment problem in the
less developed regions. There is increasing awareness by the regional govern-
ments that labor-intensive industries, such as textiles, metal products, wood
products and electrical equipment, should receive a higher priority than in
the past to achieve a more balanced industrial structure. The request of the
Federal Government for IBRD assistance to finance medium and small :Lndustrial
projects in the less developed regions of Yugoslavia reflects this awareness.
C. Resource Mobilization
2.17      In Yugoslavia, gross national savings as a proportion of GMP have
reached a remarkable level and amounted to 27.7% in 1971. Until the mid-
1960's, the Federal Government mobilized and allocated about 90% of domestic
savings through the National Budget. In line with decentralization and pres-
sure to reduce the dominant role of the state in the economy, the situation
changed after 1965. The Banking and Credit Law was introduced at the same
time (reformed as the Federal Banking Law in 1971) allowing the regional
banks' to gradually dominate mobilization of domestic savings of enterprises
and households. In addition, commercial and investment banks in the four re-
gions were merged into large mixed banks. All mergers were completed in 1972.
2.18      In recent years, the Federal Government's share in mobilizing aggre-
gate savings has declined to about 10%. The Federal Government has established
the Federal Fund as its main instrument for mobilizing savings and transferring
resources to the four less developed regions to finance investments primarily
in industry and infrastructure.
2.19      Aggregate statistics on the sources of investment financing in
Yugoslavia are only available for investments in fixed assets by the social
sector whose financing involves cash transactions (so-called "cash t:ransaction
concept"). Consequently, suppliers' credits are included as and when they are
repaid by the enterprise and not as they are obtained. Investment dLata accord-
ing to this concept exclude also addition to fixed assets carried out by the
enterprises themselves (to the extent that no payments are involved). Moreover,
available statistics do not give details of foreign exchange financing but in-
clude foreign exchange borrowings in banks' portion of financing, and repay-
ments of foreign suppliers' credits in self-financing of enterprises. In 1972,
social sector investments in fixed assets according to the cash trarLsaction
concept amounted to Din 48.8 billion for the whole of Yugoslavia ancL Din 13.8
billion for the four less developed regions compared with Din 41.4 billion and
Din 10.9 billion respectively in 1971. The financing structure of the invest-
ment in 1972 is given below:



-8-
Four Less
SFRY           Developed Regions
Source                              Din billion    %    Din billion    %
Total Economy
Self-financing of economic
organizations                         18.3          37       3.4          25
Banks                                     20.8         43       4.5          32
State (Federation, Republics and
Communes) and Public Funds             9.7          20       5.9          43
Total                            48.8         100      13.8         100
Industry
Self-financing of economic
organizations                          5.7          36       1.0          18
Banks                                      6.7          42      1.6          30
State (Federation, Republics and
Communes) and Public Funds             3.4          22       2.8          52
Total                            15.8         100       5.4         100
L                      =           =
2.20      A discussion of the sources in the preceding table follows:
a.   Self-financing.  The share of funds generated by economic
organizations themselves in financing of industrial invest-
ments is considerably lower in the four regions (18%) than.
in the country (36%). Of the four regions, the shares in
Montenegro and Kosovo are 6%-7% (extremely low), while the.
share in Bosnia-Herzegovirna was close to 25%. However, under
the Yugoslav terminology, self-financing includes suppliers
credits (mostly foreign). It is estimated that suppliers
credits account for somewhat more than half of total "self-
financing" in the four regions.
b.   Banks.  Most long-term banks' resources originate from savings
of individuals and client enterprises, the latter through
founders' capital and deposits as well as borrowings from en-
terprises for special purposes. 1/ Foreign financial credits
are obtained bv or through the banks and as such, are included
in the banks' share in the table above. The banks also guarantee
most suppliers' credits. The banks' share in investment finan-
cing as shown in the above table does not account for the fact
that Federal Fund resources and most other public resources are
channelled through the banks. If these funds are included.,
banks in the four regions provided about 80% of financing of
industrial investments.
1/   Contributions from enterprises in the form of loans to the banks (directly
or through the Republic) for special projects such as power or communal
housing.



c.   State (Federation, Republics and Communes) and Public Funds.
The Federal Fund provides thee largest share of the investment
resources of the less developed regions.  Federal Fund re-
sources are collected from all social sector enterprises in
SFRY (1.94% of their contribution to GMP). 1/ During 1971-73,
Federal Fund resources distributed to the four regions amounted
to Din 11.2 billion. In addition to the Federal Fund, the
Federal Government provided resources for financing of infra-
structure projects in the past, but this role, together with
the mobilization of most budgetary revenues, now rests wit:h the
Republics and Communes. The Republics and Communes have mobil-
ized resources from their budget and other public sources, es-
pecially to finance infrastructure development of their poorest
areas and of specific priority projects. These resources, how-
ever, remained small in the four regions (about 10% of total
investment resources) compared with Federal Fund resources.
2.21      External Financing.  Available statistics show external financing
only for the country as a whole. In 1972, estimated gross and net inflows of
external medium- and long-term capital amounted to Din 16 billion and Din 6
billion, respectively. Since the mid-1960's, private foreign capitall,
largely suppliers' and financial credits, became the main source of external
finance. IBRD is the principal source of official external finance. Efforts
of the banks in the four less developed regions to attract foreign loans and
lines of credit have so far had only limited success. 2/ Examples are loans
from IBRD (for specific large projects), the Export-Import Bank, as well as
bilateral financing from Eastern European countries. Some financing from
Eastern European countries is also obtained through barter lines of credit
by enterprises. Most imports, however, have been financed through suppliers'
credits on terms and conditions which have not always been appropriate or
attractive. The Federal Government has been trying to regulate access to
such financing (Annex 2, para. 2).
2.22      Constraints.  Within the four regions, resource mobilization for
development investments, especially from domestic sources, has depended on
and continues to depend on the Federal Fund as its major source. It is
doubtful whether savings from individuals can be substantially increased
in the near future. Past self-financing of enterprises has been low. The
enterprises' own limited resources are often spread thin over ambitious
1/   Before 1971 this contribution was 1.35%.  Of the present contribution of
1.94%, 0.09% is a special fund for Kosovo and the balance 1.85% is dis-
tributed as follows: Bosnia-Herzegovina 34%; Montenegro 12%; Macedonia
24%; Kosovo 30%.
2/   Aggregate statistics of external finance in the four regions are not
available but balance sheets of banks there indicate that foreign
borrowings are small.



- 10 -
expansion programs (see paras 3.20-3.22). The authorities and the banks are
now trying to improve the profitability of industrial enterprises through the
selection of better projects. Results, however, will not be immediate. While
recognizing shortcomings of entrepreneurial and managerial character, it is
nevertheless apparent that an insufficiency of resources would remaiLn a serious
constraint to the economic development of the regions concerned.
2.23      Since 1971, when banks were reorganized, the allocation mechanism
and the day-to-day implementation of the Plans have been predominantly handled
by the banks, which are controlled by enterprises of the social secl:or. The
banks account for almost 80% of investment financing in the industrial sector
and, overall, about 60%-70% of total investment financing by the social sector
in the economy (the balance being financed mostly from foreign suppliers' cre-
dits and bv the enterprises themselves). A review of the resource allocation
of the four regions can therefore be confined to a review of the banks' opera-
tions (paras. 3.31-3.38).
III. SUMMARY APPRAISAL OF THE INSTITUTIONS
3.01      Each of the four banks in the project was formed when several banks
in its region were merged into a large mixed bank (para 2.17). Five banks
in Bosnia-Herzegovina were merged in 1971 to form PBS, now one of the three
largest banks in Yugoslavia. The commercial banks of Skopje and Bitola were
merged in January 1973 with SBS, established in 1966 under its present name.
Commercial banks also were merged with IBT in 1964 and KBP in 1972.
3.02      The Federal Banking Law of December 1971 provides the legal frame-
work and regulates the operations of Yugoslav banks. Annex 2 gives details.
The organization, ownership, operations, functions and powers of the banks'
main management organs and branches are governed by the statutes and, the self-
management agreements 1/ of bach bank. The Banking Law, the statutes and the
self-management agreements of the banks allow considerable flexibility to the
banks in the conduct of their operations. On the other hand, it appears that
none of their provisions would prevent the banks to meet the purposes of the
proposed IBRD lending. A summary appraisal of the banks participating in the
project follows.
A. Institutional Aspects
Ownership
3.03      Yugoslav enterprises in general are owned by "the society".  They
do not hiave share capital or shareholders. Banks, however, have share capi-
tal (Founders Fund) and shareholders (founders). Most bank founders are
enterprises in the region in which the bank operates (that is, the Republics
or, in the case of Kosovo, the Autonomous Province).
1/   "Self-management" characterizes the Yugoslav economic system whereby an
enterprise is managed by its workers.



- 11 -
3.04      Except for very small enterprises in a region, almost all enter-
prises are founders of their regional bank as well as a small number of socio-
political organizations. Thus shareholdings are widely distributed and the
number of founders ranges from about 110 for IBT to more than 350 for SBS.
Individual founders (or each entity) can hold only up to 10% of the Founders
Fund. At the end of 1973, the Founders Fund of the four banks amounted to,
in Din million: 875, PBS; 1047, SBS; 155, IBT; and 259 1/, KBP.
Founders, Boards, Committees, and Workers Council
3.05      Founders of each bank are members of its highest governing body
(Founders Assembly). Voting rights in the Assembly are proportionate to
the founders' contribution to the Founders Fund. The Assembly approves the
bank's policies and appoints the chief executive (General Manager), his
deputy, and members of the Executive Board and Credit Committee(s). It
also decides on distribution of the bank's income to employees (in agree-
ment with the Workers Council, para 3.08) and founders, as wqell as appro-
priations to the bank's provisions and reserves.
3.06      The Executive Board is the chief management body of the bank.  It
is responsible for executing policies approved by the Assembly and other
functions as determined in the bank's statutes, including approval of loans
in amounts exceeding the authority of the Credit Committee (para 3.07). The
President, Vice President, and members of the Executive Board are e:Lected
from among the founders and are not full-time employees of the bank, as is
the General Manager, who is an ex-officio member of the Executive Board.
3.07      The Credit Committee (or Committees, in the case of some banks)
approves loans within the limit specified in each bank's statutes. It con-
sists of founder's representatives and some full-time bank employees.
3.08      The Workers Council, whose members are elected from and by bank
employees, represents the employees in the administration and operations of
the bank 2/. Also, in consultation with the bank's management, it decides
the employees' share of the bank's income (including salaries).
Management and Staff
3.09      The chief executive of each bank is the General Manager, usually
a person of high repute in the region. SBS also has a Deputy General Manager.
Supervisors of operational departments are Assistant General Managers. The
head of each department is a Director. Senior management of the banks are
1/   Estimate.  1973 data for KBP is not yet available.
2/   This is in line with the Yugoslav system of workers "self-management".
Self-management by workers in banks is, however, somewhat limited as
compared to that in other enterprises because in the case of banks some
of the authority and functions rest with the founders.



- 12 -
typically university graduates (mostly in economics) with several years' ex-
perience, often in both banking and industry. Changes of top managers are
infrequent, and, professional competence is the main criterion for selecting
and appointing all levels of managers of banks.
3.10      Staff is large in the four banks but it is difficult to pass a
judgment cn staff sizes as related to the banks' activities. At the end
of 1972, PBS had 2,517 employees, SBS 1,286, IBT 410 and KBP 566.
3.11      Staff figures include personnel in head offices and branches of the
banks. The proportion of staff with university education and broad expe-
rience in project financing is naturally higher in head offices than in
branches. Most are engineers, economists and accountants. Staff involved
in the banks' long-term investments in industry appear to be competent, but
they are not well versed in financial and economic criteria as these are gen-
erally applied in IBRD project appraisals. Also, staff of PBS and, to a
lesser extent, SBS appear more knowledgeable and better equipped to adopt
such techniques than those of IBT and KBP.
Organization
3.12      Head Offices.  Although the organization of each bank varies (Annex
3), each has a separate department to handle long-term and short-term credit
operations (except for supporting activities such as legal and disbtursements).
Also, each bank has one or several departments to process and supervise long-
term loan investments subdivided by type of projects, such as agriculture,
industry, mining, and food processing.
3.13      Branches.  Each bank has several branches:  PBS, 21; SBS, 22; IBT,
7; and KBP, 11. The branches have considerable autonomy in operations; they
accept deposits and have their own founders' resources. Each branch also
has its own Founders Assembly, Executive Board (except branches of KBP),
and Credit Committee. The ability of each branch to engage in lending op-
erations, particularly long-term lending, is limited and large projects
generally go through the head office for appraisal, approval, and fi.nancing
because long-term resources available in each brancht's area are limited.
Projects involving foreign exchange credits and guarantees go through the
head office.
Operating Policies
3.14      Annual "Business Policy".  In addition to the Statutes, each bank
has an annual "Business Policy" which is determined at the Annual Meeting of
its Founders Assembly. This entails preparing, against the background of the
regional Five-Year Plan, a program statement about the bank's main objectives,
magnitude of operations, and interest rate policies for customer deposits and
lending operations (short-term and long-term). Each bank has a vital role in
executing its region's Plan. It ensures that the type of projects financed
and their sectoral and regional distribution conform to the objectives and
broad guidelines of the Plan. Neither the regional Plan, nor the bank's
annual "Business Policy", reflect planning on a project by project basis.



- 13 -
Each bank, therefore, has considerable autonomv from the Government in making
individual investment decisions, including lending terms. The system appears
to function satisfactorily, providing a means to coordinate implementation of
the investment plans of enterprises within the constraints of the available
resources and the regional Plan. However, banks have not always been able
to avoid pressures, especially from their larger founders, leading to invest-
ment decisions which may sometimes have been questionable both on financial
and economic merits.
3.15      No policy governs the maximum amount each bank can lend to one
enterprise. There is, therefore, a risk of excessive lending of bank funds
to one enterprise. This risk is somewhat offset, however, because each
bank's founders are also its borrowers and they generally ensure a wide
distribution of loans among themselves. There are some exceptions (para.
3.48). Yugoslav banks are neither limited as to borrowings nor restricted
as to their financial structure. Although this system does not seem to have
affected drastically the financial situation of the banks, more restrictive
policies may have beneficial effects on the banks creditworthiness, as dis-
cussed in para 3.43 et. sq.
3.16       Interest Rates.  The legal ceiling on interest rates was removed
in 1971.  however, the banks' founders (who are the principal borrowers) tend
to maintain lending rates as low as possible. Banks do not aim at maximiz-
ing profits. Interest rate policies are basically geared to cover the banks'
financial and administrative costs and legal reserves.
3.17       Interest rate ceilings, previously established by the Federal Gov-
ernment have now been abandoned. Rates on loans (and deposits) are fixed
annually by each bank's Assembly. Various rates are charged depending on
terms of loans, sources of funds, and types of projects. Resources for
long-term financing are available to the four banks from the Federal Fund for
15 years at a 4% p.a. interest rate (Kosovo: 18 years, 3%) and funds of the
Republic and Province at 2-4%. These resources are relent at the banks'
discretion at slightly higher rates, generally not exceeding 6%. Long-term
loans out of the banks' own resources bear interest rates of 8%-12% p. a.,
since they are derived mostly from savings and time deposits on which the
banks pay up to 12% interest. Short-term loans bear interest rates of 10%-
12%, generally higher than long-term loans.
3.18      The average cost of long-term capital to industrial enterprises is
low and in fact has been negative in view of constant inflationary tendencies.
(Cost of living increased by 15% in 1971, 17% in 1972 and about 20% in 1973.)
Such distortion in the cost of capital is particularly pronounced in Kosovo
since in KBP's case Federal and Republic funds comprised about 84% of long-term
investment resources (at the end of 1972 1/) compared to about 50% fbr the
other three banks (at the end of 1973).
1/   1973 data for KBP is not yet available.



- 14 -
3.19      The Bank's Economic Report discussed the impact of the low interest
rates on resource allocation. Payment by enterprises of a more reasonable
"market interest rate" for project financing does indeed appear desirable.
This matter is of concern to IBRD since it affects, by and large, all IBRD
financed projects in Yugoslavia. While the Bank has started a discussion of
interest rate policies with the Government, no solution in the short term can
be expected, neither on the basis of the present project or of other indivi-
dual projects. Interest rate policy, with all its implications, will have to
remain a subject to be discussed in the context of Yugoslavia's econLomic
policies as a whole, rather than on a project basis. As far as the proposed
project is concerned, it must be realized that the proposed loans will have
only a moderate impact on the four banks' long-term operations. Were IBRD to
require the banks to charge a higher interest rate for the total amount of their
financing of projects under the proposed loans, this would penalize such proj-
ects vis-a-vis other projects financed by the banks at lower interest rates.
Thus, without trying to pass judgment on appropriate interest rate levels in
Yugoslavia, we consider that, for investment projects financed from the pro-
posed loans, IBRD's past policy toward Yugoslav industrial projects should be
continued. This means, requiring the intermediaries to charge, on sub-loans
from IBRD funds, an approximate market rate on foreign borrowings (about 9%-
10% annually) and allowing the banks to maintain their present rates on other
funds. Sound project financing would, in good measure, be safeguarded by gen-
eral adherence to agreed standards of financial and economic rates cf return
in project appraisal. The four banks will charge a minimum interest. rate of
9.5% on sub-loans to industrial enterprises from the proposed loans. The
borrowing enterprises will have to bear the foreign exchange risk on these
funds.
Financing of Long-Term Investments
3.20      The financial structure of most enterprises in Yugoslavia, espe-
cially in the four underdeveloped regions, is dominated by debt.  Under the
Yugoslav system, enterprises, except for banks, do not have share capital.
Funds mobilized for the formation of new enterprises are for the most part
loans from communes or banks and sometimes small amounts of grants from
communes. As such, the initial balance sheets of new enterprises show little
or no equity. Even on-going enterprises, which have been able to set aside
reserves from their income, have debt/equity ratios far higher than those
normally found in most other countries. In the past, the Yugoslav system of
"self management" has accentuated the problem of low retention of income as
reserves because most of the enterprises' income was distributed amongst the
workers.
3.21      In such a system where enterprises are so dependent on credit, the
banks' risk is high, since many enterprises, having heavy financial burdens,
are not always able to meet their obligation to repay the loans they have
received from the banks, especially in periods of economic stagnation. This
happened recently in 1970; but, overall, the system has survived and seems
even to have worked well. The banks have been successful in keeping alive
enterprises in difficulty by rescheduling loans, providing new loans and



- 15 -
enforcing on the enterprise, directly or through the courts, various meas-
ures to strengthen it, including such action as changing the managemtent,
reconstructing projects or provoking mergers.
3.22      Nevertheless, especially after the poor economic performarnces in
1970-72 resulting from loose financial management by enterprises, the author-
ities and the banks have realized the need for tighter financial discipline
of enterprises. Measures have been taken which have generally resulted in an
improved liquidity position of the enterprises. 1/ There is now a general
desire in Yugoslavia that enterprises provide more self-financing for their
investments. But, for the coming years, it is likely that many borrowers of
the banks will constitute excessive risks with self-financing by the borrower
amounting to about 10-15% or less of total investment costs. Although under
the Yugoslav system, especially in the four underdeveloped regions, liquida-
tion of the banks is not practically conceivable (see para. 3.49), prudence
would require that the banks protect themselves better against financial risks.
3.23      There is no safe evaluation of the inherent risks to the enterprises
as well as to the banks concerned, of the investment projects to be financed.
However, IBRD should do what can be done to ensure that investment projects
financed with IBRD funds will have sound financial structures. Thus, as a
condition of a sub-loan from the proposed loans, the investment enterprise
(sub-borrower) will normally be required to present a financing plan, expected
to result in a financial structure of the investment enterprise in which its
"business funds and reserve funds" (equity) would be not less than 25% of its
total capitalization (equity plus long-term debt). Exceptions will be allowed
based on the financial and economic merits of each investment project pro-
vided the lending bank enters into an agreement with the investment enterprise
under which the investment enterprise agrees to increase its equity over a
suitable period of time to not less than 25% of its total capitalizaLtion.
3.24      Furthermore, for all investment projects financed from the proposed
loans, the banks would have to undertake a thorough appraisal of the financial
aspects of a project, including the financial projections of the enterprise.
These projects should have a reasonable financial and economic justification
with financial and economic rates of return normally exceeding 10% p.a. (see
Annex 15).
Procedures
3.25      Appraisals and Approvals.  Investment projects are appraised by
the banks' projects departments, which are divided into divisions specialized
by sectors. Based on a sample review of the banks' recent project appraisal
reports, engineering and technical aspects of appraisals appear satisfactory.
To assist their technical staff, the banks often draw on outside experts from
regional and federal specialized institutions. These experts seem to be well
1/   Restriction on contracting foreign suppliers credits and loans; long-
term loans for working capital from National Bank and the regional
banks; control of salaries and wages.



- 16 -
informed about technical aspects and procurement but only moderately informed
on marketing (Yugoslavia having had, until recently, a not very market-oriented
economy). KBP and IBT greatly rely on outside expertise whereas SBS and PBS,
being /larger banks, have a wider range of technical specialists on their
staffs. To improve project preparation, the banks also finance feasibility
studies for enterprises through grants and low-interest loans from earmarked
Federal and Republic Funds. The financial appraisal methods of the four banks
have particularly focussed on the debt-servicing capacity of the borrower.
3.26      A sample review of appraisal reports of each bank indicated several
weaknesses in appraisal methods:
(a) Marketing prospects of projects are not thoroughly assessed,
consequently planned manufacturing capacity and sales pros-
pects are not fully supported.
(b) Pre-operational expenses, provisions against cost overruns
and contingency requirements in cost estimates are not given
adequate attention.
(c)  Financial and economic returns over the life of projects are
not determined systematically.
3.27      Of the four banks, PBS reviews projects most thoroughly and compre-
hensively. SBS follows close behind. Despite shortcomings, the fotlr banks
have adequate staff with the necessary background and experience to be able
to improve their appraisal techniques.
3.28      Given the prospects of a sustained association with IBRD, each bank
will have to get acquainted with mutually agreed criteria for project appraisal.
The banks need to adopt more suitable methods than in the past in order to
allow for a better assessment of the market, financial and economic returns
and viability of their projects. To achieve that objective, the four banks
will have to appoint qualified staff to appraise investment projects financed
out of the proposed loans. Arrangements to that effect are described in more
detail in paras. 5.08-5.14.
3.29      Supervision.  Uneven project performance and a tendency of enter-
prises to "generate" funds by not paying their debts in the past, have led
to an increasing attention from the banks on supervision of projects. PBS
has a separate department for supervision and follow-up on projects.n SBS
also is organizing a separate department for supervision. IBT and IBP have
investment departments which handle appraisal and supervision. Supervision
is directed systematically only to projects under construction and problem
loans. Operating projects of borrowers who repay loans on time are not
supervised regularly. Since each bank also serves as a commercial bank and
as a source of short-term financing for its clients, it maintains close con-
tact with its clients' operations and financial positions. It maintains this
contact by requiring each client to provide financial statements at least
once a year as well as by reassessing each client's overall situation (records



- 17 -
of previous loans, total exposure, and financial status) whenever clients
apply for additional long-term loans or major short-term loans. Overall,
the supervision techniques of each bank appear to be adequate. Nevertheless,
the four banks will regularly supervise and report on the progress of all
investment projects financed out of the proposed loans in a manner acceptable
to IBRD.
3.30      Procurement and Disbursement.  Procedures in these respects are
common to the four banks. The banks ensure that their clients adhere to
legal requirements for procurement, principally that bids for equipment
supply and contracts above certain amounts must be advertised in a national
newspaper. International bidding is compulsory for large projects. For
the proposed loans, where projects are too small to be required by 'Law to
seek supply through international bidding, the banks will also satisfy
themselves on satisfactory competitive arrangements on procurement for in-
vestment projects. Disbursements are made on contractors notes, bills, and
other satisfactory evidence of services rendered or goods supplied. Large
amounts are generally disbursed directly to suppliers. Overall, procurement
and disbursement methods appear to be sound and up to standards normally ex-
pected by IBRD of development finance companies.
B. Operations
3.31      Each bank, as a mixed bank, provides the normal service oi a com-
mercial bank as well as long-term finance. Except for negligible amounts of
equity investments (in other banks), each bank's long-term financing is
through long-term loans. Also, at no risk to itself, each bank manages
substantial resources on behalf of socio-political organizations in its
region. Each bank is authorized to perform foreign exchange transactions
under the foreign exchange regime: grant short- and long-term foreign ex-
change credits, issue guarantees for obligations incurred abroad and in
Yugoslavia, and perform banking transactions in connection with imports
and exports.
Short-Term Loans
3.32      In 1973, short-term loan commitments by the four banks varied between
Din 3.3 billion for KBP to 15.8 billion for PBS. Disbursements on short-term
loans were substantially the same as commitments as virtually no time lag
occurred between the two. (Details for 1971-73 are provided in Annexes 4 and
6.) The four banks' short-term loan portfolios as a percentage of t:heir total
assets vary between about 13% (KBP) and 23% (SBS).
Long-Term Loans and Guarantees
3.33      Each bank generally screens demands for long-term loans before
client enterprises submit formal applications and discourage projects that
are clearly unviable or in non-priority sectors. Once applications are re-
ceived, only a few are rejected. For each bank, commitments are considered



- 18 -
the same as approvals. Only rarely does a bank approve a project and fail
to follow with a commitment. The time lag between approval and conunitment
is minimal.
3.34      Annexes 4 and 6 give a summary of long-term loans and guarantees
of each bank for 1971-73. Long-term foreign exchange loans amountedi to less
than 5% of total long-term loans of each bank. The foreign exchange costs of
projects were financed mostly through suppliers' credits and the enterprises
self-generated foreign exchange resources (retention quotas based on exports
and quotas against depreciation of fixed assets) and special federa:L quotas.
Annex 2 para. 2 gives details on the available sources of foreign exchange for
investment by enterprises.  The banks guarantee mostly suppliers' credits, a
large proportion of which (60-80%) is for foreign suppliers' credits.
3.35      New loan commitments for the four banks in 1972 increased substan-
tially over 1971, particularly in the industry sector, from 120% (SBS) to
about 300% (IBT). This increase was mainly because the regional Delvelopment
Plans (1971-75) were not finalized until early 1972. Most projects which
normally would have been committed for 1971 were thus delayed to 1972. New
loan commitments in 1973 were lower than the high level of 1972, except in
the case of SBS 1/, but were about 50% higher than in 1971. Disbursements
increased gradually in 1972 and 1973 because of a time lag between commitments
and disbursements.
3.36      Annex 4 shows that in 1971-73, applications, particularly for SBS
and KBP, ran substantially higher than the banks' ability to commit against
projects because of the shortage in resources to meet demands. Several ap-
plications thus were deferred for future consideration. Even when a bank
makes commitments, timely disbursements are not guaranteed as they depended
on available resources. The insufficiency of resources was also reflected in
the over-committed position of each bank at December 31, 1973 (para. 3.40).
3.37      Annexes 5 and 7 give breakdowns of each bank's loans by various
economic sectors and within industry by subsectors, size, and maturLty.
Industry absorbed most bank resources. Long-term loan commitments in the
industrial sector in 1971-72 as a percentage of total long-term loan commit-
ments were: PBS, 62%; SBS, 60%; IBT, 84%; and KBP, 70%. Operations in indus-
try vary for each bank, but energy and basic metallurgy are the largest reci-
pients. PBS, 38%; SBS, 45%; IBT, 65%; and KBP, 40%. IBT has the highest share
for these sectors as a result of heavy investments in energy and aluminum.
Other important borrowers in 1971-72 were: textiles (all four banks), metal
products (PBS and SBS), construction materials (SBS and KBP), wood and wood
products (PBS and IBT), and chemicals (KBP).
1/   SBS' long-term loan commitments increased from Din 1.8 billion in 1972
to Din 5.3 billion in 1973 due mainly to 3 large projects for nickel,
copper and energy.



- 19 -
3.38      An analysis of the four banks' aggregate long-term loan commitments,
by size, in industrial projects in 1971 and 1972 follows:
PBS           SBS           IBT           KBP
No.  Amount  No.  Amount  No.  Amount  No.  Amount
Din          Din           Din           ])in
Size of Loan               million       million       million       miLlion
Below Din 20 million  236  1,227   67       318   38      593   140    765
Above Din 20 million   43  3,120   20   1,244   21   1,333    32  2,499
Total             279  4,347   87   1,562   59   1,926   172  3,264
While a substantial proportion of each bank's resources were absorbed by
large investments, in 1972, loans of less than Din 20 million represented
63%-82% of investments in numbers and 25%-44% in amounts.  Financing by the
banks normally varies between 40% and 80% of project costs.  The above data
indicates a sizeable demand by medium and small projects which would be the
beneficiaries of the proposed loans.
C. Financial Aspects
Resource Position
3.39      Short-term.  As a general policy, the short-term resources of the
four banks are used almost exclusively for short-term investments and long-
term resources for long-term investments. 1/ Most short-term resources are
deposits and borrowings from the National Bank of Yugoslavia through redis-
count facilities. At the end of 1973 2/, only PBS had a surplus of short-term
funds (about Din 1.9 billion), a part of which were used to finance its long-
term investments (see Annex 8). Prudent usage of short-term resources for
long-term investments is allowed and controlled by the National Bank. The
short-term commitments of SBS and KBP matched their short-term resources, and
IBT temporarily financed a small part of its short-term loans with long-term
funds.
1/   Before the 1965 Banking and Credit Law was reformed in 1971, the law
prohibited banks from using a short-term resources for long-term invest-
ments.
2/   1972 in the case of KPB as data for 1973 is not yet available.



- 20 -
3.40      Long-term.  The resource gap (excess oA commitments over available
resources) of each bank is fairly high in absolute terms and as a percentage
of total available long-term resources. This situation is customary for these
banks as they plan their operations on a disbursement basis rather than on a
commitment basis. In their loan agreements with sub-borrowers, the banks are
liable to provide fipancing only in accordance with the disbursement: schedule
expected for the project. The banks generally do not commit expected but un-
secured resources, except for resources from the Federal Fund which are provided
by law under the Five-Year Plan. Although these Federal funds are computed on
the basis of a percentage of the social product, estimates of absolute amounts
to be obtained in future years are fairly accurate and there is no risk for the
banks in assuming that they would be available. As a result, overcommitments
shown in the following table are only technical. Still, excessive commitments
in anticipation of future resources have the effect (especially in the case of
IBT) of blocking new projects in the coming year. Annex 8 gives a detailed
statement of the four banks' long-term resource position as at December 31,
1973 1/ and a summary follows:
Long-Term Resources                    PBS          SBS          IBT         KBP
------------Din million--------------
Resoirces available                  20,551       18,658       4,877       7,759
Investments as per
balance sheet                       21,306       17,090       4,396       7,555
Undisbursed resources                  (755)       1,568         481         204
Undisbursed commitments               6,186        4,879       2,113       2,632
Uncommitted resources                (6,941)      (3,311)    (1,632)    (2,428)
(overcommitment)
Resource gap (overcommit-
ment) as a proportion of
total available resources             34            18         33          31
1/   1972 in the case of KBP as data for 1973 is not yet available.



- 21 -
The absolute resource gap, however, is considerably higher than the figures
indicate. First, as mentioned, many project applications are not authorized
by the banks because of resource constraints and low priority in the regional
Plan. Second, most import financing for investments is not provided by bank
loans but by suppliers' credits, most of which are guaranteed by banks. The
banks' contingent liability against such guarantees at December 31, 1972, 1/
amounted to, in Din million: about 4,000, PBS; 1,235, SBS; 337, IBT; and
256, KBP. The banks do not make provisions from their long-term resources
against these contingent liabilities. Payments by the banks againsi: any de-
faults by their clients to suppliers are treated as short-term loans to these
clients. Defaults have been minimal, and the risk does not appear 1:o be
significant.
Profitability
3.41      Annex 9 describes in detail income statements of the four banks for
1971-1973. As stated (para. 3.16), the banks do not try to maximize profits
and do not consider profitability an essential measure of their efficiency
and financial performance. Certain key features can, however, be noted from
their income statements:
(a) Gross income less financial expenses (including provisions
against bad loans) of each bank in 1973 2/, as a percentage of
average total assets was about 1.2%. This ratio appears t:o be
low even accounting for the mixed nature of these banks, and
reflects the banks' policy of maintaining a low spread between
lending and borrowing.
(b) Administrative expenses of the banks in 1972 amounted to about
0.5% of average total assets and appear reasonable for mix:ed
banks.
(c)  Two principal types of taxes were levied on each bank, one
based on gross income and one on Founders Fund. These
totalled about 60% of net income before taxes in 1972 for
each bank except IBT. 3/ The tax on Founders Fund was
abolished in 1973.
1/   Comparable data as at end 1973 is not vet available.
2/   1972 in the case of KBP, as data for 1973 is not yet available.
3/   IBT's net income is considerably lower and taxes as a percentage of
income are substantially higher because in addition to the tax on gross
income and Founders Fund paid by all banks, IBT (as also other enter-
prises in Montenegro) has to pay a special income tax for investments
in energy in Montenegro.



- 22 -
(d)  No cash distributions of net income have been made to founders
of each bank until now; dividends were used automatically to
increase the Founders Fund. In 1973, each bank's Founder;
Assembly was authorized to issue cash dividends to the fotnders,
but the banks do not expect to make such distributions in the
near future.
Financial Position
3.42      Annex 10 gives balance sheets of the banks as at December 31, 1971-
1973. 1/  Major items in the liability and equity have already been described.
Due to the mixed nature of the banks, current assets and current liabilities
constitute a substantial part of total assets and total liabilities., Current
ratios maintained consistently at about 1:1 for the banks are satisfactory.
More important, the banks comply with liquidity requirements which are set
and supervised by the National Bank. Essentially, 30% of the banks' short
term deposits have to be maintained as reserves with the National Bank (see
Annex 2).
Portfolio
3.43      The Federal Social Accounting Service (SAS) certifies each bank's
annual financial statements. However, this certification does not correspond
to an audit according to internationally accepted accounting standards. The
main emphasis of SAS's periodic inspection is to ensure that each bank's op-
erations are within legal requirements, that statements submitted to SAS agree
with records kept by the banks, and that interest charges, income allocation,
etc., are accurate. SAS neither verifies the existence of each bank's assets
and liabilities nor gives an opinion on whether they are adequately disclosed
and fairly stated in the bank's annual balance sheets.
3.44      Without such reliable financial information, an evaluation of each
bank's quality of investment portfolio (and adequacy of provisions) can suc-
ceed only partially. Each bank maintains detailed accounting recorcis for
individual loans it grants only according to the source of the funds and
purpose of the loan. A borrower may have over 100 loans outstanding at any
time but no aggregate routine record is kept of total amotnts due from each
borrower. Aggregating of loans by borrower is difficult.(although feasible)
because the number of loans in each bank's portfolio is large (as high as
about 6,000 for PBS) and because a borrower may have several loans from the
same bank spread between head-office and branches. Because of these diffi-
culties, PBS and IBT could not expeditiously prepare complete schedules of
their loan portfolio.   Reliable financial information was available for SBS
and KBP, but further analysis of the financial position of their principal
borrowers was impossible since financial data received from them is considered
confidential.  For projects financed from the proposed loans, however, such
information would be made available.
1/   1971-J2 for KBP.  KBP's balance sheet for 1973 is not yet avai]able.



- 23 -
3.45      None of the banks periodically review their portfolios to determine
requirements for provisions against potential losses. Annual appropriations
to such provisions out of income are made because of legal requirements. 1/
None of the banks try to evaluate to what extent their provisions against
loans are commensurate with the risks inherent in their loan portfoLios.
However, the proposed auditing arrangements (see para. 3.52) will require
the banks to undertake such annual evaluations.
3.46      Annex 11 shows loan arrears of the banks at December 31, 1973 2/. At-
rears of principal and interest as a proportion of long-term loans outstanding
varied from 0.6% (IBT) to 1.7% (SBS). In each bank, these arrears were covered
by provisions against losses. However, the exact picture on the overdues is
not clear. Data on portfolios affected bv arrears are incomplete due to in-
efficiency in the banks' accounting system (para 3.44). According Co the
limited data in Annex 11, large proportions of the banks' portfolio; are
affected by arrears, as hiigh as about 35% of total portfolio in the case of
SBS, although most of these arrears are for a period of less than a year.
A judgment on the banks' exposure with regard to bad borrowers cannot be made
before a more thorough review is possible, and an audit, as recommended in
para 3.52, is performed. It appears, however, that late payments oiE debts,
in most cases, reflect more laxity on the part of the enterprises than their
inability to pay. The banks are tightening their collection procedures.
Also, the arrears positions of PBS, SBS, and KBP are expected to improve in
1974 following the decision of Republic authorities to convert into grants
some existing loans made through the banks to enterprises from Federal Fund
resources received prior to 1971 which belong to the Republics. 3/ Conse-
quently, a portion of each bank's obligation to the Republic for such loans
will be eliminated and in turn, each bank will reduce its claims to the enter-
prises concerned. Since manv enterprises that benefit from this decision are
in arrears, the arrears position should improve once the plan is effected.
3.47      A review by the appraisal mission of each bank's records of loans
rescheduled by its head office in the last two years also did not indicate
any substantial weakness in its portfolio. Most loan amounts rescheduled were
comparatively small, and second and third reschedulings of the same loan were
almost negligible. Information on loans rescheduled by branches could not be
obtained. This aspect would also have to be audited. Actual write-offs of
loans have been minimal but in addition the banks are required to write-off
against income a specified proportion (12.5% in 1972, raised to 25% in 1973)
of interest overdue from clients by more than 90 days at the end of the year.
1/   Currently, banks are required to provide annually 0.5% of tota:L loans
outstanding until provisions for potential losses reach 5% of outstanding
loans.
2/   1972 for KBP as data at end 1973 is not yet available.
3/   Federal Fund resources received before 1971 have been granted :0o the
Republics, which are thus the current creditors in the banks' balance
sheets. For IBT most loans from Federal Fund resources received prior
to 1971 were removed from its portfolio and included in its "managed
funds" at the end of 1972, since IBT no longer bears the risk on those
loans.



- 24 -
3.48      Available data indicate that PBS is able to spread its risks more
evenly within its portfolio than the other three banks.  KBP has a h1igh ex-
posure in the two large "Kombinats" in Kosovo, REHK and Trepca. REHK ac-
counted for 24% of KBP's total long-term loans outstanding at December 31,
1972. SBS and IBT have made many loans to two principal industrial kombi-
nats, Skopje Steel Works and Titograd Aluminum respectively. These loans
accounted for 15%-20% of their loan portfolio. Based on limited informa-
tion available, portfolio management by PBS appears to be sounder thian in
the other three banks.
Creditworthiness
3.49      Along conventional lines, it is simply not possible, pend:Lng an
audit, to establish the creditworthiness of the banks as independent organiza-
tions. In fact, in this case, IBRD's normal criteria of creditworthiness may
have a limited meaning. However, for the reasons given below, there is little
doubt that the institutions will be in a position to meet their obl:Lgations
to IBRD.
a.   The founders have unlimited liability toward the banks' obliga-
tions. Creditors of the banks thus have legal recourse to all
assets of founders, many of which are large industrial enl:er-
prises with substantial assets.
b.   The banks have qualified and experienced management and st:aff.
In this respect, PBS and, to a lesser extent, SBS have a com-
parative advantage over IBT and KBP. Experience shows that
each bank's financial management has been adequate with no
significant losses, arrears lhave been manageable, and obliga-
tions have been net satisfactorily.
C.   Iligh long-term debt/equity ratios (particularly KBP, 15:1 as
at end 1972) do not fully reflect the financial cushion avrail-
able to creditors since a substantial part of debt has the
Republic and Federal authorities as its source. These aut:hor-
ities are unlikely to force liquidation in case of financial
crisis because of the intimate links between the banks and the
Republics. In fact, the banks are an integral part of the
institutional fabric of their respective regions. In the past,
the Republics have occasionally rescheduled debt owed by banks
along with the banks' own rescheduling of loans from such funds.
If borrowings of Republic and Federal funds are excluded in the
calculations even the highest long-term debt/equity ratio of
15:1 (KBP) falls to about 2:1.



- 25 -
d.   Close integration with the economy of the region:  About 35%
of each bank's total resources are provided by the social sec-
tor (mostly from enterprises and the Federal and Republic Gov-
ernments). About 80% of investment financing in a region is
effected by or through its bank. Each bank also manages, at
no risk to itself, substantial funds on behalf of Federal and
Republic Governments and socio-political organizations (S13S
manages Din 10.7 billion, as compared to its total assets of
about Din 25.7 billion). Under these circumstances liquidation
of the banks is virtually inconceivable.
Audit
3.50      Before lending to institutions such as the proposed borrowers,
IBRD would normally request an audit by an independent reputable account-
ing firm, and the audit report would be an important input in the Bank's
decision to lend. For reasons stated (para 3.49), absence of proper audits
of the four banks should not be considered critical to the consideration of
their creditworthiness for the proposed loans. Uncertainties on the! quality
of the banks' portfolios must be recognized, however, as looming large in
evaluating their financial soundness. Nevertheless, PBS and SBS appear suit-
able as IBRD borrowers and each bank seems capable of carrying out the main
objectives of the project. In future, audits undertaken according to stand-
ards acceptable to IBRD should become an essential part of the information
system available to the banks' management and founders and to the Gavernment.
Further, audited financial statements should become eventually a major tool
to help the four banks raise resources from foreign financial institutions.
3.51      For previous IBPD projects in Yugoslavia, and at the request of
the Federal Government, IBRD agreed to waive its normal requirement to im-
plement audits during a transition period, provided that a satisfactory so-
lution would be worked out over time. The arrangement under way now is to
train SAS staff in auditing so that it will eventually be able to audit all
IBRD projects in Yugoslavia.
3.52      The training program is currently under way, but a year, at the least,
is likely to elapse before SAS staff will be capable of performing audits ac-
ceptable to international financiers, including IRRD.  Also, the complexity
and, at times, weaknesses of each bank's accounting system will require that
a substantial work of codification and reconciliation of the books be under-
taken before any meaningful audit can be made. Consequently, the banks, the
Government and IBRD have agreed to the followitig arrangements:
a.   The banks will, in principle, have independent, satisfac-
tory audits carried out annually, beginning with their 1974
accounts, for PBS and SBS; 1975 accounts, for IBT and KBP.



- 26 -
b.   SAS would take responsibility for auditing the banks accouLnts,
as mentioned in (a) above in accordance with IBRD guidelines
for auditing dfc's. 1/ Before the end of 1974, SAS will con-
sult with IBRD on the specific arrangements for such audits.
If the SAS training program currently under way does not
provide SAS with sufficient qualified manpower to carry out
these audits alone, SAS would seek, through an interim asso-
ciation, the assistance of an internationally reputed account-
ing and auditing firm acceptable to IBRD.
c.   Before the end of 1974, SAS would agree with IBRD on guide-
lines defining the preparatory work which might be required
by each bank to enable an efficient audit to be carried out,
and the banks will invite SAS, also before the end of 1974,
to provide such guidelines and act thereon to enable the
necessary audits to be carried out.
The four banks have been advised that further IBRD assistance will depend,
inter alia, on the success of the outlined auditing program.
IV. FORECAST OF INVESTMENTS AND BANKS' OPERATIONS
Assumptions
4.01      At present, each bank's own planning of investments is limited to
one year in its annual "Business Policv" (para. 3.14). Forecasts in this
appraisal of future investments in regional economies and of the banks' busi-
ness are at best rough, based on inadeouate information. They were made
after lengthy discussions in Yugoslavia with Government officials, various
economic agencies, and the banks.  The forecasts relv as much as posSible on
the planned investments in the regional Five-Year Plans, available resources
and current estimates of future resources, the banks' past operations and
current "pipelines" of proiects, as well as on qualitative judgments on actual
trends in various economic sectors and branches. Investments during 1971-1973
were below plan targets in all four regions (see Annex 1 for details;) and in-
vestments in 1974-75 are not expected to accelerate sufficiently to meet the
overall plan targets for 1971-75. The investment forecasts in this report
take into account a needed downward adjustment of the regional Plans. The
margin of error in the forecasts is probably larger than usually encountered
in projects examined by IBRD staff when appraising a developmient finance com-
panv. The banks have already agreed to improve their forecasts in the future.
4.02      As in the past, the basic policy of each bank is to continue to match
short- and long-term investments with short- and long-term resources respectively.
1/   "Illustrative Form of Audit Report for Development Finance Companies",
January 1973.



- 27 -
Short-term lending operations
4.03      Short-term resources are generally rolled over about three times a
year. Short-term lending operations of each bank are expected to grow at about
10-15% a year between 1974 and 1976.  Increases in short-term resources are
expected to be just sufficient to meet the forecast level of short-t:erm lend-
ing operations.
Long-term lending operations
4.04      Long-term investments in the social sector for 1974-76 (on a cash
flow or disbursement basis) in the four less developed regions are 'Forecast
as follows:
Forecasts of Long-term Investments: 1974-76 /1
Bosnia
hierzegovina   Macedonia   Montenegro  Kosovo    Total
----------________- Din million --------------------
Total (all sectors)         30,000      19,600        6,400       14,200   70,200
Industry                 13,800        8,800        2,750        7,800   33,150
Medium and small
industrial projects/2   4,150         2,650          690        1,950    9,440
of which
imported equip-
ment /3                 1,450          925          240          680    3,295
_____-----  US$ million Equivalent /4 ---
Imported Equipment         88           56           15           41       200
/1   Including investments in fixed assets and permanent working capital
Investments in permanent working capital are estimated at about: 15%-20%
of total investment.
/2   Based on past information and the banks' project pipelines, mecdium and
small projects as a proportion of total industrial investments are about
30% for PBS and SBS and about 25% for IBT and KBP.
/3   About 35% of total project costs, based on past information and the
banks' project pipelines.
/4   At Din 16.50 = US$1.0.
4.05      Imported equipment accounts on an average for about 30% of' total
long-term investments in all sectors, about 40% of industrial investments and
about 35% of investments in medium and small industrial projects.  Some im-
ports require only local currency funds from the enterprises (self-financing
or bank loans) and are converted in foreign currency at the Central Bank 1/.
The proportion of such local currency financing in total imports is not known,
but is estimated at about 20%.
1/   See Annex 2, para. 2, for available sources of foreign exchange.



- 28 -
4.06      Forecasts of each bank's investment financing in its region is based
on forecasts of long-term resources secured or identified (including the pro-
posed IBRD loans) as well as some expected but unidentified foreign borrowings.
Total foreign borrowings are expected to amount to about 10% of the banks'
total resources. Details of forecasts of the banks' resources and operations
over 1974-76 are given in Annex 12-14. Forecasts of the banks' long-term re-
sources (except unidentified foreign borrowings) available for disbursement
over 1974-76 are summarized below:
Long-term Resources                  PBS      SBS     IBT      KBP     Total
----------- Din billion --------------
Loan collections less repay-
ments of borrowings             2.8     2.0    (0.3)    1.3        5.8
Federal Fund                         6.0      4.3     2.1      6.2      18.6
Increase in long-term deposits
and other domestic sources    4.4       4.9      0.9      0.8      11.0
Secured or identified foreign
credits (including the pro-
posed IBRD loans)               0.2     0.6      0.1      0.2      1.1
Total available for dis-
bursements               13.4    11.8       2.8     8.5      36.5
------- US$ million equivalent --------
Total available for dis-
bursements                 812      715      170     515    2,212
4.07      Estimated investment financing for 1974-76 (disbursements,, in-
cluding expected level of enterprise funds and other domestic sources follows:



- 29 -
Bosnia
Investment Financing   herzegovina   Macedonia   Montenegro   Kosovo   Total
-------------------- Din billion --------------------
Total investments           30.0            19.6          6.4        14.2      70.2
Financing Sources:
Regional banks            13.4            11.8          2.8         8.5      36.5
Enterprise funds-   /2   4.5               2.0          0.5         1.1       8.1
Other domestic fundsL-   3.0               1.0          0.6         0.7       5.3
Total            20.9            14.8          3.9        10.3      49.9
Financing gap                9.1             4.8          2.5         3.9      20.3
-------------- US$ million equivalent ---------------
Financing gap                551             291          152         236   1,230
/1   The contribution of enterprises as a percentage of total investments
financing is estimated at 15% for Bosnia-hierzegovina, 10% for Mlacedonia,
and 7.5% for Montenegro and Kosovo. This excludes suppliers credits
which are normally included (as repayments of suppliers credits) under
enterprises' own funds in Yugoslav statistics.
/2   Estimated at about 10% of total investments for Bosnia-Herzegovina and
Montenegro and 5% for Miacedonia and Kosovo.
4.08      The financing gap shown in the preceding table is mostly a foreign
exchange gap 1/, expected to be financed through additonal foreign loans (as
yet unidentified) and foreign suDpliers' credits (most guaranteed by each bank).
The Government's policy is to reduce reliance on foreign suppliers' credits,
replacing them, where possible, with loug-term foreign loans on suitable terms
obtained through the banks. Although each bank is increasingly trying to ob-
tain direct foreign exchange loans on its own account, the proportion of such
financing in total investments is likelv to remain small in the next three
years (about 10%). The IBRD loans have to be viewed as contributing to such
efforts.
4.09      The resource gap for the industrial sector alone can not be esti-
mated precisely but, industry representing about 45% of total investments,
about half of the financing gap can be attributed to industry. This gap
(especially foreign exchange requirements of medium and small industrial
projects) represents an important part of each bank's resource requirements.
1/   Based on the import component of total investment costs (para 4.05) and
secured or identified foreign resources (para 4.06).



- 30 -
4.10      For illustrative purposes, each of the four banks submitted in
April 1974 a tentative list of project applications that might be considered
for IBRD financing under the proposed loans. The number of projects for all
four banks totals 67 and the total investment costs are equivalent to about
US$200 million. The average import content varies between 30%-40% and is
highest in case of projects submitted by KBP. The project lists submitted
represent a considerable mix of processing industries. Additional projects
in a variety of manufacturing activities are expected to be added to the
banks' lists over time while some may be dropped.
4.11      The technical and financial feasibility of investment proposals
included in the four project lists have already been tentatively screened
by the four banks. However, the projects have not vet been fully appraised
by the banks and financina of the projects' domestic and foreign exchange
component has not been determined. In the case of IBT, available and ex-
pected resources for 1974 have already been committed for a few large
sized projects.  The project list submitted by IBT is therefore likely to
contain mostly project candidates for 1975 when new domestic sources will
be available.
4.12       Somewhat less than half of the projects relate to modernization
and capansion schemes and the rest are new projects (mostly new plants of
existing enterprises). Project costs vary within wide limits. KBP projects
are largest with an average project size of US$4.5 mnillion equivalent which
compares with an average of US$3 million equivalent for the total number of
projects submitted bv the four banks.
Profitability and Financial Position
4.13      The forecasts focus Driniarily on long-term operations of the banks
where they could be made with sufficient confidence based on the Plans' pro-
grams, the banks' history and their resources (e.g., Federal Fund). Forecasts
of short-term operations on the other hand cannot be rmade in the sane manner
and with the samne degree of confidence, in part because of the size and mixed
nature of the banks and their large network of semi-independent branches.
Thus, projected balance sheets and income statements are not included in this
report, although an attermpt was made, and projected statements were prepared
in the course of this appraisal.  The forecast Statements of Source and Appli-
cation of Funds (Annex 14) taken together with the intended policies of the
banks as regards the nanagerlent of tlheir short-term operations (paras. 3.39
and 4.03) indicate that the financial position and structure of the banks
would not change significantlv over the period of the forecasts, and that
their profitability would remiain comparable to the level currently achieved.
Debt service coverage, at least over the period of the forecast, is satis-
factory. On this basis, the conclusions given in para 3.49 on the banks'



- 31 -
ability to meet their obligations should remain valid over the period. Fur-
ther improvements on receivables can be expected due to better collection of
loan maturities (para. 3.46). The apparent increase in the debt/equity ratios
which can be derived from Annex 14 should not be considered, at this stage,
as an expected worsening of the banks' financial structures, because (although
this is not reflected in Annex 14) Founders Funds are expected to increase sub-
stantiallv when Federal Fund resources received prior to 1971 (para.. 3.46)
would have been transferred to enterprises. 1/ It is, however, too early to
figure out region by region valid assumptions in this respect.
V. THE PROPOSED LOANS
A. Amount
5.01      The assessment of the four banks' resource needs indicates that at
least over the next three vears demand for investment in medium and small in-
dustry will not be met fully. Requirements for foreign exchange are high
(about US$200 million over 1974-76; see para. 4.U4). At best, IBR-D could be
expected to meet only a portion. An amount of US$50 million is recommended
for two IBRD loans based on the following considerations.
5.02      The objectives of IBRD loans, to provide finance for medium and
small projects with satisfactory financial and economic returns and to improve
the appraisal criteria and decisions of the banks, can be fulfilled if the
four banks make substantial efforts to meet IBRD standards.  To ensure the
banks' efforts, IBRD should become a sufficientlv significant financier of
the banks by providing funds to finance part of the costs of many projects.
IBRI) lending could have a tangible impact if it covers part of the resource
needs of each region sufficient to finance annually at least five to ten proj-
ects. Thus, for the four regions, about 20-30 projects are estimated to be
financed annually under the loans, which would cover part of the banks' foreign
exchange needs for about 2 years.
5.03      A review of the four banks' investments in medium and small in-
dustrial projects indicates that, on average, these investments may amount
to about US$3-5 million per project. The foreign exchange component. of each
project is 30%-40% of total costs, or about US$1-2 million. IBRD finance
would normally provide for a maximum of about US$2 million per project. For
projects witlh a larger foreign exchange cornponent, the balance would be ob-
tained from other foreign exchange sources (mostlv suppliers' credits and
foreign exchange quotas). On this basis, the proposed IBRD loans totalling
US$50 million should be sufficient to finance the number of projects mentioned
above.
1/   In exchange for decreasing the debt of enterprises financed with Federal
Funds prior to 1971, enterprises would have, at least in part, to in-
crease their contribution to Founders Funds.



- 32 -
5.04      The four banks have requested that IBRD funds be allocated among
them on the same basis as Federal Fund resources. 1/ Given the relative
population and economic development of the regions, this system is acceptable
and IBRD funds would thus be distributed as follows:
Region               Bank       Loan Allocation US$ million
Bosnia-hierzegovina       PBS                       16.0
Montenegro                 IBT                       6.0
llacedonia                 SBS                      11.4
Kosovo                     KBP                      16.6
Total                                         50.0
5.05      IBRD lending would be split in two loans:  US$22.0 million to PBS,
out of which US$6.0 million will be for IBT, and US$28.0 million to SBS, out
of which US$16.6 million will be for KBP. The sub-borrowers using IBRD funds
will bear the foreign exchange risk. The terms of the proposed loans will be
the same as those applied for recent IRPR loans to development finance com-
panies, including the standard commitment charge.  It is recommended that the
last date for commitments be December 31, 1976 and that for disbursements
December 31, 1978.
5.06      An incentive has been provided to commit IBRD funds as quickly as
possible so that the impact of the loans can be assessed early. The allocation
referred to in para 5.05 would applv only until March 31, 1976. Thereafter,
the uncommitted portion of each loan will be reallocated by IBRD among the
banks sharing the loan according to investment opportunities. The banks
will ensure that complementary financing will be available for projects
financed out of the proposed loans.
5.07      Disbursements from the Loan Account will be made on the basis of:
the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment and against 70%O (representing the es-
timated c.i.f. cost) of the cost of imported goods purchased in Yugoslavia.
Annex 17 shows an estimated schedule of disbursements.
B. Implementation Scheme
5.08      The two loans will be made to two borrowers, PBS and SBS; two other
banks, IBT and KBP will be associated respectively. The independence of each
regional bank regarding project appraisal and supervision makes it necessary
to ensure substantial operational participation and responsibility of the
bank associated to the borrower.
1/   See footnote 1/ page 9 for allocation formula for Federal Fund.



- 33 -
5.09      To reach that objective, the four banks agreed in principle on a
scheme by which they are paired according to geographic promixity anid by
preference. This pattern has been derived to accommodate the project in
two loans for reasons stated in para 1.08. Each pair of banks comprises a
borrower - PBS and SBS - and an associated bank - IBT and KBP respectively.
Each pair will form a Unit to which the borrower and the associated bank will
appoint representatives of their institutions. The Units will not be legal
entities 1/ but both the borrowers and the associated banks have undertaken
to establish these Units and maintain their existence as well as ensure that
the Units apply agreed appraisal and supervision criteria for projec:ts financed
out of the proposed loans (see paras 3.23, 3.24, 3.28 and 3.29). The scheme
and the related standards and criteria are set out in Annex 15 which includes
a "Statement of Operations and Policies of the Unit". Under this scheme IBRD
will communicate with the four banks through two Units. At the same! time, the
scheme will give both the borrowers and the associated banks ample opportunity
(see para. 5.14) and, in fact, compel them to participate through the Units
in the dialogue with IBRD on preparation, approval and supervision cif projects
they finance. Finally, the scheme will allow the Units to set up a nucleus of
administrative staff in each bank to deal with matters such as routine finan-
cial reports from end-users, preparation and submission to IBRD of periodic
statements on operations, and preparation for ITR) supervision missions.
5.10      Composition and Functions of the Units.  Each Unit will be consist
of three representatives each from the borrower and the associated bank.
The Chairman of the Unit will be the senior representative of the borrower
in the Unit. The banks have tentatively nominated their representatives to
the Units (see Annex 16) and confirmation of these appointments is expected
soon. These include from each bank an Assistant General Manager and two
other senior members of their departments for industrial investments or
senior bank advisers. The qualifications and experience of the proposed
members of the Units are considered suitable. Establishment of the two Units
and appointments by the banks of qualified member to these Units is a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed IBRD loans.
5.11      The principal functions of the Units will be to:
(a)  help each bank's appraisal department to work in accordance
with suitable appraisal criteria, review project appraisals pre-
pared by each bank before thev are submitted to IBPD, and ensure
that appraisal reports are well substantiated and appropriate
criteria applied as agreed with IBRD;
(b) serve as a contact in the banks for communication with IBRD
on all matters related to submission, approval, and follow-
up of projects financed out of the loans;
1/   The banks could not agree to give legal autonomy to the Units as that
would conflict with the Yugoslav policy of regionally centralizing
banking decision centers.



- 34 -
(c) comply with IBRD reporting requirements in respect of projects
financed out of the loans and of the current and projected
situation of the banks.
5.12      The power to approve or reject projects will continue to rest with
each bank's Executive Board and Credit Committee. The Executive Boards and
Credit Committees will, however, take the Unit's recommendation into account.
In the case of every investment project reviewed by the Unit, the Unit's views
will be reported to IBRD.
5.13      Although a few professional staff of each bank are acquainted with
IBRD appraisal techniques and criteria, they have little experience in apply-
ing these systematically to projects financed by their institutions., The
banks and IBRD have agreed to conduct a seminar in Yugoslavia with the mem-
bers of the Units to outline in detail how IBRD expects appraisal and super-
vision work to be conducted for projects financed out of the proposed loans.
This seminar, sponsored by the Association of Yugoslav Banks, is scheduled
for June 17-22, 1974.
Relations among the banks and IBRD
5.14      In the proposed project, only two banks will be borrowing from IIBRD
and would, in turn, be creditQrs of the associated banks. IBRD is satisfied
with the terms of the subsidiary loan agreement between each borrower and
associated bank. The borrower himself will undertake full responsibility
vis-a-vis IBRD for the repayment of the entire loan to IBRD and for implementing
the project in a manner satisfactory to IBRD both in its region and in the re-
gion of the associated bank. Consequently, to enable the borrower to protect
himself in order to meet such obligations as regards subprojects of the asso-
ciated bank, the borrower will have the right to approve or reject these proj-
ects on the basis of the appraisal report prepared by the Unit and approved
by the associated bank; only the projects approved by the borrower will be
sent to IBRD for authorization and/or approval. This right will enable the
borrower to satisfy himself that the associated bank's action is in line with
his obligation vis-a-vis IBRD. The banks have agreed to enter into an internal
agreement to cover fees and charges to compensate the borrower for his services
to the associated bank.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The proposed project is suitable for IBRD lending totalling US$50
million divided into two loans: US$22.0 million to PBS, out of which US$6.0
million will be for IBT, US$28.0 million to SBS, out of which US$16.6 million
will be for KBP. The terms will be the same as those applied for recent loans
to development finance companies, including the standard commitment charge.
The proceeds of the loans would be relent to sub-borrowers at 9-1/2% p.a.
with the sub-borrowers assuming the foreign exchange risk.



- 35 -
6.02      The above allocation between the banks will apply only unt:il March
31, 1976, after which the uncommitted portion of each loan will be reallocated
by IBRD among the borrower and the associated bank according to their invest-
ment opportunities (paras 5.04-5.06). The last dates for commitment: and dis-
bursement are recommended to be December 31, 1976 and December 31, 1978 re-
spectively. A free limit of US$200,000 for individual investment projects
and an aggregate free limit for each bank of about 25% of its share in the
loan will be established. This would enable IBRD to maintain adequate con-
trol on the uses of the loans.
6.03      Each pair of borrower and associated bank will establish and main-
tain a joint Unit in accordance with the agreed scheme and Statement. of
Operations and Policies of the Unit (paras 5.09-5.12 and Annex 15). Estab-
lishment of the two Units and appointments by the banks of qualified members
to these Units will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IBRD
loans.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
HIGHLIGHTS ON THE ECONOMY OF THE FOUR UNDERDEVELOPED REGIONS
The following review of the economy of the less developed regions,
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro and Kosovo focuses on the regions'
industrial potential. Certain aspects, e.g. industrial financing, interest
rates, the role of the regions' development banks etc., which are dealt with
in the main Report and in the Bank's Economic Report 1/ (especially Volume III
on Industry - Chapter V, and Regional Development problems - Chapter VIII)
are excluded from the present review.
1/   IBRD/IDA, R74-1.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
I. BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
Regional Characteristics
1.1       The Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina extends over an area
of 51,000 sq. km. (20% of Yugoslavia). It is bordered by Croatia in the West
and North, by Serbia in the Northeast and East and Montenegro in the South.
Most of Bosnia-Herzegovina is mountainous; only 8% of the Republic is below
150 meters in altitude.
1.2       Population was 3.8 million in 1972 (18% of Yugoslavia) of which
43% are Serbs, 34% are Moslems and 22% are Croats. Sarajevo, the capital,
has 300,000 inhabitants. Other major towns (over 60,000 inhabitants) are
Tuzla and Zenica (both of industrial significance), Banjaluka and Mostar.
Altogether there are 106 communes, of which 53 are particularly underdeveloped.
1.3       In 1972, the Republic's per capita GMP was equivalent to $'477, or
69% of Yugoslav average, about equal with that of Macedonia and Montenegro.
Only Kosovo's per capita GMP is considerably lower. Bosnia-Herzegovina's low
per capita income occurred because of a general lack of infrastructure and com-
munications, concentration of investment in low profit projects, and insuffi-
cient resources for other investment. After 1956, investment activities grew
at a slow pace resulting in a slower development of the social product com-
pared with all other republics. GMP per capita dropped from 84% of the
Yugoslav average in 1952 to the present (1972) share of 69%.
Employment
1.4       Of the active population of 1.4 million, 800,000 are engaged in
agriculture (mostly private) and 570,000 are employed in the social sector. 1/
The proportion of the latter in the total active population is below the aver-
age for Yugoslavia. Unemployment and underemployment are problems, the sol-
ution of which cannot be expected within the near future. The number of re-
gistered unemployed in industry increased by 50% between 1971 and 1973 reaching
51,000 in that year. In 1971, registered unemployed and estimated unrecorded
unemployed (mostly underemployed persons in agriculture) accounted for approx-
imately 16% of the active population.
1.5       The Plan expects employment in the social sector to grow by about
60,000 during the five years, while the expected increase of the active pop-
ulation is about twice as high. Consequently, unemployment will grow even
if the overall plan targets can be met (which is doubtful in the light of
present economic performance).
1/   1972.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Economy and Industry
1.6       In the period 1952-1970, the social product tripled (6.8% p.a.),
the most important growth occurring in industry and trade. In 1971, the
share of industry in the social product of the economy amounted to 37%,
which is slightly higher than the Yugoslav average. In the same yeaLr, agri-
culture represented 16% in GMP.
1.7       The most important industrial sub-sectors in terms of contribution
to industrial GMP in 1971 are: metal products (19%), wood processing (15%),
ferrous metallurgy (10%), coal (9%), and power generation (9%).
1.8       Bosnia-Herzegovina has large reserves of brown coal, lignite,
bauxite, and iron-ore, as well as significant deposits of salt, lead-zinc
ore, barite, asbestos, etc. Moreover, it has vast forests and a very
large hydroelectric power potential.
1.9       The past industrial growth and the present emphasis thereon do not
seem to lead to capacity problems, expect in a few branches.  The overall use
of installed capacity in 1972 (on the basis of the peak month computation)
was 78%. The use of capacity is near optimum for heavy industries. However,
due essentially to a lack of production materials and delays in their delivery,
the capacity utilization ratio was substantially below average in processing
industries, such as metal products and electric equipment (68%) and food
processing (65%).
The Plan
1.10      The 1971-75 Development Plan of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
foresees a faster development than was achieved during the preceeding five
year plan (1966-70: 5.6% average annual growth of GMP):
1971 Actual          Plan Growth Rate
GM?                              Din 24.9 billion                 9%
Social product of industry    Din  9.2 billion               10-11%
Industrial exports               Din  3.1 billion              14.7%
Employment (excluding                   540,000              3.5-4%
self-employed)
Investment in industry          Din  1.6 billion                 22%
By 1975, if the Plan targets were achieved, income per capita would
have reached 70% of the national average.
1.11      Two objectives are pursued in priority:
- generation of employment
- growth of exports



ANNEX 1
Page 4
1.12      Over the whole five year period, industrial investments of Din 18.5
billion are expected in the social sector, the industrial sector absorbing 57%
of total expected economic investments.
1.13      The plan postulates a relative reduction of the share of primary
production and an increasing contribution of the processing industries. Still,
more than 60% of the total investment envisaged for the period 1971 to 1975
for the industrial and mining sector is expected to take place in pcwer genera-
tion, in mining, and basic industries. Similarly, the highest growth rate of
the social product of the various industrial branches is expected for ferrous
metallurgy. The Institute of Planning of the Republic points out that, only
in the following five-year plan period, the impact of the change of policy
favoring a higher degree of processing will be felt.  To a considerable extent,
present investment in basic industries is related to the completion of projects
initiated earlier.
1.14      Major projects mentioned by the Plan are:  Modernization of the
steel industry and expansion from 0.9 million tons crude steel equivalent
in 1971 to 1.5 million tons in 1975, construction of capacities for 880,000
tons of alumina and 80,000 tons of aluminum as well as extension of capacities
for the processing of steel, zinc, and aluminum.
1.15      Labor-intensive branches to which a high priority is assigned are
wood products and textiles. Manufacture of metal products has already attained
a high level of production and constitutes the most important industrial activ-
ity in terms of social product.
1.16      The branches contributing most to exports in absolute terms are wood
products, metal products, paper and paper products, textiles, and electrical
equipment, the latter having the highest export target growth rate (15% p.a.)
of all manufacturing industries.
Plan Performance and Outlook
1.17      Although in broad terms, the Plan might be achieved, the expected
growth rate of 9% appears already to be unrealistic.
1.18      Actual 1971 and 1972 results have fallen short of the plar. target.
The growth rate of the social product in 1972 reached only 7.5%O in constant
prices. In the same year, the industrial production (in physical terms)
grew by 5%, compared with a target growth rate of the social product of indus-
try of 10% to 11% for 1971-75. Some branches even experienced a decline over
the preceeding year: crude petroleum, non-ferrous metallurgy, metal products,
and rubber products. The highest growth rate was achieved by the electro-
industry with an increase of 45% over 1971.
1.19      Gross investment in industry in current prices declined from 1970
to 1971 and reached Din 2,415 million in 1972. To achieve the total. aggregate
five year investment target of Din 18.5 billion, 77% have still to be invested
during 1973 to 1975, even if one does not account for the fact that investment
in the past two years is given in current prices. Shortfalls of investments



ANNEX 1
Page 5
were most pronounced in case of power generation, non-ferrous metallurgy and
metal products. Some of the labor-intensive branches, namely textiles, leather
and footwear, and food processing came close to the investment target or even
surpassed it.
1.20      One of the key problems facing Bosnia-herzegovina to implement its
program, is a lack of adequate (long-term) resources for investment. Both
PBS and the Republican Government are looking to the Bank Group for assistance
not only through a line of credit for medium-scale industry (DFC) but to fi-
nance directly various large projects in industry and other sectors.
1.21      The system of price fixing and price regulations in force in
Yugoslavia appears to limit the Republic's prospects for self-financing. The
price controls affect primarily raw materials and semi-finished products, which
play a more important role in Bosnia-Herzegovina than in the rest of Yugoslavia.
Some Bosnians claim that the Yugoslav relative prices of basic and intermediary
products versus finished products compare unfavorably with international rela-
tive prices. With the exception of energy prices there seems to be little
supporting evidence.
1.22      Special efforts are being made at present by the authorities to
foster industry and to assist industrial production through a number of
measures, including:
a.   Following-up with the Federal Government to have better access
to foreign credits.
b.   Reorganization of the trade organizations through mergers to
achieve greater efficiency and benefits of scale.
c.   Providing special incentives to tourism, agriculture and
communications which are expected to have a catalytic effect
on industry, such as certain tax facilities (in addition to
the existing interest rate subsidies on financial credits)
for the development of the underdeveloped areas of
Bosnia-Herzegovina.
d.   Specific interest or tax (or both) incentives to the wood
and chemical industries.
e.   Reduction of the customs duty on imported machinery.
1.23      Assistance to industry is also provided by various scientific and
technological research institutes centers in the Republic, as also from those
at the national level. These are reportedly well equipped and competent.
1.24      Summarizing, it appears that the current Plans' overall growth target
of 9% is too optimistic. A rate of 7-8% is more likely to be attainable.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
II. MACEDONIA
Regional Characteristics
2.1       The Socialist Republic of Macedonia (SRM) covers an area of 25,173
sq. km. (10.1% of Yugoslavia). It is the southernmost of Yugoslav republics
bordered by Bulgaria, Greece, Albania and by the Province of Kosovo and Serbia
in the north. Macedonia is a land of alternating mountains and valleys inter-
sected by rivers and lakes. Most of the mountains are forest-coverfed, while
the fertile areas in the lowlands provide favorable conditions for 17aising a
variety of crops.
2.2       In 1972, the population of Macedonia was about 1.7 milliorn.
Macedonia's population growth rate of about 1.3% p.a. is above the Yugoslav
average (1%). The population is predominantly Macedonian, but there are also
some Albanians (11%), Turks (8%) and small numbers of other ethnic g;roups.
The official language of the Republic is Macedonian; persons of Albanian and
Turkish nationality use their own language in accordance with their constitu-
tional right. Skopje is the capital and the largest urban center (about
400,000 inhabitants). Other sizeable towns are Bitola (80,000), Prilep
(50,000), Titov Veles and Tetovo (40,000) each.
2.3       In 1972 Macedonia's GMP per capita of $471 amounted to only 68% of
the Yugoslav average. It is the third lowest of Yugoslavia's six republics
and two autonomous provinces.
Employment
2.4       There are at present 60,000 registered and an estimated 70,000
unregistered unemployed, together totalling to about 20% of the estimated
labor force. Most of the unregistered unemployed are probably underemployed
persons in the agricultural sector (in 1971, 40% of Macedonia's population
was still employed in agriculture, which contributed 22% to GMP).
2.5       The authorities do not visualize a solution of the unemployment
problem during the next few years. New jobs created will only be able to
absorb the natural increase in the labor force which is quite high at present,
because of the high birth rate in the post-war years. This pressure should
diminish by 1975.
2.6       The plan considers unemployment a political problem rather than an
economic one. To increase employment the Plan relies on:
(a) Maximum efforts towards emigration of Macedonian workers by
training and qualifying them for jobs abroad.
(b)  Civil construction programs which are kept artificially hi;her
than needed to enable employment of over 30,000 workers. The
Macedonian construction industry carries out some construction
programs for other Republics as well.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
(c) A Republican tax incentive system for new employment creat:ion
in small scale and rural industry. Employment of one person
per D 200,000 investment meets the Republic's criteria for
eligibility to such benefit.
Economy and Industry
2.7       In the period 1965-1970, the economy of the Republic grew at a rate
of 6.3% p.a., including a growth of industry of 9%.  In 1971, the industrial
sector accounted for 34% of Macedonia's GMP of Din 3.7 billion (Yugoslav aver-
age 35%). Industry is the leading sector of the economy.
2.8       Industrial production is dominated by food processing and tobacco (20%)
and textiles (17%). The present industrial structure is more diversified than
that of the immediate post-war years when food and tobacco alone comprised
about 65% of industrial production.
2.9       Macedonia's natural resources are varied.  It has a considerable
hydro-energy potential, lead and zinc, and sizeable and exploitable deposits
of other ores (silica, quartz, bentonite, feldspath, silex, kaolin). In
addition, agricultural sector development and growth potential should support
further expansion of textile, leather, wood, food and tobacco industries.
2.10      On the average, industry is operating at 1.5 shifts which compares
favorably with the Yugoslav average. It is reported that full or near-full
capacity use has been reached in non-ferrous metals (where particularly the
extraction of lead and the zinc ore capacity is expected to be expanded by
500,000 tons) and the non-metal (i.e. minerals) industries which have shown
a 14% production increase in the past year and where further expansions are
now contemplated. In textile and leather, the capacity use reached 80% and
already factories run partly on a 2.5 shift basis.
2.11      Capacity utilization is lowest for metal industries (40-50%), the
market, until recently weakly organized, being the main problem but also often
because of unbalanced or obsolete production facilities (steel) and weak man-
agement. This holds particularly true for the production of finished products,
such as metal furniture.
2.12      The most efficient industries in the Republic today are reportedly
cement, glass, porcelaine, ferro-allows and textiles, especially spinning.
The Skopje steelworks which are being extended still run with low efficiency
and suffer from unbalanced capacities. Due to disproportions between primary
and processing capacities it is planned to import steel until the primary
production capacity can be expanded.
The Plan
2.13      Growth rates envisaged by the current five year plan (1971-75) are
ambitious and unlikely to be achieved (see below para. 21).



ANNEX 1
Page 8
1971 Actual       Plan Growth Rate
GMP                           Din. 10.8 billion           9.2%
Social prod. of industry      Din.  3.7 billion          12.5%
Industrial exports            Din.  1.4 billion         12-13%
Employment                         270,000                4.0%
Total investments in
economic sector             Din.  2.3 billion            11%
2.14      The main objectives and orientation of the 1971-75 Plan are:
-    to expand the exploitation of natural resources and basic
industries;
-    to optimize and modernize existing industries, particularly
in branches having substantial labor intensive capacity.
2.15      The current five-year Plan foresees total investment expeniditures
of D 9.2 billion for industry and mining. Of this amount, 57% are earmarked
for electric power generation, ferrous metallurgy, non-ferrous metallurgy and
non-metallic minerals. Macedonia expects a shortfall in the supply of electric
energy, which explains the high share of this sector in total investment ex-
penditures (21%).
2.16      Of the remaining branches, four stand out in terms of expected in-
vestment expenditures: chemicals (9%), metal products (8.7%), food processing
(5.3%) and textiles (5%).
2.17      Major projects being implemented in basic industries are the following:
-    Expansion of the lead and zinc metallurgy.  The melting factory
has just been completed and is expected to produce 60,000 tons
of lead and 40,000 tons of zinc.
-    Expansion of the ferro-alloy industry from its present capacity
of 30,000 tons to 60,000 tons.
-    Expansion of non-ferrous alloys.
In addition, there are projects under consideration for the production of
cables, pipes, sheets and copper alloys, some of which are expected to be
financed with foreign assistance. Capacity increases for the development of
the automobile industry (Macedonia is the main producer of buses in Yugoslavia)
and brakes for railway wagons are also being planned.



ANNiEX a
Page 9
2.18      Annual target growth rates of the social product according to the
current Plan are the highest for the following manufacturing industries:
electrical equipment (35%), metal products (17.6%) and wood products (13.2%).
Some of the labor-intensive industries are expected to grow slower than during
the past five-year Plan peribd, because import substitution and production for
exports are already fairly advanced. Thus, the target growth rate of the
social product amounts only to 4% in case of textiles (previous plan 11%) and
2.8% for leather and footwear (previous plan 5.9%).
2.19      An important pre-requisite for achieving the Plan objectives is
further expansion of exports. Already, the tobacco and textile industry
accounts for almost 65% of total exports of Macedonia's industrial and mining
sector. For these two branches, the expected share of exports in total out-
put amounts to 50%-60%. Other branches which export more than 50% of their
production are leather and footwear and, in the field of basic industries,
lead and zinc as well as ferro-alloys. The most rapid increase of the share
of exports is expected for metallurgy, chemicals, metal products, electrical
equipment and wood products.
2.20      In spite of the large unemployment, Macedonia has opted for a policy
of maximizing the quality of the investment equipment to maintain its advan-
tagp in the export market. Thus, 60% of the planned production growth is
proposed to be derived from increased productivity of labor resulting from
modernization of capital equipment and only 40% from the direct increase of
the labor force. Labor productivity is expected to increase by 35% during
1971-75 as against 28% during 1965-70.
Plan Performance and Outlook
2.21      Plan performance since 1971 was not fulfilling expectations.  The
GMP target growth of 9.2% p.a. compares with actual growth rates (based on
constant prices) of 8.3% in 1971, 7.5% in 1972 and an estimated 1973 rate of
7.5%. Industrial production also grew at a slower pace than anticipated -
at a rate of 8% in 1972 instead of 12.5%. Power generation declined to 77%
of the previous year's level of production and non-ferrous metallurgy stag-
nated. The fastest growing branches in 1972 were electrical equipment
(35% growth) and construction material (increase of 24%).
2.22      In current prices, industrial investments in 1971 and 1972 were
Din 1.0 billion and Din 1.1 billion respectively. The balance to total ex-
pected investment during the Plan period (Din 9.2 billion) exceeds 77%, and
is even higher, if inflationary tendencies are accounted for in the past two
years' investment. During 1971 and 1972, investments were lagging in absolute
terms, especially in the field of power generation and non-ferrous metallurgy
(primarily nickel). Electrical equipment and chemicals - branches which are
less important in terms of anticipated size of investment - experienced the
greatest shortfall compared with investment targets. Investment in the tex-
tile industry, leather and footwear and tobacco industry was forthcoming as
expected and partly exceeded the average targets.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
2.23      In summary, it appears doubtful whether the overall Plan objectives
can be met by 1975. The targets seem to be ambitious if compared with the
performance of the economy during the previous five-year Plan and on the basis
of the 1971 and 1972 - performance.
III. MONTENEGRO
Regional Characteristics
3.1       With an area of 13,812 sq. km. (5.4% of Yugoslavia), the Socialist
Republic of Montenegro, together with Kosovo, is small in size compared with
the other two underdeveloped regions of Yugoslavia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and
Macedonia.
3.2       The main rtharacteristic of Montenegro, which gives it a unique posi-
tion, is the limited prospects for the development of its agriculture. Culti-
vable land is found in narrow areas, principally around Titograd, while the
rest of the republic is mountainous. Of the total area, only 14% is cultivable.
3.3       The second characteristic is that Montenegro has the smallest popu-
lation among the eight political sub-divisions of Yugoslavia. The census
undertaken in 1971 puts the population at about 0.5 million (2.6% of Yugoslavia)
and its growth rate in the past decade at 1.1% p.a., again the lowest of the
four underdeveloped regions. The largest minorities are Moslems with various
nationalities (100,000) and Albanians (36,000).
3.4       Montenegro's GMP per capita of Din 7,700 ($453) in 1972 is at
about the same level as that of Macedonia and Bosnia-Herzegovina and amounts
to 65% of the Yugoslav average.  Still, Montenegro's economy has been growing
fast over the years following World War II from which it emerged destroyed
and without developed resources.
Employment
3.5       Estimates on total unemployment (including underemployment in agri-
culture) are not available, but the proportion of the population depending on
agriculture is less than in the other regions (34% in 1972). Registered unem-
ployment fluctuated between 5,000 and 6,000 in recent years and amounts to
3-4% of the active population (for comparison in Kosovo it is almost three
times higher). Iiowever, the share of the potential labor force in the total
population shows an increasing trend; this is likely to have a negative impact
on the employment situation.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
3.6       Plan estimates show that between 1971 and 1975, some 49,500 persons
will seek employment (including persons at present unemployed).  This compares
with only 30,000 new jobs to be created according to Plan targets.  A shortfall
of employment opportunities of this magnitude would be equivalent to about 10%
of the projected labor force. As in the light of present information, the
Plan's investment targets cannot be met, future unemployment will be still
higher.
Economy and Industry
3.7       Though still in the early stages of development, industry and mining
is the Republic's leading economic sector participating in total GM' with a
share of 26.6%. The share of agriculture is limited to 13.3%. Trade and
tourism are next in importance to industry, the latter having considerable
potential.
3.8       At present (1971 figures) five branches account for two third of
the social product of industry: Power generation, ferrous metallurgy, metal
products, wood products and textiles. The share of the first two mentioned
basic industries is approximately as high as that of the three processing
industries. In terms of current investment, non-ferrous metallurgy (mostly
aluminum industry) dominates. In 1971, this branch absorbed 68% of industrial
investment.
The Plan
-3.9       The current five year Development Plan for the period 1971-1975
focuses on two types of development: First, it emphasizes the construction
and expansion of infrastructure, particularly communication, which is still
extremely underdeveloped (this would include the completion of the seaport
of Bar which would give Montenegro an important outlet in Yugoslavia; as well
as the construction of roads and of the infrastructure needed for the develop-
ment of tourism along the coast). Second, the Plan stresses the construction
of plants and facilities for the exploitation of natural resources, which seem
quite large, namely bauxite, iron ore and forestry.
3.10      The Plan, however, is ambitious.  Perhaps more than in the case of
the other underdeveloped regions, the extent to which Plan targets can be met
would depend on the availability of foreign and local resources. Montenegro
is aware that its development problems are of a very long term nature and
would require more than the period of the current Plan.  Projections for 1975
foresee a national income per capita of only $470 which would still remain
one of the lowest of Yugoslavia by then. But it is believed that the emphasis
on infrastructure problems and a limited number of export orientated indus-
tries such as aluminum and other non-ferrous metals, will pave the way for
further development.
3.11      While during the previous five year Plan, the economy grewp only
at a rate of 5.5%, the current Plan is based on an ambitious 9.5% annual
growth of GMP.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
1971 Actual         Plan Growth Rate
GMP                                   Din 3.9 billion               9.5%
Social Product of Industry            Din 1.0 billion              12.8%
Industrial Exports                    Din 330 million              20.7%
Emplovment                                  86,000                   d4%
Investment in Industry                Din 656 million                17%
3.12      Total cumulative investment envisaged by the Plan for the industrial
sector during the period 1971-1975 amounts to Din 3.8 billion and constitutes
53% of total anticipated investment. The Plan as published does not contain
a breakdown of industrial investment by individual branches nor cou:Ld this
information be obtained from the planning authorities. However, the projected
growth rates of industrial production throw some light on the government's
intentions regarding the further development of local industries.
3.13      The main industries, non-ferrous metallurgy and energy, are likely
to continue their leading role with projected annual growth rates of produc-
tion of 45% and 22%, respectively. Montenegro has good quality bauxite, pri-
marily in the vicinity of Niksic. Reserves of 30 million tons have been iden-
tified and some estimates put a figure of 100 million tons on total reserves.
During the Plan period, the bauxite mines will be developed to produce 700,000
tons p.a. Since 1972, aluminum is producted in Titograd, with a capacity of
50,000 tons. Plans to double this capacity are under way. The development
program for the production of lead and zinc is based on existing and projected
mining facilities (in Mojkovac and Plevja).
3.14      The growth in the consumption of electric power is directly related
to the expansion of the metallurgical complex, particularly the aluminum in-
dustry. Planned projects in this regard consist primarily of the completion
of the Hydroelectric Power Station Mratinje and the expansion of the Hlydro-
electric Power Station Percice. Until these power generation projects have
been completed, it will be necessary to import power from outside Montenegro.
3.15      Other industries with annual target growth rates exceeding the
average 12.8% envisaged by the Plan or coming close to it are: manufacture
of building materials (28.6%), particularly cement, and non-metallic minerals
(11.8%), primarily sea salt and fire proof materials. Of the remaining indus-
tries (having less than average target growth rates), electrical equipment
and chemicals are expected to achieve fairly high rates of growth (10.8%
and 10.5% respectively).
3.16      The traditionally labor-intensive branches, textiles, leather,
footwear and rubber are projected to grow at an annual rate of 7.3%. As a
result, the relative importance of this group in total industries will decline
from 14% in 1970 to 11% in 1975. It appears that this change in structure
is a result of both the development policy favoring basic industry and of



ANNEX 1
Page 13
limits set by the market, (i.e. achievement of an already considerable extent
of import substitution, competition from other Yugoslav regions and limited
export opportunities).
3.17      Three objectives are emphasized particularly in the Plan:
-    the need for local dispersion of industries to achieve a
more balanced regional structure;
-    the necessity to promote integration processes and all forms
of technical, production, and marketing orientated cooperation
within the country and abroad;
-    greater emphasis on exports of industrial goods.
3.18      The Republic considers 10 communes to be particularly underdeveloped
in terms of national income per capita, employment in the social sector, birth
rate of the population and a number of other criteria. The least developed
communes comprise 47% of the total area of Montenegro and 38% of its popula-
tion. Policy measures for the promotion of underdeveloped communes of the
Republic include: (a) preferential interest rates, (b) earmarking a share of
18.2% of the new inflow of Federal Fund resources for the development of these
communes, (c) re-investment of revolving resources of the Federal Fund in the
underdeveloped areas and (d) allocating to the communes a share of Federal
Fund resources, ceded by the Federal Government to the Republic.
3.19      Most important for the achievement of a higher share of exports is
non-ferrous metallurgy (1972 exports of Din 200 million, or 37% of total in-
dustrial exports) and metal products (12% of 1972 exports). Opportunities
for export are particularly favorable as regards the aluminum industry, in-
cluding bauxite and alumina. At present 300,000 tons of bauxite are exported
annually and a large share of the alumina and aluminum. Between 1971 and 1972,
exports of the non-ferrous metallurgy sector almost tripled while the export
of metal products doubled. Within the second group of industries, the main
products are construction machinery, ball bearings, heating installations and
parts for motor vehicles.
Plan Performance and Outlook
3.20      In 1971 and 1972, the economy grew at a much slower pace than anti-
cipated. Averages for the two year period are: annual growth of the overall
economy slightly above 6. (target rate 9.5%) and for industry somewhat less
than 6% (target 12.8%). Compared with 1971, six branches even experienced a
decline of industrial output in 1972, while non-ferrous metallurgy reached
168% of the preceeding year's production.
3.21      Statistics on actual investments and resource mobilization indicate
that for financial reasons the Plan cannot be adhered to, resulting in consider-
able shortfalls of investment.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
3.22      According to the Plan, 40% of the resources required to finance
investments in the economic sectors should originate from the Federal Fund
and other Federal sources. The share of financial resources expected from
sources outside the Republic is considerably higher than that if foreign
credits (the bulk in the form of suppliers credit) are included (separate
estimates for foreign credits are not available). Foreign credits have been
seeked from IBRD for tourism development on the seaside (Jaz).- Credits have
been obtained from Exim Bank and from the USSR for the expansion of the alum-
inum industry and a number of other projects.
3.23      The revised forecast of financial resources for long-term investments
available during the Plan period as recently prepared by the local authorities,
is likely to be substantially below the initial expectation of Din. 9.1 billion.
A more realistic figure now foreseen is around Din 7 billion. The slower than
expected growth of the economy will have a detrimental effect on the employment
situation.
IV.  KOSOVO
Regional Characteristics
4.1       The Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo (SAPK) covers an area of
10,877 sq.km (4.2% of Yugoslavia). It is bordered by Serbia in the north and
east, by Macedonia in the south, by Albania in the west and Montenegro in the
north-west. SAPK is surrounded by mountains and divided by a north/south ridge
in two subregions: Kosovo and Mlethohija.
4.2       The poor accessibility of the Methohija basin and the concentration
of raw materials, services and urban development in Pristina - the capital of
SAPK in the Kosovo basin - have favored the industrial development of the
Kosovo region. This inequality is characterized by the larger proportion of
the modern (social) sector in Kosovo. The rural areas are equally poor in the
two regions.
4.3       In 1972, SAPK's population amounted to 1.3 million, the majority
being Albanian. Between 1961 and 1972, the population increased at an annual
growth rate of 2.5%, by far the highest in Yugoslavia. Consequently, SAPK's
GMP per capita dropped from 52% of the Yugoslav average in 1948 to 30% in 1972
and is the lowest of all Yugoslav republics and autonomous provinces.
1/   This brief outline draws to a large extent on Mr. Martin Schrenk's
report "Development Problems of the Socialist Autonomous Province of
Kosovo (Yugoslavia)", dated July 25, 1973, No. 207-YU.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
Employment
4.4       The 1971 census established that 52% of the active population (labor
force) of 330,000 were engaged in agriculture. Unemployment and underemployment
in agriculture presents a serious problem. During the period 1965-1970, incre-
mental employment generation decreased to about 40% of the level reached during
1955 to 1970. Between 1971 and 1972, registered unemployment increased from
21,900 to 25,200. Total unemployment (including underemployment in agriculture)
is estimated to fall in the range of 150,000 to 240,000, i.e. between 38 and
54% of the labor force.
4.5       Additional employment opportunities expected during the next few
years lag behind requirements. New employment during the Plan period of 9,200
a year compares with increase of the active population of 14,200.
Economy and Industry
4.6       In 1971, the Province's GMP amounted to D 3.6 billion resulting
in a per capita income of only $196. Industry and agriculture had about the
same share in SAPK's GMP (33% and 31% respectively).
4.7       SAPK's agricultural sector is characterized by a very low land/labor
ratio as a result of the severe over-population. A large proportion of the private
sector is confined to subsistence farming while the social sector is still
insignificant. In 1970, the private sector contributed as much as 84% to
(ZP in agriculture.
4.8       The development of an industrial sector in its proper sense is of
recent origin in Kosovo. Extractive industries such as coal, non-ferrous
metals and forestry account for 96.6% of industrial production in 1950. In
the meantime their share has dropped to about half of industrial output.
4.9       The Province has opted for an intensive industrialization program.
In recent years, the industrial sector absorbed two thirds of total investments
in SAPK which compares with less than one third for Yugoslavia.
4.10      Until the formulation of the current five year Plan (1971-75), the
main emphasis of industrial policy was placed on the development of SAPK's
basic industries: lignite, power and non-ferrous metallurgy. By 1970, the
Trepca lead and zinc mine (including some related industries) and the Obilic
Combinats for lignite mining and power generation had absorbed about 68% of
total investments in industry. Both types of industries lead to little
forward and backward integration and are characterized by a high capital
intensity and high capital-output ratios and are still facing considerable
problems, partly due to long gestation periods of investment and a low produc-
tivity of capital.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
The Plan
4.11      During the previous five-year plan period (1966-1970), SAPK's
average annual growth rate of GMP reached 6.5%. The current Plan foresees
a more rapid and intensive development of 13-14% (more than 50% of that of
Yugoslavia), with the objective of narrowing down the per capita income dis-
crepancy of SAPK from 30 to 40% of the Yugoslav average. The following aver-
age growth rates are envisaged in the period 1971-1975
1971 Actual     Plan growth rate
Gle                               Din 4.0 billion         13-14%
Social prod. of Indus.            Din 1.3 billion             19%
Industrial exports                Din 0.3 billion            15%
Employment                          102,000              7-7.5%
4.12      The Plan gives total investment over the period 1971-1975 at Din 13
billion, more than half of which (Din 7 billion) is envisaged for industry and
mining. Within this sector, the main emphasis is placed on non-ferrous metal-
lurgy (19% of investment) and power generation (11.4%). Of the labor intensive
sectors, metal products and textiles stand out with a high share (8.5% and 7.3%
respectively).
4.13      Compared with the investment structure actually realized during the
sixties, the targets of the present Plan present a gradual shift from basic
towards processing and labor-intensive industries. During that period, coal
and energy as well as non-ferrous metallurgy accounted for 73% of cumulative
investment in industry and mining while their share according to the Plan
would only be about half as high during 1971-1975. The share of textiles
and other manufacturing industries, however, would more than double between
the two periods.
4.14      Of the manufacturing industries the textile sector is by far the
most important. In 1971, it contributed Din 190 million, or 15% to the social
product of mining and industry. The textile sector is said to struggle with
numerous problems and has difficulties in competing with other Yugoslav enter-
prises, which were established many years ago. The advantage of lower income
levels in SAPK is often neutralized by lower productivity.
4.15      The Plan target for GMP growth of the textile sector of 7% p.a. is
less than half of the average of industry and mining. Other industrial
branches which are less important in terms of present contribution to GMP
have partly target growth rates exceeding 30% p.a., namely electrical equip-
ment, chemicals, rubber products, and printing.



ANNEX 1
Page 17
4.16      The SAPK's leading industries other than power generation, i.e.
non-ferrous metallurgy and textiles,are at the same time most export-oriented.
Exports of refined lead and zinc alone account for more than two thirds of
industrial exports. In the field of energy, it is SAPK's current thinking
to raise the price of power to reflect actual costs and in the long run to
scale down further investment to the needs of SAPK itself.
Plan Performance and Outlook
4.17      In the first two years of the Plan, the overall economic performances
lagged behind the ambitious growth target of 13-14% p.a. Between 1970 and 1971
SAPK's GMP grew by 6.9% in constant prices. For 1972, only preliminary figures
are available which suggest a lower increase than during the previous year.
Within the economic sector, industry and mining performed remarkably well.
The index of industrial production rose by 13% in the first year of the Plan
and by 21% in the second (target growth 19%). The highest growth rates were
achieved by chemicals (45%) and electrical equipment (34%) in 1971 and by
metal products (59%) in 1972.
4.18      The increase in industrial production was accomplished by heavy
investments. Gross investment in industry in current prices soared from
Din 660 million in 1971 to D 1,119 million in 1972 which is equivalent to an
increase of 69.5%. Still, on the average, industrial investments during the
first two years of the Plan did not reach the average target level of Din 1.4
billion a year (total five year investment target Din 7.1 billion), the short-
fall amounting to 38% even neglecting price increases. Shortfalls of invest-
ments occurred primarily in the fields of power generation and non-ferrous
metallurgy as well as in textiles, rubber and food processing.
4.19      The Republic's Government encourages foreign investment in industry
as well as investment from other regions. However, the advantages offered --
somewhat higher tax concessions and less expensive local financing - have yet
been insufficient to attract investment, apart from some joint ventures with
Serbian enterprises.
4.20      Another issue of high priority to SAPK's government is the attempt
to diminish the intra-regional development discrepancies. With the support
of OECD, a comprehensive physical development program has been prepared and
is now being finalized. Also, the most backward communes receive grants for
economic and social investment from a Provincial Fund for the less developed
communes, which was initiated by the present Plan. For this purposes Din 170
million will be provided from the Provincial budget, over the life of the Plan.
4.21      The overall growth of the economy will depend primarily on the avail-
ability of resources for investment. The Plan projects an ambitious increase
of local resources of 160% compared with the previous Plan period. Transfers
from the Federal Fund will likely increase but repayments commencing in 1974
will lower net transfers to almost one half. In the past (1969-1971), approx-
imately 60% of SAPK's total investment was financed from resources originating
outside the Province, the Federal Fund providing most of these outside resources.
It seems, therefore, that the Plan's expectations regarding resource mobilization,
and by consequence, investments and GMP, are over-optimistic.
EMENA/IC & DFC
May, 1974



ANNEX 1
Page 18
SELECTED DEVELOPMEZT INDICATORS
-Under-
Bosnia                                              developed   Developed
Herzegovina   Kosovo   MacedonJa   Mentenegro   Regions           Regions      SFRY
1. Per Capita Gross Material
Product 1971                              441           196        424          430-          394           807         663
2. Growth rate of GMIY 1953-71
(1966 prices)
Total                                  6.3          6.6        7.6          7.6          6.7.           7.4         7,3
Per Capi:a                            4.9          4.2         6.3          5.3          5.2           6.8          6.3
3. Gross fixed investment as
percent of G?MP (1966 prices)
1953-69                              29.9         29.1       43.8          52.6         35.0          24.2        26.6
4.  Share of agriculture in GNP
(1966 prices)
1953                                 39.6          51.8       46.5         38.5         42.3          39.2         39.9
1971                                 19.5         26.2       26.3          15.1         21.5          19.5         19.9
5. Share of industry in GM?
(1966 prices)
1953                                 18.5         24.2        12.5          7.4         16.9          23.3         21.8
1971                                 38.9         35.9        33.1         28.5         36.2          37.1         36.9
6. Share of agricultural population
in total population
1953                                 62.2         71.7       62.7          61.4         63.7           59.3        60.7
1971                                 38.0         50.6       *36.3         35.4         39.6           35.7        37.1
7. Social sector employment as percent
of total active population
1953                                 22.7          13.8       20.5         21.6         21.0           23.4        22.7
1971                                 44.8         34.1       46.6          50.6         43.4          49.2         47.6
8. Fixed assets per workLr in social
sector ('000 1966 dinars)
1952                                 31.8         49.1        30.8         30.3         33.0           46.8        43.3
1970                                 84.1         97.7        63.8        123.6         83.2           76.4        78.1
9. Fixed assets per worker in industry
('000 1966 dinars)
1952                                 43.6         52.4       44.2          71.3         45.7           51.4        50.2
1970                                109.8        124.1        84.2        152.5        108.2           85.9        91.3
10.  Share of fixed assets in social
sector
1952                                 12.66          1.75       3.84         1.03        19.28          80.72      100
1970                                 14.46          2.58       5.18         2.86        25.08          74.92      100
11.  Perccntage of Illiteracy (Population
10 years and over)
195!                                 40.2          54.8       35.7         30.1         40.4           19.1        25.4
1971                                 22.7          32.2       18.0         17.2         22.7           11.7        15.2
12.  Population per hospital bed
1950                                503          820         467          264          484            261         304
1970                                253          364         185          165          236            153         174
13.  Infant mortality per 100 live births
Average 1950-54                     134.0         154.6      138.8         88.6         135.7         101.1        115.7
1971                        53.6          89.6       81.9         34.6          68.2          31.6      - 48.9
14.  Share of fixed assets in Industry
1962                                 12.80          1.89       2.88         1.29         18.86         81.14      100
1970                                 17.14          3.25       4.86         2.74         27.99         72.01      100
15.  Share of industrial production
1953                                  11.6          2.6        3.1          0.6          17.9          82.1        100
1970                                  12.1          2.0        5.0           1.5         20.6          79.4        100
A   Source:  IBRD/IDA, R74-1, Volume III, Page 219.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
IEGAL1 FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL FRME[RK WITHIN
WHICH THE YUGOSLAV BANKS OPERAST
I.   LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Tne Bki    Law
1.        The basic Federal Law under which Yugoslav banks operate is the
Banking Law of December 1971. Major provisions of this law are the following:
(i) A bank cannot be founded by fewer than 25 founders,
(ii)  A bank must have a minimum of Din,50 million as fotunders
capital. No founder can have more than 10% of the total
voting rights.
(iii)  The founders of a bank have an unlimited liability in
respect of the bank.
(iv)  The bank's statutes prescribe the powers of the various
managing organs, the minimum conditions of joining and
withdrawals of founders, distribution and voting rights,etc.
(v)  The bank Assembly consisting of representatives of the founders
is the governing body of the bank,
(vi)  The Assembly appoints the chief executive (General Manager),
his deputy and members of the Executive Board and Credit
Committee.
(vii)  The Assembly approves the bank's annual Business Policy, its
interest rates policy, and distribution of income to founders.
(viii) Banks are required to make a yearly appropriation to a "Reserve
Fund" out of income, of at least 0.5% of the total loans
outstanding at the year-end. This Fund can be used only for
writing-off bad debts. The resources of tkis fund have to
be generally maintained in liquid or semi-liquid funds.
(ix)  Banks are required to write-off bad debt first against
income. Write offs against "Reserve Fund" are only possible
to the extent that there is insufficient income.
(x)  A bank will be liquidated if it is unable to meet its
obligations for more than 6 months.
(xi)  In case of liquidation, the deposits of individuals with
the bank have priority over all other creditors of the bank.
(In addition, such deposits of individuals are also guaranteed
by Federal Government under a separate law.)
Foreign Exchange Regime
2.        Only authorized banks can carry out foreign exchange transactions
ultimately controlled by the National Bank.!/ The banks perform foreign
exchange transactions generally on behalf of their clients related to the
I/ The four regional banks associated with the proposed project are so
authorized.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
clients' exports and import needs. The sources of foreign exchange avail-
able to enterprises for import financing are as follows:
a. liberalized (or Free) List. For the imports of items under
the government's liberalized list (42% of all imports)
foreign exchange is freely obtainable from the National Bank.
b.  Retention quotas based on a percentage of the enterprise's
export earnings (about 20% average for industry I) plus a
proportion (about 30% average for industry) of the enterprise's
depreciation charge against fixed assets.
c. Special quotas established by the Federal Government for
specific projects and for the less developed regions.
d.  Suppliers Credits and Foreign Borrowings.  Enterprises can
contract foreign suppliers credits (generally guaranteed by
the banks) and foreign exchange loans (mostly through the
banks except for barter lines of credit). Applications to
tap either of these sources are made to the banks for approval
in conformity with existing National Bank guidelines
and are also registered with the Nationsi Bank. 2/ The
approval by the banks is dependent on the applicants ability
to repay the suppliers credits and/or foreign loan from its
retention quotas or special quotas. Collateral dinar deposits
with the National Bank are required both against foreign
suppliers credits and borrowings to be posted by the enterprise
or bank obtaining the credit. Deposit requirements against
suppliers credits vary with the term of credit (higher de-
posits for shorter-term credits). On foreign loans there is
generally a deposit requirement of 75% of the loan amount
contracted. The Yugoslav banks have also agreed amongst them-
selves to observe a ceiling on the interest rate (currently
1.5% and 1% above the London inter-bank rate for loans up to
5 years and above 5 years respectively) on foreign loans
contracted. Exceptions can be made in both deposit requirements
and terms of foreign loans (such as IBRD) that may be contracted.
Specific priority projects and regions enjoy preferential
treatment.
e, Foreign Exchange Market. For short-term needs, the banks can
buy foreign exchange on behalf of their clients in the foreign
exchange market in Belgrade. Only authorized banks can parti-
cipate in this market.
1/ Up to 100% for some other sectors.
2/ Each region (Republics and the Autonomous Provinces) has its own National
Bank. The National Bank of Yugoslavia at the Federal level coordinates
the activities of the regional National Banks in accordance with the over-
all policy framework agreed to by all the regional National Banks.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Other Federal Rsgaations
3.        In addition to the Banking Law, the banks have to comply with
various directives issued by the National Bank of Yugoslavia and the Federal
Government. The main directives which have a direct implication on the
banks financial operations are:
a. Liquidity Requirement.  The banks have to maintain a
certain proportion (currently 30%) of their demand deposits
with the National Bank. The primary purpose iD to ensure
adequate liquidity of bank but is also used as a means for
the execution of the monetary policies of the Federal
Government.1/
b. All enterprises in Yugoslavia including banks are required
to write-off, against income, a specified percentage of total
uncollected interest outstanding for more than 90 days
at the end of the year. For 1972 this percentage was
12.5 but was increased to 25 for 1973.
II. ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
4.  Common features in the management of each of the banks are as follows:
Assembly
5.        The highest governing body of the bank is its Assembly of Founders.
It approves the bank's annual Business Policy and interest rate policies,
elects the President, Vice President and other members of the Executive
Board and appoints the General Manager, his deputy, and members of the Credit
Committee.
Executive Board
6.   The Executive Board is the chief management body of the bank which is
responsible for executing the policies approved by the bank's Assembly and
other functions as determined in the bankts statutes including approval of
loans above the limit which the credit committee(s) is authorized to approve.
The President, Vice-President and members of the Executive Board (varying
between 25 to 35) are elected from among the founders and are not full-time
employees of the bank, except for the General Manager who is ex-officio member.
Credit Committee
7.   The Credit Committee(s) of a bank generally consist of 10 to 15 members
elected from among the founders and, generally to a lesser extent, from full-
1/ Monetary policies are described in IBRD/IDA, R74-1, Volume IV.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
time employees of the bank. The only function of the Credit Committee(s)
is loan approvals. Statutes of the bank specify the maximum limits up
to which the Credit Committee(s) may approve loans.
Workers Council
8. Members to the "Workers Council" are elected from and by the employees
of the bank.  The Workers Council, among other functions, negotiates with the
General Manager and Executive Board on the distribution of income and decides
on the workers salaries and benefits. It also ratifies certain long-term
financial obligations of the bank such as IBRD loans.
Branches
9.        Each of the banks has several branches within their regions.
They accept deposits from customers and Founders. Branches of each bank
are substantially autonomous units with their own Founders Assembly,
Executive Board (except branches of KB), Credit Conmittee(s) and Chief
Executive Officers. The statutes of the banks however, usually limit the
authority of the branches as regards maximum amounts of loans which they may
approve and/or the sectors of the economy they may invest in. Large projects
inyolving foreign exchange financing generally must be approved by the Head
Office.
III.   OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL STRUCTURE
Accounting System
10.       The accounting system in the SFRY is substantially different
from the system of western countries. In preparing periodic balance sheets,
statements of income and expenditures, and other financial reports, the
banks do not adhere strictly to generally accepted accounting principles.
The major differences in the system and the difficulties in reconciling
these differences are summarized below.
a.  The branches, being autonomous units in themselves,prepare
their own balance sheets and income statements. In consoli-
dating statements for the bank as a whole, the individual
balance sheets items of all branches are often added up without
eliminating inter-branch entries. In this report, particularly
in Annexes 9 and 10, an attempt has been made to eliminate
the major part of such inter-branch entries.
b. Banks account separately for different types of sources and
application of funds. Detail accounts are maintained for each
loan made by the bank differentiated by purposes and/or source
of funds (e.g. loan for new fixed assets, for working capital
for employee housing; or loan from Federal Funds, from Republic
funds, etc.). A borrower may have as many as over 100 such



ANNEX 2
Page 5
loans outstanding, maintained in branches or head office
of the bank. No routine record is kept of total exposure
to any one borrower, and because of the large number of
accounts involved compilation of such information is a
formidable job.
c.  The banks, operating as commercial banks to their clients,
observe strict confidentiality as regards financial infor-
mation received from their clients. They cannot disclose
the annual income and balance sheets of the clients to any
outsider (including the IBRD) without the consent of the
clients themselves.
d. The banks do not attempt generally to make a periodic
assessment of potential losses within their loan port-
folios. Annual appropriations to the Reserve Fund (see para
l-(viii) above) are not the result of a case by case review
of their loans outstanding.
Audits and Other External Inspections
11.       The financial statements of the banks are not audited according
to international audit standard. As for other enterprises in Yugoslavia,
annual statements are certified by the Social Accounting Service. In the
work done by the SAS, the main emphasis is on ensuring that the banks
operations are within the various legal requirements, that the statements
are in agreement with records kept by the bank, and generally to ensure
correct charges of interest, allocations of net income, etc. SAS does
not verify the existence of the various assets and liabilities of the bank
or give an opinion on whether they are fairly stated.
120       In addition to the SAS, the banks are subjected to inspections
by the National Bank of Yugoslavia from time to time,to ensure that the
banks comply with the foreign exchange regime.
EMENA/IC & DFC
May, 1974



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO
ORGANIZATION CHART
FOUNDERS
ASSEMBLY
EXECUTIVE                            CREDIT
BOARD              ---           CMMITTEE
INTERNAL
GENERAL                             AUDIT &
MANAGER                            INSPECTION
DEPARTMENT FOR    DEPARTMENT FOR                                        FOREIGN                DEPARTMENT              ECONOMIC              ADMINISTRATIONBACE
DOMESTIC               TRANSACTIONS              INVESTMENT             BUSINESS               FOR INTER               RESEARCH &            & LEGAL                    A2      HE
R ESOURCES             W L dDVVITH               DEPARTMENT             TRANSACTIONS           BANK                     FOLLOW  UP           DEPARTMENT
INDIVIDUALS                                     DEPARTM ENT             TRANSACTIONS            DEPARTMENT
Credit
Services &             Transactions            Basic                   Foreign               Inter-Bank              Project                Personnel &
Records                                        I ndustries             Exchange              Cooperation             Follovv Up             Organization
Resource              Information &            Processing            ForeignComsinEnmc
Mobilization          Advertising              Industries            Disbursemet             Transactions             AnalysisLea
Disbursement                                   Food &                                                                                         Accounting
& Loans                                         ArclueStatistics                                                                              & Oats  
Collection                                      ArclueProcessing
Short-Term                                      Trade &                                                                                       TVraining
Loans                                           Catering                                                                                      Corkers
Engineering                                                                                 Administrative
Support                                                                                      Services
EMENA/IC & DFC
MAY, 1974                                                                                                                                                        WVorld Bank - 8595(R)



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
STOPANSKA BANKA SKOPJE
ORGANIZATION CHART
FOUNDERS
ASSEMBLY
EXECUTIVE  |
BOARD                CMIT
ADVISORY   l  l  GENERAL   |    <       |0  INTERNA
mi  ~~~~~~~ADVSR  MA &  +    <
DEPARTMENT  INVESTMENT         FOREIGN             ~ACCOUNTING               BRANCHES
FOR DOMESTIC           DEPARTM ENT             DEUARTENTLGA                                        (2
RESOURCES                                         DEPARTMENT |     ADMINISTRATIONt
m    Mobilization   I _llndustry & MiningI    _lForeign Borrowing      Accounting
qShort-Term Loans |        Agriculture   l    |Foreign Exchange|           Cmue
Transactions with      Disbursement &         Foreign Exchange |
Individuals            Collection             Disbursements
Analysis &          Engineering & e         General Services      General Administra-
_  Statistics       _Technical Service                                tive Services
EMENA/IC & DFC
MAY, 1974                                                                                 VWorld Bank - 8593(R)



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
ORGANIZATION CHART
FOUNDERS
ASSEMBLY
EXECUTIVE                             CREDIT
|  BOARD     r               1   COMMITTEE
GENERAL        L_                _
MANAGER
DEPRTMN                      FOR DOMESTIC                  BUSINESS                   ADMINISTRATION                    7
.  DEPARTMENT       . ~~RESOURCES                 . DEPARTMENT                   DEPARTMENT.                      (7
I nvestments-                                             Foreign
_    Basic             _    Resource                      Resource                        Legal
Industries                   Mobilization                 Mobilization
I nvestments-                Transactions                Foreign
_    Processing        _    with                     _   Exchange                        Personnel
Industries                  Individuals                  Disbursements
Investments-                Accounting &                    Foreign                   Administrative
EMENA/IC & DFC
MAY, 1974                                                                                                           World Bank l  8594(R-



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
ORGANIZATION CHART
FOUNDERS
ASSEMBLY
EXECUTIVE                    CREDIT
BOARD                    COMMITTEE
COUNCIL         M   N        LOAISERICEECADIONISRTO
| DEPARTMENT    l            l     LONG-TERM       l         l      FOREIGN        |        |DEPARTMENT FOR  |LEGAL &                              |BACE 
FOR DOMESTIC                     INVESTMENT                        BUSINESS                   LOAN SERVCEIN                   ADMINISTRATION                      BRACHE
RESOURCES                      DEPARTMENT                      DEPARTMENT                    TRANSACTIONS                      DEPARTMENT
VVITH INDIVIDUALS                  DPRMN
Resource   l  L Industry & l L   Foreign Exchange          Disbursement &                      Legal
7   Mobilization  l  7   Mining   lLoan Processing         Loan Collection
anks P tin SOcizat                 Agriculture &                                                        tExchange Controls  ransactions with  Accounting &
PoiiaBrankSoizatlon                 Food Process                 EcagCotlsI ndividuals                                            Data Processing
L    Short-Term Loans  |  I       Other Sectors                 Foreign Exchange
l    l        l                      l      m    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Disbursements l
Engineering &                  Foreign Exchange                                                Workers Council &
Techinical Services            Markets                                                         Staff Relations
General Administra-|
tive Services         |
EMENA/IC & DFC
MAY, 1974                                                                                                                                                       World Bank - 8592(R)



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJIUT
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS: 1971-1973
(in millions of Dinars)
APPLICATIONS                         COMMITMENTS                          DISBURSEMENTS
1971       1972        1973        1971        1972        1973         11         1972        1973
PBS
Short-term loans        13,887.8   14,655.9   18,130.8    10,610.0   11,792.8   15,820.0    10,302.0   11,516.3   15,804.9
Long-term loans          2,666.3    5,497.6    6,700.0       2,364.2    4,602.8    3,700.0       1,852.6    2,871.3    3,200.0
Guarantees 1/            3,565.14    9,662.4    9,938.2      3,162.1    9,470.3    9,863.0          -           -           -
SBS 2/
Short-term loans         5,161.4    6,356.1   12,620.0       3,143.6    5,596.7   12,253.0       2,989.6    5,506.7   12,240.0
Long-term loans          5,373.2    6,449.4   12,281.6       1,088.0    1,777.8    5,272.4       1,674.3    1,843.8    2,872.9
Guarantees 1/              596.o       766.0    1,042.7        550.0       740.0      857.3         -           -           _
IBT
Short-term loans         3,451.0    3,891.0    4,351.0       3,083.0    3,528.0    3,677.0       2,968.6    3,361.0    3,506.8
Long-term loans            978.9    3,778.0    2,774.8         670.3    1,624.9       900.5        983.7    1,069.5    1,072.9
Guarantees 1/              171.0       151.3      324.9        171.0       151.3      324.9          -          -           _
KBP
Short-term loans         2,083.6    4,350.8    3,520.1       1,667.2    4,073.4    3,310.7       1,647.0    4,073.4    2,931.4
Long-term loans          3,933.0    4,898.4    4,505.0       1,2241.8    3,1456.7    1,825.5     1,062.6    2,255.1    2,063.6
Guarantees 1/               96.5       526.2      84i.9         96.5       526.2      841.9          -          -
1/  Including guaranteesfor short-term loans which were minimal in the case of IBT and KBP and about 70% and
205 of total guarantees in the case of PBS and SBS respectively over 1971-73.  Guarantees for short-term
loans are high in the case of PBS because PBS often guarantees payments for civil works and commercial
credits before making a loan to the enterprise for that purpose.
9/  Data for 1971-72 includes operations of SBS' head office and Skopje Branch only which together are estimated
to account for about 85% of SBS' total long-teim operations and about 50% of SBS' total short-term operations.
FMENA/IC & DFC
May, 1974



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUNMARY OF LOAN OPERATIONS BY SECTORS: 1971-1972
(in millions of Dinars)
PBS                           SBS l/                        IBT                            KBP
2/            2/              3/            3/              3/            3/              2/             2/
COMMITMENTS  DISBURSEMENT    COMMITMENTS  DISBURSEMENT    COMMITMENTS  DISBURSEMENT    COMMITMENTS  DISBURSEMENT-
1.  Industry & Mining        4,347.0      2,655.4           4,358.6     4,466.1          6,822.5      5,983.3           3,27014      2,083.0
2.  Agriculture & Forestry    229.1         167.2             640,7       848.3            204.9        178.6             599.3        427.9
3,  Construction                 4.0         17.2              80.3        79.0             -            -                 29.3          5.6
4.  Transport & Public
Utilities               743,9         901.9            512.0        426,4            401.8        778.5             271.6        241.3
5,  Trade & Catering           358.6        347.9           5,402.8     5,560.5            314.2        299.0             279.3        130.2
6.  Arts & Crafts                8,5         33.7             114.2       122.4             -             -                12.3          2.8
7.  Non economic and
Other                 1,27509         600.6            497.5        511.7         1,162.8       1,143.4             236.3        426.9
Total              U6967 0        4X723*9         11,606,1    12,014.4          8o906.2       8,382.8           4,698.5     3,317.7
1/  Data for 1971-72 includes operations of SBS' head office and Skopje Branch only which together
are estimated to account for about 85% of SBS' total long-term operations and about 5C0 of
SBS' total short-term operations.
2/  Long-term loans only.
3/  Long-term and short-term loans,
EMENt/Tr °. T)WC
May, 1974



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS - INDUSTRIAL SECTOR: 1971-73
(in millions of Dinars)
APPLICATIONS                    COMMITMENTS                      DISBURSEMENTS
1971      1972       1973       1971       1972      1973        1971       1972       1973
PBS
Short-term loans                n.a.       n.a.      n.a.        n.a.      n.a.       n.a.        n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Long-term loans                 n.a.       n.a.    5,200.0       934.7   3,412.3   2,500.0    1,007.6   1,647.8   1,580.o
Guarantees 1/                   n.a.       n.a.      n.a.      2,761.8   7,188.8      n.a.         -          -
SBS 2/
Short-term loans              1,611.2   2,006.3   4,996.2        843.3   1,781.5   4,838.2        695.3   1,751.5   4,838.2
Long-term loans               4,104.5   4,988.3   7,695.0        540.6   1,193.2   3,282.0        972.4   1,046.9   1,673.5
Guarantees 1/                   318.7      397.4     432.6       306.3      380.0     351.8        -          -          -
IBT
Short-term loans              2,519.2   2,922.0   3,270.0    2,249.9   2,646.0   2,868.0    2,167.1   2,520.6   2,630.0
Long-term loans                 496.7   2,779.1   1,245.0        387.3   1,539.3      288.4       627.9      667.7     514.0
Guarantees 1/                   161.2      109.8     2b1.7       161.2     109.8      241.7        -          -         _
KBP
Short-term loans                279.8   1,589.9   1,851.7        224.6   1,574.3   1,696.3        224.5   1,574.3   1,696.3
Long-term loans               2,886.7   3,550.7   3,342.0        826.9   2,443.5   1,062.9        602.8   1,480.2   1,272.5
Guarantees 1/                    45.9      361.1     535.6        45.9      361.1     535.6        -          _
1/  Including guaranteesfor short-term loans which were minimal in the case of IBT and KBP and about 70%
and 20% of total guarantees in the case of PBS and SBS respectively over 1971-73. Guarantees for
short-term loans are high in the case of PBS because PBS often guarantees payments for civil works
'and comnercial credits before making a loan to the enterprise for that purpose.
2/  Data for 1971-72 includes operations of SBS' head office and Skopje Branch only which together are
estimated to account for about 85% of SBSt total long-term operations and about 50 % of SBS' total
short-term operations.
EMENA/IC & DFC
May, 1974



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
LONG-TEAK LOANS 1R, INDUSTRtIAL, SECTOR:  1971 -1972-
BY SUB-SECTORS, SIZE AND MATURITY
(in millions of Dinars)
PBS                  SBS-'                 IBT                  YBP
No.    Amount        No.    Amount         No.    Amount         No.    Amount
A. BY INDUSTRIAL SUB-SECTORES
Coal, coke and energy                3L4      675.9        12       421 .6       13       711.2        1b       241.4
Mletallurgy                            3      990.0         14      339.7        1       502. 0/       26    1,074.7
Non-metallic minerals                  9        66.o         5       24l.5         -       -            24       104L.3
Metal products                        31      00(3.3        6       236.6          -                     9      220.2
Electrical equipment                  14i      315.6         6       63.3          -       -             5       154
Chemicals                             11      101.1          5       6h.1          2       39.2         25      402.o
Construction material                 26      273.6        10       128.3         -        -           17       555.4
Wood produ.cts                        44       342.1         4        26.2         o       101.6        15       12d.2
Pulp and paper                         5      1 44.u         1        b.6          3      10b.6          5        26.6
Printing and publishing                1         2.5         1       21.o          -       -             3        13.o
Textiles                              45      353.5        12       155.3         6       132.7        15       20b.'(
Leather and leather products           7       31.6          1        6.C         4        54.3          L       61 .0
Rubber                                 1         0.9C        -       -             -       -             2        47.5
Food processing and tobacco           37       201 .3        5       30.5          6       b4.6          -        -
Other                                 11        36.o         5       33.9          7      152.0          -        -
Total                   279    b,347.0         07    1,561.d        59    1,926.6        172    3,270.4
B. BY SIZE
Din  C -  1 million                   44        21.9        13       10.1          4         4          33        19.0c
Din  1 -  5    "                     114      333.2         22       51.2         12        45          54       161.2
Din  5 - 10    I'                     46       320.1        22       151.9        12       103          30       219.6
Din 10 - 20                           32      543.6         10      104.3        10       1b1           23       364.9
Din over 20                           43    3,120.2         20    1,244.3         ?1    1,593           32    2,504.9
279    4,3477.0       67    1,561.b         59    1,926          172    3,27C'4
C. BY MATURITY
1 -  3 Years                          3        2d.0         1        6.1          -        -2.7
3 -  5                               I c,    132.2          4        4.7          -        -           31       123.3
5 - 10 ( I                          10    2,349.1        11       100,.7        12      100.9       1'.'1    1,911 .6
10 - 15   2t                         6Y    1,037.7          66    1,030.3         33    1.194.c         31    1.19.'.
Over 15                                                      5      412.0         14       550.Y         1         2.i
27'-    k,3c7.(        ;'7    1,561 .b      59,    1,926.6        172    3- 2 
l/ Loan commitments.
2/ Loans processed through Head Office only.
3/ Includes metal products.
EMENA/IC & DFt
Maay, 1974



ANNEX 8.
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
STATEMNT OF RESOUiLCES AS AT DECEMBE1R 31. 19731
(in milltions of Dinars)
PBS          S3S          I3T          KBP Y
Short-ternm
Resources:
Denand deposits                       7,552.9      3,476.2         775.3        772.3
Term savings deposits                 1,986.9      2,L23.1         153.6        116.0
Loans and lines of credit 3/          1,325.5      1,298.5         806.3        493.1
Other sources                            -             -            - 
Total short-term  resources        10,865.3      7,197.8      1,735.2       13l.17
Short-term loans outstanding
(as per balance sheet)                6,710.8      5,995.0      1,790.0       1,209.5
Complusory deposits with
National Bank                         2,237.       1,038.0         276.9        149.8
8,948.0      7,033.0      2,066.9      1
Undisbursed short-term
resources (shortfall)                 1,917.3 1/     164.8        (331.7) i      22.1
Undisbursed commitments                     -            -            -            -
Uncommitted short-term
resources (shortfall)                1j917.3         164.8        (331-7)        22.1
Long-term
Resources:
Equity Funds:
Founders Fund                          875.0      1,047.4         154.6        249.1
Fhnds for housing and communal
construction                        1,185.1         844.8        165.4        200.3
Loans:
Federal funds                       io,164.6       9,529.7      2,615.6      6,500.2
Republic funds )
Banks & other                        5,651.4       4,504.3 6/   1,424.5        506.6
Terms and savings deposits            2,675.o      2,732.2         506.14       302.4
20,551.1     18684         1,7.         7756
Investment portfolio
(as per balance sheet)               21,306.2     17,090.1       4,395.5      7,554.6
Undisbursed long-term
resources (shortfall)                  (755.1) 4/ 1,568.3          481.0 5/     204.0
Undisbursed commitments                 6,186.2      14,878.8      2,112.7      2,632.0
Uncommitted long-term
resources (shortfall)                (6,941.3)    (3,310-5)    (1,631.7)    (2,1428.0)
1/ Excludes the resources and the corresponding assets of the banksas a working
organization.
2/ As at December 31, 1972. Data as at end 1973 is not yet available.
3/ Mostly from rediscount facilities with the National
Bank.
4/ Part of the long-term operations were financed with short-term resources. The National
Bank which supervises the liquidity of banks anlows the banks to use a part of their
short-term resources for long-term investments depending on their liquidity.
5/ Long-term funds were used temporarily for short-term operations.
,/ Includi.rg the US$ 31 million IBRD loan for agricultural industries, none of which
was disbursed at the end of 1973.
EMENA/IC & DFC
May, 1974



AN2EX 9
YUGOLAVIA - fIDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJRET
STATETS OF INCOME AND EXPENDITUBS3
in nillions of 21mars1
FB3 *                         SB3      Y     ended Daednber 31          1
1971        1972        j973.         1971        1972        1973             1971         1972        1973 /         1971        1972         19731/
INCOME
Interest                            902.0    1,174.2      1,450.4          861.1     1,097.7    1,368.0             248.1       286.7       345.4          224.9       334.0
Foes, co-sis..ons and charges        49.4        72.9       119.9           19.6        30.4       25.8               3.6        10.2      )o2.              6.6        11.5      ) 366.24
Other 2/                             35.1        23.9        -             16.2          4.7       37.5               0.4       18.0   )                     .2          7.5 )
Oross Income                      986.5    1,271.0    1,570.3            896.9    1,132.8    1,431.3              252.1       314.9        371.2         237.7       353.0         366.4
EXPENSES
Flnensnil Expenoses
Interest uharges                   573.3       758.2     1,056.6          556.1       733.3     1,002.2            159.0       189.7       255.6           91.6       201.4
Debts -ritten-off                    0.7         0.8         2.1            1.2         0.8         5.7             2.9         21.8        11.9            -           -         ) 238.6
Other 3/                             2.8        29.2        34.6    !       1.2         8.6         30.1            3.2      )               -              0.8          _2       )
576.o       i88       1,093.3          5586.5      742.7     1,038.0           165.1        211.5        267.5          92.4       210.6         238.6
Gross Income lees Financial Costs       409.7     482.8       477.0          338.4       390.1       393.3             87.0       103.4        103.7         145.3       12.4          _ 127.8
Adsillstr.tile E,,nOseo-
Salaries end personnel sopenses      73.3        89.9       108.5           48.9        56.8        67.7            12.7         13.9       )               16.8        24.8          27.6
Deprecistion                      ) 513           5.9        10.0            2.8         3.3         4.9             0.7         1.0        ) 27.5           0.5         0.9        ) 8.2
Other operating  pepesses         )              69.6        66.4            4.7         6.4        10.7             7.0          9.0       )                3.1         4.6
1214.6      165.4       184.9           56.4        66.5        83.3             20.4        23.9         27.5           20.4        30.3         35.8
Pro-ision sgeinst losses               °?°       -101.1       120.7           62.3        93.0        119.5           20.4         9   -6       32.4          18.6        42.5          50.o
INCOME BEFORE TAXES                   222.3       216.3       171.4          219.7       230.6       190.5             46.2        53.9         43.8         106.3        69.6          42.0
TAIED3
Tux on Equity Funds                  33.1        37.0        39.8           40.9        48.3        42.6            12.1        14.8          15.3          12.8        16.7          17.0
Tfa  on Income                       67.6        98.1         -             66.2        89.7         7.1            14.7        15.8           -            23.8        24.4           -
Specinl tao                           _           _           _              _                                       5.1         5.8           6.5           -
100.7       125.1        39.8         107.1        138.0        49.7            31.9        39.4         21.8           36.6        41.1         17.0
NET INCOME                            121.6        91.2       131.6          112.6        92.6      1140.8                        1 14.5        22.0          _9L          28.5         25.0
DISTRIBUTED TO:
Founders Funds                       72.5        43.5        50.8           90.1        46.8        56.3             5.7         5.7           9.8          59.1        20.5          10.0
Fends of the ba1k a0 *               49.1        47.7        80.8          22.5         45.8        84.5             8.6         8.8         12.2           lo.6          8.0         15.0
workig orga-i.ti-o
NATIED.   s-
^.IItI3x3                   ______=__________----____-__.__ sC---------~~~~~~~---- ----------- - -- ---- -                                          ___
G.ross Isoome/ATA 4/                              5.4         4.3                       5.8          6.2
Finanoial. ENpenses S//ATA                        3.8          .1                        ,50                                     5.8           6.1                        4.7
Aie-ieEup.Enes/ATA                        0.           o.6                       0. .14                                   4.14         14.9                       3.14         n
Adoothlstratios                                                                          0.penses/AT  0.7  03                    0.4           o.5                        0.4          r.a
Income Before Tomes/Arersge Equity                9.7         7.0                      11.3           9.1                       14.9          11.2                       12.9          8 5
Net Inncoe/Aserage Equity                         4.1         5.4                       4.5           6.7                        4.o           5.6                        5.3          5.i
Net Isooxe/fear-snd Fouder Ynnds                 11.1        15.0                       9.5          13.4                      3oo.O          14.2                       11.4          9.6
/ Portly sotinated.
YI Inmleding net omohang. gaine, if eny.
/  Including net exchange  1osses, if any, and legal write-off ogainot i000ue  of 12.5% in 1972, end 25% in
1973, of interest overdue by -nre than 90 dnyo at the end of the yOux.
/ ATA    Verage T2tal A.se.t.
lf Inoludiog provisions against losso.
f4EI IC & DFO
M1a, 1974



YUG03SLaVA  - INDUITRIAL CREDIT PhOJEOT                                 LNon 10
R878AN08 SHEETS
(in eul7none of  nre)
Year ended Desesbe IX,
SE35                                  1          1972         7971971                197         1973           1 971971   172         1 197 1'                 1971  12 17
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and deposits
sOth other baSke                     125.8      429.9        747.7       276.8      531.3      7,792.6          75.3      135.0       213.3        176.2      211.5
Deposits sith National Bak           1,143.2    1,578.5      2,237.2       540.7      761.7      1,038.0         162.3      210.6       276.9         99.6      149.8
Short tee  loans                     3,815.5    6,436.0      6,710.8     2,482.5    4, 365.o     5,995.o       1,198.3    1,316.9     1,790.0        769.6    1,209.5
Accrud income, prspa7msnts
and other -curent assets             606.h      552.2        877.7       283.5      289.7       427.7           39.3       53.4        60.7         19.3       11.8
Total current aesete             5,696.9    8,996.6    10,573.4      3,943.5    5,947.7     8,553.3       1,465.2    1,715.9     2,340.2         994.7    1,582.6
TIVSESTDT PORTFOLIO
Loans                               11,953.4   14,677.7    18,239.0    12,453.8   12,041.5    15,458.6         3,742.1    3,396.4     4,200.0       4,366.7    7,148.7
Loans for housing a.d
.ooaannl construction              2,645.4    2,983.8      3,197.0     1,767.1    1,927.1      1,796.7         280.7      790.5       308.3         384.4      487.0
EpoitY inveet=enta                      81.4       74.8        52.2         65.7       67.0        91.3           5.o         5.4         5.5          5.0        5.0
Dposits and other long-ten assetS      111.0      134.8        229.3       346.7      15o.6       152.0                                                6.4        11.3
14,791.2   17,871.1    21,717.5    14,632.6   14,986.5    17,498.6        4,027.8    3,692.3     1,513.8      i,761.8    7,661.0
LePs    - Provisions for losees        189.5      290.6       411.3        196.6      289.0       408.5           59.9        85.9      118.3          53.7       97.4
14,601.7   17,580.5    21,306.2    14,436.0   14,697.5    17,090.1        3,967.9    3,6o6.4     4,395.5       4,708.1    7,554.6
PXSDE ASSETS                             112.7      146.9       205.7         74.0       81.8        86.8          58.7        70.5       85.0          15.2       41.7
TOTAL ASSETS              20,405.3   26,724.0    32,085.3     18,453.5   20,727.0    25,730.2        5,491.8    5,392.8     6,820.7       5,718.0    9,178.9
LLsIlITIE3 aND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
DOsand dposits                       3,353.2    4,505.0     7,552.9      2,133.3    2,511.0     3,476.2          527.1      650.5       775.3         377.8      772.3
Tine and savings deposit             1,416.0    1,753.0     1,986.9      1,560.0    1,824.5     2,423.1          167.2      159.0      153.6          10o.6      116.0
short-ten borroidngs                 1,739.7    2,071.2     1,325.5      1,842.6      760.8     1,278.5          692.6      737.7       876.3         315.2      493.1
Ahoroals and other ehort-ter
liabiliti-s                          167.4      190.3       237.4         28.0       34.7       163.6           36.8       67.8       124.5           9.4        7.1
6,676.3    5,519.5    11,102.7     5,563.9    5,131.0     7,361.4        1,423.7    1,615.0     7,859.7         803.0    1,388.5
LONG-TEEM DEB3TS
Tie dposite                         1,677.0    2,048.1     2,675.0      1,774.3    2,177.2     2,732.2          288.0      409.4      506.4          309.0      302.4
Loane Droom edEnal and
Republic foods                     6,750.7    7,992.3   10,164.6       6,569.2    7,967.3    9,529.7         2,374.8    1,938.4    2,615.6        3,503.7    6,500.2
Lnane from banks and
other _ooroee                      3.016.0    5,788.5    5,651.4       2,464.4    3.438.9       155.2 1.5.              1,055.      1,434.5         502.5      5e6.6
11,443.7   15,828.9    18,491.0    10,807.9   13,583.4    16,194.7        3,719.0    3,403.0     4,556.5       4,315.2    7,309.2
PYSI-t7
FornderP Fund                          317.3      824.2       875.0      1,092.5      969.5    1,047.4         3          - LJ6a       154.6          4od.5      249.1
fot-ders foods for hooming             142.3       57.9   )                  7.9       35.3        23.4        ) 291.0       -           -             -          32.5
F=d for houning and                                1        1,185.1
-o-nal onant-ootimo                1,072.5    1,163.9   )                821.9       808.6      821.4         )           157.7      165.4          165.7       167.8
Ponds of the hank aS a eorking
organisotihoo
husisesa food                        127.3      177.9       243.4        131.9       162.0      233.2                                                17.9        23.2
f olletive oonsu=ptiot fond           43.0       43.6       64.2          21.2        27.3       33.5         ) 58.1     ) 72.3       84.5            6.5        6.7
Other f-ad, and reserves              82.3      103.1       123.9          6.3        9.9        15.27                                                 12        ; .9
2.285.3    2.375.6    2,491.6       2,061.7    2,012.6    2,174.1          349.1       374.8     404.5          599.8   -   81.2
TOTAL LIABILITIES
AND EQUITY                 20,405.3   26,724.7   32,085.3      18,453.5   20,727.0   25,730.2         5,491.8    5,392.8   6,820.7         5,718.0    9,178.9
_ ~ ~  ~                                                              _                                                                 
FPnds =anaged on behlf of
other orgonlettons                   4°,057.3   _4 °45i1    4,542.9       44933.4   10,17723  10,656.3            929.0   1,959.9       0.0.         1,526.2    4,194 8
R3ATI03
Cprroet ratio                                     1.11        1.0:1                    1.2:1      1.2:1                     1.121       1.3:1                      1.1,1
Long-term 1oos and ito-otnsots/Tstol
as..t. - 5                                       66           66                       71         66                        67          64                         82
Total debt/ (LT/ty                                 10.3         11.9                      9,3       10.8                      13.4        15.9                       18.1
Longt.tvr debt (LTD7)/69qlty                        6.7          7.4,                     6.7        7.4,                      9.1        11.3                       15.2
LTD other thao Republic and
Fderal Pon_d/Bqouty                               3.3          3.3                      2.8        3.1                       3.9         4.8                        1.7
Ae-rs/Lorg-torm loans oototanding - 5               1.4          1.1                      2.2        1.7                       0.7         o.6                        0.7
Provl,ioi./Long-torm loans notot-ndiog - 5          1.6          1.9                      2.0        2.4                       2.3         2.6                        1.3
1/ Pertly  stivated
2/ 1973 data tot yet oaSilable.
E11NA/IC & D5C
Mly, 1974



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
LONG-TERM LOAIS ARREARS AT DECEMBER 31. 1973
(in millions of Dinars)
PRINCIPAL 2/        -Arrears of Prinnal. and/or Interest by Length of Time Overdue
OUTSTANDING        Total        UP TO 6 MONTHS        6 - 12 MONTHS         OVER 12 MONTHS
Total Arrears in Dinars 3/                          Amount          Amount                Amount                 Amount
PBS
1 -  100,00                 n. a.             9.8             6.4                   o.6                    2.8
100,000 -  500,000                83.2             22.4            18.3                   2.2                    1.9
500,O0O - 1,000,000              98.4              39.6            29.2                   6.4                    4.0
Above   1,000,000               734.1            171.4           132.8                  24.5                   14.1
Total                   n.a.            24i3.2          186.7                  33.7               _ 2.8
SBS
1 -  100,000             4,860.6            202.1            90.2                  79.8                   32.1
100,000 -  500,000 )
500,000 - 1,000,000                9.7              o.6             o.6                   -
Above   1,000,000            1.179.3              89.6            45.1                  34.6                    9.9
Total               6,o49.6             292.3           135-9                 114.4                   42.0
IBT
1 -  100,000               472.7              7.7             5.8                   1.9
100,000 -   500,000                9.6              1.3             1.2                    0.1
500,000 - 1,000,000               73.0              3.4             2.1                   1.3-
Above   1,000,000               138.9             15.2         _83                        5.9                   1.1
Total                  694.2             27.6            17.4                    9.2                   1.1
KBP 1/
1 -  100,000)                n.a.            26.0             n.a.                   n.a.                  n.a.
100,000 -   500,000 )na                                                                     ..na
500,000 - 1,000,000               60.2              4.5             2.2                    2.0                   0.3
Above   1,000,000             2,978.7             34.7            19.4                    6.7                   8.6
Total                    n.a.            65.2             n.a.                   n.a.                  n.a.
1/ Arrears position as at December 31, 1972 for KBP, because data as at end 1973 is not yet available.
2/ Total principal outstanding (excluding arrears) of loans in arrears.
3/ This classification refers to amount of total arrears outstanding per loan (principal plus interest).
Arrears in each group under this classification are sub-divided by age of arrears: up to 6 months,
6-12 months and over 12 months.
EMENA/IC & DFC
May, 1974



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
FORECAST OF LONG-TERM LOANS: 1974-1976
(in millions of Dinars)
Total
1974               1975               1976                  1974.-1976
PBS
Commitments                      3,200              4,500               5,000                   12,700 1/
Disbursements                    4,500               5,100              5,700                   15,300
Repayments                       1,012              1,102               1,300                    3,414
SBS
Commitments                      4,200              4,500               4,800                   13,500
Disbursements                    4,000               4,400              4,900                   13,300
Repayments                       1,036               1,075              1,250                    3,361
IBT
Commitments                        600              1,000               1,200                    2,800 1/
Disbursements                      750               1,150              1,400                    3,300
Repayments                         325                 409                488                    1,222
KBP
Commitments                      2,900              3,100               3,400                    9,400
Disbursements                    2,750               3,200              3,600                    9,550
Repayments                         567                 635                875                    2,077
1/ For PBS and IBT, the forecast of new commitments is much lower than
disbursements because of a large number and amount of undisbursed
commitments from previous periods.
EMEtNA/IC & DFC
May, 1974



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
FORECAST OF LONG-TERM LOANS - INDUSTRY SECTOR: 1974-1976
(in millions of Dinars)
Total
1974               1975                1976                  1974-1976
PBS
Commitments                      2,100               2,900               3,400                    8,400
Disbursements                    2,700               3,200               3,800                    9,700
Repayments                          610                670                 800                    2,080
SBS
Commitments                      2,100               2,200               2,500                    6,800
Disbursements                    2,000               2,200               2,400                    6,600
Repayments                          580                590                 670                    1,840
ITT
Commitments                         350                600                 700                    1,650
Disbursements                       450                700                 800                    1,950
Repayments                          175                235                 280                      690
KBP
Commitments                      1,900               2,000               2,100                    6,ooo
Disbursements                    1,900               2, 050              2,200                    6,15o
Repayments                          370                442                 600                    1,412
ENENA/IC & DFC
May, 1974



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTIAL C.LEDIT Pl'.D2ZT
FOREAST STATEMENT OF SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS 1/
Years Ending December 31, 19714-76
(in millions of )insrs 
PBS                          SBS                         IBT                            KBP
1974     1975      1976      1974      1975     1976      1974    1975       1976       1974     1975      1976
Sources
Profits after tax                                73        80        88        70       77        85        23       25        28        43        48        54
Non cash charges (provisions)                   160       19U       220      140       160       185        35       40       46         65        77        94
New founders funds           r         2      1         1,600-                                    -                                       3         3         3
Net  ncrase  n sort-ermresorce21    1,40      1,600    1,85       1,000    1,150    1,3~25       200      220       245        1950     2;5       245
Net increase in short-term re5sourc qg 2_
Net increase in long-term deposits/             495       520       560       380      420                  68       75       83                    0         5
Collections on long-term loans                1,012    1,102    1,300    1,036    1,075    1,250           325      409      488        567       635       667
Long-term borrowings:
Federal Fund                               1,780    1,995    2,230    1,260    1,410    1,580          630      705       790      1,830    2,050    2,295
Republic, banks and other
domestic sources                            790       890      990    1,065    1,170    1,200         261      100       225        134       150       165
Proposed IBRD Loans
(Industrial Credit)                           3       55       114         2        39       81         1       20        43          3        57      11d
Other foreign borrowings secured
or identified                                -         -        -        245       146      10         _        _         _          _         _        -
Foreign borrowings unidentified              500       650      750       400       525      650       150      170       200        325       400       475
Total Sources                    .213    782    8,102              8    6 2    6.92            3   1,693      2.68
Applications
Net increase in short-term loans
and deposits with National Bank             1,400    1,600    1,850    1,000    1,150    1,325           200     220       245        190       215       245
Long-term loan disbursements                  4,500    5,100    5,700    4,000    4,400    4,900           750   1,150    1,400       2,750    3,200    3,600
Repayment of long-term borrowings               151       186       290       417      463       500       691     351       444        184       206       206
Cash dividends to founders and others            -         -         -       _          -         -         -        _        _          _        _          _
Total Applications               6.051    6.886    76840    5, 417    6013    6,725    1,641   1,721    2.009            3,124    3,621    4,051
Surplus of sources over applications_/          162       196       262       181      159       200       52        43        59        81        64       120
1/ Excludes the sources and application of funds of the bank as a
working organization e.g. the portion of profits allocated to
the working organization of the bank are excluded as also the uses
of these funds such as for fixed assets.
2/ Including net increase in deposits, credits and re-discount
facilities with National Bank. Collections of short-term loans
is excluded since under "Applications" only net increase in short-
term loans(disbursements less repayments)is given.
3/ Including some special deposits in the case of PBS (housing funds
of enterprises and SBS (for economic stabilization and deposits
against construction projects).
4/  Most of this surplus is accounted for by provisions (non cash
charges) which are legally required to be set aside from the
bank's income.
EMENA/IC & DFC
Nay, 1974



ANNEX 15
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
COMPOSITION, FUNCTIONS AND STATEMENT
OF OPERATIONS AND POLICIES OF THE iNIT
1.        The Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS)/Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS)
(Borrower) and the Investiciona Banka Titograd (IBT)/Kosovska Barika Pristina
(KBP) (Associated Bank) have agreed to form a Joint Unit I/ for the investment
operations and all matters related to the IBRD Loan. The two banks have
agreed to ensure the continued existence of this Unit for the execution of
the policies stated in the Unit's "Statement of Operations and Policies"
(Para 6).
A. COMPOSITION OF THE UNIT
2.        The Unit shall consist of six members, three appointed by the
Borrower and three by the Associated Bank. The Unit shall select a chairman
from among the members appointed by the Borrower.
3.        The Unit shall meet as and when necessary.  A member of the Unit
shall be appointed to handle day-to-day operations of the Unit.
4.        The Borrower and the Associated Bank shall provide the required
supporting staff for the Unit.
B.  FUNCTICNS OF THE UNIT
5.        The Unit:
(a) shall review each proposed investment project and related
application or request for a sub-loan on the basis of a detailed appraisal
of the investment project prepared by the Borrower or the Associated Bank,
including:
(i)  the technical feasibility of the investment project;
(ii) the marketability of the proposed production and its
competitiveness on internal and external markets;
(iii)  the financial and economic justification of the
investment project, on the basis of realistic
assumptions;
(iv) the creditworthiness of the investment enterprise
and its managerial ability to carry out and operate
the investment project; and
(v)  the employment and balance-of-payments benefits to be
expected.
y/ One Unit between PBS and IBT and one between SBS and KBP.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
(b)  shall, after its review, make recommendations to the Borrower
or the Associated Bank on each investment project and related sut-loan 1/ as
to its conformity to the Statement of Operations and Policies for the Unit
and suggest any modifications required to achieve such conformity;
(c) shall establish and maintain appropriate records and accounts,
and forward to the Bank quarterly and annually consolidated statements and
reports thereon, in such detail as the Bank shall request, and all such other
information as the Bank or the Borrower or the Associated Bank shaU from
time to time reasonably request;
(d) shall propose to the Borrower and the Associated Bank appropriate
time schedules and procedures for supervision and evaluation of each invest-
ment project, shall assist the Borrower and the Associated Bank in carrying
out such supervision and evaluation, and shall review and comment on
supervision and evaluation reports so prepared by the Borrower and the Associated
Bank;
(e) shall maintain on behalf of the Borrower and the Associated
Bank close relation with the Bank and assist the Bank representatives in any
inspection of investment projects and in exchanges of views with the Borrower
or the Associated Bank on matters relating to the IBRD Loan.
C. STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND POLICIES OF THE UNIT
6.        Investment projects, and sub-loans 1/ for investment projects, shall
conform to the following:
(a) Investment projects will be limited to development projects
in manufacturing and processing industries and should, to the extent possible,
contribute to an improvement of the balance-of-payments of the country.
(b) Investment projects will be limited to small-sized and medium-
sized projects, normally not exceeding the equivalent of Us$ 5 miLlion in
total costs, and sub-loans for each investment project will normally not
exceed US$ 2 million equivalent.
(c) To the extent possible each investment project should aim at
fostering the creation of new employment in the region in which it is to be
located.
(d) Investment projects should provide satisfactory financial
and economic rates of return, on the basis of detailed and realistic estimates
of costs and benefits, in addition to meeting normal criteria of technical
feasibility of the project, marketability of its production and creditworthiness
and managerial competence of the investment enterprise. Normally, projects
with an internal financial rate of return of less than 10% will be excluded.
If the economic rate of return is calculated to be less than 10%, a particular
justification will be required.
(e) As a condition of a sub-loan, the investment enterprise will
normally be required to present at the time of the approval of the sub-loan
by the Borrower or the Associated Bank a financing plan expected to result
1/ A sub-loan from the IBBJD Loan.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
in a financial structure of the investment enterprise in which its business
funds and reserve funds (equity) would not be less than 25% of its total
capitalization (equity plus long-term debt). Exceptions may be allowed
based on the financial and economic merit of each investment project pro-
vided the Borrower or the Associated Bank enters into an agreement with the
investment enterprise under which the investment enterprise agrees to
increase its equity over a suitable period of time, determined in the course
of the appraisal of the investment project, to not less than 25% of its
total capitalization.
(f) Sub-loans for investment projects will be made for a term
consistent with the requirements of the Loan Agreement with IBRD (maximum
15 years including grace period) and related to the useful life of the
assets financed by the sub-loan, or for a shorter term if consistent with
the debt servicing capacity of the investment enterprise, will be re-payable
in the same currencies as the corresponding principal amount of the IBRD
Loan used for the purpose and will carry interest, payable in the same
currencies as the principal, at an annual rate of not less than 9-1/2% of
the principal amount outstanding.
(g) Each investment project will be subject to close supervision
by the Borrower or the Associated Bank in accordance with the procedures
proposed by the Unit.
EMENA/IC & DFC
L4ay, 1974



ANNEX 16
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
MEMBERS OF THE UNITS
A.  Joint Unit Between PBS and IBT
Representatives of PBS in the Unit:
1. Mr. Ejub Mustajbegovic (Chairman of Unit)
Assistant General Manager,
Department for Interbank Transactions
2. Dr. Avdo Spaho
Senior Adviser,
Department for Economic Research
and Development
3. Mr. Muzafer Talirevic
Senior Adviser,
Department for Interbank Transactions
Representatives of IBT in the Unit:-l
A
1. Mr. nlija Culkovic
Assistant General Manager,
Credit Department
2. Mr. Djordjije Stanojevic
Assistant General Manager,
Department for Foreign Business
3. Mr. Vasilije Beratovic
Senior Adviser,
Department for Foreign Business
4. Mr. Nenad Novakovic
Senior Adviser,
Credit Department
5. Mr. Petar Kasalica
Adviser,
Credit Department
1/ Not yet confirmed0 Will be three out of the five nominees
indicated.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
B.  Joint Unit Between SBS and KBP
Representatives of SBS in the Unit:
1. Dr. Aleksander Misev
Assistant General Manager,
Investment Department
2. Mr. Velko Stojeev
Director,
Industry and Mining
3. Mr. Slavko Jovanski
Senior Adviser,
Representatives of KB in the Unit:
1. Mr. Milorad Lazetic
Assistant General Manager,
Long-term Investment Department
2. Mr. Galip Hadzini
Director,
Industry and Mining
3. Mrs. Dzahide Pregeva
Director,
Short-term Credits
EMENA/IC & DFC
May, 1974



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SCHEDUJLE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
OF THE PROPOSED IBRD LOANS
(in US $ '000)
Total of Loans
Loan to PBS                       Loan to SBS                     to
Year      Quarter        For PBS     For IBT      Total     For SBS     For KBP     Total       PBS and SBS
19714        4             200.0        75.0       275.0      142.5       207.5      350.0             625.0
1975         1             450.0       168.8       618.8      320.6       466.9      787.5           1,406.3
1975         2             700.0       262.5       962.5      498.7       726.3    1,225.0           2,187.5
1975         3             950.0       356.2   1,306.2        676.9       985.6    1,662.5           2,968.7
1975         4           1,200.0       450.o   1,650.0        855.0     1,245.0    2,100.0           3,750.0
1976         1           1,b50.0       543.8   1,993.8    1,033.1       1,504.4    2,537.5           4,531.3
1976         2           1,700.0       637.5    2,337.5    1,211.?    1,763.7    2,975.0             5,312.5
1976         3           1,950.0       731.2    2,681.2    1,389.4      2,023.1    3,412.5           6,093.7
1976         4           1,800.0       675.0    2,175.0   1,282.5       1,867.5    3,150.0           5,625.0
1977         1           1,550.0       581.3    2,131.3    1,104.4      1,608.1    2,712.5           4,843.8
1977         2           1,300.0       487.5   1,787.5        926.3     1,348.7    2,275.0           4,o62.5
1977         3           1,050.0       393.8    1,443.8       748.1     1,089.4    1,837.5           3,281.3
1977         4             800.0       300.0   1,100.0        570.0       830.0   1,4oo.o            2,500.0
1978         1             550.0       206.2       756.2      391.9       570.6       962.5          1,718.7
1978         2             300.0       112.5       412.5      213.7       311.3       525.0            937.5
1978         3              50.0        18.7        68.7       35.6        51.9        87.5            i56.2
Total            16.000.0    _6.oo.0   22.0     11400.0    16,600.0  08,000.0                500oo.
Assumptions:
1.  The banks are expected to commit their part of the IBRD Loans roughly as follows:
10rp in the latter part of 1974 (after the proposed IBRD Loans are declared effective),
50% in 1975 (l2.5 in each quarter) and 405" in 1976 (12.5% each in the first three
qumarters and the balance, 2.5%, in the fourth quarter).
2.  The committed sub-lcans are expected to be disbursed equally over eight quarters.
EMENA/IC & DFC
May, 1974



