―기


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1013 YU
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(Bosnia and Herzegovina-Monteiiegro
Industrial Credit Project)
BETWEEN
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO
AND
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
DATED JUNE 22, 1974


﻿SUBSIDIARY LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1974, between PRIVREDNA BANKA
SARAJEVO (hereinafter called the Lending Bank) and INVESTICIONA BANKA
TITOGRAD (hereinafter called the Associated Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement dated June 21, 1974 (hereinafter called
the Loan Agreement) between the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (hereinafter called the World Bank) and the Lending Bank, the World
Bank has agreed to make available to the Lending Bank a loan in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan) under the terms and conditions set forth therein;
WHEREAS a copy of the Loan Agreement has been furnished to the
Associated Bank which accepts all its provisions insofar as they may concern it;
WHEREAS under the terms of said Loan Agreement the Lending Bank has
agreed to relend to the Associated Bank a part of the proceeds of the Loan under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the World Bank;
WHEREAS the parties hereto have agreed to enter into this Agreement, which
is the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section 3.01 of the Loan
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement shall have the
same meanings which are assigned to them in the Loan Agreement, except for
the terms already defined in the preamble to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Subsidiary Loan
Section 2.01. The Lending Bank agrees to lend to the Associated Bank, out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the equivalent in various currencies of six million


﻿4
dollars ($6,000,000), or such other amount as may be allocated, pursuant to Section
3.01 of the Loan Agreement, to the financing of sub-loans by the Associated Bank
(hereinafter called the Subsidiary Loan), on the terms and conditions in this
Subsidiary Loan Agreement set forth or referred to.
Section 2.02. (a) Upon request of the Associated Bank, the Lending Bank
shall promptly: (i) request the World Bank to approve any sub-loan by the
Associated Bank in respect of which the approval of the World Bank is required
or to authorize withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of other sub-loans
by the Associated Bank, in accordance with Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement;
and (ii) make application for withdrawal from the Loan Account of amounts which
the Lending Bank is entitled to withdraw therefrom for sub-loans made by the
Associated Bank and instruct the World Bank to pay to, or on the order of, the
Associated Bank the amounts so withdrawn; provided, however, that if the Lending
Bank shall, after consultation with the Associated Bank, determine that any sub-loan
in respect of which a request for the World Bank's approval or authorization to
withdraw is received from the Associated Bank does not comply with the
requirements set forth in the Loan Agreement or is not consistent with the
Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project or is otherwise economically
or financially unsound, the Lending Bank may, by notice to the Associated Bank
and the Unit, stating the reasons for such determination, refuse to make such
request.
(b)  The Associated Bank shall furnish to the Lending Bank, with a view
to submission to the World Bank, such documents and other evidence as shall
be required under the Loan Agreement or as shall be requested by the World Bank
in order to enable the Lending Bank to obtain the approval of such sub-loan or
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account.
Section 2.03. The Lending Bank shall open a Subsidiary Loan Account on
its books in the name of the Associated Bank and shall credit to such account
the amount of the Subsidiary Loan as determined in accordance with Section 2.01
of this Agreement. Portions of the Subsidiary Loan shall be deemed to be withdrawn
from such account on the date and in the amount and currencies of each withdrawal
by the Lending Bank from the Loan Account with the World Bank, made at the
request of the Associated Bank in accordance with Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Associated Bank shall pay to the Lending Bank a
commitment charge in dollars at the rate of 3/4 of 1% on the principal amount
of the Subsidiary Loan from time to time credited to the Subsidiary Loan Account
referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement and not withdrawn. Upon full


﻿5
withdrawal or cancellation of the Loan, appropriate adjustments shall be made
in such commitment charge on the basis of the actual amounts of the Subsidiary
Loan standing to the credit of the Associated Bank from time to time.
(b)  The Associated Bank shall also pay to the Lending Bank in dollars
any additional charges payable by the Lending Bank to the World Bank under
the Loan Agreement on account of any special commitment entered into by the
World Bank, in accordance with Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred
to in said Loan Agreement, at the request of the Lending Bank in respect of any
sub-loan by the Associated Bank. The Lending Bank shall promptly request the
World Bank to enter into such special commitments only upon written application
of the Associated Bank and upon such terms and conditions as shall be agreed
between the Lending Bank and the Associated Bank.
Section 2.05. The Associated Bank shall pay interest at the rate of seven
and one-quarter per cent (7-1/4%) on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. Interest on any portion of the
Subsidiary Loan shall be payable in the currency in which the principal of such
portion is repayable.
Section 2.06. Interest and commitment charges shall be paid by the
Associated Bank to the Lending Bank semi-annually on June 15 and December 15.
Section 2.07. (a) The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn
by the Associated Bank in accordance with Section 2.03 of this Agreement shall
be repaid by the Associated Bank to the Lending Bank in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule I to this Agreement as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time by the Lending Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of the amortization
schedules applicable to sub-loans made by the Associated Bank; and (ii) take into
account any modification in the amount of the Subsidiary Loan pursuant to Section
3.01 of the Loan Agreement or cancellation by the World Bank of any amount
of the Loan to be relent to the Associated Bank and any repayments made by
the Associated Bank under paragraph (b) of this Section or under Section 2.08
of this Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made on
June 15 and December 15 in each year. Repayments shall be in such currencies,
required by the Lending Bank to repay to the World Bank the corresponding
maturities of the Loan, as the Lending Bank shall specify prior to each maturity
date; provided, however, that, in no event the aggregate amount of the Subsidiary
Loan so repaid by the Associated Bank in any currency shall exceed the portion
of the Loan withdrawn by the Lending Bank from the Loan Account with the


﻿6
World Bank in respect of sub-loans by the Associated Bank and repayable by the
Lending Bank to the World Bank in such currency.
(b)  The Associated Bank shall pay to the Lending Bank any amount which
the Lending Bank is required to pay to the World Bank on account of the
prepayment or disposition of any sub-loan by the Associated Bank in accordance
with Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement. Any portions of such payments made
on account of prepayment of the principal of the Loan shall be applied to the
prepayment of the maturities of the Subsidiary Loan substantially in accordance
with the provisions of said Section 2.09.
Section 2.08. Upon at least 45 days' notice to the Lending Bank, the
Associated Bank may on any maturity date prepay the amount of one or more
maturities of the Subsidiary Loan, together with all accrued interest and any
premium that may be payable by the Lending Bank to the World Bank upon
prepayment of the corresponding amount of the Loan, and any such prepayment
shall be applied to the outstanding maturities of the Subsidiary Loan in inverse
chronological order.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Associated Bank
Section 3.01. (a) The Associated Bank shall carry out the part in Montenegro
of the Project described in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency, and in accordance with the Statement of Operations and Policies
for the Project set forth in Part C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(b)  For the purpose of carrying out the Project and in compliance with
the provisions of the Loan Agreement, the Lending Bank and the Associated Bank
shall maintain the Unit with the composition and functions set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, and the Unit shall review all proposed Investment Projects,
and sub-loans therefor and make appropriate recommendations thereon to the
Lending Bank, in the case of sub-loans to be made by it, or to the Associated
Bank, in the case of sub-loans made by it, prior to the approval by the Lending
Bank of any apnlication or request to the World Bank for approval or withdrawal
in respect of such sub-loans.
Section 3.02. (a) The Associated Bank undertakes to comply with all the
provisions of the Loan Agreement relating to sub-loans made or to be made by
it, as if such provisions were fully set forth in this Agreement.
0s


﻿7
(b)   The Associated Bank shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Investment Project financed by it in such manner as to: (i) protect the interest
of the World Bank, the Lending Bank and the Associated Bank; (ii) comply with
its obligation under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Associated Bank shall furnish to the Unit such documents,
records and other information as shall be required on the part of the Associated
Bank to enable the Unit to maintain the records referred to in Section 3.03 of
the Loan Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Associated Bank shall furnish to the World Bank and the
Lending Bank all such information as either Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, the part of
the Project in Montenegro, the Unit and its procedures, operations and records,
the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects and the sub-loans financed out
of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan.
Section 3.05. The Associated Bank shall at all times conduct its operations
and affairs, including the part of the Project in Montenegro, in accordance with
appropriate financial and investment standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and staff, and in accordance with its Self-Management
Agreement and its Statutes.
Section 3.06. The Associated Bank shall take or cause to be taken all
necessary measures to ensure that all complementary financing shall be available
to any Investment Enterprise in the region of the Associated Bank as and when
required to enable the Investment Enterprise to carry out its Investment Project
in a timely manner.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Associated Bank shall maintain adequate records to reflect
the operations and financial condition of the Associated Bank in accordance with
appropriate accounting practices consistently maintained.
Section 4.02. The Associated Bank shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by the Social Accounting Service or another
competent and experienced independent accounting organization; (ii) furnish to


﻿8
the World Bank, and the Lending Bank, as soon as available but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the World Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the World Bank and the Lending
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Associated Bank and the audit thereof as either Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Associated Bank represents that at the date of this
Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b)   The Associated Bank undertakes that, except as the Lending Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Associated Bank shall create any lien on any of its
assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Subsidiary Loan, and
that in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect
at no cost to the Lending Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created
on any assets of the Associated Bank as security for any debt, the Associated
Bank shall grant, at no cost to the Lending Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory
to the Lending Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on the Subsidiary Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property,
at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase
price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
Section 4.04. The Associated Bank shall not make any repayment in advance
of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the Associated Bank which would
materially and adversely affect the Associated Bank's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
ARTICLE V
Consultation and Information
Section 5.01. The Lending Bank and the Associated Bank shall cooperate
fully with each other and with the World Bank to ensure that the purposes of
the Loan and the Subsidiary Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Lending
Bank and the Associated Bank shall from time to time, at the request of eitl
party or of the World Bank:


﻿9
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of the respective obligations of the parties under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the staff and procedures of the Unit, the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Associated Bank, and to any other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan and the Subsidiary Loan; and
(b)   furnish to the other party and the World Bank all such information
as it shall reasonably request concerning the progress of the part of the Project
in Montenegro and the general status of the Loan and the Subsidiary Loan.
Section 5.02. The Associated Bank shall furnish to the Lending Bank or
the World Bank all such information concerning the administration, operation and
financial condition of the Associated Bank as the Lending Bank or the World Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. The Lending Bank and the Associated Bank shall promptly
inform each other and the World Bank of any condition which interferes with,
or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Subsidiary
Loan, the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement.
Sec-icn 5.04. The Associated Bank shall enable the representatives of the
Lending Bank and the World Bank to inspect the records referred to in Section
4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies
Section 6.01. (a) If (i) a default shall have occurred in the payment of any
amount payable by the Associated Bank to the Lending Bank under this Agreement,
or (ii) a default shall have occurred in the performance of any other obligation
on the part of the Associated Bank under this Agreement, then the Lending Bank
may by notice to the Associated Bank suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Associated Bank to request the Lending Bank to withdraw from the Loan
Account the amount of the Loan to be relent to the Associated Bank and such
right shall continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be,
until the event or events which gave rise to such suspension shall have ceased to
exist or until the Lending Bank shall have notified the Associated Bank that such
right has been restored, whichever is the earlier.


﻿10
(b)   If the Lending Bank's right under the Loan Agreement to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended or terminated with
respect to any amount in the Loan Account to be relent to the Associated Bank,
regardless of the reason therefor, then the right of the Associated Bank to make
withdrawals from the Subsidiary Loan Account provided in this Agreement shall
likewise and simultaneously be suspended or terminated, as the case may be.
Section 6.02. If (i) the event described in Section 6.01(a)(i) of this Agreement
shall have occurred and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Lending Bank to the Associated Bank; or
(ii) the event described in Section 6.01(a)(ii) of this Agreement shall have occurred
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Lending Bank to the Associated Bank; or (iii) if the World Bank
shall have declared the principal amount of the Loan to be due and payable
immediately for reasons not attributable solely to the Lending Bank, then the
Lending Bank, at its option, may declare the principal amount of the Subsidiary
Loan then outstanding to be due and payable immediately, and upon such
declaration such principal amount together with interest and other charges thereon
shall become due and payable immediately, anything in this Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall enter into force and effect simultaneously
with the Loan Agreement.
Section 7.02. When the entire principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
withdrawn by the Associated Bank and all interest and other charges accrued
thereon shall have been paid, or upon termination of the Loan Agreement prior
to its effectiveness, this Agreement and all the obligations hereunder shall forthwith
terminate.
Section 7.03. Any notice, demand or request required or permitted to be
given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered in the case of the Borrower, to
Privredna Banka Sarajevo, 71000 Sarajevo Obala 19, Sarajevo, Yugoslavia, and in
the case of the Associated Bank, to Investiciona Banka Titograd, 81000 Titograd,
Bulevar 5, Titograd, Yugoslavia.


﻿11
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and delivered in
Budva as of the day and year first above written.
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO
By /s / E. Mustajbegovid
Authorized Representative
INVESTICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD
By /s/ Dj. Stanojevid
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                 (expressed in dollars)*
December 15, 1976                                       42,300
June 15, 1977                                           42,300
December 15, 1977                                      253,800
June 15, 1978                                          253,800
December 15, 1978                                      423,000
June 15, 1979                                          423,000
December 15, 1979                                      413,010
June 15, 1980                                          413,010
December 15, 1980                                      363,060
June 15, 1981                                          363,060
December 15, 1981                                      323,100
June 15, 1982                                          323,100
December 15, 1982                                      323,100
June 15, 1983                                          323,100
December 15, 1983                                      323,100
June 15, 1984                                          323,100
December 15, 1984                                      293,100
June 15, 1985                                          293,100
December 15, 1985                                      143,100
June 15, 1986                                          143,100
December 15, 1986                                       23,100
June 15, 1987                                           23,100
December 15, 1987                                       23,100
June 15, 1988                                           23,100
December 15, 1988                                       23,100
June 15, 1989                                           23,100
December 15, 1989                                       20,790
June 15, 1990                                           20,790
December 15, 1990                                        9,240
June 15, 1991                                            9,240
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
The Unit
A.    Composition
1.   The Unit shall consist of six members, three appointed by the Lending Bank
and three by the Associated Bank. The Unit shall select a chairman from among
the members appointed by the Lending Bank.
2.    The Unit shall meet as and when necessary. A member of the Unit shall
be appointed to handle day-to-day operations of the Unit.
3.    The Lending Bank and the Associated Bank shall provide the required
supporting staff for the Unit.
B.    Function
4.    The Unit:
(a)   shall review each proposed Investment Project and related application
or request for a sub-loan on the basis of a detailed appraisal of the Investment
Project prepared by the Lending Bank or the Associated Bank, including:
(i)        the technical feasibility of the Investment Project;
(ii)       the   marketability  of  the proposed   production  and   its
competitiveness on internal aid external markets;
(iii)      the financial and economic justification of the Investment
Project, on the basis of realistic assumptions;
(iv)        the creditworthiness of the Investment Enterprise and its
managerial ability to carry out and operate the Investment
Project; and
(v)         the  employment and    balance-of-payments benefits to   be
expected.
(b)   shall, after its review, make recommendation to the Lending Bank or
the Associated Bank on each Investment Project and related sub-loan as to its


﻿14
conformity to the Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project and suggest
any modifications required to achieve such conformity;
(c)   shall establish and maintain appropriate records and accounts as
provided for in Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement, and forward to the World
Bank quarterly and annually consolidated statements and reports thereon, in such
detail as the World Bank shall request, and all such other information as the World
Bank or the Lending Bank or the Associated Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request;
(d)   shall propose to the Lending Bank and the Associated Bank appropriate
time schedules and procedures for supervision and evaluation of each Investment
Project, shall assist the Lending Bank and the Associated Bank in carrying out
such supervision and evaluation and shall review and comment on supervision and
evaluation reports so prepared by the Lending Bank and the Associated Bank; and
(e)   shall maintain on behalf of the Lending Bank and the Associated Bank
close relations with the World Bank and assist the World Bank representatives in
any inspection of Investment Projects and in exchanges of views with the Lending
Bank or the Associated Bank on matters relating to the Loan and the Project.
C.   Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project
5.    Investment Projects, and sub-loans for Investment Projects, shall conform
to the following:
(a)   Investment Projects will be limited to development projects in
manufacturing and processing industries and should, to the extent possible,
contribute to an improvement of the balance-of-payments of the country.
(b)   Investment Projects will be limited to small-sized and medium-sized
projects, normally not exceeding the equivalent of $5 million in total costs, and
sub-loans for each Investment Project will normally not exceed $2 million
equivalent.
(c)   To the extent possible, each Investment Project should aim at fostering
the creation of new employment in the region in which it is to be located.
(d)   Investment Projects should provide satisfactory financial and economic
rates of return, on the basis of detailed and realistic estimates of costs and benefits,
in addition to meeting normal criteria of technical feasibility of the Project,
marketability of its production and creditworthiness and managerial competence


﻿15
of the Investment Enterprise. Normally, Projects with an internal financial rate
of return of less than 10% will be excluded. If the economic rate of return is
calculated to be less than 10%, a particular justification will be required.
(e)   As a condition of a sub-loan, the Investment Enterprise will normally
be required to present at the time of the approval of the sub-loan by the Lending
Bank or the Associated Bank a financing plan expected to result in a financial
structure of the Investment Enterprise in which its business funds and reserve funds
(equity) would be not less than 25% of its total capitalization (equity plus long-term
debt). Exceptions may be allowed based on the financial and economic merit of
each Investment Project provided the Lending Bank or the Associated Bank enters
into an agreement with the Investment Enterprise under which the Investment
Enterprise agrees to increase its equity over a suitable-period of time, determined
in the course of the appraisal of the Investment Project, to not less than 25%
of its total capitalization.
(f) Sub-loans for Investment Projects will be made for a term consistent
with the requirements of the Loan Agreement and related to the useful life of
the assets financed by the sub-loan, or for a shorter term if consistent with the
debt servicing capacity of the Investment Enterprise, will be repayable in the same
currencies as the corresponding principal amount of the Loan used for the purpose
and will carry interest, in the same currencies as the principal, at an annual rate
of not less than 9-1/2% of the principal amount outstanding.
(g)   Each Investment Project will be subject to close supervision by the
Lending Bank or the Associated Bank in accordance with the procedures proposed
by the Unit.


