RETURN  TO                                                RESTRiCTED
REPORTS DESK                   FILE COPY                       Report No. PE-30a
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TECHNICAL AND AGRICULTURAL
EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
SENEGAL
May 26, 1971
Education Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 US-Dollar   - CFAF 277.71
CFAF 1,000    - US$ 3.60
CFAF 1 Million = US$ 3,600
CFAF 1 Billion - US$ 3,600,000
MSURES
1 ml- 1.09 'rd
1 m2     = 1.20 sq yd
1 km2    - 0.38 sq mi
1 hectare  2.4¢7 acres



SENEGAL
TECHNICAL AND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........................................    i - ii
I.  INTRODUCTION      ..................... ...................
The Request .............1
Socio-economic Background        ..........................     1
The Education and Training System ..............                2
Educational Planning ............ . ...................         3
The Financing of Education         .........................    3
External Aid ...... ..          ..........                      4
II. MANPOWER NEEDS ......................................             5
Industry ....... ..    ............................... .        5
Agriculture ........... I .............................          6
Fishing ...........ay.....            .....................     7
Summary ......................................................  7
III.  THE PROJECT .........................................             8
General  ............................................           8
The Technology Institute    ............*  .............        8
The Technical Lycees ......      .....................          9
The Agricultural School .....       .......................    10
The Merchant Marine School .       . .......................   10
Teacher Supply ........... .... ..............                 10
Cost of the Project ... ...                  . .....  11
Recurrent Costs .......      .............................     13
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT ..................     ...       13
Project Implementation Unit .....       ...................    13
Professional Services         ..............................   14
Procurement ...............       .   ...... ..........        14
Sites        .............................................     14
Construction Period ......       ..........................    14
Disbursements ......... ..............................         14
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS .........................................        15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Senegal during September/October 1970. The mission consist-
ed of Messrs. M. Cherniavsky (economist), K. Seiler (technical edu-
cator), F. Gamble (general educator - consultant) M. Girard (fisher-
ies educator - FAO), B. Hubert (architect - consultant) and A. Voisin
(agricultural educator - FAO). A second mission by Mr. K. Seiler
(technical educator) visited Senegal in March, 1971 to appraise a
modification to the project.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
APPENDIX I - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
ANNEXES
1.   Recurrent Expenditures on Education 1969/70 (Estimate)
2.   Technology Institute - Enrollments at Capacity
3.   Contingency Allowances
4.   Project Implementation Schedule
5.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6.   Comparative Education Indicators
CHARTS
1.   Structure of the Educational System 1970
2.   General Education Enrollments 1968-1969, Higher & Technical
Enrollments 1969-1970
MAP



GLOSSARY
BEPC:                Brevet d'Etudes du Premier Cycle.  Lower secondary
school certificate taken after four years' second-
ary education.
Brevet Technique:   Certificate in technical or commercial subjects taken
three years after BEPC. More emphasis is placed on
practical work than in the technical baccalaureat.
Baccalaureat:        Examination conferring right to university entry which
is taken at the end of the lycee course (three years
after BEPC). There are baccalaureats in arts subjects,
economics, and combinations of mathematics with scien-
tific or technical subjects.
CEG:                 College d'Enseignement General.  Lower general second-
ary school offering a four year course.
Lycee:               Full secondary school offering a four-year lower second-
ary course followed by a three year upper secondary
course.
Ecole Normale:       Teacher Training School.  The Ecole Noarmale Superieure
trains secondary school teachers.
FAC:                 Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation.  The French government
external aid agency.
FED:                 Fonds European de Developpement.  An aid agency of the
European Economic Communities.






SENEGAL
BASIC DATA
Education
Primary school enrollment as a
percentage of 6-11 age group:                        43%
Secondary school enrollment as a
percentage of 12-18 age group:                       8.3%
Higher education enrollment as a
percentage of 19-22 age group:                       1.1%
Total education expenditures (1968/69 CFA million):  11,620          %
of which Central Government recurrent                 7,000       60.2
Private recurrent                              350       3.0
Capital expenditures                           270        2.3
Foreign technical assistance                 4,000       34.5
Total education expenditures
as percent of GNP:                                   5.7%
Total education expenditures excluding
technical assistance and external aid,
as percent of GDP:                                   3.6%
as percent of total recurrent expenditure:           20.2%
Labor Force (1968 estimates)
Persons aged 1)4-65:                                   1.9 million
Economically active population,
' agriculture:                                          1.4 million
Number of salaried employees:                           125,000






SENEGAL
TECHNICAL AND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The general education system of Senegal is based on the tradition-
al French pattern, and French is the language of instruction. After the
recent educational changes in France and elsewhere, Senegal has been con-
sidering a number of alternatives to reform its system, so that it would
respond better to the needs of students not proceeding to higher education.
Recently, the Ministry of National Education formulated proposals which
accorded with recent developments in a number of countries, including
France, and for which the government contemplated IDA financial assistance.
However, uncertainties remained about the new educational policies and
their implementation, and consideration of IDA financing of general educa-
tion has therefore been deferred at this time. On the otLler hand, rehabili-
tation and expansion of technical and agricultural education, for which the
government has also asked for IDA assistance, meets an urgent, high priority
need and would not be directly affected by the delays in the implementation
of the general education reform.
ii.       The present project, therefore, is designed to (a) rehabilitate ex-
isting training facilities for skilled manpower for industry, agriculture
and fishing and (b) provide the expanded facilities needed to train upper
level technical staff. A major cause of high costs in Senegalese industry
is the large proportion of middle level and managerial positions occupied
by expatriates. Industry could effect substantial savings in its salary
bill and hence improve its competitive strength, if adequately trained
Senegalese technicians were available to replace expatriates progressively,
as well as to fill new positions as industry expands. In agriculture, im-
provement of the existing pre-service and an in-service training program
for extension workers is needed to improve the quality of agricultural
services. The training of Senegalese officers and technical crew for
the fishing fleet must also be developed in order to provide a permanent
manpower base for the fishing industry to sustain its future growth and to
reduce operating costs through progressive replacement of expatriates. The
proposed project, although small, would have a significant impact on the
Senegalese economy.
iii.      Specifically, the project would consist of:
(a) buildings and equipment for a post-secondary tech-
nology institute;
(b) equipment for and rehabilitation of two technical
schools and one agricultural school, both at the
upper secondary level;
(c) equipment for a reorganized Merchant Marine School.



- ii -
iv.       Adequate numbers of qualified candidates for admission to the pro-
ject institutions are available. Few additional teachers are required, and
the government is prepared to give priority to staffing the project insti-
tutions. A project implementation unit would be established within the Min-
istry of Public Works to provide overall supervision of the project.
v.        The total project cost is estimated at $2.5 million and the for-
Vign exchange component at US$1.3 million. Contracts for civil works and
furniture would be awarded on the basis of the Association's guidelines for
international competitive bidding. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and
equipment would be accorded a margin of preference of up to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of competing imports.
vi.       The project is suitable as a basis for an IDA Credit to Senegal
An an amount of $2.0 million, or about 80% of the estimated project cost.
The Credit would finance all foreign exchange costs and about 58% of the
local currency costs.



I. INTRODUCTION
The Request
1.01      Following visits by a Unesco project identification mission in
May, 1969, and by an IBRD/Unesco reconnaissance mission in December, 1969,
a Unesco project preparation mission assisted the government in February,
1970, to prepare an education project. An appraisal mission, consisting
of Messrs. M. Cherniavsky (economist), K. Seiler (technical educator), F.
Gamble (general educator - consultant), M. Girard (FAO - fisheries educa-
tor), B. Hubert (architect - consultant) and A. Voisin (FAO - agricultural
educator) visited Senegal in September/October, 1970, to appraise the pro-
posed project. Mr. K. Seiler visited Senegal again in March 1971 to ap-
praise a modification requested by the government in February 1971.
1.02      The project originally included nine lower secondary schools and
related teacher training, which were intended to be part of a program for
reform and reorganization of Senegal's genera)l education system. The ap-
praisal mission found that the reform program was still under discussion
and its scope had not been agreed. The secondary education and teacher
training items were therefore deferred. The proposed project consists of:
(a)  buildings and equipment for a post-secondary technology
institute;
(b)  equipment for and rehabilitation of two existing technic-
al schools and one agricultural school at the upper second-
ary level;
(c)  equipment for a reoriented Merchant Marine School follow-
ing completion of an acceptable organization study.
The total project cost is estimated at US$2.5 million for which IDA financ-
ing of $2.0 million is recommended.
Socio-economic Background
1.03      The population of Senegal is about 3.8 million and is growing at
an average rate of 2.2% per annum. Dakar, the capital, has a population of
about 570,000. French is the language of instruction in school. The liter-
acy rate for the 14 plus age group is about 10%. Very little written mater-
ial exists in the African vernacular languages.
1.04      Per capita GDP amounted to US$ 199 in 1969.  While this is well
above average for countries south of the Sahara, the growth of it has not
kept pace with population growth in the last decade. Some 90% of the total
labor force is engaged in the traditional sector of the economy (chiefly
agriculture) but the average direct contribution of this sector is only
about one-third of GDP. Only about 15% of the total area of Senegal is
cultivated, the predominant crop being groundnuts, which accounts for



-2-
one-third of agricultural income and three-quarters of the country's export
earnings. Fish resources in waters off Senegal are substantial and production
and exports in this sector have been increasing steadily.
1.05      Industry - including groundnut processing - constitutes about 15%
of GDP, a higher percentage than in most other West African countries.  This
relatively high rate of industrialization is due to the central position
Senegal had in former Frencih West Africa.  Industry relies heavily on ex-
patriate management and skills; as many as half the small industrial "fam-
ily" enterprises (employing 10-20 people) are under expatriate owner-
ship while 90% of those businesses employing more than 20 workers are for-
eign-owned. Because of the high costs of expatriate manpower, industrial
investment has been capital-intensive and employment in this sector grew
by only 3.5% annually between 1959 and 1968 reaching 18,000 in 1968. The
reduced importance of Dakar as an administrative and economic center has
resulted in virtual stagnation of salaried employment since independence.
Overall modern sector employment fell from 135,000 in 1960 to 125,000 in
1968; of this total about half is employed by the private sector, one-third
by central government and local administration and one-fifth by public en-
terprises.
The Education and Training System (see Appendix I)
1.06      The Ministry of National Education administers primary and general
secondary schools; technical education and vocational training is under the
Ministry of Technical Education. Primary education of six years duration
begins at age six, seven, or eight depending on when a child is able to
gain admission. The secondary level comprises a four-year lower cycle and
a three-year upper cycle. Higher education of two to six years duration
is given at the University of Dakar and its affiliated institutions. Instruc-
tion at all levels is in French. Public education is free and competition to
enter school is intense. This, and a generally well-qualified teaching force
contribute to a low dropout rate; over 80% of first year pupils reach the
last year of primary school. On average, one pupil in six is a repeater.
About 13% of primary and 21% of secondary pupils are enrolled in private
schools subsidized by the government. Enrollment at both levels more than
doubled between 1960 and 1968; primary enrollments represented about 43% of
the 6-11 age group and secondary enrollment about 8% of the 12-18 age group
in 1968.  Compared with other countries of francophone Africa, these ratios
are below the average at primary level, but above the average at secondary
level; in Cameroon, for example, the comparable ratios are 82% and 6%.
1.07      In the Senegalese school system, which is patterned on the French,
the elite secondary establishment is the lycee which offers a full seven-
year course. Entry to lycees is restricted to those who have completed pri-
mary school by the age of 13, penalizing repeaters and late starters.  Only
about one-third of baccalaureats are taken in science and/or technical sub-
jects despite the over-production in arts subjects relative to Senegal's
needs.



-3-
1.08      While all primary teachers are Senegalese, three-fourths of the
secondary level teachers are expatriates. Because the French government
subsidizes the expatriate teachers, they cost the Senegalese government
$450 per month which is about the average salary of the most highly quali-
fied local teachers. Replacement by Senegalese at the higher levels is
likely to be slow in view of high teacher training costs.
1.09      The present system is more geared to the needs of an elite than
to the majority of students who need to find manual work. There is urgent
need for reform and for making the system more relevant to the country's
economic and social conditions while keeping enrollments and costs under
control.
Educational Plannigy
1.10      A planning and statistics section has been established in the
Ministry of Education, but educational planning is hampered by the division
of responsibility betwe'en two ministries. Most planning is undertaken by
inter-ministerial commissions appointed to study a particular aspect of
education. Concluding that the present education and training system is
not relevant to Senegal's economic and social needs, a 1970 planning com-
mission recommended: (a) the establishment of a standard age of entry
into primary school, and (b) a reformed lower secondary course common to
all, which would be administered by the Ministry of National Education, and
wlhich would include an initiation to vocational subjects. These recommenda-
tions are in conformity with present thinking in a growing number of both
developing and developed countries but an alternative scheme in which lower
secondary education would be divided between two separate ministries was also
put forward. It is understood that discussions on these alternatives are in
their final phase and the details of a comprehensive reform and reorganiza-
tion of secondary education are likely to be announced soon.
The Financing of Education
1.11      Total expenditures on education in 1968/69 were about CFAF 11.6
billion, divided roughly as follows:
CFAF Million (rounded)
Recurrent expenditures by Central Government             7,000
Technical assistance (mainly teachers from France)    4,000
Private recurrent expenditures                             350
Capital expenditures by Central Government
(including foreign aid)                                  270
Total                   11,620



-4-
The figures for total education expenditures in 1969/70 are similar, in-
dicating that expenditures are at present equivalent to about US$10.9 per
capita and 5.7% of the GNP. This proportion, high for a developing coun-
try, in fact reflects the exceptionally large and high-cost support which
Senegal receives from France. If the additional cost of expatriate over
Senegalese personnel is discounted, education expenditures as a proportion
of GDP would be about 4.7%, while if technical assistance and external aid
are excluded altogether, the proportion falls to about 3.6%. The latter is
a fairly low percentage of domestic resources to be allocated to the educa-
tion system.
1.12      The breakdown of central government education expenditures by
level, based on the estimates for 1969/70, is given in Annex 1. Primary
and secondary education, and teacher training, absorb about 75% of the
government's education expenditures. An adequate proportion of the educa-
tion budget (about 20%) is allocated for technical and vocational training,
although the number taking technical subjects at the higher levels is rather
low (para. 1.07). The government plans to strictly control the expansion of
the education system; primary school enrollments are to rise by only 3% p.a.
(allowing some 45% of the primary age group to be enrolled by 1980) while
only 20% of primary school leavers would be permitted access to public sec-
ondary education. Including the additional recurrent costs of the proposed
IDA project, central government education expenditures would rise to CFAF
8.5 billion by 1976, representing an average annual increase over the pe-
riod 1969/70 - 1975/76 of 3.2%. As the total central government budget is
expected to increase by 2.5% to 3.0% p.a. over the same period, a slight in-
crease in the proportion allocated for education would be required in order
to finance the limited expansion of the system. This should be feasible in
view of the present fairly low percentage of GDP devoted to education and
the success the government has already had in controlling the rate of
increase of primary school enrollments.
External Aid
1.13      The above projections assume that France continues, as is likely,
its provision of teachers to Senegal, at the level of nearly CFAF 4.0 bil-
lion annually. In addition to French technical assistance (which accounts
for more than 90% of the total, and is essentially for secondary and higher
education), Canada provides about 90 secondary teachers and about 50 fellow-
ships. Most capital expenditures on education are externally financed, main-
ly in the form of grants and soft loans from the French FAC and the European
Economic Communities' FED. FAC is financing the construction of two regional
teacher training schools at Bambey and St. Louis at a cost of CFAF 300 mil-
lion. Assistance from the Canadian International Development Association
(CIDA) includes the construction of four lower secondary schools. Very lit-
tle external capital assistance has been channelled into technical schools.



-5-
II. MANPOWER NEEDS
Industry
2.01      During the 1960's, Senegal's industrial sector expanded by an
average rate of 5.5% annually. In view of the small domestic market and
the limited scope for further import substitution, the future expansion of
the industrial sector depends largely on the development of exports. Se-
negal's industrial sector enjoys certain advantages such as a developed
infrastructure, ready access to foreign capital and know-how, preferential
treatment in EEC markets and a work force with proven aptitude for indus-
trial labor. These could help in the establishment of export industries,
provided that the present high cost levels in industry are reduced.
2.02      The high proportion of middle level and managerial positions in
industry occupied by expatriates weakens Senegal's competitive position
in overseas markets. Expatriates occupy over three quarters of these posi-
tions out of a total of about 2,000. To attract these expatriates, Senegal
has to offer almost double what they would earn in Europe; the expatriates
collectively account for 31% of the wage and salary bill in Senegalese
industry, while representing only 4% of those employed. Replacement of
expatriates at managerial level by the Senegalese is slow; it is probable
that even by 1980 as much as 75% of managerial staff will still be high-
salaried expatriates.
2.03      It is at the middle level that industry could rapidly effect
economies in its salary bill if adequately trained Senegalese were available
to replace departing expatriates and to occupy new vacancies as industry
expands. The government, therefore, intends to replace all expatriates
occupying middle level positions in industry and commerce by 1980. It also
wishes to develop appropriate senior technician training to staff its own
services, and to upgrade the existing upper secondary public works school to
the post-secondary level so that adequately trained Senegalese civil engineer-
ing technicians would be available. Industry generally concurs with these
objectives and assisted in establishing a post-secondary technician training
program six years ago. Individual enterprises normally sponsor students and
assure them of employment upon graduation.
2.04      Since its inception, this post-secondary program has been tempo-
rarily located in university and lycee buildings designed and used for other
purposes. As a result, the quality of training has been uneven, depending
on the availability of qualified part-time instructors and of appropriate
instructional equipment and teaching accomodations. The government, there-
fore, requested the Association to assist in financing a separate institution
which would be equipped for practical training and staffed by full-time in-
structors teaching courses formally recognized by the university and closely
related to the needs of industry. Such a scheme will enable Senegalese to
receive training comparable to what expatriates occupying middle-level posi-



-6-
tions in industry have received abroad. The construction of new facilities
will not only assure a qualitative improvement in post-secondary training,
but will also permit a more flexible organization of the teaching program
and expansion of enrollment beyond its present ceiling of 175 to 565, to
be achieved in conformity with industry's requirements.
2.05      With the exception of those taking courses in business adminis-
tration, most of those entering the new Technology Institute will have
graduated from one of Senegal's two technical lycees, which are supposed
to provide basic training in manual operations to both students continuing
their studies and those entering the labor market. This is at present
impossible, because the two lycees are short of equipment and much of the
equipment in use is obsolete. The proposed IDA project would provide new
equipment to make possible an immediate improvement in the quality of
lycee training and meet the need for technicians appropriately qualified
for employment or for higher studies.
Agriculture
2.06      The rural population of Senegal amounts to some 2.8 million
(500,000 farming families). Although about half are directly employed in
agriculture, the largest economic sector, local production of many foods
(including cereals) is insufficient to cover needs and in 1968 imports of
foodstuffs (CFAF 16 billion) were equivalent to 44% of the country's total
export earnings. Increased agricultural production to reduce this need for
imported food and the excessive dependence on a single export crop, ground-
nuts, is essential, but the low technical and agricultural knowledge of the
rural population militates against change. Because the majority of farmers
are illiterate, verbal presentation and demonstration are the sole means of
transmitting information regarding techniques to improve productivity. Pro-
gress has been slow as the extension service is badly coordinated and most
technicians have been poorly trained.
2.07      Agricultural technician training at the junior level is at present
provided in two schools, one in Louga and the other in Ziguinchor, each with
a capacity for 120 students; both are uneconomically small, resulting in
high recurrent costs of $900 per pupil/year. Neither school has operated to
capacity because the government cannot guarantee employment for that number,
as budgetary constraints preclude a rapid expansion of the extension services.
2.08      The government has agreed that pre-service technician training
would be discontinued at Louga within the next three years. The facilities
at Louga probably will be used for in-service training of extension workers
or for farmer training programs.  Consequently, junior agricultural train-
ing would be concentrated at Ziguinchor, located in the rich Casamance Dis-
trict in the south. With the more efficient utilization of teachers and
instructional facilities made possible by this arrangement, the government
will be able to reduce training costs per pupil/year to a reasonable level.
It has already taken an important step in the direction of improving tech-



-7-
nician training by raising the level of recruitment from grade 7 to grade
11 and, as a complement to this reform, sufficient farm tools and equipment
must be provided so that the Ziguinchor school can conduct a training
program with the appropriate practical orientation. The IDA project would
help finance these needs.
Fishing
2.09      Output from Senegal's important fish resources has increased by
10% per year from 1964-1968, and by 20% during 1968/69, to reach 185,000
tons with a value of CFAF 6.8 billion. Fish are not only a valuable element
in the Senegalese diet but also account for a growing proportion of exports
(7.5% in 1968).
2.10      The industrial fishing fleet based in Dakar consists of about 125
vessels (including 25 under Senegalese ownership) and is expected to stabi-
lize at about 140 vessels after delivery of Senegalese vessels under order.
All captains are expatriate as well as most of the second officers and tech-
nical crew. It is estimated that some 225 Senegalese deckhands could be
trained to fill officers' and mechanics' positions over the period 1972-80,
which would make possible a gradual phasing out of expatriates. The Sene-
galese deckhand, although often illiterate and untrained, has a natural
aptitude for sea-faring and could be successfully upgraded through a prac-
tically-oriented, in-service training program.
2.11      Such training could be provided at the Merchant Marine School
in Dakar if it were properly equipped and organized. This school is at
present training small numbers of primary school leavers as deckhands, but
the program has been unsuccessful because the curriculum is unduly academic
and favors selection of urban primary school leavers with no interest in
maritime careers. Only about 60 students have graduated from the school
in the past four years and hardly any remain at sea. Moreover, since un-
trained deckhands, adequate for the job, are readily available, this type
of training is of low priority. The government has recognized the weakness
of this program and proposes to establish in its place upgrading courses
for experienced deckhands who show promise as officers or mechanics. It
therefore requested the Association, as part of this project, to finance a
study to determine (a) the necessary reorganizational needs; (b) the curri-
culum, teachers, and instructional equipment required for a practically-
oriented fisheries training program; and (c) the financial implications.
Financing of the instructional equipment would also be included within this
project, contingent upon the satisfactory completion of the above study.
Summary
2.12      Along with the reform of general education, which is in the final
stages of planning (para. 1.10), Senegal requires assistance to (a) rehabili-
tate existing training facilities for skilled technical manpower for indus-



- 8 -
try, agriculture and fishing, and (b) to provide the expanded facilities
needed to train upper-level technical staff. IDA support for these types
of training would have a significant impact in supplying well-qualified
manpower to the Senegalese economy.
III.  ThtE PROJECT
General
3.01      The proposed project, at an estimiated cost of $2.5 million, would
comprise:
(a) construction and equipmnent for a new Technology Institute,
with an enrollment capacity of 565;
(b)  equipment for an existing upper secondary technical school
with an enrollmnent of 800 and for a Merchant Marine Train-
ing School, after an acceptable reorganization study;
(c) construction and equipment for an existing upper secondary
school with an enrollment of 300 and for one agricultural
school with a capacity for 120 students.
The Technology Institute will be under the authority of the Ministry of
National Education; the other project items are under the Ministry of Tech-
nical Education.
The Technology Institute
3.02      The project would finance buildings and equipment for a new Tech-
nology Institute to be located on the University of Dakar campus. The
Institute would provide two-year, sub-professional training courses in mech-
anical and electrical engineering, civil engineering, industrial chemistry
and food technology, and business studies. (Annex 2). Most students would
also attend a 12-week course in their speciality, organized for groups of
60 during the first year after their graduation. The Institute would also
offer a one-year preparatory course for promising lycee students who are not
holders of the brevet or baccalaureat, which will be the normal entry require-
ment. The Institute would have a capacity for 565 students, with a maximum
annual output of about 210 (against 75 at present), to be attained by 1980
in conformity with the private and public sector's demand for technicians
and administrators.
3.03      Between 120 to 140 of the students graduating from the Institute
each year are expected to be employed by industrial and commercial enter-
prises in Senegal. In addition, the government sector - in particular, the
Ministries of Public Works, Rural Development, and Commerce and Industry -



-9 -
plans to recruit between 30 to 50 graduates from the Technology Institute
each year. Other graduates of the Institute - on average about 40 a year -
are expected to pursue higher studies at the University of Dakar or to be
trained as technical teachers and instructors in a one-year course at the
Secondary Teacher Training Institute.
3.04      About 250 students will enter the Techaology Institute each year;
an adequate supply is assured from Senegal's lycees, in wlhich about 7,000
upper cycle students are enrolled. Boarding facilities for students from
outside Dakar are expected to be financed by the French FAC. At present,
students enrolled in l:he post-secondary training programs are sponsored,
and then employed, by specific industries. As the Institute expands, this
practice may become less formal, but the close link with industry and com-
merce will be assured by a joint committee of institute and employers'
representatives, who will review enrollments, training requirements and the
organization of the post-graduation course. The Institute will also continue
its practice of tracing the employment record of each of its graduates over
at least a three-year period. These arrangements for cooperation with
industry were confirmed during the negotiations.
3.05      The curricula for the Technology Institute courses need to be
better defined and the weekly timetable better organized to ensure economic
utilization of the Institute's facilities. During negotiations, the govern-
ment provided an assurance that the curricula would be suitably revised and
submitted to the Association for review and that insofar as the course in
Industrial Chemistry and Food Technology is concerned, a detailed plan would
also be provided concerning enrollments by specialty and the demand for
technicians in this sector. Agreement by the Association on the curricula
and on the proposals for the course in Industrial Chemistry and Food Tech-
nology would be a condition of disbursement for the Technology Institute
project item.
The Technical Lycees
3.06      The Lycee Delafosse at Dakar and the Lycee Peytavin in St. Louis
are the only suitable institutions in Senegal which can provide upper second-
ary level technician training with a practical bias. Curricula for the indus-
trial brevet and baccalaureat courses allocate respectively 63% and 47% of
the timetable to practical work and are satisfactory. But equipment is
obsolete. The project would help finance equipment for improved mechanical
engineering courses at both schools; at the Lycee Peytavin five new classrooms
would be constructed to replace those in bad condition.
3.07      At present, the two technical lycees are not operating at capac-
ity since recruitment at the lower secondary level was discontinued some
years ago. A full four-year lower secondary course is likely to be rein-
troduced into the two lycees in the future, permitting full utilization of
their combined capacity of 3,200 students. During negotiations, the gov-



- 10 -
ernment provided an assurance that 800 places at the Lycee Delafosse and
300 places at the Lycee Peytavin would be reserved for the upper secondary
cycle.  This will ensure satisfactory utilization of the equipment financed
under the project.
The Agricultural School
3.08      The principal items financed by the project for the agricultural
school at Zinguinchor would be a general science laboratory, necessary farm
tools and instructional equipment, and a staff house.
3.09      An adequate supply of holders of the BEPC (lower secondary certi-
ficate) for entry into the new, two-year course is assured. No general
education would be given; 40% of the students' time would be spent on the
150 ha. school farm and in the workshops. The other 60% would be spent in
classroom and laboratory study of agricultural subjects.
The Merchant Marine School
3.10      The credit would include $20,000 for three man-months of technical
assistance and $230,000 to finance equipment for a new program at the Mer-
chant Marine School in Dakar for upgrading deckhands to positions as officers
and mechanics. The technical assistance would be for a fisheries training
expert, in collaboration with local personnel, to make a study of the Mer-
chant Marine School and prepare curricula, courses of study, equipment lists
and determine entrance requirements. The study should also establish an out-
put level for anticipated expansion of the fishing industry. Disbursement of
the $230,000 to finance equipment would be conditional on the Government of
Senegal adopting a training program at the Merchant Marine School acceptable
to the Association.
Teacher Supply
3.11      Most of the teachers at the project institutions are expected to
be provided under French technical assistance programs. The Technology
Institute will require 40 full-time equivalent teachers at capacity; the
upper secondary cycle at the two technical lycees about 60 teachers and the
school at Ziguinchor about 10. Requirements at the reorganized Merchant
Marine School would probably be between four and six. It should be possible
to meet these needs without difficulty since at the present time the two
lycees have 185 teachers (for all levels) while 37 part-time instructors
are available for the post-secondary technician training programs. Most of
the above teachers are French; larger numbers of qualified Senegalese should
be available in future from among graduates of the Technology Institute
(para. 3.03). The Government has provided an assurance that it would give
priority to providing teachers for the project institutions within its
overall staffing program.



Cost of the Project
3.12      The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the various
parts of the project are summarized below:
C.F.A. Francs (Millions)       US$ (Millions)       % of
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Total
Civil Works, Furni-
ture and Equipment
1. Post Secondary
Technical              183      147    330       0.66    0.53    1.19   56%
2. Upper Secondary
Technical               19       67     86       0.07    0.24    0.31   15%
3. Upper Secondary
Agricultural             14      11     25       0.05    0.04    0.09    4%
4. Fisheries
Training                 6       58     64       0.02    0.21    0.23   11%
Services
1. Project
Administration          39       17     56       0.14    0.06    0.20    9%
2. Professional
Services (includ-       23        8     31       0.08    0.03    0.11    5%
ing fisheries
training study)
Sub-total               284      308    592       1.02    1.11    2.13  100%
Contingencies
Physical (8%)            22       28      50      0.08    0.10    0.18       -
Price (9%)               28       25     53       0.10    0.09    0.19    -
TOTAL PROJECT COST      334      361    695       1.20    1.30    2.50    -



- 12 _
3.13      A breakdown of the estimated costs by various types of expenditures
is as follows:
C.F.A. Francs (Millions)       US$ (Millions)        % of
Local   Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign Total   Total
1. CONSTRUCTION
Academic & Communal
Facilities               162       42      204   0.58    0.15   0.73         347
Staff Rousing               3        -         3   0.01        -   0.01        1%
Site Development           26       14        40   0.10    0.05   0.15         7%
Project
Administration            39       17        56   0.14    0.06   0.20         9%
Professional
Services (including       22        8        30   0.08    0.03   0.11         5%
Fisheries training
Study)
Sub-total 1         252       81       333   0.91    0.29   1.20        56%
2. FURNITURE                7        6        13   0.03    0.02   0.05         3
3. EQUIPMENT               25      221      246   0.08    0.80   0.88         41%
Sub-total 2         284      308       592   1.02    1.11   2.13    100%
4. CONTINGENCIES           50       53       103   0.18    0.19   0.37        17%
Project Total        334     361       695   1.20    1.30   2.50         -
3.14      In recent years, local construction costs have increased by an
average of 4% annually and imported goods and services used in construction
by 3% annually. These trends are expected to continue and are the basis
for the price contingency allowances in Annex 3.  In addition, an allowance
of 12% of site development costs and 10% of building, furniture and equip-
ment costs has been provided to meet costs for physical increases unfore-
seen at this time. The overall provision for contingencies would amount to
17% of the total costs without contingencies, 8% representing physical
increases and unforeseen events and 9% price increases.
3.15      The foreign exchange component of about US$1.3 million equivalent,
representing about 52% of the total project cost, has been calculated as
follows: (i) site development, 32%; (ii) building construction, 21%; (iii)
project administration and professional services, 29%; (iv) furniture, 50%;



- 13 -
(v) equipment, 90%. An IDA credit of US$2.0 million equivalent would cover
about 80% of the estimated project cost of US$2.5 million. US$1.3 million
(65% of the credit) would finance all foreign exchange expenditures and
US$0.70 million (35% of the credit) would finance 58% of the local currency
costs.
3.16      Estimated unit costs per student place of academic and communal
facilities at the technology institute, excluding professional fees and
contingencies, are as follows:
Unit Costs (US$)
Site          Build-   Furni-    Equip-
Cost Category      Development       ing       ture      ment      Total
Post Secondaty
Technical          220           1,100       73       707       2,100
The total unit cost compares favorably with the median unit cost of $2,416
for similar Bank financed institutions. The other project items involve
extensions, and cost per student place comparisons are not meaningful.
Recurrent Costs
3.17      The recurrent burden on the Central Government budget of the pre-
sent post-secondary training program, of the two technical lycees and the
school for agricultural technicians at Ziguinchor, is estimated at CFAF 245
million in 1969/70, equivalent to 3.5% of total Central Government recurrent
expenditures on education. At capacity the recurrent charges on the Central
Government of these four institutions, plus the reorganized Merchant Marine
School, are expected to increase to about CFAF 410 million, excluding the
contribution of French technical assistance. These estimates have been
included in the projections of overall Central Government education expend-
itures (para. 1.12), which are considered feasible.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Project Implementation Unit
4.01      A project implementation unit would be established within the Min-
istry of Public Works for the overall management of the project, coordination
with the Ministries involved in its implementation and liaison with the
Association. The unit, under the direction of the Director of Public Works
would include a full-time architect, and a full-time accountant. Both would
be selected in consultation with the Association and appointed to the project
unit as a condition of effectiveness of the Credit. The project unit would
be provided with adequate facilities and supporting staff to enable it to
function effectively. Teachers in Dakar would assist in the preparation of
equipment lists and advise the Unit on procurement. The credit would meet
the salaries of the architect and accountant and the operational expenditures
of the unit, estimated at $200,000 over the period of implementation.



- 14 -
Professional Services
4.02      For the planning and supervision of construction of project in-
stitutions, the services of both the Ministry of Public Works and consult-
ing firms would be required. Consulting firms acceptable to the Association
would be employed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
Procurement
4.03      All contracts for the supply of furniture, equipment and construc-
tion would be awarded in accordance with the Association's guidelines for
international competitive bidding and would be based on contract documents
approved by the Association. Domestic manufacturers of furniture would be
accorded a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duty
applicable to competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. prices, whichever is
lower. Detailed furniture and equipment lists would be prepared during the
design stages of project implementation and would be reviewed by the Asso-
ciation prior to procurement. Items would be grouped to the extent practical
to form sizeable bid packages to permit bulk procurement.
4.04      The proposed project is within the capacity of the Senegalese
building industry to implement (most contractors are operating at half
capacity). Civil works contractors would be pre-qualified.
Sites
4.05      Sufficient land is available for the Technology Institute on the
campus of the University of Dakar and would be provided without cost to the
project.  The other project items require no additional land.
Construction Period
4.06      Construction is expected to be completed in about 3-1/4 years
after the signing of the Credit. The implementation period would be spread
over 4-1/2 years (Annex 4).
Disbursements
4.07      The Association would disburse:  (i) the c.i.f. cost of directly
imported goods; (ii) the operational costs of the Project Unit (including
the salaries of the project architect and project accountant) and the cost
of professional services and of the fisheries training expert; and (iii) 64%
of the cost of civil works, professional services and locally procured goods.
This percentage would be adjusted as necessary to disburse US$2.0 million
equivalent, or about 80% of the actual project cost, whichever is lower.
The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown in Annex 5. Undisbursed
funds would be available for cancellation.



- 15 -
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During the negotiations, agreement has been reached with the
Borrower regarding:
(a)  rationalization of the organization of technician training for
agriculture (para. 2.08);
(b) establishment of a committee composed of representatives of the
Technology Institute, appropriate ministries, and employers
to advise on training requirements (para. 3.04);
(c) priority to be given to the project institutions in their staff-
ing (para. 3.11).
5.02      Agreement by the Association on the Technology Institute's curri-
cula and on the proposals for the Industrial Chemistry and Food Technology
courses would be a condition of disbursement for this project item (para.
3.05). As a condition of disbursement of funds for the Merchant Marine
School, the government would adopt a training program agreeable to the
Association (para. 3.10).
5.03      An additional condition of effectiveness would be the appointment
of an architect and accountant, in consultation with the Association, to
the Project Unit on a full-time basis (para. 4.01).
5.04      The proposed project is suitable as a basis for an IDA Credit
of $2.0 million to Senegal.






APPENDIX I
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
A. BACKGROUND
Administration
1.        The Ministry of National Education administers primary and general
secondary schools; technical education and vocational training is under the
Ministry of Technical Education. Other ministries with educational programs
are: Rural Development; Youth and Sports; Culture and Information. The
only university in the country, at Dakar, is semi-autonomous and relies
heavily on assistance from France.
Structure
2.        The present system comprises:
a)   a 6-year primary course beginning at age 6, 7 or 8,
depending on when the child manages to get a place;
b)   a 4-year lower secondary cycle given in CEG or Lycees,
followed by a 3-year upper secondary cycle for certain
pupils given in the lycees only; and
c)   a tertiary level of university courses.
3.        Promotion is controlled by internal examinations within each
school and, in part, by national examinations between levels. All educa-
tion in the public sector is free.
4.        The system is modelled on that of France with certain modifications
made in an attempt to suit Senegalese conditions, and French is the language
of instruction throughout the system. While this has undoubted advantages
for those pupils who pursue their studies to an advanced level, it has the
unfortunate effect of uprooting that majority who leave at lower levels.
On the other hand, instruction in the vernacular would be difficult in view
of the several dialects of the country, their complex structures, and the
small amount of available written material.
5.        Another serious disadvantage of the system is that entry to high-
er education is as much a matter of chance as of ability as access to lycees,
and hence to universities, is largely dependent on the random age at which
pupils enter primary school. Thus:
(a) Qualified primary school leavers aged 13 (or less) can enter
the much sought-after lycee, which offers a lower secondary
course (including two languages) and upper secondary courses
with several options for the baccalaureat.



APPENDIX 1
Page     2
(b) Primary school leavers 14 or 15 years old can enter a
CEG. Following their BEPC they have an opportunity to
enter a lycee second cycle, but they have much less of
a chance than those pupils already in the lycee.
The Proposed Reform
6.        The principal recommendations of a Reform Commission, established
in 1969, to eliminate the defects of the present system were:
(i) to establish a standard age of entry (7 years) to primary
schools. These schools would admit 45% of this age group
by 1980.
(ii) to select pupils for secondary education at the end of
their 5th year of primary education. Eighty percent of
the students would leave the formal education system and
would receive, to the extent possible, further training.
(iii) To give the 20% selected for secondary education a
'terminal' year in the primary schools, following which
they would enter the lower secondary schools.
(iv) To establish a standard curriculum for all lower secondary
students. It would be based on French, mathematics, and
English, and include technological initiation.
(v) To select for upper secondary education on the basis of
academic record and performance; those students who had
followed their lower secondary course in the lycees would
no longer be in a privileged position.
7.        These recommendations are not expected to be followed in their
entirety. A variation which would divide responsibility for secondary
education between two Ministries (National Education and Technical Educa-
tion) is at present under consideration. A decision on the scope of the
reform and reorganization of the education system is expected soon.
B. GENERAL EDUCATION AND TEACHER TRAINING
Primary Education (Grades 1-6)
8.        The basic data for 1968/69 were as follows:



APPENDIX I
Page     3
Student/
teacher    % of
Schools    Classes    Enrollment    Teachers  ratio         girls
Public       1,126      4,638       223,158        4,686      48         37
Private        180        917        32,335          922      35         41
1,306      5,555       255,493        5,608      46         38
9.        Estimates of the school age population vary and no statistics re-
garding the ages of pupils enrolled in the general education system are avail-
able. The total enrollment is some 33% of the 6-13 (inclusive) age group or
about 43% of the 6-11 age group. The total enrollment has increased by an
average of 10% per annum over the last ten years, but the increase over the
last three years has been only 5% per annum. Education is free in the public
schools and competition to enter the schools is intense. Dropout and repe-
tition rates are low except in the last primary class, where more than a
third of the pupils are repeaters.
10.       Physical standards vary considerably from the new schools being
constructed with French aid to poorly maintained schools in adapted and un-
suitable premises. No inventory of facilities is available. Seventy per-
cent of the teaching force are qualified, and over 80% are men. Subjects
taught in all grades include French reading and writing, (on which very
heavy stress is laid) arithmetic, social studies, physical exercise and
music.
11.       In 1968 the ratio between first year intake into general secon-
dary schools and last primary year enrollment was 32%, or 23% if the intake
into private secondary schools is excluded.
General Secondary Education (Grades 7-10 and 11-13)
12.       The basic data for 1968/69 were as follows:
Grades 7-10               Grades 11-13                  Student/
Enroll-                  Enroll-  Total   teacher
Schools Classes  ment   Schools Classes  ment   teachers  ratio
Public
CEG       61      413   16,603      -        -      -       560         30
Public
lycees      14      322   12,431   (14)       144   4,370    605          28
Private     54      257    8,241   ( 5)        28      583    403         22
Total      129      992   37,275   (19)       172   4,953  1,568          27



APPENDIX 1
Page     4
13.       Enrollment in lower secondary education increased by 13.6% annu-
ally during the period 1962/63 - 1968/69; for upper secondary alone this In-
crease was 17.4%.  Girls account for about a quarter of the total enrolltnent
at both levels. Lower secondary enrollrnents amount to about 11% of the
estimated 12-15 age group, and upper secondary 2% of thie 16-18 age group.
14.       Up to 1968/69 about half the students in the last year of lower
secondary entered upper secondary but it will be difficult to maintain this
ratio without overcrowding at Grade 11. Entry to upper secondary is mainly
determined by the pupils' results in the BEPC; however students already in
the lycees have a considerable advantage and some of them are admitted to
the second cycle even without having passed the BEPC. By contrast, less
than one-fifth of CEG students who had passed the BEPC were admitted to
public secondary education in 1970.
15.       The elite secondary establishment is the lycee which admits into
the first cycle only those students who have completed their primary educa-
tion by the age of 13. Courses become increasingly specialized as the level
increases, and nine different baccalaureat examinations can be taken. In
1968 over 60% of the successful Senegalese baccalaureat candidates took arts
and 33% mathematics and science subjects.  In 1970 there were nearly 6,700
successful BEPC candidates, and over 1,000 successful baccalaureat candi-
dates, of whom 854 were Senegalese.  These numbers have increased rapidly in
recent years; much more rapidly than employment opportunities.
16.       Facilities in the general lycees are normally good, although there
is some overcrowding. By contrast, many CEG function in rented adapted
premises in deplorable conditions. In the CEG some 75% of the teachers are
qualified and in the lycees 90%. About three-fourths of all secondary
teachers are foreigners.
Primary Teacher Training
17.       Fully qualified primary teachers are trained in two programs at
present, the first at Thies in a one year course for baccalaureat holders,
the second at M'Bour in a three year course following the BEPC. The Gov-
ernment intends to regionalize primary teacher training on the M'Bour pat-
tern in institutions which will offer three years general education and
pedagogic training after BEPC. FAC is providing funds for two such insti-
tutions at Bambey and St. Louis, which when completed will graduate some
80 students per year. Assistant primary school teachers are trained in a
one-year course following BEPC at Thies and Dakar. This course will be
discontinued when a sufficient supply of fully qualified teachers is assured.
18.       Total teacher output fluctuates widely, but averages 160 teachers
and assistant teachers per year at present. This is less than half the re-
quirements, estimated on the most conservative basis. Sufficient capital
funds appear to be available from FAC and FED for construction of primary
teacher training institutions. The constraint on supply seems to lie
rather in the capacity of the Government to pay the bursaries for the
teachers in training, and their salaries once they become qualified.



APPENDIX 1
Page     5
Secondary Teacher Training
19.       Secondary teachers train in the Ecole Normale Superieure (ENS) at
Dakar. All the students receive handsome bursaries of 40,000 CFAF per month
and guaranteed posts as teachers. As a result (i) the per pupil costs are
extremely high and (ii) the institution is underutilized, apparently because
the Government's budgetary resources severely limit the number of trainees
and teachers enrolled. While the building was intended for 240 students,
its effective enrollment is only a little over a half this number. It is
essential and urgent that better use be made of this institution if Senegal
is to reduce its heavy dependence on foreign teachers. In its six years of
operation the ENS has produced 234 lower secondary teachers in a two-year
general and pedagogic course following the baccalaureat, much less than the
need. Upper secondary teachers follow their courses in the University
proper and up to the present have received little teacher training in the
ENS.
20.       A proposal has been made to give all general instruction for future
teachers at the University proper, and to reserve the ENS for purely peda-
gogic instruction of one year's duration following the University courses.
(The university courses would be of two years' duration for CEG teachers
and three or four years' duration for upper secondary teachers.) This pro-
posal would reduce the excessive bursary costs per teacher and eliminate
some duplication of work between the University proper and the ENS. Reor-
ganized in this manner, the ENS would be capable of filling Senegal's needs
for qualified secondary teachers for the foreseeable future.
C.  TECHNICAL AND AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING (see page 8)
Secondary Technical Schools
21.       Technical education at the secondary level is given in two tech-
nical lycees and in the Public Works School. The total enrollments in the
school year 1969/70 were 380 at lower secondary and 1,345 at upper secondary
level, compared with a total capacity of about 3,200. The first cycle of-
fers general education with a technical bias and leads to the lower secon-
dary school certificate, but at present enrollments are small as the two
lycees offer only the fourth (last) year of the first cycle. However, the
full first cycle is eexpected to be reintroduced into the two lycees in 1971.
The enrollments in the upper secondary level have increased by 50% over the
past four years; courses last three years and lead to the technical bacca-
laureat or brevet. However, the percentage of students succeeding in either
the technical baccalaureat or technical diploma is small. For example in
1969, 1,153 Senegalese students applied for the baccalaureat examination;
390 of them passed, but only one-quarter in the technical, mathematical or
social science baccalaureats.



APPENDIX 1
Page     6
Technical Teacher Training
22.       There are two teacher training institutions under the Ministry of
Technical Education, one for men, training technical teachers and technical
instructors, and one for women, training home economics teachers and rural
home economists. The men's school has an enrollment of 37; the demand for
these teachers is limited and most are expatriate. The school is located
in unsuitable army buildings and training may be temporarily transferred
to the Lycee Delafosse. The women's school is badly located and in need of
repair. Practice teaching is done in many different locations, spread all
over Dakar. The present enrollment is 44. There are plans to build a new
institute with an enrollment of 65 and attach to it a Home Economics Center
with an enrollment of 200, which would serve as an application school.
Post Secondary Technical Level
23.       Courses at this level are given at the University of Dakar, which
is under the Ministry of National Education. The two-year courses lead to
a higher technical diploma or to a business administration diploma. The
entry requirements are either a relevant baccalaureat, technical diploma or
commerce diploma. In addition a small number of students are admitted with
lower educational qualifications provided they have appropriate industrial
experience; these students must take a year's preparatory course followed
by an examination. There is no age limit. The classes are spread over the
Faculty of Science of the University of Dakar and the lycee Delafosse, while
the administrative departments are in a third location. The preparatory
course has an enrollment of 30 students; the first-year sections 92, and
the 6 second-year sections only 53, too small for economic operation.
Vocational Training
24.       Formal vocational training is given in the technical lycees, the
Industrial Qualification Center, the Arts and Crafts Center and some smaller
establishments, some of them private. The courses lead to 44 different
vocational proficiency certificates, of which 34 are for industry, five for
commerce and five for women's occupations. The courses are being reorganized
and in the future the minimum entry requirement will be grade 2 or 3 of
general lower secondary education, and most courses will last two or three
years. In the non-formaal vocational training system about 50% of the stu-
dents are adults, and 60% of the enrollment is in centers outside Dakar.
About half of the students are women following home economics courses.
Agricultural Education and Training
25.       Formal agricultural training at lower secondary level is given in
four schools. Primary school leavers receive four-year courses in general
agriculture (Louga, Ziguinchor), animal husbandry (St. Louis) and forestry
(Ziguinchor). Each school has an output of about 30 per year, absorbed by
the extension service. Most pupils are boarders and receive bursaries. In-
struction is 40% practical and 60% theoretical. The teachers of agricultural



APPENDIX 1
Page     7
subjects are expatriates; of general subjects, Senegalese.  By 1971, the two
Ziguinchor schools and the school in St. Louis will offer only a two-year
specialized course for BEPC holders. This should improve selection (which
hitherto has begun too early) and also reduce recurrent costs in relation
to output. Pre-service technician training at Louga is to be discontinued
because of its poor location.
26.       At upper secondary level, the Ecole Nationale des Cadres Ruraux
at Bambey trains approximately 30 field technical officers per year in a
four-year general and practical course. The school, financed by FED, is
well built and equipped and is staffed by expatriates. Its output goes
into the extension service. In the future, this school will offer a two-
year specialized course at post-baccalaureat level. At university level,
a six-year course in veterinary medicine was begun two years ago and a
course in agriculture may ultimately be established.
27.       Training for farmers is given in six farmer training centers which
offer courses ranging from 3 weeks to 9 months in duration. About 400 farm-
ers per year receive this useful practical training, but this is insufficient
to have a real impact. The teachers come from abroad, but are training
counterparts to replace them.
28.       The extension service is fragmented and poorly administered.  The
rural population is confused by different and often conflicting advice given
by extension agents working for different organizations and in different
fields. The Prime Minister has recently directed that this question receive
immediate attention with a view to unifying the direction of the extension
service under the Ministry of Rural Development.
Higher Education
29.       The sole institution providing higher education is the University
of Dakar, built to acconmodate some 5,000 students. This has four faculties
- law and economics; medicine, pharmacy and dentistry; science; and arts,
together with various education or research institutes including the ENS.
After student unrest in 1968, enrollment fell; it has begun to increase
again, and in 1969/70 there were 3,000 students enrolled, three times as
many as in 1958/59. Over a half of these students were enrolled in first
year courses. The arts faculty, the largest, had an enrollment of nearly
1,000; the science faculty, the smallest, less than 500. These numbers
reflect the concentration on arts subjects in the general education system.
About half the total enrollment is Senegalese; 30% from other African
countries, with the majority of the remainder French. In addition there
are some 430 Senegalese studying abroad; about half are following courses
in science and engineering.
30.       Dakar University relies heavily on French aid, and 200 of the
teaching staff are paid entirely by the French Ministry of Education.
Overall, about seven-eighthls of University costs are met by France.



SENEGAL - ENROLLMENTS IN TECHNICAL, AGRIC1ULTURAL AND VOCATIONAL TRAININIG  1969/70
Technical      Technical       Techrncal      Formal      Non formal
Lower Second-  Upper Second-  Pbst Second-  Vocationa    Vocational
ary Level      ary Level      ary Level   Trainig 6       Training 2    TOTAL
Pbst-secondary Technical
Courses                                                                 175                                     175
1/
Technical Lycees                          380          1,345                          523                      2,248
Agricultural Technicians
Schools                                  397            158                                                     555
Fisheries School and
Training Centers                                                                      82          63            145
Teacher Training                           50             57                                                     107
Agricultural and Rural
Vocational Centers                                                                               445             45
Other Vocational Centers                                                            2,528        3,068         5,5963/
(Commercial, Industrial,
Home Economics, etc.)
TOTAL                                     827          1,560             175        3,133       3,575          9,271
1/  Includes 157 enrolled at Pablic Works School at Lycee Delafosse.
2/ Formal vocational training is for primary or lower secondary school leavers, as appropriate, and
generally lasts 2-3 years. Non-formal training has less rigid entry requirements, is of shorter
duration and is normally open to adults.
3/  Includes 1,935 enrolled in private vocational centers.
CD
ci4
co R



ANNEX 1
SENEGAL
RECURRENT EXPMNETURES ON EDUCATION 1969/70 (ESTIMATE)
(CFAF Million)
A. RECURRENT EXPENDITURES                               1969/70    Percent
1.  MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION: TOTAL             5,540       78.8
of which:
Primary and secondary schools                   3,957       53.3
Teacher training and pedagogic research           321        4.6
University of Dakar                               338        4.8
Scholarships & subsidies                          737       10.5
Other training and supplies                       218        3.1
Administration                                    169        2.4
2.  MINISTRY OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND
TRAINING: TOTAL                                   1,058       14.9
of which:
Lower and upper secondary schools                 370        5.2
(technical)
Vocational and adult training                     407        5.8
Scholarships and subsidies                        157        2.2
Addministration                                   124        1.8
3.  OTHER ENISTRIES' EXPENDITURE ON
EDUCATION AND TRAINING: TOTAL                       440        6.3
4.  TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURES ON
EDUCATION AND TRMINING (1+2+3)                    7,038      100.0
5.  TOTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURES                     34,850
(net of refunds)
6.  (4) as percent of (5)                                          20.2



ANNEX 2
SENEGAL - TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE
ENROLLMENTS AT CAPACITI
Year 1        Year 2         Total
Preparatory Course                                                  50
Electrical Ehgineering                 48             44            92
M4echanical Engineering                 32            28            60
Civil Engineering                      47             43            90
Industrial Chemistry and
Food Technology                      27             23            50
Business Administration                88             80           168
Rbst Graduate Specialty Courses                                     55
Total Enrollment                                                   565
Teachers Required                                                   40
(full-time equivalent)



SENEGAL.- CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
(US$ 000's)
Srte ~3evelopment        Buildings            Fnrniture             Equipment            Professional         Project
| Site D)evelopment      Buildings            Ftirniture            Equipment             Services        Administration        TOTAL
Local     Foreign  Local        Foreign   Local        Foreign  Local       Foreign  Local      Foreign Local    Foreign
Allowances for
Physical Increases              12%        12%      10%          10%        10%        10%       lo%        10%       _          _        _         _
Allowances for
Price Increases                 13%        10%       12b          8%         87.        7%        8%         7%       6%         6%       6%       6%          -
Total                           25%        22%       22%         18%        18%        17%       18%        17%       6%         6%       6%       6%          _
Total Cost Before                                                                            I                                                            I
Contingencies                   99        46       584          156         23         24    j             796       77         32      142        58       2,130
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Physical
Contingencies   Increases-   L2             6       59           16          2          2         9         8     i  -                |  _          _
Price
Increases4   13           5        71          12           2         2          7              |5             2    '9            3         187
Total     1  25          11       130          28           4         4         16       136    |  5           2        9         3         373   1
TOTAL PROJECT COST            124         57    |W.19          184         27         28       lOI        932    1 82          34    | 151        61       203w



SENEGAL - PROJECT IMPLEMIENTATION SCHEDULE  1/
(US .1MLLIONS)
Years                      1                        2                         3                         14                        5
IMPLEMENTATION
Quarters         1     2      3     4      5     6     7      8     9    10    11       12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19   20
CIVIL NORKS                   US$ Millions
Technology Institute              0.75           :     :::   #**   ***   ***   ++$  $$=   xxx   XXX   xxx   xxx   XXX   xxx   vvv   vvv   vvv  v-vv
(Post Secondary Technical)
Lycee Delafosse                    0.03          ::::  :        *  ***   ++$   $$=   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   vvv   'v-v
(Upper Secondary Technical)
Lycee Peytavin                     0.05          :a ** ++$   $$=   xxx   xxx   xxx   vvv   vvv   v-v  v'vv
(Upper Secondary Technical)
Agricultural Technicians School  0.06              : :::   ,**   ***   ***   +-+$   $$=   XXX   xxx   xxx   XXX   wvv   v-v vwv-v  vvv
(Upper Secondary Agricultural)
Total        0.89
EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
Civil Works                        0.89           _     _      _     _      _     -  0.02  0.06  0.10  0.14  0.15  0.12  0.11  0.15          _     _      -   0.04
Furniture                          0.05                                           -      -  0.02  0.02    -        -     -   0.01    -                - _  _    _
Equipment                          0.88           _      _     _     _      -   0. 10 10.15  0.24  0.20  o.oa  0.06  0.03  0.02    -         _     _      _     _
Project Administration             0.20         0.01  0.01  0.01  0,02  0.01  0.01 j0.01  0.01  0.02  0.01  0.01  0OiO  0.01  0.02  0.01  0.01  0.01    _
Professional Services              0.11           -      -   0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01 o 0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01    -   0.01  0.01    -          -      -
Contingencies                      0.37           _     _      _     _      _     _      - _      _       _     _      0.03  0.07  0.08  0.08  0.07  0.04    _
PROJECT EXPENDITURES:   TOTAL:   2.50           0,01  0.01  0,02  0.03  0.S2   0.l2          0.34  0.35  .0.24  0.i3  0.19  0.23  0.26  0.09  0.08  0.05  0.04    -          -
LOCAL    0.50         0.01        -  _   0.01         0.02  0.04  0.07  0.06  0.05  0.05  0.03  0.0505 05  0.02  0.02  0.01  0.01
(807) FOREIGN  2.00           -    0.01  0.02  0.02  0.02  0.10  0.15  0,27  0,29  0.19  0.18  0.16  0.18  0.21  0.07  0.06  0.04  0.03               --
Legend                                                                                              1/  Implementation starts at credit agreement signing.
Selection and appointment of consultants
#  Survey of sites
*  Design and oonstruction document phase
+  Review of design and construction documents
$  Tendering of bids
= Review of bids and award of contracts
X Construction phase
v Guarantee phase



ANNEX 5
SENEGAL - ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ MILLIONS)
Accumulated         Undisbursed
Quarter        Disbursements        Disbursements           Balance
1*                                                        2.00
2                 -                    -                  2.00
3                0.01                 0.01                1.99
4                0.02                 0.03                1.97
5                0.02                 0.05                1.95
6                0.02                 0.07                1.93
7                0.10                 0.17                1.83
8                0.15                 0.32                1.68
9                0.27                 o.59                1.41
10                0.29                 o.88                1.12
11                0.19                 1.07                0.93
12                o.18                 1.25                0.75
13                0.16                 1.41                0.59
14                0.18                 1.59                0.4l
1 5               0.21                 1.80                0.20
16                0.07                 1.87                0.13
17                0.06                 1.93                0.07
18               0.04                  1.97                0.03
19                0.03                 2.00
* Starting from signing of credit agreement



ANNEX 6
0    0  0  OOOOooO                0          ..         ...     .    .    .         .    ..     ...                ...  .       . . ... .0.0
0000      o           -----                           ---       ---                  -----         -              -   -----       -          - 0  0  - - -                          0-
0000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
88 8
852  0          0000.00              0.00~       ~ 00 0 000 0 0 00                              0 00               .o    0.0            o.o.0                 . 0.
688~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
88~~~~~~~~~~~~Z1      8  o.o        o          oooOOOO,0                                      000000I0000
8886  0.       0000000              000~       ~  Z00 0 0 0 0 0 0                            0 0 0                 00 0                 0      0     0     0      0     0          o    0
8808~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
00    0'                                                                                                                                      0               00    000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-2       00       00                0                0       4    00          0    004~~~~~~~~~~~~~7     00           o      <,o- : 0
0  0 0   0          00 000               0 0          0 00 000 00 000                              00      00      000        00          000 00 0                0 0        000          00
-  440.       0          0000000                    0000000000000000I I I                          I     000.              00 0 0                 0     00          I0     0    .00I.0



SENEGAL: STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM 1970
PRIMARY    -       *             LOWER  -               -         UPPER       am  -4           POST SECONDARY - 
SECONDARY                      SECONDARY                          (UNIVERSITY)
VOCATIONAL SCHOOLS
TECHNICAL 
E DU CATI ON
TECHNICAL LYCEES         TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE
, s                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASSISTANT PRIMARY                  __________
TEACHER TRAINING          PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING
LOWER SECONDARY TEACHER TRAlNING
P1RIMARY rTEACHERER
( I..                 TRAINING                                      )Z
UPPER SECONDARY
GENERAL EDUCATION                                                                                                                                     TEACHER TRAINING
&TEACHER TRAINING
l   GENERAL SECODRl__
}          }                    <      {     3     {       3      <     o A R TS  & ~~~~~~              ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCIENCE  
GENERAL          LYCEES E N
M t                                                                           {!                   ;}    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEDICINE>
__ _________    _____________________ __  _______________________   ANIMAL HUSBANDRY                                                      VETERINARY_________________ 
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION                  AGIULUE&  OETR                8       SCHOOL               1  E     T     E    R I N           A     R     YDCIN
AGRICULTURE & FORESTRY
0 EXAMINATION                           SCHOOL ( JUNIOR LEVEL)          (ST LOUIS)
EDUCATION           & BAMBEY SCHOOLS WILL OFFER               I     2       3     4
AEDRuCcl~~ SITONA T ABYSHOELZG )*O                                                       EHH  AGRICULTURAL TECHNICIAN
TWO-YEAR COURSES AT POST-                                               SCHOOL ( SENlOR LEVEL)
BEPC & POST-BACCALAUREAT
LEVELS RESPECTIVELY.
(BAMBEY )
SCHOOL YEAPR/    H2                            APPIE   7                                     12    13             4     1       1        7     18      :
flt GRADE   |        2        4                         I     I             Ii 9 10     1     1     ,            1      5       1       ,     1B     49
AGE                             lb 7     9 10 1     1'2   13     14   15           1'6   1'7  18             19    20      21       22    23    24
NOTE : THE AGE/ GRADE RELATIONSHIP APPLIES ONLY WHEN STUDENTS ENTER PRIMARY SCHOOL AT 6 AND:
PROCEED THROUGH THE SYSTEM WITHOUT REPEATING CLASS.
IBRD-541 1






SENEGAL: GENERAL EDUCATION ENROLLMENTS 1968-1969i
HIGHER &TECHNICAL ENROLLMENTS 1969-1970
GRADE (S)                                                                                                                         ENROLLMENT AS % OF
AGE GROUP
HIGHER EDUCATION
} HIGHER LEVEL
13-18                                                                           -6o0                                                        (11%)
UPPER SECONDARY
13                                                                           __2_e |- 1-------                                       UPPER
13                                              ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~822-  243
12                                                            390 ---     ¾--- 1     99                                               CYCLE
11                                                           1        6181085-: -  27                                                (2'9%)
1904  S  .  575
LOWER SECONDARY
10                                                                       '4                               822 GENERAL EDUCATION                  (84X%)
608  - '¾| §~394,  149                         298 |TECHNICAL & VOCATIONAL  LOWER
EDUCATION
8    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~62   - ¾ &                           263    55CYCLE
-    ¾   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~(12 %)
7                         0(                                                3
PRIMARY
6                                               7,20                                 4'I96
5                                              24012,602
;=;; ,,.     v e  .,,     ;,........   ....................   V<   
4                                            > 23 952   v Y f      *14,038                                                           PRIMARy
3                                              5                                     16,313                                           (43%)
2                     -      . - -             8 $00                                  18,626
1                         -      ~~~~~~~~~~~3I~                           20,789
< eB ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........      20    78     
30,000             20,000             I 0,000              O                10,000             20,000                                       n
BOYS                                          GIRLS
I BRD- 5412






M  A  U  R  I T  A   N                            I  A                                              PNSIAA               rN AGRA                    LBY
SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                                                             f           1,
EDUCATION  PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                  eJAARITANIA
--       intemnotioseI boundories                                              Dogono>'MA                                                                                                                                                    N IGER
Reg.onal nbounldGnies                                                      \IS~E AL'.'.#                                                                                                                                ,/
- Dp,Intol boundones                                                                                                                                                                          7-'    ",j                 '     r-...(
Nateional Cpite I                                                                                                                                                                               (1 POR   A        r, {-h           IGRI
a6          Departmeetol coptIols                                                                                                                                                                    REARAIE                          II
' ~~Rive's 
lIRnetilent Uteotes                         f                                                                                   4MRQII
DolVr       Thhino stitute                                                                                        ul"A            ~                                                                                                      GGI
Technoical lycee                            al-D.g                                                                        -*'MatR0
Fisheries training sch,ool             >      Lot                                                                          
StWLuts *T,chnicai lyee/                                                                                     "                             N       '-1
R  /E                         '  N-                                                                                                                              1
Ziguinchor A  Agric.1twal 11.1 ictons  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~Linguere)
Ziguin lsrAARricuIuooI lechiclons  /  Kebemer      --      i - - -- -. -i
At/antic                                                                            *'~~~~~                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- >-,    ~ ,/ - , 10 N
TivoOaOee0  ~~~~~~~~~~~I                                       r~~~0 
REGION OF                                                  D   I O   U  R B   E- L 
CAP-VE              s"'keMhc
I   Theo0
I           '~~~.  8o~Bmb'ey,    X          J        '
OAKA[TH    E S                               o                   ---"                                                          x  
Ocean                                                                   SOS' 
14'
Moro0   ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Tmbacoundo  sE N E  E                                                        A  L-
O     tO  20   30   R4E0                                             I 090  F60                                                     M    A             
Miles                                   RgOl
19 ID   AO to 4D5 60 V 70  9l)  00
Kilometors 
CAP SKIRNIt
DECEMBER  1970                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD-3236



