CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 253 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Technical and Agricultural Education Project)
BETWEEN THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 18, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 253 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Technical and Agricultural Education Project)
BETWEEN THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 18, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 1971, between the REPUBLIC OF
SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association):
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
*       Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "Project Unit" means the Unit referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this Section, the
amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accorda
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule shall L
amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shali
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be financed
under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿4
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal from
the Credit Account shall be made on account of expenditures (i) in the territories
of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories, (ii) for equipment
or furniture procured under any contract in an amount less than $5,000 equivalent,
(iii) for the construction and equipment of the Technology Institute included in
the Project unless the Borrower and the Association shall have agreed upon revised
curricula therefor or (iv) for Part C of the Project until the study comprising Part
B thereof shall have been completed and the Borrower and the Association shall
have agreed upon the adoption of a new training program as a result thereof.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than goods and services required to operate the Project Unit and
the services of consultants and of the expert required for Part B of the Project)
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured on the basis of international competition under procedures
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be October 1, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June I and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1981 and ending June 1, 2021, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, educational
and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   For the purposes of overall management and coordination in the
carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project
Unit with such responsibilities and powers as are specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement. The architect and the accountant included in the Project Unit shall
be appointed after consultation with the Association and shall be employed
full-time. The Borrower shall provide such Project Unit promptly as needed with
such qualified and experienced supporting staff, facilities and other resources as
shall be required for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.02. In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
a competent and experienced expert in the field of training for the fisheries
*        industry, who shall be acceptable to, and employed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to, the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the procurement of goods
and services for the Project and in planning and supervising the construction works
included in the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultant architects acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In carrying out the construction works included in the Project, the
Borrower shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or rel '
such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.


﻿6
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain the
educational facilities included in the Project, and shall in general operate its
educational system, in accordance with sound administrative, educational and
financial practices and with competent and experienced personnel.
(b)   Pursuant to    paragraph   (a) above, the    Borrower shall, (i) by
July 31, 1974, discontinue at the Louga School for Agricultural Agents pre-service
training of the kind offered at Ziguinchor, (ii) submit to the Association prior
to December 31, 1971, for its approval, revised curricula for use in the Technology
Institute included in the Project and, in respect of courses in industrial chemistry
and food technology, a proposal for enrollments by specialty with a detailed
economic justification therefor and (iii) submit to the Association prior to
June 30, 1972 the report and recommendations, including a new training program
for the Merchant Marine School at Dakar, resulting from the study comprising
Part B of the Project.


﻿7
(c)   In the event the Borrower and the Association fail to agree upon a
revised curricula or the adoption of a new training program as a result of the
proposals submitted pursuant to the above paragraph (b) by June 30, 1972 and
by December 31, 1972, respectively, the Association shall have the right to cancel
the respective amounts of the Credit allocated to the Technology Institute and
to the equipping of the Merchant Marine School, as the case may be.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure that, beginning with the academic
year 1975-1976, at least 800 student-places at the Lycde Delafosse, Dakar, and
at least 300 at the Lyc6e Peytavin, St. Louis, will be reserved for upper-secondary
technical and vocational training.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure (a) that there be maintained an
advisory board comprising representatives of the Technology Institute, of private
industry and commerce and of appropriate ministries, to advise the University of
Dakar on enrollments, training requirements and organization of courses at the
Technology Institute included in the Project, and (b) that such Institute continue
to record the employment records of its graduates for at least three years.
Section 4.05. Within its program for obtaining teachers, the Borrower shall
give priority to the needs for staff of the institutions included in the Project.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably reques
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic


﻿8
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the !aws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at


﻿9
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon; and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the architect and the
accountant in the Project Unit have been selected and employed as provided in
Section 3.01 (b).
Section 8.02. The date September 22, 1971 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministre charge des finances of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.0' of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Finances
Rue Charles Lain6
Bofte Postale 4017
Dakar, Senegal


﻿10
Cable address:
Minifinances
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ L6opold Sedar Senghor
President of the Republic
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Robert S. McNamara
President


﻿*                                11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.   Equipment, Tools and
Furniture
(a)  Technology                 395,000           100% of foreign
Institute                                   expenditures or
85% of local ex-
penditures
(b)  Merchant Marine            210,000           100% of foreign
School                                      expenditures or
85% of local ex-
penditures
(c)   other Project            220,000            100% of foreign
institutions                                expenditures or
85% of local ex-
penditures
1l.   Civil Works
(a)  Technology                475,000            64% of total ex-
Institute                                   penditures
(b)   other Project              95,000           64% of total ex-
institutions                                penditures
III.  Consultants Services            90,000            100% of foreign
expenditures or
90% of local ex-
penditures


﻿12
Amount of the
Credit Allocated               % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
IV.   Fisheries Training                20,000            100% of foreign
Expert                                              expenditures
V.    Operational Costs of             200,000            100% of total ex-
Project Unit Including                              penditures
Salaries of the Project
Architect and the
Accountant
VI.   Unallocated                      295,000
TOTAL         2,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures";
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower, and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; or


﻿13
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount resulting from the
application of any percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount expended net of
all such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of
the Credit will be withdrawn on account of expenditures for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit; and
(b)  if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
*        of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above for Category II, if the estimate of total expenditures under
such Category shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for
reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
1.    The Project, to be carried out under the supervision of the Project Unit,
consists in the construction, equipping and furnishing of educational institutions
and facilities with a view to improving the training of agricultural and industrial
technicians at the upper-secondary level, of industrial technicians and business
administrators at post-secondary level and of officers and technical crew for the
fleet of the fisheries industry, in order to assist the Borrower in meeting its
requirements for such manpower.
2.    The Project includes specifically the following parts:
A.    construction, equipment and furnishing of the following:
Approximate
Total Area
of Construc-
Facility and Location        Project Works and Procurement           tion (M2)
Technology Institute,        New construction to provide
Dakar                        about 565 student places;
equipment and furnishings                  5,750
Delafosse Technical          Rehabilitation, including
School, Dakar                laboratories and workshops,
and equipment and furnishings,
to benefit at least 800 upper-
secondary level students
Peytavin Technical           Reconstruction including five
School, St. Louis            new classrooms and equipment
and furnishings to benefit at
least 300 upper-secondary
level students                               490
School for Agricultural      Construction including general
Agents, Ziguinchor           science laboratory, staff
housing; equipment, tools and
furnishings                                  500


﻿15
B.    conducting a study, within the Ministry of Technical Education and
Vocational Training of the Borrower, of the reorganization of the Merchant Marine
School at Dakar, including the preparation of a training program, of courses of
study and of lists of required equipment and the establishment of entrance
requirements, utilizing about 3 man-months of experts' services; and
C.    equipping the Merchant Marine School at Dakar, after completion of
the study of its reorganization.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts fbr Civil Works
1.    Contractors will be prequalified in accordance with a prequalification
procedure satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Association for its
comments the following:
(a)   list of all contracts for civil works to be awarded in carrying out the
Project, indicating the estimated value of each contract and the forecast timetable
for obtaining it. The contracts will be grouped in such a way as to encourage
international competitive bidding;
(b)   description of the proposed advertising coverage to ensure international
competitive bidding, draft bid notices, prequalification questionnaires and
description of prequalification procedures;
(c)   the   consultant  architect's report and    recommendation    on   the
prequalification data submitted and the proposed selected tender list;
(d)   draft bidding documents including draft contracts. The invitations to
bid for the educational facilities included in the Project will, inter alia, specify
that the bidder will submit offers in respect of each institution or of all of them,
together with related facilities, or any combination thereof, the bids therefor to
be opened simultaneously and the Borrower to have the option of awarding to
one contractor one contract in respect of all the educational institutions and
facilities, or separate contracts in respect of the various educational institutions
and facilities to different contractors in any combination. The Borrower shall make
such additions or deletions in such proposed tender list and such modifications
in such draft bidding documents and draft contracts as the Association shall
reasonably request.
3.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower will, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended
award, and will furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report by the consultant architects on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of said consultant architects.


﻿17
The Association will promptly inform the Borrower if it reasonably determines
that the intended award is inconsistent with the provisions of the Guidelines referred
to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or with the Development Credit Agreement.
4.    Promptly after a contract has been awarded, and before submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in respect thereof,
a certified conformed copy of the contract will be sent to the Association. A
certified conformed copy of any subsequent contract amendment will also be sent
to the Association.
5.    The Borrower will request the Association's concurrence with any proposed
change in a contract involving a price increase of 10% or more of the contract
price or of $10,000 or more equivalent, whichever is less, together with an
explanation of the proposed change.
B.    Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
1.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Association for its approval
the following:
(a)   lists of all items of equipment and furniture required for the Project,
showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price of each item.
Items will be indexed, coded and numbered for identification with the educational
institution in question and the space for which they are required. The items to
I- purchased will be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement as shall be
consistent with sound technical and procurement practices. Insofar as practicable,
contracts for such items will be for not less than $40,000 equivalent. Such contracts
in amounts less than $5,000 equivalent will not be accepted by the Association
for approval or financing out of the proceeds of the Credit. Amendments to such
lists will also be submitted to the Association for approval; and
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
a description of the method to be used for inviting bids on an international basis.
2.    Procurement will be limited to those items of equipment and furniture
specified in the approved lists mentioned in subparagraph B.1 (a) above and
identified in contract documents by the same indices, codes and numbers as
such lists.
3.    For evaluating any competing bids received for imported and for locally
manufactured furniture, for the purposes of comparison, the following method will
be used:


﻿18
(a)   The term  "Local Bid" means a bid offering goods manufactured or
processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association)
in the territories of the Borrower; any bid offering other goods shall be deemed
a Foreign Bid.
(b)   The comparison bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the
following amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid
the comparison bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. price of such goods net of any taxes on their
importation;
(ii)        any such taxes, as generally apply to such goods if
imported   into  the territories of the Borrower by
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified
in (c) (i) above, whichever shall be lower; and
(iii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
4.    If (a) Foreign and Local Bids have been so compared, or (b) a contract
is proposed to be awarded to a bidder other than the lowest evaluated bidder
(taking into account, if applicable, the foregoing paragraph B.3), or (c) a proposed
award involves a difference in price of 10% or more from the original estimate
as shown pursuant to paragraph B.1 (a) above, the Borrower will, after the bids
have been evaluated and before making the award, send to the Association for
its prompt approval, a summary and analysis thereof and a brief justification of
the Borrower's proposal for the award.
5.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and a contract has been awarded
and before submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds in respect of such contract, the following will be sent to the Association
(if not already furnished under paragraph B.4 above):


﻿19
(a)   certificate signed by the Project Director or his deputy that the goods
covered by the contract are in accordance with the quantities and specifications
in the list approved by the Association;
(b)   list of the bids received;
(c)   brief analysis of the bids and justification for the Borrower's decision
in making the award; and
(d)   certified conformed copy of the contract.
A certified conformed copy of any subsequent amendment to any such contract
will also be sent to the Association.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit, under the direction of the Director of Public Works, acting
as the Project Director, will be directly responsible to the Minister of Public Works
for the carrying out and supervision of Parts A and C of the Project, in accordance
with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. The Project Unit will
include an architect and an accountant.
2.    In addition, the Project Unit will be assisted from time to time by specialists
of the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Technical Education and
Vocational Training, the Ministry of Planning and by teachers provided tinder
bilateral assistance programs.
3.    The Project Unit will be responsible, inter alia, specifically for the following:
(a)   coordination and integration of all Project activities with the Ministries
and other agencies of the Borrower;
(b)   arrangements for the selection     of the consultant architects and
establishment of their terms of reference;
(c)   administration of agreements with such consultant architects;
(d)   preparation, with    the  help  of the consultant architects, of a
comprehensive implementation schedule based on the Critical Path Method, Gantt
Chart or other satisfactory method, for setting down the planned timetable of
coordinated activities and responsibilities on which the carrying out of all aspects
of the Project will be based;
(e)   arrangements for the review and approval by appropriate authorities
of the reports, specifications and other material submitted to the Borrower by
the consultant architects;
(f)   advice and assistance to the consultant architects, with the help of
other specialists as needed, as to (i) the educational needs of the institutions
included in the Project and (ii) preparation of (A) lists of all equipment and
furniture required for such educational institutions, (B) specifications and (C)
estimated unit and total prices of each item;
(g)   necessary arrangements for inviting bids and awarding contracts relating
to the Project;


﻿21
(h)   keeping of Project accounts and preparation of interim evaluation and
financial statements;
(i)   preparation for submission through proper channels of applications for
withdrawals from the Credit Account; and
(j)   preparation of quarterly progress reports.


