Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 25650
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
BURKINA FASO
TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2332-BU)
March 31, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Abbreviations and Acronyms
Cutrrency Unit      = CFA Franc (CFAF)
Exchange Rates (October 2002):
US$1.0              = CFAF 670
CFAF 1 million      = US$1,493
SDR1.0              = US$1.323
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFD          Agence Francaise de Developpement/French Development Agency
BOAD         Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement/West African Bank
CAE          Country Assistance Evaluation (prepared by OED)
CI           Cote d'Ivoire
EIB           European Investment Bank
ERR          Economic rate of return
GDP          Gross domestic product
ICB          International competitive bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          Intemational Development Association
MIHU         Ministry of Infrastructure, Housing and Urbanism
MITC         Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Communications
MTC          Ministry of Transport and Communications
OED          Operations Evaluation Department, World Bank
RAN          Regie des Chemins de Fer Abidj an-Niger
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SCFB         Societe des Chemins de Fer du Burkina
SICF         Societe Ivoirienne des Chemins de Fer
SIPF         C6te d'Ivoire Railway Patrimony Corporation
SITARAIL     Concessionaire Operating Abidjan-Ouagadougou Rail System
SLM          Road Maintenance Equipment Company
SME          Small and medium size enterprises
SOPAFER-B    Burkina Railway Patrimony Corporation
SOTRAO       Burkina Urban Transport Company
Fiscal Year
Government: January 1 to December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation        : Mr. Gregory Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department (Acting)  Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation           Mr. Alam Barbu
Task Manager                                   : Mr. Heman Levy



The World Bank
Washington, D C 20433
USA
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 31, 2003
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TIE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      Performance Assessment Report on Burkina Faso: Transport Sector
Adjustment/Investment Project (Credit 2332-BUR)
Attached is the Performance Assessment Report (PAR) for the Burklna Faso Transport Sector
Adjustment/Investment Project, for which a credit in the amount of SDR 49.6 million (US$66 million
equivalent) was approved on February 4, 1992. The project closed on October 31, 2000, three years
and ten months behind schedule. The credit was fully disbursed.
The overall objective of the project was to assist the government in its efforts to rehabilitate
and maintain essential transport infrastructure and to improve sectoral efficiency by strengthening
existmg institutions, adopting sound policy and regulatory measures, and restructurng transport
parastatals.
The project consisted of two main components. The first, an adjustment component ($30
million, solely contnbuted by IDA), aimed to make it possible for the government to take necessary
measures to ensure that (a) road maintenance would be financed at agreed levels, (b) the urban
transport company and the Burkina railway company would be put on a sound operational and
financial footing, and (c) Air Burkina and the airfreight company Naganagani would be successfully
restructured. The second, an investment component ($433 million, including $36 million allocated by
IDA, and cofinancing by 10 multilateral and bilateral agencies), focused on the rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing infrastructure (roads, road transport, railways, and civil aviation).
Performance agreements were selected as the instrument to improve the efficiency of the
transport parastatals. Privatization of these companies was not seen as an immediate objective.
However, a significant increase in the role of the pnvate sector was envisioned for road maintenance
works.
The project was highly complex due to its broad coverage of the sector, the mix of adjustment
and investment components, the large number of cofinanciers, and the poor performance and condition
of physical assets of transport companies owned and operated by the state.
The long implementation delay was a consequence of policy reforms that took more time than
expected as they went much deeper than onginally planned, and delays in cofinanciers' contributions
and disbursements.
The achievement of institutional development objectives went well beyond expectations.
Instead of restructuring transport enterprises and public works operations, there was widespread
privatization throughout the sector. The railways, the airline, road maintenance works and the road
maintenance equipment pool were either concessioned as leases or sold. The result of these
privatizations has been elimination of subsidies, higher efficiency, better service quality, and rapid
development of the private sector contracting industry. Concessioning of the two main airports is in an



2
advanced stage of preparation. The freight airline was liquidated, as it could not become profitable.
The urban transport company also was concessioned, but this operation has not been successful yet.
The program of road improvements was completed, although there were some changes in the
composition of the program. Some roads were paved where a lower standard might have been
justified; these investments generally were decided by cofmanciers. The latest surveys indicate that the
condition of the road network has improved overall. The survey techniques used are expensive,
however, and are not carried out with sufficient frequency. Road maintenance funding was allocated at
the agreed level. As expected at appraisal, the economic returns to the road investments were high, in
the 20-30 percent range, and the railway investments carried out by the private operator were also
expected to have satisfactory returns.
The assessment finds that the project achievements were impressive, especially considering
the difficult country conditions under which the privatizations were carried out. Some of the
achievements, notably those related to international transport, may be in jeopardy as a result of the
disturbances in neighboring Cote d'Ivoire that started in mud-2002.
The assessment rates the project outcome as satisfactory, sustainability as likely, and
institutional development impact as high. It rates Bank performance as highly satisfactory and
borrower performance as highly satisfactory. The outcome and sustainability ratings may be subject
to the direction and extent of the situation in Cote d'Ivoire.
The key lessons from the project are as follows:
>  Prospects for pnvatization of transport services and infrastructure may be better than generally
believed, even in a difficult economic environment. Services with the higher potential to
operate commercially, such as rail, road maintenance works, and air transport, have the best
chance to succeed. Urban transport, especially when there is a tradition of highly subsidized
services, is especially difficult to privatize.
>  Low-income countnes may not have the human and financial resources to mount regulatory
agencies to oversee small enterprises. Burkina's policy of retaining minority ownership may
be a suitable substitute, at least temporanly.
> Once a pnvatization process is launched, the government and cofinanciers should, in parallel,
work to plan and assist in the restructuring and strengthening of central government agencies,
whose role is likely to change after privatization of companies or services under their purview,
and whose best staff are likely to be attracted by the newly privatized companies. The Bank
should seek to allocate its financmg in a way that provides it flexibility to reallocate funding
toward technical assistance should the need arise.
>  Road condition is the appropriate indicator for measuring the outcome of road programs. The
cost, both capital and recurrent, of measuring road condition may be high, and countries
should select measurement techniques and standards compatible with available resources.
Attachment



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes: first,
to ensure the integnty of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the expected
results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination of lessons
drawn from expenence. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending operations In
selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex, those that are
relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have
requested assessments, and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical
approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
(a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED staff
examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing country for
onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the information
provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent
to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both ngor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website.
http //worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed
in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies)
Possible ratings. High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings. High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity
cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to altematives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest,
Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratUngs. Highly Likely, Likely, Unlikely,
Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through. (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project Possible
ratings High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratlngs Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
operation of the project) Possible ratings. Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality
of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings ...................v
Key Staff Responsible ...................v
Preface ..........                                                                vii
1. Background ...................1
2. Objectives and Design ...................1
Objectives .....1,..,..,..                                          ...I
Design ............. ,                                               ,.,.,.,.,.2
3. Implementation ..............3
Sectoral Adjustment ..................................................      3
Failure of Performance Agreements and Move to Privatization .............. .............3
Sector Adjustment and Tranche Release Changes ................................................3
Privatization Approach ...................................................4
Problems with International Road Transport  ,    ,..6
Execution of Road Maintenance Works by Small Contractors .............................6
Road Maintenance Funding ................................... , .7
Investment Component ...................................7
Roads ............................... ... ...       ...        ..7
Railways ............................7
Other Envestments, Studies, and Training .............................8
Donor Coordination               8............  , ..8
4. Ratings.,8
Comparison with ICR Ratngs .11
5. Lessons ......                                                                 11
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ..................                                      13
This report was prepared by Heman Levy (Task Manager). William Hurlbut edited the report.
Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.






v
Principal Ratings
ICR*                         ES*                         PPAR
Outcome                        Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 Sabsfactory
Sustainability                    Likely                       Likely                       Likely
Institutional                   Substantial                 SubstanUal                      High
Development Impact
Bank Performance            Highly Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory          Highly Sabsfactory
Borrower Performance           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory              Highly Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operabonal division of the Bank. The
Evaluabon Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently venfy the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
Project                         Task Manager/Leader          Division Chief!        Country Director
Sector Director
Appraisal                         Bngitta Mitchell           Peter Watson         Katherine Marshall
Completion                          Hedi Larbi            Maryvonne Plessis-         Hasan Tuluy
Fraissard






vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Burkina Faso Transport
Sector Adjustment/Investment Program (Credit 2332-BUR), for which a credit in the amount of SDR
49.6 million (US$66 rmllion equivalent) was approved on February 4, 1992. The project closed on
October 31, 2000, three years and ten months behind schedule. The credit was fully disbursed.
Cofinancing was provided by ten multilateral and bilateral agencies.
The PPAR was prepared by the Operations Evaluations Department (OED) based upon a
review of the President's Report (Report No.P-5609, December 19, 1991), Staff Appraisal Report
(Report No. P-5609-BUR, December 19, 1991), Implementation Completion Report (Report No.
21543, December 21, 2001), transcripts of Board Proceedings, project correspondence files, Bank
documents on other transport projects, and other Bank and non-Bank materials. In June 2002, an OED
mission visited Burkina Faso to discuss the project with relevant government officials, beneficianes,
and representatives of the pnvate sector, labor and trade organizations, and cofinanciers. OED also
discussed the projects with Bank staff in charge of the project at headquarters. The kind cooperation
and assistance of all the people consulted is gratefully acknowledged.
A PPAR of a Bank project in CBte d'Ivoire that supported the C6te d'Ivoire side of the
Abidjan-Ouagadougou railway is being issued separately.
The PPAR agrees with most of the ratings of the ICR, and with OED's assessment of the ICR,
although it upgrades some of the ratings. The PPAR adds value to the ICR by focusing on the various
dimensions of privatization in the transport sector and by elaborating on lessons learned. The
extensive privatization in the transport sector achieved under the project provides nch lessons of
experience and is the main reason for undertaking this PPAR.
Some of the judgments and ratings in this PPAR, especially those related to performance of
international transport services such as the railways, may be affected by the disturbances in CMte
d'Ivoire m 2002.
Following standard procedures, copies of the draft PPAR was sent to the relevant government
officials and agencies concerned as well as cofinanciers for their review and comments. No comments
were received.






1.     Background
1.1   With a per capita income of US$210 (2001), Burkina Faso is one of the least-developed
countnes in the world. Conditions for development are difficult: Burkina is landlocked, has erratic
rainfall, scarce natural resources, high population growth (2.8 percent), and low pnmary school
enrollment (less than 40 percent). Its population of 11 million is about 80 percent rural, and agriculture
is its main source of income and employment.
1.2    Despite adverse conditions, Burkuna's economic growth during the 1980s and 1990s has been
substantially higher than the average Sub-Saharan country. Since the devaluation of the CFA franc in
1994, GDP growth, led by rising cotton production and investments, reached some 5 percent annually
in the mid to late 1990s.
1.3   In the early 1990s, the government launched an economic reform program to respond to the
large expansion in public expenditures and investment in the previous decade. The program focus
regarding privatization had a fiscal objective: to reduce the level of state subsidies to loss-making
public enterpnses. An initial privatization program targeted 44 public enterprises (soon reduced to 41),
including 2 in the transport sector: the road maintenance equipment pool (SML) and the national urban
transport company (R6gie X9). One factor hampering the pnvatization program was Burkina's weak
pnvate sector, especially as entrepreneurs consisted mainly of traders lacking expenence and
knowledge of management methods and standards for their enterprises.'
1.4    Because Burkina is landlocked, transport, especially services that link the country to ocean
ports, is critical for its economy. Rural transport also is vital since 90 percent of the country's labor
force works in agnculture. Weak infrastructure and high input costs (of which transport and logistics
are important components) are considered to be the four major constramts to growth.2 With the main
exception of trucking, most transport services and transport infrastructure maintenance historically had
been done by government companies or agencies.
1.5    The Bank extended to Burkina a first Structural Adjustment Credit in 1991. Its objectives were
to improve public resource management and create incentives for pnvate sector development. The
transport project under review in this PPAR was approved shortly thereafter in the same year. The
Bank subsequently approved two technical assistance projects to support the government's reform
program, the Public Institutional Development Project (approved June 1992) and the Private Sector
Assistance Project (approved March 1993).
2.     Objectives and Design
Objectives
2.1    The overall objective of the project was to assist government efforts to rehabilitate and
maintain essential transport infrastructure and improve sectoral efficiency by strengthening existing
mstitutions, adopting sound policy and regulatory measures, and restructuring transport parastatals.
I I Cited in Project Information Document for Burkina Faso Competitiveness and Enterpnse Development Project (Credit
02800, approved June 8, 2001)
2. PID cited above



2
Design
2.2    To meet the objectives, the project consisted of an adjustment component ($30 million, solely
contnbuted by IDA) and an investment component ($433 million, including $36 million allocated by
IDA, and the remainder by cofinanciers). The adjustment component, to be disbursed in three annual
tranches, was expected to make it possible for the government to take necessary measures to ensure
that road maintenance would be financed at agreed levels; the urban transport company, Regie X9, and
the Burkina railway company would be put on a sound operational and financial footing; and Air
Burkina and the airfreight company Naganagani would be successfully restructured.
2.3    The investment component covered a five-year investment and expenditure program for the
sector, to be cofinanced by 10 other multilateral and bilateral donors. The program's main focus was
the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing infrastructure (roads, road transport, railways, civil
aviation, and transport administration). The program also aimed to help reverse in the road sector a
high ratio (60:40) of new investments to maintenance outlays that prevailed during the 1980s.
2.4    Performance agreements between the government and each of the state-owned transport
enterprises, establishing operating and financial targets to be met by the SOEs, were selected as the
instrument to improve the efficiency of the transport parastatals. Privatization of these companies was
not considered an immediate objective.
2.5    A significant increase in the role of the private sector was envisioned for road maintenance
works. Project documents specifically required that the state-owned enterprises (SOEs) put all periodic
maintenance and an increasing share of road maintenance works up for bids by private contractors.3
This is discussed in the next section.
2.6    The project was highly complex due to its broad coverage of the sector, the mix of adjustment
and investment components, the large number of cofinanciers, and serious questions about the
potential for improvement to a sustainable level of transport parastatals. In this connection, the project
design incorporated two noteworthy features:
o A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), financed from the project's technical assistance, to
coordinate (i) the two ministries directly involved with the project (Equipment and Transport
and Communications) and (ii) documentation and reporting to the various cofinanciers, and to
carry out other related functions.
o An agreed policy alternative of liquidation, rather than restructuring, of the parastatals
Naganagani and Burkina Railways should those companies fail to reach satisfactory operating
and financial performance.
2.7    Preparation of the project was closely coordinated with other donors. However, the
implementation phase did not have a clear timetable or any specific mechanism for donor coordination
other than the role of the PCU. Considering the large number of donors, and the fact that IDA was
expected to directly contribute only 10 percent of the confirmed financing of the project's investment
component (at the time of project approval), lack of discussion of donor coordination is a surprnsing
omission in an otherwise very well prepared appraisal.4 Problems of coordination with donors arose
during implementation regarding road investment priorities, an issue that the appraisal team had
identified as a project risk.
3. MOP, paras. 57 and 58.
4. OED's Country Assistance Evaluation report highlights the problem with donor coordination in Burkina, where 80 percent
of the country's public investment program is donor-funded and the number of donors is large.



3
3.     Implementation
3.1    The project took almost four more years to implement than originally scheduled. The main
reasons were (i) major policy reforms, well beyond ornginal project expectations, that the government
decided during proJect implementation, and (ii) delays in donor financing. Because of the significant
better results that were obtained, implementation delays should not be interpreted as poor project
management but, rather, as the inevitable delays to expand the scope of the project and its reforms,
given the political sensitivity of the reforms and their social impacts.
Sectoral Adjustment
Failure of Perform ance Agreements and Move to Privanzation
3.2    Soon after the start of project implementation, it became apparent that the performance of the
SOEs was not improving. Operational and financial targets in performance agreements (and their
action plans) were not being met. At the same time, the government, with support of the Bank's two
technical assistance projects (para. 1.5), had started experimenting with privatization in other sectors,
notably energy. This opened the door for launching privatization in the transport sector as well,
leading to a radical change in the extent of institutional reformns that the project would seek.
3.3    In retrospect, while performance agreements had strict requirements and were being
extensively used in Africa (and in other continents) to promote better performance of public
enterprises, it may have been optimistic to expect that they would work, without changing the
incentive structure that caused the poor performance in the first place. By the early 1990s, there was
much debate in the Bank about the usefulness of such agreements. However, the first concrete
evidence about its problems came later.5 At the same time, the Burkina government in the early 1990s
was not disposed to consider privatization, especially of strategic sectors such as transport. Therefore,
performance agreements were the most that could be hoped for at that time.
Sector Adjustment and Tranche Release Changes
3.4    Under the adjustment component, conditions for tranche release covered practically the whole
sector, and aimed essentially at ensurng that satisfactory performance agreements or action plans had
been agreed and that targets were being met. Dunng implementation, however, realization that
measures taken were not giving satisfactory results led to a push for privatization. Tranche
disbursement conditions were modified accordingly.
5 M Shirley, Why Performance Contracts for State-Owned Enterprises Haven't Worked," Viewpoint, World Bank, 1998.



4
Table 3.1 Original and Revised Tranche Release Conditons
Sector            SOElactivity   Original Conditions                      Revised Conditions
(Tranche Number)
Air transport     Air Burkina    Performance-contract (2)                 Adoption of new Action Plan (2), and
PC targets met (3)                       implementation progress (3)
Air-Freight       Naganani      Action Plan implemented (2)               Company was liquidated in 1995
Airports          Ouagadougou   Action Plan agreed (2)                    Due to delays, AP requirement was
and Bobo D.   AP implemented on schedule (3)           moved to Tranche 3
Urban Transport   R6gie X9      Performance Contract signed (2)          Privatization-launch bidding (2)
PC targets met (3)                       Signature concession agreement (3)
Railways          SBCF          Achievement agreed traffic levels (2)    Tranches 2 and 3 waived when
Signature of Performance Contract, or    concession agreement signed in
liquidation if targets not met (3)       1995.
Road Maintenance                Agreed works to be executed by contractors  Done. No change required.
Works                            (2,3)
Road Maintenance  SLM           Creation of an equipment rental company was  Achieved. No change required
Equipment                       a loan condition but not a tranche condition.
Privatization Approach
3.5     The table below summarizes the key features of the privatizations.6 Privatizations include both
sale of assets (total or partial) to a private company and concessioning assets on a lease to a private
operator/concessionaire.
Table 3.2 ?Privatizationr Process-Transport Parastatals and Road Maintenance Equipmeint
Sector             SOE/acUlvity     Current Name   Year        Mode*     No.    Total or  Gov't      Staff
of     Partial   Equity     Equity
Bids             (/0)      (N)
Air transport      Air Burkina      Air Burkina    2001        Neg.      -      P         14         4
Air-Freight        Naganani         Company was                                           -          -
liquidated
Airports           Ouagadougou      No change      Expected   tbd                -        -
and Bobo D.                     2003
Urban Transport    R6gle X9         SOTRAO         1996        ICB       1      P         25        0
Railways           SBCF             Sitarail       1995        ICB       1b     p         15        3
Road Maintenance  SLM               SLM           2000         ICB       3      P        23c        0
a Modes: How the concession is awarded or the company is sold. Neg = direct negotations; ICB=international competitive
bidding. The pnvatizabon mode of airports, expected in 2003, is yet to be deternined.
b. There were two bids, but only one was deemed to be valid.
c Equity structure is being revised, with a view to allocating some 15% to various small and medium size (SME) contractors.
3.6     Process. The govemment decided to use competitive bidding in all privatizations, even when no
Bank financing was mvolved. As shown in the table, the road transport company, the railways, and the
road maintenance equipment company were pnvatized using competitive bidding. As could have been
expected given the type and condition of the transport companies being privatized, few companies were
interested m bidding-in two out of three biddmgs there was only one valid bidder. Yet, this result was
better than obtained overall for the government's first phase privatization program. Of 41 SOEs (after 3
SOEs were withdrawn from the original list) slated for privatization when the program was launched m
6. The pnvatization of Burkina railways, which was done as a package together with the adjoining C6te d'Ivoire railways, is
discussed in detail in a parallel PPAR of a CMte d'Ivoire project that focused exclusively on the railway.



5
1991, only 22 were privatized; the remainder received no expression of interest or bids. The pnvatization
of Air Burkina was done by direct negotiation with an interested group because the Privatization
Commission considered it unlikely that biddmg would bnng more competition and yield better results.
3.7    Capital structure. The govemment, following general guidelines used throughout the economy,
is retaining a minonty equity (in the 20 percent range) m all pnvatized companies. The govemment's
intention is to divest its equity once the newly pnvatized companies are fully established. The same
guidelines call for employee participation in the capital structure. This has been applied in the transport
sector companies that have been privatized. Some 4 percent has been given to the employees.
3.8    Bid award criteria. The award cntenon was generally a simple one. When there was more
than one valid bid, the highest bidder for the value of the assets was awarded the bid and contract. For
the concessions, such as for the railway, the bid award was based on the amount of annual fees to be
paid to the govemment by the concessionaire.
3.9    Social Costs. Because SOEs traditionally are overstaffed, staff redundancies are generally the
main social cost of the pnvatization. In Burkina, the largest number of redundancies occurred in the
railways, where the 1,950 staff' of the SCFB were reduced by about half (divided between 800 for the
operator-concessionaire SITARAIL and the remainder for the govemment infrastructure company
SOPAFER-B). There was also significant reduction in Ministry of Infrastructure personnel whose jobs
involved maintenance management and execution (from 1,100 to 423) when maintenance activities
were shifted to the public works enterprises. MIHU officials claim that few of the redundani staff were
left unemployed, since (i) some left to work with the small and medium size enterprises (SMEs), (ii)
some were employed by other government agencies, and (iii) the rest were close to retirement age and
left the workforce. SLM, a pnvatized company that rents road maintenance equipment, has retained all
the original staff, since the new management does not consider the company to have been overstaffed.
3.10   Regulatory system. The privatization (including the concessions) of transport services began
before a regulatory framework and agency had been established for the sector. As an altemative, the
govemment took a significant minority equity in all the companies it privatized. In more recent
privatization of public utilities the government prepared (telecoms) or is prepanng (energy) a
regulatory framework before launching the pnvatization process. So far, the most critical operation
because of the level of traffic and its importance for the Burkina economy is the railway concession.
This concessionaire, SITARAIL, appears to be working reasonably well from a competitive standpoint
thanks to strong competition from trucking. SITARAIL has full freedom to adjust tanffs and has done
so, but no user complaints (for example, about tanffs that are too high or are discnminatory) appear to
have been raised. Air Burkina, as well as the two airports once they are concessioned, will be subject
to the overview and regulation by the newly created Directorate of Civil Aviation.
3.11   The role of the government in more competitive markets, such as the contracting industry for
civil works, is more debatable. The move toward execution of maintenance from force account to
private contractors launched the development of small and medium size contractors. This industry may
still be considered nascent. In this sense, a government role, as a shareholder of the equipment rental
company for a limited time until the industry is more developed, may be justified to make it possible
for the small, undercapitalized contractors to rent equipment as the need anses.
3.12   Failure of urban transport concession. This was the only privatization that went wrong. The
new company that was awarded the concession to operate the Ouagadougou bus system, SOTRAO, is
losmg money. It has accumulated a deficit of CFAF 5.3 billion during the five years it has been in
7 MOP, para. 80.



6
operation, despite complete freedom for tariff setting (there were no subsidies). Urban transport
services in Ouagadougou have deteriorated, and are limited to only a few comdors. The company
claims that this due in part to the state not providing buses it was expected to supply until SOTRAO
could purchase its own. It is apparent that more detailed analysis of urban transport should have been
done before launching the concessioning process, to assess the feasibility of a concession, especially
given the existence of a large informal sector operating within the concession's market.
Problems with Internaional Road Transport
3.13   An important goal of the project was to promote greater efficiency in long-distance road
transport and to facilitate internal and external trade. However, the project made no progress on
improving conditions for trucking (practically all privately-owned) operating to and from the port of
Abidjan in C6te d'lvoire, Burkina's major trade route with overseas markets. This cntical transport
link is plagued with bribe-seeking police and customs posts, which cost the transporters time and
money. It is estimated that an average truck pays some US$400 in bribes and pseudo-government
charges when traveling between Abidjan and Ouagadougou. This observation is consistent with a
statement in OED's Country Assistance Evaluation (2000) that in Burkina there is a "perception of
growing corruption, particularly on the part of police and customs officials, and lack of transparency.
It is important that the government reasserts it commitment to the traditional zero tolerance for
corruption." Conditions for international transport are likely to have further worsened following the
start of armed rebellion in C8te d'Ivoire in mid-2002.
Execution of Road Maintenance Works by Small Contractors
3.14   The project's requirement that periodic and routine maintenance increasingly be carried out
through private contracts implied a major departure from traditional government policy. Under that
policy private contractors executed only major road rehabilitation works, while all periodic and routine
maintenance was executed by force account. The government, and especially the Ministry of Public
works, appeared committed to changing the way road maintenance was done. The transfer process was
launched early in the project. A key enabling measure and a condition of release of funds under the
credit's first tranche was the passing by the government of a decree adopting amended procedures for
procurement and payment of contracts for small maintenance works. The borrower complied with this
requirement soon after the project became effective, but in May 1996 the government introduced a
new Procurement Code for the entire administration. This new code ended the derogation authorizing
the Public Works Directorate to pass standardized small contracts for road maintenance. Fortunately,
the government reintroduced the previously existing derogation a few months later.9 Had the
derogation been ended, it would have made procurement so cumbersome that it would have effectively
put an end to works by small contractors.
3.15   The transfer process was significantly helped and supported by the carrying out of technical
audits to verify the quality of works. These audits were essential because the contracting mdustry was in
its infancy; most contractors lacked experience with road works or with work by contract. The process
was also helped by support given by the government's technical personnel to the small contractors.
8. Operations Evaluations Department, Burkina Faso, Country Assistance Evaluation, World Bank, 2000.
9. Supervision Report (l4'h Supervision Mission). Back-to-Office report dated December 12, 1996. This report notes that this
problem had been anticipated in the BTO report for the 13th supervision mission.



7
Road Maintenance Funding
3.16   Under the project's Road Maintenance Action Plan (RMAP), the govemment was committed
to allocate annually about CFAF 0.6 billion for routine maintenance of the paved roads and CFAC 2.6
billion for gravel and earth roads.' While these amounts were considered a minimum, they were some
20 percent higher than the average budgetary allocation for maintenance durng the decade preceding
the preparation of the project (1978-88).
3.17   The expected allocation for routine mamtenance was met. Since 1994 (after the CFAF was
devalued to less than half its previous value) funding has remained around CFAF 5.0 billion, which is
likely to represent the level of commitment in real terms under the project. A precise comparison is not
attempted here for lack of a reliable deflator that would apply to the mix of equipment, materials, and
labor m maintenance costs. While pnces of equipment and foreign mputs (especially gasoline and diesel)
probably went up by about the same proportion as the CFAF devaluation, those of local materials and
labor increased little.
Investment Component
Roads
3.18   Road works was the project's largest investment component, representing 84 percent of actual
project costs. Routine mamtenance of the whole network, as well as all activities foreseen for the
paved road system (which supports 80 percent of the traffic), and the paving of gravel and earth roads
either met or exceeded the targets. However, because of financing that did not materialize, or changes
in the priorities of some donors, rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of gravel and earth roads
started late (periodic maintenance of paved roads did not start until 1995, and that of earth roads until
1997), and reached only a small fraction of the program plan.
Table 3.3. Road Works (kilometers per year)
Program           Actual
Routne maintenance (paved, earth & gravel roads)             8,875            10,033
Paving of earth & gravel roads                                367              506
Reconstruction of earth & gravel roads                        861              894
Rehabilitation of earth & gravel roads                       2,732             528
Periodic maintenance (earth & gravel roads)                  2,280              33
Source: PCU. Completion Report, September 2000.
3.19   Paving of earth and gravel roads was an issue at appraisal, since the Bank considered that the
level of traffic on some of the roads was too low to justify pavement. In practice, more paving than
originally envisaged was actually carried out. Other donors financed these works, and the Bank had
little leverage to alter the decisions.
Railways
3.20   Railways was the second-largest investment component, representing about 6 percent of actual
project costs. When SCFB was privatized, some investment priorities changed. Most original items
10. MOP, Annex 2, and Annex 10 (para I1).



8
were reduced; for example, ballasting was halved, and the program to rehabilitate equipment was
similarly scaled down. The exception was the rehabilitation of 64 freight cars that was carmed out as
planned. Cost savings resulting from the smaller investments were used to finance purchase of a new
telecommunications system that the pnvatized company judged to be of high priority.
Other Investments, Studies, and Training
3.21   A number of other, smaller investments were carried out under the project, largely as
expected. Noteworthy achievements included the establishment of a road database, which contains
fairly up-to-date information on 40,000 kilometers of roads and has an excellent mapping capability;
the computerization of driver and vehicle licensing; training of staff of public works SMEs; and
studies on urban transport in Ouagadougou.
Donor Coordination
3.22   The project's Mid-Term Review (MTR) in November 1995, chaired by Burkana's Finance
Minister, was attended by most cofinanciers and provided a good opportunity for coordinating donor
funding. The main problem discussed was the maintenance of the gravel and earth road network,
where ADB and CIDA financing failed to materialize. Unfortunately, none the donors who were
financing the paving of the Bobo-Orodara road, which had been identified at appraisal as having a
marginal ERR, attended the MTR. Subsequent contract amendments mcreased the cost of this
investment from about CFAF 10 million to CFAF 17 million, practically ensuring a very low ERR.
Outside the MTR, donor coordination was mainly done by the PCU and the Bank's supervision team
through reportmg and discussions with individual donors.
3.23   A donors' meeting in May 2000 wrapped up the project and established the basis for
launching a follow-on project. This meeting requested the Bank to take the leading role in
coordinating the preparation of the new project.
4. IRaltlllngs
4.1    Outcome is rated satisfactory based on the following:
o Relevance. The project objectives were, and continue to be, highly relevant to Burkina's
development strategy. The objectives were consistent with the country' economic reform
programs, and its emphasis on reducing subsidies, increasing involvement of the private sector
in the provision of services, and improving the efficiency and quality of such services. While
the project initially intended to restructure rather than privatize transport SOEs, this approach
was justifiable since, at the time of project appraisal, the government was only starting to
prepare a privatization program, and industrial and commercial companies were likely to take
precedence in the privatization strategy over transport and other public utilities.
O Efficacy. As shown in Table 4. 1, the institutional of objectives were surpassed, since
restructurng was replaced by privatization, and pnvatization actually was accomplished for
several activities.



9
Table 4.1 Outcome: Institutional Development
Sector         SOE/activity   Current Name       Intended      Current         Outcome/Comments
Status (SAR)  Status 8
Air transport  Air Burkina    Air Burkina        Remain SOE    Privatized      Early results indicate improved
quality of service and
substantial increase in traffic,
both domestic and regional
routes
Air freight    Naganani       -                  Remain        Company         No obvious prospects for
SOE           liquidated      relaunching a specialized air
freight company.
Airports       Ouagadougou                       Remain        Pnvatizabon     Two studies in preparation to
and Bobo D                        a government  (concessioning)  privatze have been
agency        under           completed.
consideraton
Urban          RegieX9        SOTRAO             Remain SOE    Privatizabon via  The overall urban transport in
Transport                                                      concessioning   Ouagadougou requires urgent
review. SOTRAO's services
are very limited and with small
geographic coverage, leaving
Ouagadougou practically
without public transport
SOTRAO's financial
performance is poor.
Railways       SBCF           SITARAIL           Remain SOE    Privatization via  SITARAIL's operating
(operations, jointly  or liquidated  concessioning  performance has been good,
wth CWte d'lvoire)  if targets not              and finances are improving.
SOPAFER           met                           Freight traffic in 2001 was
(infrastructure,                                about 3 times higher than
government                                      before the railway was
patnmony company                                privatized.
Road           Maintenance    SLC                Equipment     Privatized
Maintenance    Equipment Pool                   rental SOE
to be created
Road           Maintenance    SMEs               Contracted    Pnvatized      Road SMEs industry requires
Maintenance    works (force                      out for all  (all contracted  restructunng in view of large
accountby                         paved roads;  out)            number, and many unqualified
ministry)                         mechanized                    enterprises.
routine earth
roads in two
regions
a. All privatized companies have govemment and employee equity.
On the investment side, the road program had a mixed efficacy, since, as shown in Table 3.3,
some targets were exceeded, and others were not met, especially the rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance of earth and gravel roads. Road condition, in a sense the real outcome of
the road investment program, did improve according to the most recent measurements
available. The railway investments were modified upon the concessioning of the SCFB
following an assessment by the private operators of the railway's most pressing needs. This
assessment led to the purchase of a modem telecoms system and reduction, and in some cases
elimination, of some of the investments originally selected.
a   Efficiency. The much-improved operatng and financial performance of the railways, the
transfer of road maintenance works to a rapidly improving private sector contracting industry,
the reduction in government subsidies to the transport sector all point to significant efficiency
in the institutional achievements of the project. On the investment side, the road investment
program, because of its focus on maintenance rather than new construction, is estimated to
have a high rate of economic return, in the 20 to 30 percent range. The analysis conducted by



10
the private operator for selection of railways investments ensures that such investments are
economically and financially justified. There are two potential issues regarding efficiency: (a)
some of road paving works may not have been economically justified, although there is no
data to confirm or reject this assertion, and (b) privatization in thin markets, because of
potential vertical integration, by the successful private bidder with its other operations, may be
less efficient than it could be. The reason is that users of the privatized operation (for example,
contractors renting from the road maintenance equipment unit) may be discriminated against.
4.2   Institutional Development Impact" is rated high. As discussed in the previous section, major
institutional development took place under the project.
4.3    Sustainability is rated lkely. With the exception SOTRAO's urban transport services in
Ouagadougou, all other privatized/concessioned transport operations are working satisfactorily, with
improved operational and financial performance. The transfer of road maintenance from force account
to private contractors has been completed, and the public works agency has been restructured
adequately to operate in the new environment. Road maintenance funding was kept at the agreed level,
and the PASEC-TII, under preparation, should help ensure that such funding is maintained. While this
analysis may suggest that sustainability could be rated highly likely, this is precluded because some of
the privatizations are too recent (Air Burkina) or still under preparation (airports), and SOTRAO's
may have to be reversed.
4.4    Bank Performance is rated highly satisfactory. The staff prepared a highly relevant project,
yet still a complex and ambitious one. The design was good, with a high level of detail. Setting up a
PCU was appropriate given the large number of donors and broad scope of the project. The
reorganization of the DGTP from a public works executing agency to programming and control was a
well-conceived institutional adjustment to changing government functions. During implementation,
the supervision team, which remained practically unchanged for most of the implementation period,
was quick in amending the project when conditions changed as the government launched a
privatization drive. The Bank team was instrumental in persuadmg the government to reinstate the
derogation related to small contracts for road maintenance, a crucial decision. Coordination with the
borrower was excellent during most of the project period (the borrower noted a few minor exceptions
toward the end of the project), and so it was with most of the project's cofinanciers. The project team
is due a large part of the credit for the project's successful outcome.
4.5    More broadly, the Bank did well in supporting the restructuring or privatization activities
through several non-sectoral operations.
4.6    Yet, the Bank could have done two things that would have further improved outcome: (a) at
design stage, formulate an approach to donor coordination, and include studies to find a simple,
inexpensive way to measure the condition of the road network, so that the outcome of the road
maintenance activities could be better assessed, and (b) during implementation, amend road
maintenance funding levels when the CFAF was devalued.
4.7   In theory, the Bank's project team during implementation could have modified the
institutional and training component to help government adapt its structure and human resources
following the privatization or liquidation of transport SOEs. The restructuring of the DGTP that
occurred following the outsourcing of routine mamtenance and that helped DGTP adapt to its new
functions could have been taken as a good example. The PPAR acknowledges, however, that
11. Both the outcome and the sustainability ratings may be subject to the length and direction of the rebellion tn Cote
d'lvoire.



11
modifying the institutional component would have been difficult to achieve because it would have
required a refocusing of the financing provided by some cofinanciers, over which the Bank had no
control.
4.8    Borrower Performance is rated highly satisfactory. The borrower took many commendable
actions that were key to achieving or exceeding expectations for the project, particularly regarding
institutional development. Among these were the following:
* The decisions, generally followed by good implementation, to privatize transport SOEs when
performance agreements were not yielding the expected improvements, and to carry out
privatization of road works.
*  Meeting commitment of funding road maintenance. Fulfilling such a substantial commitment
to fund road maintenance as agreed is rarely found in Sub-Saharan Africa.
* Rapid reversal (in November 1996) of the new Procurement Code (introduced in May 1966),
which would have seriously hampered execution of road maintenance by small contracts.
* Carrying out an excellent preparation of the Mid-term Review (implementation summary
1/26/96).
* Appointing high-level personnel for the PCU, with immediate access to the policymakers and
senior officials in all the concerned ministries.
4.9    Two government decisions could be questioned, however. First, paving of roads that did not
have sufficient traffic to justify the investment. This occurred in a limited number of cases, and was
greatly encouraged by the interest of some donors in financing such works (although the money could
have been better used for road maintenance, especially of gravel and earth roads). Second, m hindsight,
the pnvatization of urban transport services is questionable. The sole bid received was not transparent as
it mixed the concession business with another busmess owned by the bidder, and probably should have
been rejected. The result is a non-performing pnvate operation and a major deterioration of urban
transport service throughout Ouagadougou.
Comparison with ICR Ratings
4.10   The above ratings upgrade the ICR ratings in two areas:
* Institutional development, on grounds that the achievements have been major, as confirmed
close to two years after the ICR was issued. In addition, there has been further progress in
reforming and pnvatizing the sector, such as (i) the privatization of Air Burkina and (ii) the
advanced process for the concessioning of the Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso airports. The
only sigmnficant failure, the privatization of the urban transport services, happened in an
extremely difficult environment: there is little expenence worldwide of successes in urban
transport concessions in conditions similar to those obtaining in Burkina-low-income
population, thin market, and harsh weather conditions.
*  Borrower performance, for the reasons given in the rating section, above.
5.     Lessons
5.1    Four key lessons emerge from the project's experience with multiple privatizations in the
transport sector. These lessons may apply in general to small, low-income counties in Sub-Saharan
Africa. Prospects for privatization of transport services and infrastructure may be better than
generally believed, even in a difficult economic environment. Services with the higher potential to



12
operate commercially such as rail, road maintenance works, and air transport have the best chance to
succeed. Urban transport, especially when there is a tradition of highly subsidized services, is
especially difficult to privatize. This could have been anticipated during review of the bids, and
Burkina would have been better off forgoing the urban transport pnvatization.
5.2    Low-income countries may not have the human and technical resources necessary to mount
regulatory agencies to oversee small enterprises in the transport sector. Burkina's policy of retaining
government minonty ownership in these enterpnses, which is not intended to interfere with
management but to provide govemment an information window, may be a suitable substitute, at least
as a temporary measure.
5.3    Government agencies need to be restructured and strengthenedfollowing privatization.
Governments need to adapt their structures to fulfill their new functions after they privatize state-
owned companies and force account operations. At the same time, their human resources need to be
adapted and strengthened. The Burkina government, like most countries that have extensively
privatized a sector, faces a huge human resources problem. The boommg private sector is taking away
the most scarce, most qualified government technical personnel and the best of the newly graduating
professionals. The Bank should seek to allocate its financing in a way that gives it flexibility to
reallocate funding toward technical assistance should the need arise, especially in projects with
multiple financiers. Government officials highlighted the need for the Bank to review solutions to this
problem elsewhere and to provide creative ideas for Burkina.
5.4    Measuring outcomes in the road sector. Traditionally, project results involving road works are
measured m terms of physical work done, such as kilometers of roads paved or maintamed. These
measures, however, reflect output, not outcome. A more appropriate measurement of outcome is the
condition of the road network. In small, low-income countries like Burkina, using standard equipment
to inspect and rate the condition of the network, which normally consists of a large amount of non-
paved roadway, is expensive both in capital and recurrent costs. Countries should seek cheaper, if less
accurate, techniques to penodically assess the condition of their road networks. Such cheaper
techniques do exist, and Burkmna is preparing to test one of them.



13
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
TRANSPORT SECAL PROJECT (CREDIT 2332-BUR)
Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal                 Actual or                Actual as percent of
Estimate                  current estimate         Appraisal estimate
Total project costs              463.4                     392.3                    85 0
Credit amount                    66                        66                       100
Project Dates
Original                          Actual
AppraisaVnegotiations                                                4/91
Post-negotiations                                                    12/91
Board Approval                                                       02/02
Signing                                                              02/92
Effectiveness                                                        02/93
Closing date                       12/31/96                          12/31/2000
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Weeks                         Actual US$000
Identification/Preparation   143.9                                 462 2
Appraisal/Negotiation         34.2                                 75 2
Supervision                  203.9                                 601.7
Completion                    12 3                                 13 2
Total                        394 3                                1152 3



14
Mission Data
Date         No. of            Specializatfon  Performance rating?' Types of Problems
(month/year) persons          represented"' Implementation Status Development objectives
Idenbficabon/   11/89         3               E,ME,TE
Preparation
3/90         3               E,ME,TE
7/90         4              E,TE,CI,DC
11/90        6              E,F,CI,TE,TE.
DC
Appraisal/       4/91         7            E,E,F,F,CI,TE,T
Negotiations    12/91        2                   E
E,TE
Supervision      3/92         2                 E,TE
1                6/92         3               E,TE,TE             S                    S
11/92        3                E,TE,TE             S                    S
3/93         1                  E                S                    S
4/93         3               E,TE,TE             S                    S
11/93        3                E,TE,TE             S                    S
4/94         4               E,E,TE,TE           S                    S
7/94         2                 E,TE              S                    S
2/95         2                 E,TE              HS                  HS
5/95         1                  TE               S                   HS
12/95        5             E,UT,TE,TE,DC          S                   HS
3/96         2                 E,TE              S                   HS
7/96         2                 E,TE              S                   HS
11/96        1                  TE                S                   HS
3/97         2                 E,TE              S                    S
1/98        3                E,TE,TE             S                    S
10/98        3                TE,TE,F             S                   S
3/99         2                TE,TE              S                    S
11/99        2                TE,TE              S                    S
5/00         2            TE,TE                  S                    S
ICR
(a) E=Econornist, ME= Municipal Engineer, TE= Transport/Road Engineer, F=Financial, UT=Urban Transport, CI=Construction Industry
DC=Division Chief
(b) S=Sahsfactory, HS= High Satisfactory






ROpo;t NO.:        25650
Type:     PPAR



