Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    21543
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-23320)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 49.6 MILLION
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR
A TRANSPORT SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/iVESTMENT PROGRAM
December 21, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the, performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective Deccmber 2000)
Currency Unit = CFAF Franc (CFAF)
CFAF741 = USS I
US$ I = CFAF 1.2892
FISCAL YEAR
January I to  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AB                         Air Burkina
AfDB                       African Development Bank
BOAD                       West African Development Bank
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CCCE                       Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCVA                       Centre de Controle des Vehicules Automobiles
CETOU                      Executive Committee for Urban Transport
CFPE                       Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement
(Professional Training Center)
CIDA                       Canadian Intemational Development Agency
CONASER                    Centre National pour la Securite Routiere
(National Committee for Road Safety)
DGR                        Direction Generale de I'Entretien Routier
(Directorate of Road Maintenance)
DGTP                       Direction Generale de Travaux Publics
(Public Works Directorate)
DTTM                       Direction des Transports Terresteres etMaritimes
(Directorate of Road and Maritime Transport)
EC                         European Community
ERR                        Economic Rate of Retum
FAC                        Agence Francaise de Cooperation
IDA                        Intemational Development Association
IDB                        Islamic Development Bank
ILO                        Intemational Labor Organization
MIUH                       Ministere des Infrastructures, de l'Habitat et de J'Urbanisme
(Ministry of Infrastructure, Urban Development and Housing)
MTT                        Ministere des Transports et du Tourisme
(Ministry of Transport and Tourism)
PASEC-T                    Projet d'Ajustment Sectoriel Transport
(Transport Sector Adjustment Program)
PCU                        Project Coordination Unit
PIP                         Public Investment Program
PPF                        Policy Framework Paper
PSD                         Private Sector Development
RAN                        Cote d'Ivoire/Burkina Faso Railway
SAL                         Structural Adjustment Loan
SECAL                      Sector Adjustment Loan
SCFB                       Societe de Chemins de Fer du Burlana
(Burkina Faso National Railway)
SIP                         Sector Investment Program
SITARAIL                   Societe Internationale de Transport Africain du Rail)
SLM                        Societe de Location du materiel
(Private Railway Operating Company)
SNCB                       Societe Nationale des Chargeurs Burkinabes
SOPAFER-B                  Societe de Gestion du Patrimoine Ferroviaire du Burkina
(Burkina Rail Infrastructure Management Company)
SOTRAO                     Societe de Transport de Ouagadougou
(Private Bus Company)
UNDP                        United Nations Development Program
X-9                         Public Bus Transport Company
Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager/Director:    Maryonne Plessis-Fraissard
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Hedi Larbi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                11
6. Sustainability                                                                    12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   15
9. Partner Comments                                                                  16
10. Additional Information                                                           17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                27
Annex 8. Aide-Memoire of the Last Supervision Mission (May 2000)                     28
Annex 9. Summary of the Borrower's contribution                                      41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000276                                       |Project Name: TRANSPORT SECAL
Team Leader: Hedi Larbi                                    TL Unit: AF1TR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 21, 2000
1. Project Data
Niame: TRANSPORT SECAL                               L/C/I'FNumber: IDA-23320
CouniryIDepartinent: BURKINA FASO                                         Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: TI - Transportation Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/15/87                                 Effective: 05/18/92           02/17/93
Appraisal:  02/28/91                                  MTR:                        01/11/95
Approval:  02/04/92                                 Closing:  12/31/96            10/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementingAgency: BURKINA FASO/M[N. OF EQUIPMENT/MIN .OF TRANSPORT
Other Partners: EC, AfDB, IDB, BOAD, UNDP, CIDA, CCE/FAC, [LO
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                            Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country1Manager:     Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager:      Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard                Peter Watson
Team Leader at ICR:   Hedi Larbi                                Brigitta Mitchell
ICR PrimaryAuthor:   James Wright
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfictory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=lighly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project atRisk atAny Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Desigii, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the project were: (i) to improve the efficiency of sector operations through the
restructuring of sector parastatals, and (ii) to maintain and rehabilitate the borrowers transport
infrastructure.



The objectives were clearly stated and relevant to the borrower's economic strategy and IDA's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The project was designed to complement a structural
adjustment program that had been outlined in a Policy Framework Paper (PPF) for 1991-93,
under which the economy of Burkina Faso was expected to achieve a 4% per annum rate of
economic growth. The Govemment was to confront the main constraints to economic growth,
including budgetary and civil service reforms, the need for an enabling environment for the private
sector and the need to liberalize external pricing and trade regulations. External financing
requirements for the period were estimated at US$ 1.6 billion, of which 68% would be grants and
loans. IDA was to provide US$ 130 million in adjustment lending and US$ 430 million through
investment lending operations. For SALs, SECALS and investment lending, there was to be a
focus on poverty alleviation, improved investment strategies and institutional strengthening. US$
30 million in adjustment lending and US$ 36 million in investment lending were to be contributed
by IDA to a broader Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Program (PASEC-T) which would
be financed by a number of donors.
The objectives of improving efficiency in the transport sector were important and responsive to
the borrower's development priorities. The transport sector is of particular importance for
Burkina Faso, given its landlocked status and that the transport sector faced serious problems in
the early 1990s. Only two-thirds of the road network had received maintenance over the
previous decade, and existing road capital was at serious risk. Maintenance was undertaken
directly by Government through force account which was inefficient due to State administrative
management, civil service constraints and frequent use of maintenance equipment for purposes
other than road maintenance. These problems were taken into account in designing PASEC-T by
emphasizing private sector participation in road maintenance. Serious problems also plagued
transport parastatals in the early 1990s. Rail service was in serious decline following the break-up
of the joint Cote d'Ivoire/Burkina Faso railway (RAN) and the subsequent deteriorating financial
condition of the Burkina Railway (SCFB). During the 1980s a sector parastatal for urban bus
transport (X-9) had been created, which was now over staffed and had large operating deficits.
Existing air transport parastatals, Air Burkina and Naganagani (a freight airline), faced increasing
financial and operational difficulties. Airport management was inefficient and costly to
Government. These issues were to be addressed in PASEC-T by promoting operational
improvements through technical assistance and performance contracts, supported by adjustment
lending. In addition, the agencies within the Ministry of Transport responsible for regulating road
traffic and safety and commerce were to receive technical assistance.
The pursuit of the objectives was somewhat risky, since it involved a number of sub-sectors,
ministries and implementing agencies. The risks were mitigated by thorough project preparation
(see Section 3.5) followed by intensive supervision by the Bank and the Borrower.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the IDA financed project and the broader PASEC-T were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The components of PASEC-T were: (i) Roads: road construction, rehabilitation and maintenance;
- 2 -



works supervision and studies; (ii) Technical assistance and training for the PubLic Works
Directorate (DGTP - which later became the Directorate General of Roads under the Ministry of
Infrastructure, Housing and Urban Development - MIUH), the Professional Training Center
(CFPE) and small-scale enterprises; (iii) Road passenger transport: restructuringr of Regie X-9, the
public transport company, studies of urban traffic demand, feasibility studies for terminal facilities;
(iv) Railways: emergency program for the Burkina Railway Company (SCFB), including parts,
workshops and technical assistance, and a consolidation program; (v) Civil aviation: restructuring
of Air Burkina (AB) and Naganagani, and an airport management action plan; and (vi) Sector
administration under the Ministry of Transport and Tourism (MTT): modernization through
computerization, training, and modification of the regulatory framework.
Policy and structural improvements were designed to be implemented through three IDA financed
sector adjustment tranche releases totaling US$ 30 million. Structural adjustment was expected
to cover part of the costs related to institutional reform, such as staff reduction. 'The first tranche
was to be released at effectiveness on fulfillment of conditions for effectiveness and sector
administration. The second tranche was to be released on conditions, inter alia, that annual road
maintenance budgets were being funded and that maintenance was being performed by private
contractors paid within two months; that restructuring contract-plans had been signed between
the Government and X-9 and between the Government and Air Burkina; that the railway agency
had recaptured agreed volume or, failing that, begun liquidation; that an action plan for
restructuring Naganagani had been implemented; and that an action plan for airport management
had been agreed between Government and IDA. The third tranche was to be released on the
same criteria for roads and with evidence that X-9 and Air Burkina were meetin.g the financial
targets in their contract-plans or, failing this, that liquidation was being pursued and that the
action plan for airport management was being implemented.
The five-year investment program of PASEC-T totaled US$ 433 million, of which IDA was to
provide US$ 36 million and 10 other donors were to provide US$ 254 million, with the
Government providing US$ 71 million in investment and recurrent funding (see: Annex 2 for a
breakdown of project costs). This left a US$ 72 million funding gap. About 90%/0 of the
investment was directed to roads. The road component focused on rehabilitation and
maintenance to bring the proportion of maintenance spending to investment from a previous
40:60 ratio to a ratio of 60:40. Although the Ministry of Infrastructure, Urban Development and
Housing (MJIUH) was responsible for a network of 12,451 km, it was agreed, based on traffic
counts, to focus on maintenance of a priority network of 8,532 km and catch up on the backlog of
periodic and routine maintenance on gravel and dirt roads. A 12% EER was to be required for
any new investment to be included in the three-year rolling plan. The program included technical
assistance and training to restructure sector agencies and train small contractors in order to
replace force account operations. A new General Directorate of Public Works (DGTP) was to be
created to manage the new road management and contracting system.
The components were well targeted and designed to accomplish the objectives. To be
implemented, they required improvements in administrative and financial management capacity.
The institutional improvements to accommodate the project were begun at the ministry and
agency levels during preparation.
3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
The railway company (SCFB) was supposed to meet performance indicators related to annual
tonnage transported and ratio of manpower expenditure. Faced with difficulties in meeting these
targets, the Government decided to privatize SCFB operations. In cooperation with Ivorian
authorities, a concession agreement was made with a private operator to manage the railway
between Abidjan and Ouagadougou which became effective in 1996. Both countries set up
patrimony companies (SOPAFER-B in Burkina Faso) to own and manage railway assets. This
was a stronger solution than originally envisioned. Similarly, because the public bus company
(Regie X9) was unable to adhere to a contract-plan the Government decided to privatize it in
1993. This was also an improved solution. As of the time of this report, the Government is
divesting of Air Burkina and airport administration is being concessioned. Conditions for second
and third tranche releases were modified to accommodate these more profound reforms.
3.5 Quality at Fntry:
The project was well designed over a period of several years, which enabled consensus building
among borrower agencies and the donor community. Project preparation involved thorough
planning and considerable effort to involve Burkina agencies and other donors. Beginning in 1988
with PPF funding and funding from other donors, a large number of consultant studies were
undertaken to establish the basis for strategy discussions with Government and other donors and
to lay out the details of the investment program. These included 30 studies of different aspects of
the roads sector, three studies each of road transport and rail transport, and eight studies of air
transport and airports. In March 1990, a seminar was organized by the Ministry of Equipment,
with representatives from the Ministry of Transport and Communication, the Ministry of Plan and
Cooperation and the Ministry of Finance. The results of the consultant studies were discussed
and the five-year Transport Sector Program (1991-95) was proposed. In November 1990, during
the pre-appraisal mission, there was a donors' meeting with 16 international donors represented
together with Burkina Faso officials. The result of these efforts was a broad consensus among
Govemment agencies and donors on a new strategy, including sector adjustment and investment,
for the transport sector which would complement the broader national structural adjustment
process. The main points were confirmed in a letter of sector strategy and an action plan for road
maintenance presented by the Government before negotiations. These documents confirmed the
consistency of the borrower's strategy with the project objectives and the CAS.
First, the strategy would give priority to rehabilitation and maintenance, especially in roads,
reorganize the General Directorate of Public Works (DGTP) and provide it with technical
assistance to enable it to contract out maintenance works to small and medium enterprises using
new contracting procedures. Budgeted road allocations would be made more immediately
available (in two weeks) to contractors through a revolving fund to be provided in the national
budget and managed by the DGTP. Initial progress in establishing these new arrangements was
assured through conditions of Board presentation and credit effectiveness. The General
Directorate of Equipment was to be reorganized into a leasing company to make the stock of road
maintenance equipment available to private contractors (condition of effectiveness), and training
by DGTP would be reoriented to build capacity among private contractors.
-4 -



Second, there was agreement on a general restructuring of transport sector parastatals (e.g.
through financial restructuring, tariff increases, and staff reduction) which had been a significant
drain on the Government budget. Components to improve rail and civil aviation parastatals were
designed to improve service and reduce deficits. A contract-plan had been prepared for SNCB. A
restructuring plan for Air Burkina was agreed upon before Board presentation; Nagangani (a
public air freight company) was given six months to improve its operations at the end of which it
would be liquidated without a plan for achieving financial viability. There was also agreement on
institution building and technical assistance to improve transport administration (transport
planning, vehicle registration, transport permits, drivers licensing, etc.) within the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (later Ministry of Transport and Tourism -MTT). A Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) under MTT was designated to monitor overall implemtentation of the
PASEC-T.
The Bank's role involved a hybrid investment/adjustment lending mechanism. ilthough other
donors accounted for the major share of investment lending, mainly in roads, a lead role by the
Bank would help to assure reforms in the sector, especially the privatization of road maintenance,
and help to establish economic criteria for road maintenance. The Bank was the only donor with
the experience and mechanisms to bring about sector adjustment. It would have to play a leading
role in the proposed restructuring (later privatization) of sector parastatals.
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Improving the efficiency of sector operations through restructuring sector parastatals: When
SNCB and Regie X9 were unable to achieve operational efficiency through conmract-plans,
concession agreements were reached with private operators. A concession agreement became
effective for SNCB in August 1996, and a new government agency is responsible for owning and
overseeing the maintenance of railway infrastructure. Railway operations improved dramatically
in 1998. Freight levels rose from 540,000 tons in 1996 to 643,000 tons in 1998; gross receipts of
SITARAIL doubled. A private operator began operating bus services in 1996. Bus operations
are now more efficient, but further improvements in urban transport are needed (see Section 4.3).
Because of these changes, conditions for the second tranche release were modifiled. Although
these and other structural reforms took longer to achieve and required extensions in the closing
date, in the end they led to larger and more sustainable efficiency gains.
It was not possible to formulate a credible plan for the restructuring of Air Burkina because of
cost increases the airline had experienced after devaluation of the FCFA in January 1994. Its
privatization has now been agreed upon and negotiations with strategic private shareholders
should be complete by the end of 2000. This should reduce a large drain on the public budget.
Naganagani was liquidated in 1993. Based on studies under the project, a private concession
agreement for airport management is also being prepared with assistance from Agence Francaise
de Developpement. A private operator will be hired on an international competitive basis for the
- 5 -



management of the two largest airports (Ouagadougou and Bobo-Diolasso). Tender documents
are being prepared and bids will be invited by the end of 2000. This arrangement is expected to
improve efficiency and reduce the drain on the public budget.
Maintaining and rehabilitating transport infrastructure: The capacity to maintain and rehabilitate
transport infrastructure has been greatly enhanced. Road maintenance operations were made
much more efficient by involving private contractors and creating a private company to lease
equipment to the contractors. Public sector capacity to manage contracting has been created.
Improved road conditions have contributed to a lowering of transport costs and improved
mobility as demonstrated in the surveys conducted in 1998. The prospective for improved railway
operations and maintenance has also been greatly enhanced with the concession of railway
operations to a private company.
The 3 1/2 year delay in the closing date was largely to accommodate the procurement of railway
equipment, which had been delayed by the railway privatization process, the privatization of Air
Burkina and the concessioning of the airports. These delays did not detract from the overall
satisfactory outcome of the project. Because of privatization and improved efficiency in so many
sub-sectors, which was planned only to involve public sector rehabilitation at the beginning of the
project, and the restructuring and privatization of road maintenance, the outcome of the project is
considered satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Physical Components
(i) Road maintenance: MIHU has made substantial progress in financing routine maintenance of
the priority network. Important institutional reforms were made to involve the private sector.
MIHU provided the agreed amounts to the road maintenance budget annually and disbursed
FCFA 5 billion per year during the 1992 to 2000 period. Since the paved road system supports
80% of traffic, the focus on paved roads has led to a large improvement in conditions and road
transport. The rehabilitation program of paved roads has been entirely carried out between 1994
and 1999. Due to improved road conditions, road passenger and freight costs have not increased
appreciably since 1994, in spite of a 50% devaluation of the FCFA. Data from surveys in 1998
and 1997 shows that the condition of road surfaces has improved. The part of the network
assessed to be in bad or very bad condition decreased from 48% in 1997 to 27% in 1999.
However, in the case of unpaved roads these results reflect the condition of road surfaces and not
the degree to which the roads have been worn down structurally. More than 50% of unpaved
roads in the network showed deterioration due to lack of sufficient periodic maintenance.
Although financing of routine maintenance began in 1992, periodic maintenance did not begin on
surfaced roads until 1995 and on earth roads until 1997, due in part to delays by some
co-financiers and inadequate selection of priorities. Therefore, most of the roads originally
scheduled for periodic maintenance ultimately needed to be rehabilitated, requiring more funds
and a reallocation of funds within PASEC-T. The large effort during the project to provide
routine maintenance could not compensate for the rehabilitation and maintenance ultimately
required. Delays in the financing of periodic maintenance by some donors increased the cost of
road maintenance, in particular for unpaved roads which will need to be rehabilitated.
- 6 -



(ii) Railway equipment: procurement and rehabilitation of railway equipment was completed late
in the project period after good working arrangements between SITARAIL and SOPAFER-B
were established. This included rolling stock rehabilitation and the procurement and installation
of communications equipment. This equipment contributed to the improvements in railway
operations after 1998.
In spite of some shortcomings in road maintenance noted above due to donors late involvement,
given the overall progress in road maintenance and railway performance, the physical components
of the project are evaluated to be satisfactory.
Public Sector Development
(i) Reforms in road maintenance: Technical assistance played a key role in increasing the capacity
for road administration and facilitating reforms. The large road maintenance program was also
made possible by important reforms in road administration, replacing the existing force account
system with a system of contracting to the private sector, and privatization of road maintenance
equipment (see Section 4.5). A road data base has been set up and is being mai ntained to assist in
the planning of road maintenance programs.
(ii) Sector Administration: The program has helped to develop capacity within the Department of
Land and Maritime Transportation (DTTM) of the Ministry of Transport and Tourism (MTT) and
the committees and agencies responsible for transport through the provision of technical
assistance, equipment and financing the construction of facilities (see Section 4.5).
Outputs under the above components are judged to be satisfactory.
Institutional/Private Sector Development
(i) Road passenger transport: Early in the project period (mid-1992), the Government began to
accept that rather than restructuring Regie X9, given its large arrears, a 40% decrease in
equipment availability, and difficulties instituting operational improvements and staff reduction,
privatization was the only viable option. The process advanced slowly. Internat:ional bidding was
approved by the National Assembly in 1994 and a concession agreement was signed with a private
operator in June 1996 establishing a private company, SOTRAO. The conditions applicable to
urban transport for tranche release were changed in May 1995. Launching of the bidding process
was made a condition of second tranche release, and signature of the concession agreement was a
condition of the third release. The concession agreement was signed in 1996. NVhile service has
improved and Government has been relieved of a financial burden, SOTRAO remains a monopoly
provider with service limited to only five corridors in Ouagadougou. An urban transport policy
paper was prepared near the end of the project period to assess further steps necessary to improve
urban transport through a more competitive service provision system.
(ii) Railway restructuring: There was a commitment in the Credit Agreement to reduce SCFB's
staff costs from 85% to 47% of revenue. This was not possible, especially with freight volume
- 7-



decreasing. In 1992 authorities of Burkina Faso and Cote d'Ivoire announced their intention to
restore the competitiveness of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou corridor by establishing a private
railway operating company (SITARAIL) with two patrimony companies (SOPAFER-B in
Burkina Faso) for the ownership and management of railway assets. Negotiations between
SITARAIL and the patrimony companies and govemments were detailed and lengthy. A
Protocole dAccord was signed in July 1994, and a concession agreement was signed in 1995.
Given this progress, conditions related to railways for the second and third tranche releases were
waived. Conflicts persisted for some time between the concessionaire and SOPAFER-B and in
signing subsidiary lending agreements between the Government and SOPAFER-B to finance new
railway equipment from donor lending.
(iii) Freight airline: Naganagani's untenable financial position was confirmed in a 1992 audit and
there was a decision to liquidate the company. Its one plane was sold in 1994, but residual issues
related to liquidation were not resolved until 1995 when the company was finally liquidated.
(iv) Air Burkina: A contract-plan for Air Burkina was agreed with Government in 1992, but the
required staff reduction was difficult to achieve and there was no other way to contain costs
sufficiently. A 1994 audit showed continuing high deficits, and devaluation made previous
contract plan obsolete. The May 1995 amendment to the credit agreement made the adoption of
a new action plan for Air Burkina a condition of the second tranche release and progress in
implementation a condition of the third tranche. An action plan calling for partial privatization was
prepared in 1995 allowing the second tranche release, but subsequent progress was slow. The
Government then chose to proceed with full privatization, but this too progressed slowly. Finally,
the Government decided to divest of Air Burkina and allow private operators to take over the
company. Negotiations are underway with strategic shareholders of the new company.
(v) Airports: Due to unavoidable delays, the presentation of an action plan for restructuring
airport management (Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso) was changed from a condition of
second to third tranche release in the 1995 amendment to the Credit Agreement. A 1995 study
proposed the separation of airport management from sector administration. In December 1997
IDA was informed of the Government's intent to pursue this option and to create a mixed
public/private company for airport management based on feasibility studies carried out in 1998
and 1999. In 1999 the Government agreed to enter into a concession agreement for both airports
(Ouagadougou and Bobo-Diolasso) with a private operator on a competitive basis. Bidding
documents and concession agreements are being prepared and tendering is planned by the end of
2000.
(vi) Road Maintenance: The shift by DGTP/DGR from force account to the contracting out of
road works was accompanied by efforts to develop the capacity of small and medium enterprises
(SMEs) to undertake road maintenance. A targeted training program was provided to local
SMEs and engineering firms, financed by the African Development Bank. About FCFA 4 billion
in contract amounts have been available to SMEs yearly, but their development has been limited.
There was a proliferation of small enterprises competing for maintenance works. The small
average size of contracts (FCFA 9 million) and the small percentage of registered enterprises
receiving contracts indicates scope for further SME development. The Equipment Directorate
- 8 -



has been liquidated. A state owned leasing company was established and later s,old to private
operators on a competitive basis.
Although at appraisal only public sector management improvements had been sought, in many
cases privatization was achieved, which is already leading to improved efficiency in several
sub-sectors. Because of this development, the outcome under the above componients is
considered highly satisfactory.
Environmental and Social Impacts
(i) Environment. The project was appraised in 1991 before the Bank's environmental safeguards
were in place. However, all road improvements consisted of rehabilitation and maintenance along
existing right-of-ways which had no involuntary resettlement. Starting in 1996, the implementing
agency was asked to incorporate environmental assessments into the design of maintenance
works. During the supervision of works, any necessary mitigation works were required to be
undertaken.
(ii) Poverty Impact. Although poverty alleviation was not an explicit objective of the project,
the road maintenance program has contributed greatly to increased mobility and reduced transport
costs. The economic and social impact of the project has been assessed during the preparation of
the sector strategy note in 1999. These benefits have affected populations throughout the
country, including in rural areas. The quality of road passenger transport has i.mproved and cost
increases have been modest despite a 50% devaluation of the FCFA in 1994. Road freight tariffs
have also not increased due to a large extent to improved road conditions. The large amounts
spent on road maintenance through the newly privatized maintenance system have generated a
large amount of employment for unskilled workers. It is estimated that over 30 million person
days of employment were generated during the seven year maintenance and investment program,
thus, contributing to alleviate poverty in the country.
4.3 A'et Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Technical and economic analysis of proposed road investments was made before the project, and
EERs were calculated for proposed road segments as the project progressed. Technical
assistance was provided under the project to assist DGTP/DGR to establish a system for
economic assessment of individual road investments during the project period. Consultants
worked with staff to introduce the HDM highway maintenance model which systematically
assesses the system and designs a maintenance program with the highest economic rate of return.
All investments were expected to yield economic rates of return of at least 12%. Most donors
followed the program outlined by DGTP. Since most investments were in road rehabilitation and
maintenance, high rates of return were generally achieved.
In 1998 a sampling of rehabilitation works on unpaved roads already undertak:en under PASEC-T
was found to have yielded EERs of 20% and more. Road rehabilitation financed by IDA has
been limited to unpaved roads which generally carried more traffic than the roads which were
subject to the 1998 evaluation. Since IDA financed roads had similar costs per kilometer as the
1998 sample and carry more traffic, the EERs of IDA financed road improvements are higher than
-9-



20% and far beyond the required 12% cut off. It should be noted, however, that in a few
instances roads financed by some donors, probably politically motivated, could not be
satisfactorily demonstrated to yield such acceptable rates of return.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
During project preparation SNCB, Regie X-9, Air Burkina, Naganagani, and the airport authority
were subjected to detailed institutional and financial analysis and it was agreed that performance
contracts would be made between these agencies and Government to move them towards
financial solvency. In the end, all of the agencies, except for Naganagani which was liquidated,
experienced such large and growing deficits that privatization and concessioning were chosen as
the only viable outcomes. Under this changed strategy, the previous financial analysis became less
relevant. Achieving viable rates of return has become the responsibility of the private operators.
4.5 Institutional development imnpact:
Under the project, road management within the MIUH was reorganized with a new mandate. The
DGTP was restructured in 1992 to be responsible for the planning and execution of road
programs including most maintenance contract procurement. The focus of Government shifted
from direct implementation to contract planning and supervision of private sector enterprises.
Simplified procurement procedures were established in 1992 for small maintenance works. There
are ten Regional Directorates to handle routine maintenance and management of the network at
the regional level. The number of employees was reduced from 1,100 to 423. The General
Directorate of Equipment was reorganized into a public leasing enterprise, and its assets were
subsequently sold to private sector operators at two times book value. Training courses for
DGTP staff were organized with assistance from the ILO and other donors. The DGTP was
reorganized into the Directorate General of Roads (DGR) in 1998. DGTP/DGR benefited
considerably from technical assistance and training provided under the project. Staffing is
adequate, but there is a need for more qualified staff and an improved management structure.
Engineers are trained and qualified in maintenance planning procedures and works supervision.
However, there has been an engineering rivalry between the two agencies during the
amalgamation and there remains a need for additional capacity building within DGR. Sustaining
adequate staff will depend on Government and ministry staffing strategies. DGTP/DGR has a
computerized road data bank which was used to prepare a sector strategy note and a Priority
Investment Plan in 1998 and is being maintained.
The DTTM under the MTT was assisted by the French Cooperation (FAC) to rehabilitate offices
in Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso and to computerize driver and vehicle licensing. The
DTTM was also assisted to build a data base on road and urban transport. New computers have
been in service since April 2000 and are being properly operated. The data base is being kept up
to date. The program also has supported efforts to improve road safety through the improvement
of road statistics and the training of driving instructors. A National Committee for Road Security
(CONASER) was established in 1997. The premises of the Center for Automobile Control
(CCVA) were rehabilitated under the project in 1998. In spite of progress consolidating the
DTTM, national and intemational transport remains constrained by over-regulation, lack of
adequate vehicles, and unofficial control points.
- 10 -



A report on urban transport was prepared in 1996, and an Executive Committee fior Urban
Transport (CETOU) was established in 1997 to coordinate activities among the many agencies
involved. These have proved to be only the first steps to improving road safety, vehicle
registration and urban transport. Road safety would best be financed and coordinated by an
agency such as CCVA, rather than a committee. CCVA would best focus on road safety rather
than reimbursable services, such as auto repair, which compete with the private sector. CETOU
could coordinate urban transport, but it would best be chaired by the municipality which has a
direct stake in this issue.
An interministerial Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was used to coordinate implementation
between Govemment agencies and donors. This was necessary given the large scope of the
project (investment and structural adjustment, the large number of donors and the new types of
policies being introduced in Burkina Faso). But the PCU has not inhibited the required
institutional development in line ministries and agencies. In fact, as a result of the institutional
development work under the project within MIUH and MTT, major reforms have been achieved.
Public sector management has improved in the transport sector through restructuring and human
resource development. The MTT formulates policy and maintains an effective policy dialogue
with donors. MIUH maintains a road data base and contracts and supervises road contractors.
Further support will be needed to consolidate these gains.
Institutional development is rated substantial.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
The FCFA was devalued during the project period. This especially exacerbated the financial
deficits of Air Burkina and SCFB making privatization the only viable alternative.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government provided funds to the maintenance budget, with the exception of a shortfall in
1996 which was made up in the following year's budget. It supported the restructuring of DGTP
and, with some delay, established the positions necessary to manage the new directorate.
Decisions on institutional restructuring and ultimately on privatization took longer, causing delays
in the second and third tranche releases and in project closing. This was not unusual, given the
political sensitivity of the decisions and their social impact in a newly democratic society.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The DGTP was restructured to enable it to move from force account to contracting, which was a
positive achievement. However, the road maintenance program, especially periodic maintenance,
did not proceed quickly enough to preserve road assets during the project period. Some of the
delays, however, were due to delays in donor financing in spite of the Government's efforts to
mobilize the donors. Some investments had low EERs. It was clear that for political reasons
- 1 1 -



some donors favored financing new investment rather than maintenance of roads.
The MTT agreed to privatization of the railway and urban transport when it became clear there
was no alternative. There were delays in negotiations between SITARAIL, SOPAFER-B and the
Government, but in the end they were successful. There were also delays in
restructuring/privatizing Air Burkina and airport management, but the final solution adopted
(privatization) should prove to be better than those designed earlier.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The actual cost of the PASEC-T was US$ 392 million compared to an appraisal estimate of US$
463 million (see Annex 2). This was due to a failure to fully close the original financing gap and
by delays in some cofinanciers' programs which are yet to be completed and are not included in
the costs to date. There were particularly large delays in funding from the Africa Development
Bank, only part of which were made up by IDA and other donors.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely.
The reorganization of road maintenance under DGR with involvement of the private sector has
done much to improve the prospects for preserving road assets. There is a focus on routine
maintenance which has reduced the need for periodic maintenance and costly reconstruction.
More focus on routine maintenance and less on upgrading will be needed to achieve greater
sustainability for the road sector. No Road Fund was created under the project, which is a tool
used in many countries to promote sustainable funding of maintenance. This has not been a
problem in Burkina Faso. Maintenance financing has been provided from the Government budget
on a regular basis. The Government provided FCFA 40 billion for road maintenance over seven
years, with a shortfall in 1996 which was made up the next year. This resulted from the good
dialogue between the Government, the project Ministries and agencies and the donors.
Cooperation from the Ministry of Finance was also a major factor. This was cited by the donors
at a meeting in May 2000 to be a good example of Government commitment to road maintenance.
Most donors pledged future support for financing sector development and public investment, and
they requested continued Bank involvement and leadership.
Improvements in the MTT need to be further consolidated, but they are likely to be sustainable.
The use of a Project Coordination Unit is not considered to have constrained sustainability (see
Section 4.5).
Privatized rail transport is sustainable. Under the new arrangement freight levels rose from 540
thousand tons in 1996 to 643 thousand tons in 1998 (more recent data indicates this figure is
approaching 1 million tons). State subsidies are no longer needed, and a priority investment
program is underway. Urban transport in Ouagadougou has been privatized and state subsidies
are no longer needed, but further improvements in urban transport are needed. Privatized airline
and airport operations should also be more sustainable.
- 12 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most arrangements for transition to regular operation have already been made. The concession
for railway management is in place, and SOPAFER-B has been audited and has new information
systems. The privatization of urban transport has been completed. Transition arraLngements will
be completed soon with the privatization of Air Burkina and concessioning of airport
management. Both activities are being followed up on by a Bank-supported private sector
operation and a project supported by Agence Francaise de Developpement. The reorganization of
highway maintenance under the DGR has been accomplished, although additional capacity
building is required.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The reform agenda initially outlined for the project, although less ambitious than the reforms
ultimately achieved, was well formulated to meet Burkina Faso's adjustment and investment
needs. The investment and adjustment programs were complicated and required a commitment to
change. Bank missions took the lead in building consensus among several Government agencies
and ten donors in order to shape the program. Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
7.2 Supevision:
Twenty supervision missions were undertaken from early 1992 to late 1999, an average of 2 l/2
missions per year. Supervision reporting was very clear and effective. Almost all missions were
staffed with at least one transport economist and a transport engineer. There was exceptional
continuity in staffing. The original task manager, who had also been responsible for project
preparation, remained with the project through the sixteenth supervision mission in January 1998
when most of the project had been completed.
Missions maintained the contacts built up with other donors, visiting them routinely during
supervision. A Mid-term Review was carried out in December 1995 attended by the 10
cofinanciers. The review noted good progress in administrative restructuring, and satisfactory
progress in parastatal reform with some delays. The road investment program was noted to be
satisfactory except for delays in the execution of periodic maintenance of earth roads due to a
shortfall of donor funding. There were low rates of return on some road sections financed by
some donors in spite of Bank opposition.
Bank supervision showed flexibility. When viable restructuring plans for parastatals could not be
established, missions changed course and worked persistently to achieve even better solutions.
The Bank provided particularly strong and coordinated assistance to achieve privatization of the
railway which involved parallel operations in Burkina Faso and Cote d'Ivoire. The supervision
team worked very closely with the country team and the PSD team which was important a the
privatization aspects of the project gained importance.
- 13 -



In the later years of the project, Bank missions encouraged the Government to use remaining
project funds to plan a strategy for future development in the sector. In October 1999, a
conference was held in Ouagadougou with Burkina officials, Bank staff and representatives of
donor agencies to agree on a sector strategy and Priority Investment Program for 2000-2004.
Sector staffing and a PIP were completed in January 2000 and have been widely distributed as a
reference for planning further sector improvements and investments.
Bank performance during supervision is rated highly satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given the particularly strong performance during supervision and the reforms achieved in several
sub-sectors which exceeded original expectations, overall Bank performance is rated highly
satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation of the project involved two ministries and several agencies. The Ministry of
Equipment (later MIUH) agreed to the contracting out of maintenance works and organizational
and staff restructuring. To prepare the project, the Ministry undertook studies, with consultant
assistance, of numerous aspects of the roads sector. Likewise, the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (later MTT) undertook studies of road transport, including studies of transport
agencies under the tutelage of the Ministry of Transport and Communications (railway, civil
aviation, X9). These studies formed the basis for discussion in the seminars and during appraisal
which led to the definition of each component. Preparation by the borrower is rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
When the original programs to reform transport parastatals yielded inadequate results, the
Govemment was slow to develop privatization plans. This was understandable given the political
sensitivity of this type of reform. In the end, the Govemment made important decisions leading to
privatization of the railways, urban transport, airlines and air transport which led to much
improved solutions.
The transformation to private contracting of road maintenance was successful, and the
implementation of the roads program was also quite successful, given the overall improvements in
road conditions (see Section 4.2). However, the priority given to new investments in paved
roads as opposed to maintenance of unpaved roads will need to be redressed in the future.
Govemment performance is rated satisfactory. Had the Borrower fully complied with the
investment criteria, the Govemment's performance would have been rated Highly Satisfactory
(HS).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
There were two ministries and several agencies involved in the implementation of the project. The
- 14 -



restructured DGTP privatized road maintenance and divested the Government's stock of
maintenance equipment. It improved staffing skills for the new functions and improved the road
data base. While this provides a vastly improved basis for future development of the roads sector,
more effort is required to improve road maintenance, particularly of gravel roads. The DTTM
under the MTT has improved its capacity to manage road and urban transport, and to promote
road safety.
The PCU managed the project well. It prepared quarterly and annual progress reports, and it
commissioned six month technical and financial audits. It provided continuous coordination and
technical support. It prepared good documentation for the Mid-term Review and a project
completion report. Only a few problems were noted with audits of project funds, which were
addressed. Overall, implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Especially given the large effort during preparation, the willingness of the Government to adopt
privatization when less comprehensive measures failed, and the deep involvement of the
implementing agencies, overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*  Continuity of mission staffing by the Bank is important. The original task manager maintained
her participation in the project from 1988 until 1997, which greatly contributed to the success
of the project.
*  Contract-plans (performance contracts) for improving the efficiency of parastatal agencies
were common during the 1980s and early 1990s. Experience in this and other projects has
shown that the incentive and political will for reforming parastatals is often lacking, even when
well conceived plans are prepared.
*  When faced with difficulties achieving institutional and other types of ref ormn, opportunistic,
flexible supervision can make an important difference. Supervision missions saw the
opportunity to achieve the project objectives through other means. They pushed for
privatization rather than restructuring parastatals and involved others in the Bank (e.g.
country teams, PSD) in this effort. This took longer, but the results were much more profound
and sustainable.
*  In order to preserve road assets, it is important to focus on routine and periodic maintenance.
In order to focus on maintenance and to avoid the direction of funds to uneconomic projects,
road investment plans should be established which give priority to maintenance and rank
investments according to economic criteria. Proposed investmnents should be ranked
according to expected IRRs, with the highest given priority. No investrnents below a
minimum threshold should be included.
* Donor coordination is very important. The project involved a large donor coordination effort,
- 15-



much of which was successful. However, it was clear that three donors did not want to
finance road maintenance at the standards and with the economic criteria agreed upon earlier.
Even well structured donor coordination efforts are vulnerable to this type of problem.
*  The preparation of sector strategy notes and Public Investment Programs (PIPs) as projects
near conclusion is a useful way to draw lessons from implementation and chart the path for
future programs and projects in the sector.
* For this project, a hybrid approach was well suited to achieve sector reforms as well as
investment. However, in the future a Sector Investment Program (SIP) could be considered if
it could achieve enough leverage to deepen the institutional development reforms. A
programmatic approach could be considered provided adequate indicators and assurances
could be stipulated to link performance indicators to donor financing.
* When the role and responsibilities of the PCU are well defined, the institutional development
in line ministries and agencies are not inhibited.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implemnenting agency:
The borrower prepared its own completion report, data from which has been used to complete
this ICR. The borrower also reviewed a draft of this ICR and made several comments, many of
which were editorial in nature. The more substantive comments included:
(i) Requests for bids for airport management should be sent out by the end of 2000, based on
studies undertaken during the project.
(ii) More definitive information was given about the process of privatization of Air Burkina, that it
will be liquidated, leaving private operators to create a new company. This is now reflected in the
ICR.
(iii) Some rivalries have emerged between DGR and DGTP.
(iv) Representatives of the World Bank, other donors and the Government met in October 1999
to adopt a strategy for 2000-2004 which was submitted to a Donors' Round Table meeting in
May 2000.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The draft ICR was circulated to the major cofinanciers for comment. Comments were received
only from the Agence Francaise de Developpement:
(i) A request for proposal has been issued for a consulting firm which will assist the Burkinabe
officials to recruit a private operator to manage the concession of the airports in Ouagadougou
and Bobo Dioulasso. These could be operating in the first semester of 2002.
(ii) The concession contract for railways had an initial period of five years and will soon have to
be renegotiated.
- 16 -



(iii) AFD (and other donor agencies are surprised that IDA does not plan to sulpport a second
Transport Sector Loan. This seems to contradict previous IDA statements).
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 17 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome J Impact Indicators:
1. Improving efficiency of sector operations
a. Railway Operahions
- Goal surpassed. Railways privatized; drain
- Reduction of operating losses                                            on national budget eliminated
Improve rail services                                                     - Freight levels rose from 643,000 tons in
1996 to more than 1 milion tons.
b. Urban Bus Transport
- Goal surpassed. X-9 pnvatized
- Reduction of operating losses                                             - Operating losses reduced
- Improved service                                                          - Service improved somewhat; more
required
c. Airlines and Airports
- Goal surpassed. Freight airline liquidated,
- Reduction of operating losses                                            eliminating losses, Air Burkina and Airports
- Improve services                                                         being privatized/concessioned to liquidate
losses
- Improved service expected
2. Maintaining and Rehabilitating Transport                                   - Improvements achieved in road conditions:
Infrastructure                                                                               1998         1998
Good/Exel  25.5%         20.2%
a. Roads                                                                      Fair          40.0%         59.2%
Poor/bad    26.5%        20.6%
- Financing of roads maintenance secured.
- Mobility has increased. Cost of road
passenger and freight transport has become
remained even despie a 50% devaluation of
the FCFA.
- Freight traffic increased by more than 5% a
year.
- Financial situation restored.
b. Railway Infrastructure                                                     Rolling stock rehabilitated and equipment
purchased. Freight levels rose (see above)
Separate Outcome and Output Indicators were not prepared at appraisal.
Output Indicators:
- 18 -



1. Road maintenance
- Institutional irnprovements:
- Works to be contracted to PMEs                                            -100% of maintenance works contracted to
SMEs
- DGTP to focus on programming and mgnt                                     - DGTP reorganized from a public works
agency to programming and control.
- Maintenance to focus on priority network                                  - Annual maintenance program fbcused 90%
on priority netvork; roling three year program
in place.
- New procurement and works procedures to                                   - New procurei nent and works supervision
be put in place                                                             procedures being followed in 95% of cases.
- Payments of contractors to be made hi 60
days                                                                        - Payment delays less than 60 days.
- 100% of recurrent costs to be In budget
- 100% of annual recurrent costs included in
- New headquarters offices.                                                 budget.
-New headquarters offices constructed.
-Improvement in the priority road network                                   - Rehabilitatiorn program of paved road
completed (more than 300 kin).
- Routine maintenance on priority network
regularly executed.
2. Road Transport Component
- Improve sector administration                                             -Statistical base built; only modest gains with
regional integration issues
- Capacity building for transporters                                        Failed to achieve improvement
- % of vehicles subject to technical control                                Only 70% by 1997
(goal 100%)
- Periodic road safety campaigns                                            Annual campaigns undertaken
- Improve central and regional headquarters                                 Improved and better equipped facilfties in
place
End of project
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Roads                                               331.40         330.10           100
Road Transport                                       10.20            1.80           18
Rail Transport                                       28.70          24.41            85
Civil Aviation                                        2.50            1.24           50
Transport Sector Administration                       2.10           2.67            127
Other                                                 0.00           2.07
Adjustment Component                                 30.00          30.00           100
Total Baseline Cost                                 404.90         392.29
Physical Contingencies                              26.10
Price Contingencies                                 32.40
Total Project Costs            463.40         392.29
Total Financing Required            463.40          392.29
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     14.30         5.40         0.00         357.80       377.50
(14.30)      (5.40)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (19.70)
2. Goods                     0.60          1.50          0.00        25.00        27.10
(0.60)       (1.50)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.10)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         14.20         14.60       28.80
(0.00)       (0.00)       (14.20)       (0.00)       (14.20)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     14.90          6.90         14.20       397.40       433.40
(14.90)      (6.90)        (14.20)       (0.00)      (36.00)
"Other" includes consulting services, technical assistance and training.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
- 20 -



1. Works                         12.29           4.13           0.97           289.57        306.96
(12.29)         (4.13)         (0.97)         (0.00)         (17.39)
2. Goods                          0.00           4.56            0.00           7.07          11.63
(0.00)         (4.56)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (4.56)
3. Services                       0.00           0.00           11.88          29.56          41.44
(0.00)         (0.00)         (11.88)         (0.00)        (11.88)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            2.07           0.00           2.07
(0.00)         (0.00)          (2.07)         (0.00)         (2.07)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         12.29           8.69           14.92          326.20         362.10
_   (12.29)          (8.69)        (14.92)         (0.00)        (35.90)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs inc lude contingencies.
2 Includes civil woxks and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting scrvices, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
3/ IDA financing amounts do not include structural adjustment amount of $30 million.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Roads                     28.10      71.20     286.10     22.30      68.50     225.20    79.4   96.2   78.7
Road Transport            7.00                 10.80      0.61                 20.99     8.7            194.4
Rail Transport             3.60                28.00      9.08                  8.66    252.2           30.9
Civil Aviation            2.60                             1.24                 o.00     47.7
Sector Administration      1.00                 1.30      3.22                  1.52    322.0           116.9
Adjustment Component      30.00                           30.00                         100.0
- 21 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Technical and economic analysis of proposed road investments was made before the project, and
EERs were calculated for proposed road segments as the project progressed. Technical
assistance was provided under the project to assist DGTP/DGR to establish a system for
economic assessment of individual road investments during the project period. Consultants
worked with staff to introduce the HDM highway maintenance model which systematically
assesses the system and designs a maintenance program with the highest economic rate of return.
All investments were expected to yield economic rates of return of at least 12%. Most donors
followed the program outlined by DGTP and their consultants. Since most investments were in
road rehabilitation and maintenance, high rates of return were generally achieved.
In 1998 a sampling of rehabilitation works on unpaved roads already undertaken under PASEC-T
was found to have yielded EERs of 20% and more. Road rehabilitation financed by IDA has
been limited to unpaved roads which generally carried more traffic than the roads which were
subject to the 1998 evaluation. Since IDA financed roads had similar costs per kilometer as the
1998 sample and carry more traffic, the EERs of IDA financed road improvements are higher than
20% and far beyond the required 12% cut off. It should be noted, however, that in a few
instances roads financed by some donors, probably politically motivated, could not be
satisfactorily demonstrated to yield such acceptable rates of return.
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
()M issions.                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _
Sta) ionf :rject Cyc~1e            No. of Personsw Sit               -         o
-(eg. 2 Economiss 1 FS, etc.)     Implemettion FD  eeom  t
-  Mn         Co             eiS     :  -       untp ! Sp:ecialt  r        Obj eCti
Identification/Preparation
11/89                        3   Econ. Mun Engineer, Rd. Eng
3/90                         3   Econ. Mun. Eng, Rd. Eng.
7/90                         4   Econ, Rd. Eng., Const Ind.
Spec. Division Chief
11/90                        6   Econ, Fin. Analyst, Const Eng,
Rd Eng, Rail Spec, Div. Chief
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/91                         7   Econ, Fin Analyst, Const
Spec, Rd Eng, RR Eng,
Transp. Econ, Fin. Mgnt
Spec
12/91                        2   Econ, Rd. Eng.
(post negotiations)
Supervision
3/92                          2  Econ, Eng.
6/92                          3  Econ. Rd. Eng, RR Eng.               S                 S
11/92                         3  Econ, Rd. Eng, RR Eng.               S                S
3/93                          1  Econ                                 S                 S
4/93                          3  Econ, Rd. Eng, RR Eng                S                 S
11/93                         3  Econ. Rd. Eng.                       S                S
4/94                          4  Econ (2), Rd Eng, RR Eng.            S                 S
7/94                          2  Econ, Rd Eng.                        S                 S
2/95                          2  Econ, Rd. Eng                       HS                HS
5/95                          1  RR Eng.                              S                HS
12/95                        5  Econ, Urb Transp. Sec, Rd Eng         S                HS
(2) Div Chief
3/96                          2  Econ, Rd Eng.                        S                HS
7/96                          2  Econ, Rd Eng                         S                HS
11/96                         1  Rd Eng                               S                HS
3/97                          2  Econ, Rd. Eng.                       S                 S
1/98                          3  Econ, Rd.Eng., RR Eng.               S                S
10/98                         3  Trans. Eng. (2), Fin. Analyst        S                 S
3/99                          2  Transport Eng. (2)                   S                 S
11/99                            Transport Eng (2)                    S                 S
ICR
5/00                         2   Transport Eng (2)                    S                 S
(Not an ICR mission)
(b) Staff:
- 23 -



Stage of Procect Cycle             -       Actua/atcst Estimateo0.     :
:: i E ! : ~~No. Staff weeks                  iS  (,000) :
Identification/Preparation               143.9                        462.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                     34.2                         75.2
Supervision                              203.9                       601.7
ICR                                       12.3                         13.2
Total                                    394.3                       1152.3
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Sector Policies                       OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
El Physical                              OH  * SUOM  O N  O NA
El Financial                             OH   *SUOM  O N  O NA
OI Institutional Development             OH  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
OI Environmental                         OH   OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction               OH  OSU*M  ON  O NA
G Gender                          OH OSUOM ON *NA
Oi Other (Please specify)         OH   OSUOM  ON  * NA
I Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                 OH   OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactoiy, U=Unsatisfactoty, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
El Lending                                          OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                           OHS OS  O u  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
0 Preparation                                       OHS OS  0 U   O HU
0 Government implementation performance             O HS O S  O U  0 HU
L Implementation agencyperformance                  O HS O S  O U  0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
-26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report
Credit Agreement
Supervision Reports
Aide-Memoire of the Project Completion Mission
Project Agency's Completion Report
Borrower's Contribution
- 27 -



Annexe S. Aide-memoire of the last supervision mission
Burkina Faso - Projet d'Ajustement Sectoriel des Transports (PASEC-T)
21eme Mission de Supervision du 15 au 19 mai 2000
(Credit 2332-BUR)
Aide-Memoire
A.    INTRODUCIION
1.    Une mission composee de MM. Hedi Larbi et Dieter Schelling a sejourne au
Burkina du 15 au 19 mai 2000 pour suivre le Projet d'Ajustement Sectoriel des
Transports et participer a la reunion des bailleurs de fonds, organisee par les autorites
Burkinabe, pour presenter les conclusions de la strategie de developpement et du
programme d'investissements prioritaires 2000-2004 du secteur des Transports et du
Tourisme.
2.    Les principaux objectifs de cette mission de supervision sont de: (i) evaluer,
avec les responsables des differentes agences impliquees dans l'execution du projet,
1'etat d'avancement des differentes activites du PASEC-T convenues lors de la mission
du mois de novembre 1999 en vue de cl6turer le projet comme convenu au 30 juin
2000; (ii) apprecier l'etat d'avancement dans la preparation du rapport d'achevement
du projet ; et (iii) participer a la reunion des bailleurs de fonds (18 et 19 mai) sur la
strat6gie du secteur et le programme d'investissement prioritaire du secteur pour la
pnriode 2000-2004.
3.    En etroite collaboration avec le Coordinateur du PASEC-T et les agences
impliquees dans l'execution des projets, la mission a revu les differentes activites en
cours d'achevement avec les responsables de l'Administration (DGR et ses structures,
MTT, SITARAIL et SOPAFER-B) et les representants des entreprises et organismes
du secteur.
4.    La mission a eu l'honneur d'etre re,ue par t S. E. M. A. B. Yoda, Ministre des
Transports et du Tourisme et S. E. M. H. Lingani, Ministre des Infrastructures, de
l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme (MIHU). Au cours de ces entretiens les discussions ont
porte sur: le suivi de la mise en ceuvre du PASEC-T dans sa phase finale, les
conclusions des rapports de la strategie et le contenu du PIP du secteur prepares par
les autorites du Burkina, et enfin les perspectives d'appui de la Banque au secteur
transport.
28



5.    Au cours de cette mission des reunions de travail ont eu lieu avec des
representants de certains bailleurs de fonds, et plus precisement avec les representants
de: L'Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD), l'Union Europeenne (UE), Le
Fonds de Developpement Saoudien et la Banque Africaine de Developpement (BAD).
6.    La mission remercie vivement tous les interlocuteurs pour l'accueil chaleureux
qu'ils lui ont reserve, pour leur disponibilite et l'appui qu'ils lui ont apporte. Elle tient
a remercier plus particulierement S. E. M. A. B. Yoda, Ministre des Transports et du
Tourisme, et S. E. M. H Lingani, Ministre des Infrastructures, de l'habitat et de
l'urbanisme, pour l'excellente organisation et le bon deroulement de la reunion des
bailleurs de fonds, ou le climat d'ouverture et de collaboration que MMP les Ministres
ont su creer a permis de debattre et d'echanger avec toute franchise sur toutes les
questions interessant le developpement du secteur. Elle tient egalement a remercier le
premier responsable de la Cellule de Coordination et de Suivi du PASEC-T et toute
son equipe pour l'excellente organisation de cette reunion. Ses remerciements vont
aussi aux representants des bailleurs de fonds qu'elle a rencontre. Le present aide-
memoire resume les principales conclusions et recommandations de cette mission.
B.          GESTION DU PROGRAMME PASEC-T
7.    Gestion financiere - Audit des comptes 99 et 2000. La missSion a ete
informee que l'auditeur est actuellement en train de realiser l'audit des comptes
(comptes speciaux et releves des depenses) 1999 et les premiers mois 2000 avant la
cloture du projet prevu pour le 30 juin 2000. II est prevu que le rappcrt provisoire soit
transmis avant mi juin 2000 et le rapport final au cours du mois de juillet pour couvrir
toute la periode d'execution du PASEC-T. Le rapport final devrait tenir compte des
commentaires de l'emprunteur et si possible de ceux de l'IDA si le rapport provisoire
lui est transmis pour avis avant fin juin 2000.
8.    La mission a rappele au responsable de la Cellule de Suivi du F'ASEC-T la
necessite de mettre en oeuvre la recommandation de l'auditeur relative a la
regularisation des prets octroyes au personnel de la Cellule ainsi que les avances sur
frais. Le remboursement de ces prets doit se faire int6gralement avant la fin des
travaux de l'auditeur afin que celui-ci puisse verifier et constater la materialite de ces
remboursements. Par ailleurs, la mission souhaite que l'auditeur verifie que les
ameliorations preconisees par la mission de revue des depenses du mois de decembre
1999 ont ete effectivement mises en place et appliquees.
9.     En ce qui concerne les frais de representation relevees par la mnission de revue
des depenses de la Banque au mois de decembre 1999, la mission a e  informee que la
Cellule a transmis une reponse au charge des decaissements de la Banque pour justifier
29



la regularite de ces frais (inscrits dans le budget de fonctionnement de la Cellule et sur
lequel l'IDA a donne sa non objection). La mission traitera cette question des son
retour A Washington.
10.   C16ture du PASEC-T. La date de cl6ture du credit du PASEC-T est arret6e
au 30 juin 2000. La mission a rappele les dispositions suivantes pour la cl6ture du
projet: (i) seules les prestations effectuees au plus tard le 30 juin 2000 et jugees
eligibles seront effectivement reglees sur les fonds du credit 2332-BUR; (ii)
1'emprunteur dispose de 4 mois au maximum A partir du 1 juillet 2000 (31 octobre
2000 au plus tard) pour regler les factures des prestations realisees et respectant le
point (i); (iii) les demandes de paiements doivent etre adressees avant la fin de cette
periode de grace de 4 mois pour etre payees et que au-delA de cette date, aucun
paiement ne peut plus etre effectue A partir du compte du credit. La mission
recommande A la Cellule et aux agences d'execution de faire l'inventaire des paiements
en instances et d'informer tous les prestataires des disposition ci-dessus pour achever
les prestations en cours et transmettre des que possible les demandes de paiement.
11.   La mission s'est entretenue avec le responsable de la CCS du PASEC-T sur les
conditions de cloture du projet et en particulier sur les conditions de fonctionnement
de la Cellule pendant la periode de quatre mois autorisee pour cloturer les dossiers en
cours et regler les paiements en instance. Au cours de cette periode la mission de.la
Cellule consistera A: suivre les dossiers d'etudes et de travaux en cours, collecter les
demandes de paiements en instance et assurer leur reglement, proceder a la cloture des
comptes y compris l'apurement des comptes speciaux et l'audit des comptes de fin de
projet, classer et archiver en un lieu sOr toute la documentation (technique, financiere,
juridique etc.) du projet, regler les droits des employes de la CCS conformement A leur
contrat de travail, transferer les biens et autres acquisitions du projet A qui de droit en
fonction de la reglementation du pays. La mission consultera les services competents
de la Banque pour trouver une solution adequate a la prise en charge des frais de
fonctionnement de la CCS au cours de cette periode.
12.   Pour les retenues de garanties, la mission a ete informee que pour les travaux
acheves depuis moins de 12 moins A la date du 30 juin 2000, 1'emprunteur a pris les
dispositions adequates pour regler ces retenus moyennant une caution A 100% aupres
de banques reputees de la place.
13.   Audit technique du PASEC-T, exercice 1999 et 2000: I'audit technique des
travaux 99 et du premier semestre 2000 est en cours de realisation. Le rapport
provisoire est prevu pour fin mai 2000 dont copie sera transmise A l'IDA debut juin.
14.   Rapport d'achevement du programme PASEC-T. La mission a et6
informee que la redaction du rapport d'achevement du PASEC-T a connu un certain
retard en raison de la preparation de la strategie du secteur des transports et des
diff6rentes reunions de concertations avec les bailleurs de fonds. Le plan du rapport et
30



de son contenu ont et discutes, surtout en ce qui concerne les indicateurs de
performance, et l'adaptation de ce rapport au nouveau plan et directives proposes par
la Banque. II a ete convenu de laisser toute la liberte a l'emprunteur en ce qui conceme
la forme et la presentation du rapport tout en essayant de presenter toutes les
informations necessaire a une evaluation objective des realisations du PASEC-T. Il a
et rappele la necessite d'organiser une evaluation participative du PASEC-T et de
recueillir l'avis des bailleurs de fonds qui ont participe au PASEC-T. La mission
soubaite que ce rapport soit transmis avant le 15 juin 2000.
C.  REFORMES STRUCTURELLES ET MODERNISATIOAr DE DU
SECTEUR
15.   Privatisation d'Air Burkina: la mission a ete informee par le MATT que les
documents necessaires aux negociations avec un repreneur potentiel sont fin prets. Le
montage retenu est celui de confier la societe A un investisseur de reference (groupe
Agha Khan) qui doit disposer d'une majorite absolue du capital de la nouvelle societe
(56%) alors que le reste du capital sera d6tenu par des actionnaires au clhoix de cet
investisseur dont une part pour le personnel et l'Etat Burkinabe. La nouvelle societe
sera en place des qu'un accord sera obtenu sur la valeur de cession de l'appareil actuel
et les negociations sur les conditions de reprise sont arretees. II est prevu que la
nouvelle societe privee soit en place au plus tard en avril 2001.
16.   Gestion aeroportuaire: Suite aux differentes discussions entre le MTT et
l'AFD-IDA sur le complement d'etudes necessaires pour eclairer certaines decisions,
des Termes de Rferences ont ete prepares avec l'appui de l'AFD et le MITT a lance
une consultation restreinte pour le recrutement d'un consultant en vue de realiser ce
complement d'etude. La mission souhaite que ce dossier soit traite avec diligence pour
enfin mettre en place les decisions prises par les autorites Burkinabe et clonner a la
gestion aeroportuaire une nouvelle impulsion regionale.
17.   Transport ferroviaire: la mission a rencontre les representants de
SOPAFER-B et de SITARAIL pour faire le point sur les activites de cette
composante: (i) Artere Telecom : les travaux sont acheves et les paiements des
dernieres factures sont en cours; (ii) un avenant a ete passe pour un complement
d'equipements et de formation en telecommunication pour fin juin au plus tard; (iii)
SITARAIL souhaite utiliser un reliquat de financement (de l'ordre de 160.000 DTS)
pour un complement de cables et accessoires. En raison de la cloture imminente du
projet la mission propose de communiquer cette demande a notre sp6cialiste ferroviaire
pour avis sur l'opportunit6 de ces equipements, leurs couts et les delais diex6cution.
18.   Securite routiere: la mission a ete informee que l'ACDI (Canada) a donne
son accord pour le financement de cette etude qui vient de demarrer apres selection du
consultant. La mission recommande que cette etude integre les reflexiorns sur
l'organisation et le financement de la s6curite routiere menee lors de la preparation de
31



la strategie (re-definition de la mission du CCVA en y integrant la dimension securite
routiere en generale et non seulement le contr6le technique des vehicules).
19.   Transports urbains. L'etat d'avancement des actions convenues lors de la
mission precedente se resume ainsi:
(i) Plan de deplacement a Ouagadougou: la premiere phase de 1'etude est
achevee et la restitution de ses resultats vient d'avoir lieu. La mission souhaite
recevoir une copie du rapport de cette phase pour transmettre ses commentaires
avant la fin de cette premiere phase. Une lecture rapide de ce premier rapport a
permis de constater que la problematique de l'amelioration de l'accessibilit&mobilite
des quartiers peripheriques demunis n'est pas bien apprehendee dans cette phase de
l1'tude. Il est donc demande au consultant de bien traiter cette question a laquelle on
attachera le soin necessaire (une priorite sera donnee a cet aspect dans la suite des
interventions dans le sous secteur des transports urbains). La mission souhaite que
cette etude soit achevee avant le 30 juin 2000 date de cl6ture du projet.
ii) Le Conseil Ex&cutif des Transports Urbains de Ouagadougou (CETUO) est
desormais une structure du ministere du Transport et du Tourisme, ce qui lui
permettra de beneficier d'un appui budgetaire de l'Etat. Le document de sa creation
a ete revise et son adoption est imminent.
D.    STRATEGIE   ET   INVESTISSEMENTS   PRIORITAIRES   DES
SECTEURS DU TRANPORT ET DU TOURISME - REUNION DES
BAILLEURS DE FONDS
20.   Mise au point de la strategie et du PIP du secteur. Suite a la reunion de
concertation du mois de novembre 1999 qui avait reuni les autorites Burkinabe, les
operateurs economiques du secteur et les partenaires au developpement, les Ministeres
charges du Transport et de l'Infrastructure avec l'appui de la CCS du PASEC-T ont
finalise la strategie de developpement du secteur et mis au point le programme
d'investissements prioritaires pour les cinq prochaines annees 2001-2005. La strategie
presentee a tenu compte, dans une certaine mesure, des resultats de la reunion de
concertation rappelee ci-dessus. Le programme d'investissement prioritaire du secteur
(PIP) a et6 egalement revise pour mieux cemer les priorites mais il a ete amende pour y
inclure des investissements complementaires dans les sous secteurs des transports
ferroviaire et aerien ainsi que pour des activites de securite routiere.
21.   Une reunion des bailleurs de fonds a ete organisee par les autorites Burkinabe
a Ouagadougou les 18 et 19 mai 2000. Ont participe a cette reunion: les representants
des differentes agences et secteurs prives concernes, la cooperation Allemande, la
Banque Africaine de Developpement (BAD), la Banque Ouest Africaine de
Developpement (BOAD), I'Agence Fran,aise de Developpement (AFD), I'Agence
32



Canadienne de Developpement International (ACDI), le Fonds Europeen de
Developpement (Union Europeenne), le Fonds Saoudien de Developpement
representant egalement le Fonds Koweitien de Developpement et la BADEA, La
Republique Federale d'Allemagne representant la KFW, le Fonds CEDEAO et la
Banque Mondiale (IDA).
22.   La reunion a ete presidee par leurs excellences Messieurs les Ministres charges
de l'Economie et des Finances, des Infrastructures, et du Transport et du Tourisme.
Au cours de cette reunion des presentations ont et faites sur la strategie proposee par
les autorites Burkinabe pour assurer un developpement durable du secteur des
transports et du Tourisme en tant que secteur d'appui a l'amelioration de la
competitivite de l'economie nationale et a l'efficacite des secteurs de production de
biens et services. La strategie a couvert l'ensemble des sous secteurs de transport et a
fait l'objet de discussions et d'echanges entre les diff6rents participants.
23.   Objectif de la Reunion des bailleurs. Le principal objectif des autorites
Burkinabe a travers cette reunion est de presenter: (i) la strategie de cdveloppement
des secteurs de transport et du tourisme que les autorites souhaitent imtettre en ceuvre
avec l'appui de ses partenaires au developpement, (ii) le programme cl'investissements
prioritaires de ces deux secteurs pour la periode 2000-2004 et les besoins de
financement de ce programme. Les autorites Burkinabe ont sollicite 1' appui de ses
partenaires pour la mise en ceuvre des reformes institutionnelles du secteur, le
financement des investissements prioritaires identifies, et enfin l1'tablissement d'un
m,canisme de coordination entre les autorites et l'ensemble des bailleurs.
24.   A travers cette strategie, les autorites Burkinab6 comptent poursuivre deux
objectifs principaux: F'amelioration de la competitivite de l'economie nationale et la
reduction de la pauvrete en general et en milieu rural en particulier. Les diff6rents
echanges de points de vue au cours de cette reunion ont permis de confirmer les
priorit6s auxquelles les partenaires au developpement apporteraient l'appui necessaire
pour leur mise en place. A cet egard il a ete affirme que l'amelioration de la capacit6
de 2estion du secteur. 1'entretien regulier du patrimoine routier (Rnriodiuue et
courant), et l'amelioration de l'accessibilite de la Population rurale constituent
les princinales priorites des autorites pour le secteur de transport au cours des
cing prochaines ann&es.
25.   Principales conclusions de la reunion de concertation. La presentation
generale de la strategie du secteur a ete suivie d'une analyse et de debats portant sur
les differents volets. Les principales conclusions de la reunion sont les suivantes:
*  Infrastructure Routiere (Reseau classe): les priorites d'intervention dans ce
sous secteur sur lesquelles un consensus s'est degage sont les suivants:
33



*      (i) Sur le plan institutionnel:
- A court terrne, I'amelioration de la capacite de gestion de la DGR par le
renforcement de son personnel d'encadrement et l'assouplissement de ses procedures
de gestion;
- A moyen terme la mise en place d'une agence autonome de gestion du
reseau routier classe (la faisabilite de cette proposition sera etudiee des que possible)
ainsi que la possibilite de conceder l'entretien d'une partie du reseau revetu (apres
rehabilitation) a un op6rateur prive (cette idee fera l'objet d'une etude de faisabilite
afin d'aider a la prise de decision).
- Financement regulier et suffisant de l'entretien routier par le budget
national en fonction de: l'evolution de l'importance du reseau devant faire l'objet d'un
entretien courant (9.500 km en 2000 A 13.500 km en 2004 exigeant un budget
annuel d'au moins 8.000 millions de FCFA en 2004) et d'une contribution
progressive au financement de 1'entretien periodique de ce reseau (10 A 20% des
besoins financiers entre 2001 et 2004). La mise en place d'un Fonds Routier sera
etudiee dans la perspective d'une plus grande securisation du financement de
1'entretien routier.
- Amelioration des methodes et procedures de passation des marches et de
gestion des contrats pour reduire les delais de operations contractuelles et faciliter la
prise des decisions;
- Ameliorer et moraliser le contr6le routier d'une facon generale et
l'application stricte de la reglementation concernant la charge A l'essieu en particulier
(des stations mobiles peuvent etre mises en place a condition de s'assurer que ce
controle sera effectif et efficace).
(ii) Sur le plan technique:
La strategie technique devrait viser en priorite la preservation du patrimoine
routier, et l'optimisation de l'utilisation des ressources consacrees A l'infrastructure
routiere. Les principes suivants seront A observer:
- Programmation optimale (normes d'entretien A adapter selon les besoins du
trafic) et execution reguliere de l'entretien courant du reseau prioritaire;
- Evolution progressive de l'importance du reseau prioritaire (9.500 km en
2000 a 13.500 km en 2004) sur la base de criteres techniques (niveau
d'amenagement, insertion dans le reseau, etc.) et de trafic (au moins 10
vehicules/jour) objectifs pour la selection des sections de routes A integrer dans le
reseau prioritaire;
34



- Les niveaux d'amenagement des routes en terre (entretien periodique,
rehabilitation, amenagement dessertes des chefs lieux) doivent &re definis en
fonction de la demande A satisfaire et non en fonction de "normes ou de standards"
predefinis a I'avance. Les niveaux d'amenagement seront augmentes au fur A mesure
de la croissance du trafic.
(iii) Sur le choix des investissements:
Les priorites retenues pour les investissements futurs sont par ordre:
- Execution des travaux pour lesquels des financements sont deja engages
ou mobilises;
-  Rattrapage de 1'entretien periodique sur les routes en terre et le reseau
classe,
-   Extension du reseau en incorporant progressivement les voies de
desenclavement des chefs-lieux de departement (les niveaux d'amenagement seront
concus en fonction du trafic a satisfaire);
- Enfin les nouveaux investissements sur les routes en terre ou bitumes
devront au prealable faire l'objet d'une etude de faisabilite et ne serornt consideres
que lorsque les priorites ci-dessus sont satisfaites et que le taux de rentabilite interne
de chaque investissement est superieur A 12%. Les nouveaux investissenients seront
realises dans l'ordre descendant de leur rentabilite economique et social.
- Concemant certains investissements dont la priorite est mise en cause par
certains bailleurs de fonds dont l'IDA et I'UE, (i.e. bitumage de l'axe Ouagadougou-
Leo-Frontiere Cote d'Ivoire), il a et6 convenu que   leur realisation se fera
progressivement en fonction du niveau de trafic par section (bitumage d'un premier
tron,on A fort trafic et r6habilitation du reste de la route en terre avec construction
des ouvrages necessaire a une utilisation de la route en toute saison).
*      Transports Routiers: Afin de dynamiser ce secteur encore extremement
atomise, les actions suivantes ont ete proposees:
- suppression du systeme du tour de r6le dans les transports de voyageurs et
de marchandises au niveau des ports et des stations de chargement;
- examen de l'impact des mesures fiscales anterieures et mise en place d'un
appui fiscal temporaire et mieux cible pour permettre le renouvellement du parc de
transport de marchandises et l'amelioration de la productivite de cette branche (en
tenir compte dans le nouveau code des investissements);
- application stricte de la reglementation en vigueur et moralisation du
35



contr6le routier pour reduire les tracasseries administratives surtout au niveau des
corridors (action au niveau sous regionale envisagee);
- re-definition des missions du Conseil Burkinabe des Chargeurs pour devenir
un prestataire de services remun&6s par les transporteurs et les chargeurs
professionnels (I'appui budgetaire dont il beneficie devrait cesser d'ici 2003);
- securite routiere: definir la politique de la securite routiere au Burkina
(etude en cours financee par l'ACDI) sur la base d'un financement autonome A partir
des ressources generees par le Centre de Contr6le des Vehicules Automobiles. La
mission du CCAV pourrait etre revue pour y inclure la responsabilite de la mise en
ceuvre (sur une base contractuelle) de la politique du pays en matiere de securite
routiere au meme titre que l'activite generatrice de revenu telle que le controle
technique des vehicules.
*      Transport Ferroviaire: 1'exploitation  de  sous  secteur est desormais
concedee A un operateur prive, de ce fait les mesures proposees tendent A ameliorer
le partenariat en place:
- introduire les amenagements necessaires A une meilleure clarification des
responsabilites dans le cadre de la convention de concession en cours et prolonger sa
duree pour au moins cinq ans pour securiser les differents partenaires et leur
permettre de mettre en place des plans de d6veloppement A moyen et a long terme
(cela devrait etre fait dans de le cadre de l'imminente negociation de la concession);
- analyser les facteurs determinant les repartitions du trafic international entre
les principaux corridors et entre modes au niveau de chaque corridor pour permettre
aux autorites d'agir sur les facteurs permettant de favoriser le corridor et les modes
les plus economiques pour le Burkina;
- le choix des investissements prioritaires devra etre fait par le
Concessionnaire en fonction des besoins du trafic, de la rentabilite financiere de ces
investissements, et de la capacite de remboursement des dettes encourues pour leur
financement. Le materiel roulant et les equipements annexes seront A financer par le
concessionnaire dont it est proprietaire, en revanche l'infrastructure (entretien
periodique et rehabilitation) pourrait etre finance par appel A des credits
concessionnels a l'Etat retroced6s au concessionnaire qui en assure le service de la
dette;
*      Transport Aerien: les reformes de ce sous secteur ont connu un certain
retard en raison d'un certain nombre de decisions importantes qui n'ont pu etre prises
que tout r6cemment. 11 s'agit desormais de se concentrer sur les priorites suivantes:
- achever la privatisation d'Air Burkina et faciliter le demarrage de la
nouvelle societe privee qui sera creee;
- accelerer la mise en place du plan d'action relatif a la restructuration de la
gestion aeroportuaire (mise en concession privee de la gestion des aeroports de
Ouagadougou et de Bobo; mise en place et organisation de la DAC, etc.);
- le choix des investissements prioritaires en equipements et infrastructures
36



aeroportuaires devra etre laisse au Concessionnaire qui sera recrute en fonction de
leur rentabilite ou des imperatifs de securite. Leur financement sera precise dans le
cadre de la convention de concession (on pourra toutefois engager les etudes
necessaires pour I'extension du hall des passagers a Ouagadougou);
. Les autorites ont aussi souligne l'importance de developper la fi-equentation
de l'aeroport de Bobo-Dioulasso, au vu de sa situation geographique en
encourageant le secteur prive dans l'activite de transport aerien;
*      transports urbains: les priorites en la matiere sont les suivantes:
- supprimer le monopole d'exploitation du reseau de base accorde a
l'entreprise SOTRAO, liberaliser l'activite au niveau des deux principales villes
(Ouaga et Bobo), et encourager les investissements prives dans ce domaine
(financement et mesures fiscales);
- mettre en place le Conseil Executif des Transports UJrbains de
Ouagadougou et le doter d'un budget de fonctionnement adequat;
- renforcer les services municipaux pour assurer la gestion des transports
urbains dans l'agglomeration;
- achever les etudes en cours sur les conditions de deplacement A
Ouagadougou et definir un programme prioritaire visant A ameliorer: la securite des
pietons et des usagers des deux roues, I'accessibilite des habitants des quartiers
peripheriques, la circulation et les deplacements dans les parties centrales
congestionnees.
*      Administration du secteur des transports et du tourisme: les capacites de
gestion, de planification et de suivi du secteur demeurent faibles et necessitent d'etre
ameliorees sensiblement:
- renforcer la capacite de la DGTTM en mettant a sa disposition un
personnel qualifie en nombre suffisant et un budget de fonctionnement adequat;
- ameliorer la capacite de gestion du MTT a travers une meilleure definition
des responsabilites entre ces differentes structures, I'affectation du personnel
d'encadrement selon ses qualifications et sa formation dans la gestion du secteur, et
la mise en place d'un systeme de collecte, de traitement et d'analyse des donnees sur
les secteurs transport et tourisme;
- evaluation et amelioration des procedures actuelles de passation des marches et des
besoins en reformes et mise A jour du cadre reglementaire du secteur de transport;
*      Transport Rural: ameliorer la mobilit6 en milieu rural et l'accessibilite de la
population rurale aux services economiques et sociaux constitue une priorite des
autorites du Burkina. Les parties en presence ont souligne l'urgence de: realiser une
etude sur les aspects institutionnels de la gestion du transport rural et la necessite de
developper une strategie nationales de developpement de ce sous secteur. Le reseau
37



tertiaire sera progressivement augmente des pistes devant recevoir un amenagement
et des voies de desenclavement a condition que la gestion et l'entretien de ce reseau
soient assures par des structures et des ressources clairement identifiees.  La
necessite d'une coordination avec les interventions en cours ou programmees dans le
milieu rural a ete soulignee et des mecanismes appropries doivent etre mis en place.
Secteur du Tourisme: la strategie de developpement du secteur du tourisme
se fera en relation avec la strategie du secteur des transports. De plus, l'ensemble
des departements concernes (Culture et Arts, Environnement et Eau,
Infrastructures...) s'associeront A l'elaboration et A la mise en ceuvre de la politique
de developpement du tourisme.   A  cet egard, il a ete convenu  que les
investissements prioritaires identifies par le MTT seront soumis A l'examen et aux
possibilites de financement: des projets en cours soutenus par des bailleurs de fonds
(environnement, transport, developpement rural et agriculture, etc.), I'AFD et l'IFC
dans le cadre des financements disponibles pour le d6veloppement du secteur prive.
26.   Le financement du PIP et Coordination du Secteur. Le PIP propose aux
bailleurs de fonds a ete discute, et la plupart des bailleurs ont manifeste leur interet
quant aux possibilites de contribuer au financement de certaines parties du PIP. Le
compte rendu de cette reunion presente les contributions proposees par chacun des
bailleurs. L'IDA pour sa part a exprime son soutien au developpement du secteur de
transport au Burkina et, a la demande des autorites Burkinabe et des autres bailleurs,
elle a accepte de continuer A assumer le r6le de chef de file et de coordonnateur des
bailleurs. L'intervention et l'assistance de l'IDA seront definies lorsque les priorites du
pays seront arretees dans le cadre des travaux actuellement en cours relatifs a la
strategie de reduction de la pauvret6.
E.          VOLET ROUTIER
27.   Rapport annuel de trafic routier. Le rapport annuel de 1999 est en cours de
finalisation pour tenir compte des informations r6centes sur la consommation de
carburant. La Mission souhaite obtenir, si possible, des donnees complementaires sur
plusieurs annees dans les meilleurs delais afin de pouvoir analyser les evolutions du
trafic. La DGR a continue a explorer les possibilit6s de confier A des structures privees
la realisation et l'exploitation des comptages de trafic. Une premiere experience serait
realisee en 2000 sur une ou 2 regions pour tester la faisabilite de cette mesure.
28.   Rapports d'activites. Le dernier rapport d'activite 1999 est en cours de
preparation. II sera transmis a l'IDA au courant du mois de juin.
29.   Assistance technique. La DGR a informe la mission que l'assistance
informatique a eu lieu pendant la periode convenue et A hauteur du budget alloue. Des
besoins restent A satisfaire pour am6liorer davantage le logiciel de gestion des
marches.
38



30.   Programme d'entretien courant 1999. Les travaux d'entretien courant sont
acheves a 1'exception des travaux d'assainissement lanc:s en decembre 1999 et dont le
taux d'avancement est estime a 96% a mi-mai 2000. La mission a et informee que les
delais de paiement commencent A s'allonger en raison des nouvelles methodes de
pr6vision de tresorerie exig6es par le Tr6sor general. Une solution devraiit etre trouv6e
A ce probleme pour maintenir les bonnes performances dejA realisees par ,le MEF et
continuer A encourager le developpement des PME.
31.   Programme d'entretien courant 2000. Le budget alloue a l'entretien courant
est de 5 milliards de FCFA: 4 milliards de FCFA pour financer les travaux d'entretien
courant et 1 milliard de FCFA pour les frais de fonctionnement de la Direction
G6n6rale des Routes et des Directions R6gionales. Les travaux d'entretien pour les
routes en terre sont en cours (environ 3.600 millions de FCFA). Les appels d'offres
pour les travaux d'entretien des routes rev&ues ont &e lances et le demarrage de ces
travaux est programme pour debut juillet 2000.
32.   Travaux de rehabilitation. Tous les travaux finances sur les fonds du credit
de l'IDA sont achev6s et receptionnes. Cependant, les travaux sur la digue de la route
de Pouytenga-Sapaga n'ont pu etre engages en raison du cout eleve des travaux
envisages. La DGR aurait du se contenter de faire realiser les travaux tels que prevus
initialement pour le montant disponible (88 millions de FCFA). La mission
recommande A la DGR de s'assurer que ces travaux relativement reduits (sans
elargissement) peuvent etre realises avant la fin du mois de juin (date de cl6ture du
credit) pour etre eligible au financement du credit IDA. Dans le cas contraire ces
travaux seraient A financer sur les fonds propres de la DGR (apport supplementaire
aupres du Ministere charge des Finances).
33.   Developpement des PME. La DGR transmettra A la mission en debut juin les
premieres propositions de reclassement et de developpement des PME. La mission
reitere son point de vue sur les mesures les plus efficaces pour promouvoir les PME et
ameliorer leur capacite de production. La selection des PME doit se faire sur la base de
criteres techniques pertinents de post qualification introduits au niveau diu Reglement
Particulier de l'AO; que les DAO soient plus precis sur les criteres techniques de
qualification, que l'administration assure une supervision active des missions de
surveillance, et que les clauses contractuelles (penalites, resiliations, etc.) soient
rigoureusement appliquees.
Gestion du reiseau tertiaire et du transport rural
34.   Direction des Pistes Rurales . La mission rappelle sa position stir ce que
devrait dtre le r6le de la nouvelle direction des pistes rurales. Il est souhaitable que
cette nouvelle direction oriente sa mission vers l'appui et le conseil technique aux
autorites centrales et locales chargees de la gestion de reseau rural. Cet appui pourrait
39



couvrir les domaines suivants: inventaire du reseau rural, d6finition des niveaux
d'amenagement en relation avec la demande a satisfaire, planification des
investissements prioritaires (criteres de selection a definir au prealable) et appui au
contrBle et a la supervision des travaux.
35.   Developpement d'une strategie de transport rural: Malgre les indications
donnees et la precision des termes de references les propositions financieres faites a la
mission sont toujours elevees (45 millions contre un budget de 15 millions). La mission
continue a croire que l'e1aboration d'une strategie de transport rural est necessaire au
Burkina. Elle permettra de preciser le champs d'intervention des differentes parties
impliqudes dans la gestion du reseau (centre, local et communautes), le mode de
financement des besoins en investissements, et en entretien. Cette strategie serait une
composante int6grale de la strategie generale du secteur du transport au Burkina.
40



Annex 9. Summary of Borrower's contribution
BURKINA FASO
PROGRAMME D'AJUSTEMENT SECTORIEL DES TRANSPORTS
(PASEC-T)
RESUME DE LA
CONTRIBUTION DE L'EMPRUNTEUR
SEPTEMBRE 2000






A.    Description et demarrage du programme et du Projet
1.    En raison de sa situation geographique, le Burkina Faso etait conscient de
l'importance strategique du secteur des transports qui procure les moyens de production
necessaires A l'agriculture et qui permet la commercialisation de ses produits ainsi que le
developpement du commerce national et international. Au niveau des infrastructures de
transports les reseaux comportaient : (i) pour le reseau routier: 13.117 krn de routes
classees dont seulement 8740 km avaient fait l'objet d'operations d'entretien depuis le
debut des annees 80 ; (ii) pour le reseau ferroviaire: un chemin de fer A voie unique de
1.145 km reliait la capitale Ouagadougou au port d'Abidjan, principal portl d'importation et
d'exportation du pays ; (iii) pour l'aeroportuaire: 2 aeroports principaux (Ouagadougou et
Bobo-Dioulasso) capables de recevoir le trafic international et 49 petits aerodromes tres
sommairement amenages. La gestion de ces infrastructures se caracterisait par: (i) des
insuffisances dans la planification des investissements ; (ii) un sous - financement de
l'entretien des infrastructures; et (iii) une capacite limitee d'administration du secteur. Au
niveau des services de transport, la route et le rail assuraient l'essentiel, Iavion
representant moins de 1%.
2.     Au cours des annees 80, les entreprises parapubliques existantes (RAN, Air
Burkina, Naganagani et X9) rencontraient des difficultes d'exploitation grandissantes
tandis que l'activite privee reculait sous le double joug d'une r6glementation restrictive et
de politiques tarifaires. Les services de transports se caracterisaient donc d'une part par
I'absence d'initiatives et la peur de prises de risques du secteur prive et d'autre part, par une
gestion chroniquement deficitaire des entreprises publiques obligeant l'Etat a mobiliser des
ressources croissantes.
3.     A mi-1992, les deux principaux ministeres de tutelle etaient organises comme suit,
pour les structures concernees par le Programme : le Ministere des Travaux Publics, de
l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme et le Ministere des Transports. Enfin, les relations entre le
Gouvernement et les partenaires au developpement s'effectuaient A travers le Ministere des
Finances et du Plan.
B.    Objectifs du Programme
4.     Les objectifs du Programme PASEC-T ont et definis dans la Declaration de
Politique Generale (DPG) dans le secteur des transports (octobre 1991). L,es objectifs
globaux consistaient A: (i) reduire les couits de transport au Burkina; (ii) renforcer la
capacite de gestion, de planification, de programmation, de contr6le et de regulation du
secteur des transports; (iii) etablir un cadre reglementaire et creer un environnement
favorable au developpement du secteur prive; (iv) privilegier ltentretien dles infrastructures
existantes par rapport aux investissements nouveaux ; (v) assurer le financement regulier
des besoins d'entretien des infrastructures routieres ; (vi) privatiser 1'execution des travaux
d'entretien routier et la prestation des services dans le secteur; (vii) assurer et ameliorer la
securite sur les routes, le r6seau ferroviaire et dans les aeroports ; (viii) assainir et retablir
la rentabilite financiere des entreprises publiques actives dans le secteur.
41



C.    Composantes du Programme
Le programme s'articulait autour de deux composantes:
la composante ajustement portant sur un soutien budgetaire destine a couvrir les couts
additionnels resultant des mesures de reforme de politique institutionnelle et de
restructuration des entreprises publiques actives dans le secteur. Le montant de la
composante ajustement s'elevait A 30 millions dollars E.U. finances A 100% par l'IDA;
et
la composante investissement portant sur une serie d'actions inscrites dans les differents
volets (Routes, Industrie des Transports routiers, Ferroviaire, Aviation civile et
Administration du Secteur) et s'elevant A 433,4 millions dollars E.U. La part de l'IDA se
chiffrait a 36 millions dollars E.U. soit 8,3% du total et 6tait concentree essentiellement sur
le volet routier qui absorbait 66% du credit IDA 'Investissement".
D.    Conception, execution et impact du programme et du projet
Evaluation de la conception du Programme
5.    Les etudes preparatoires confiees A un Consultant sur financement de la Banque
Mondiale, ont debute en 1988. Les agents de l'Administration couvrant certains volets du
Programme (notamment des transports) n'ont quasiment pas ete associes A la collecte des
donnees, au diagnostic de la situation et aux propositions de remediation. Cette d6marche
peu participative a debouche sur la production des documents de base ayant servi d'une
part au seminaire d'internalisation organise pour les agents en mars 1990 et d'autre part A
la Table Ronde des bailleurs de fonds en octobre 1990. Si le recours A un Consultant
exterieur est parfois indispensable face au defi de reformes ambitieuses, la tenue d'ateliers
d'intemalisation devrait faire partie des mesures d'accompagnement de facon A sensibiliser
aux nouveaux enjeux et a motiver les principaux acteurs A les relever. L'absence de
structure de coordination pendant la phase de conception et le demarrage du Programme
n'a pas permis de pallier ce deficit de participation et de concertation.
Coordination et gestion du Programme
6.    La responsabilite de l'execution du Programme releve de chacun des deux
departements ministeriels en charge, A savoir: le Ministere des Travaux Publics, de
l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme et le Ministere des Transports (decret no 92-
203/PRES/PM/TRANS du 24 aoat 1992). La Cellule de Coordination et de Suivi du
Programme PASEC-T est placee sous l'autorite directe des Ministres de tutelle technique.
La Cellule a pour vocation de coordonner et d'activer les actions des differentes agences
d'execution du Programme. Elle centralise les informations sur l'ex6cution du Programme
et joue le r6le d'interface entre l'Administration et les bailleurs. Les bonnes relations
entretenues entre les responsables des agences d'ex6cution et le Coordonnateur sont
restees le moteur du bon deroulement du Programme.
42



Appreciation sur les principaux resultats obtenus
Critere n 01: atteinte des objectifs - Dans chacune des deux composazites et pour
chacun des volets, les objectifs ont et globalement atteints voire depasses; l'on cite comme
exemple de reformes audacieuses et reussies dans la sous-region l'execution clu Programme
PASEC-T.
7.     Objectif non atteints - Volet Route (R) - Institutionnel - formation prealable des
PME engagees dans les travaux d'entretien courant sans les qualifications requises. Volet
Route (R) - Investissement - traitement en rehabilitation (ou en rechargerment) de 5012 km
de routes en terre du reseau prioritaire, volet Industrie des Transports (TR) -
Institutionnel (mise en place et actualisation reguliere d'une banque de dcnn6es
statistiques; amelioration du cadre legislatif et des textes reglementaires, formation des
transporteurs et modernisation de la gestion de leurs activites ). Volet Industrie des
Transports (TR) - Investissement - developpement des infrastructures d'accueil. Volet
Ferroviaire (F) - Investissement (rehabilitation des voitures voyageurs ; rehabilitation des
locomotives GM (au profit du renouvellement de l'artere de telecommunication). Volet
Administration (A) - Institutionnel (rentabilite retrouvee de la compagnie nationale Air
Burkina ; restructuration de la gestion aeroportuaire).
8.     Objectifs initiaux atteints mais actions inacheiges en terme d'efficacite - Malgre
l'atteinte de certains objectifs initiaux, l'on releve encore des actions residuelles a mener. II
s'agit de: Volet "R" - Institutionnel - emergence des PME de travaux d'entretien courant,
mais les performances de ces PME restent a ameliorer ; reorganisation souhaitee et
achevee de l'Administration des routes mais la formation du personnel et la mise en oeuvre
des procedures sont a poursuivre; controle des travaux d'entretien courant assure par
i'Administration mais necessite de plus de rigueur dans le respect des clauses
administratives et techniques des contrats.
9.     Volet "R" - Investissement - 100% des travaux d'entretien courarnt programmes et
executes mais envisager la mise en place de mesures d'efficacite des travaux en terme de
niveau de service offert a l'usager (mesures d'IRI et publication des r6sulLtats). Volet "TR"
- Institutionnel - exploitation privee des transports urbains en commun a Ouagadougou
mais offre de services insuffisante; logiciel specifique de traitement des informations sur
les accidents, disponible mais difficulte de collecte des donnees. Volet "Fl" -
Investissement - amelioration de la voie mais vitesse commerciale d'exploitation en de,a
des 50 km/heure attendus pour les transports de marchandises ; rehabilitation des ateliers,
batiments administratifs et voyageurs mais qualite des amenagements insuffisante.
Critere n a2: respect du calendrier initial
10.   Initialement :d6but 1992 a fin 1996, soit 5 ans. Finalement : debut 1993 a mi-
2000, soit une duree de 7,5 ans. Ce decalage s'explique comme suit : (i) changements
d'approches et d'objectifs dans les reformes de politique, notamment dans la
restructuration des entreprises publiques en prenant en compte l'evolution des contextes et
des contraintes propres a chaque entreprise et a chaque sous-secteur; (ii) suppression de
certains financements ou indisponibilite selon le calendrier initial prevu (BAD, ACDI et
43



CE) ; (iii) lourdeur des procedures d'intervention de certains bailleurs et de
I'Administration; (vi) difficult6s pour l'Administration de respecter les d6lais de passation
des marches.
Critre n 03 relatif aux investissements: respect des modes de passation des marches, des
delais d'exeution et des cozuts
11.   Tant pour le Programme que pour le Projet, les procedures prescrites par la
reglementation burkinabe et par les accords de financement ont et respectees. En
particulier pour le Credit IDA, I'annexe 2.b) montre que les masses financieres par mode
de passation des marches sont conformes aux previsions. Une saine concurrence s'est donc
exercee tout au long du programme, avec des b6n6fices certains au niveau des rapports
qualite et prix. D'importants reliquats ont et6 degages suite A la devaluation sur certains
financements exterieurs ; ils ont generalement ete absorbes par vole d'avenant aux marches
en cours. Une fois les marches conclus, leur execution a parfois souffert de retards ou de
supplements de couats. II convient de citer notamment: 1) le non respect de la
programmation des travaux d'entretien courant par certaines PME qui eprouvent des
difficultes financieres et organisationnelles A mobiliser les moyens n6cessaires en temps
opportun; 2) des depassements ou sous-realisations.
E.    Analyse critique de l'action de la Banque mondiale et du Gouvernement
12.   Appr&iation de l'action de la Banque mondiale - D'une maniere generale,
l'Institution a joue son role de superviseur du Programme en sa qualite de chef de file des
bailleurs de fonds et de premier evaluateur de celui-ci. Elle a en particulier joue un role
moteur dans l'initiative et l'aboutissement des reformes de politique et des avancees
institutionnelles. Les missions de supervision se sont deroulees a un rythme regulier et
satisfaisant et les aide-m6moire sont restes l'un des principaux instruments de pilotage du
programme.
13.   Toutefois, l'on peut regretter que: (i) certains delais d'examen et, le cas echeant, de
non objection de dossiers soumis a l'approbation de la Banque aient 6t6 anormalement
longs ; (ii) la revue A mi-parcours de decembre 1995 n'ait pas et& precedee par une
6valuation technique et financiere par un auditeur externe, au terme de laquelle un constat
objectif des insuffisances aurait pu &re fait qui tienne compte du nouvel environnement du
Programme cinq annees apres son evaluation. Le plan d'actions correctives qu'aurait
propose le Gouvemement A l'issue de cette evaluation, aurait permis un debat plus
constructif lors de la revue A mi-parcours et la prise de decisions plus energiques en accord
avec la communaute des bailleurs reunie A cette occasion. Cette opportunite n'a en
particulier pas et saisie pour recentrer les efforts sur les indispensables travaux de
rehabilitation et d'entretien p6riodique prevus sur les routes en terre du reseau prioritaire
du PASECT; (iii) les aide-memoire n'aient pas toujours reflet6 les positions discutees avec
les agences d'execution.
14.   Appreciation de l'action du Gouvernement au cours de lex&ution du projet - Dans
1tensemble, le Gouvemement s'est montre un partenaire confiant dans les resultats attendus des
actions A entreprendre et s'est des lors conforme aux engagements pris lors des negociations de
44



I'Accord de Credit tant sur le plan financier que sur la mise en oeuvre des mesur-es de reformes
de politique et institutionnelles. Ainsi, le budget annuel de l'entretien routier a et.e mis
effectivement a disposition au niveau convenu et dans des delais compatibles avec le paiement
des PME a 60 jours (paiement effectif A 30 jours). Ainsi, des mesures excepticrinelles
(derogations) ont et prises pour faciliter l'ex6cution du budget de l'entretien courant. Le
Gouvernement a veille a ce que le Programme reponde aux objectifs qui ont e',6 assignes et
contribue reellement au developpement du pays.
F.    Evaluation economique et financiere
15.   Couit total - Si l'on fait abstraction de l'etalement de la duree du Programme, les
taux d'execution du Programme sont satisfaisants: (i) 100% pour la composante
ajustement suite A la liberation des trois tranches conditionnelles; (ii) 101% pour la
composante investissement en incorporant les imprevus physiques dans les montants de
reference estimes au depart.
16. En comparant les masses financieres par volet, on constate que deux volets n'ont
pas atteint leurs objectifs: (i) volet transports routiers (19% seulement): les
investissements prevus dans la construction de gares voyageurs et marchandises ne se sont
pas concretises; (ii) volet "aviation civile" (50% seulement): la privatisation d'Air Burkina
est apparue tres vite apres la devaluation comme la seule alternative susceptible d'assurer
la survie du pavillon national ; en raison de cette decision, tous les appuis programm6s
sous forme de prestations de service a mobiliser dans le cadre du contrat-plan, n'ont pas
et finances comme prevu par l'IDA A hauteur de 1.8 millions E.U.
17.   En ce qui concerne le Projet, les memes constats peuvent etre faits sur les taux
d'execution ; trois aspects du bilan meritent d'etre mis en evidence: (i) le volet ferroviaire a
b6neficie des la negociation de l'Accord de Credit. du report des imprevus et d'une
diminution des fonds affectes au volet routier, par rapport a 1'evaluation cle decembre
1991; (ii) la rubrique "fonctionnement cellule" a enregistre le plus fort d6jpassement
(264%) par rapport a la repartition initiale du financement dans l'Accord de Credit ; ce
depassement r6sulte d'une sous-evaluation du coOt de fonctionnement annuel ainsi que du
maintien de la Cellule au dela de la duree de 5 ann6es initialement pr6vue et qui est
depassee de 2,5 annees ; (iii) le reliquat du credit non decaisse ne depassera pas 650.000
DTS soit 1,3 % du montant de celui-ci ; ce reliquat resulte du taux exceptionnellement
favorable et impr6visible des decaissements operes en 1999 et en 2000 sUI les derniers
engagements libelles en francs CFA.
18.   Contributions des divers partenaires et du Gouvernement dans le iinancement du
Programme Les plus fortes contributions a la composante "Investissement" sont par ordre
d6croissant:
*  Ia Commission Europeenne - 25%;
*  Burkina Faso -20%;
* les Fonds Arabes - 13%;
* Ia KFW et la BAD - environ 10%;
*  l'IDA - 9%;
* I'ACDI, I'AFD et FAC - 4%.
45



19.   Le Gouvernement a largement honore sa contrepartie: 20,37% au lieu de
l'engagement initial de 16,43%. Les participations restees en de,a des attentes concernent
l'ACDI (4% au lieu de 7%) et, dans une moindre mesure la BAD (10% au lieu de 14%) et
la CEDEAO (1,5% au lieu de 2,4%); ce sont ces defaillances qui expliquent en partie les
contre-performances dans la realisation des travaux de rechargement et de rehabilitation
sur les routes en terre.
Evaluation ex-post sommaire des investissements routiers
20.   Les previsions: Le TRI indique lors de l'evaluation du Programme est celui de
l'hypothese de base au cas oiu des tests de sensibilite ont ete effectues-les scenarios
optimistes ou pessimistes ne sont pas pris en compte. TMJA prevu en 1994 lors de
I'evaluation du Programme, obtenu par projection des comptages effectues en 1988 dans le
cadre de l'etude preparatoire
21.   Les realisations: TMJA prevu en 2000 d'apres le rapport d'evaluation sous
lPhypoth6se d'une execution des travaux sur la periode 1991-1995. TMJA effectif en 1999
selon la chronique des comptages annuels effectues par la DGR. L'on constate qu'aucune
evaluation independante ex-post a l'initiative des bailleurs n'a ete realisee dans le cadre du
Programme, alors que certains accords (ou conventions) le prevoient explicitement.
46



