Page  1
May 19, 1998
H.E. Tertius Zongo 
Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
Excellency:
Credit No. 2332 BUR (Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment 
Credit) Amendment 
to the Development Credit Agreement
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated February 18, 1992, as 
amended, between Burkina Faso (the Borrower) and the International Development 
Association (the Association) for the above referenced Credit.
We are pleased to advise you that the Executive Directors of the Association 
have approved a simplified disbursement procedure under structural adjustment 
operations.  In order to implement such decision, we propose to amend that Development 
Credit Agreement as follows:
1.
The following paragraph is added at the end of Section 1.02:
“(s)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(e) of this 
Agreement.”
2.
In Section 2.02, the following paragraphs are added after paragraph (d):
(e) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the 
first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account relating to Category (6) 
set forth in the table in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a 
deposit account in CFAF on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  All 
withdrawals from the Credit Account, 
relating to such Category (6) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, shall be deposited by the Association into the  Deposit Account.
(f) 
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (e), (f) and (g) of this 
Section, the  Borrower shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn 
from the Credit 
Account relating to Category (6) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of 
the Program.
(g)
The Borrower undertakes that, for the purposes of Category (6) set 
forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Credit shall 
only be used to finance expenditures for items listed in paragraph 
2 (b) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at 
any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for 
an expenditure not covered by said 
paragraph 2 (b), the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit 
into the Deposit Account 
an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the 
Association 
shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded to 
the 
Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account relating to 
Category (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, for 
cancellation.
(h) 
No withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account relating to 
Category (6)  set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(i)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account relating to Category (6) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, shall have 
reached the equivalent of SDR 
10,510,000, unless the 
Association shall 
be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as 
Page  2
described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Association:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the 
Program;
(B)
that the actions described in Part A of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement 
have been taken, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association; 
and
(C) 
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with 
the objectives of the Program.
(ii)
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from 
the Credit 
Account relating to Category (6) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall have 
reached the equivalent of SDR 
16,510,000, unless the 
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described 
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, based on evidence 
satisfactory 
to the Association:
(A)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the 
Program;
(B)
that the actions described in Part B of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement 
have been taken, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association; 
and
(C) 
that the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework is 
consistent with 
the objectives of the Program.
(i)
If, after any of the exchanges of views described in paragraph (d) 
above, the 
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the 
progress achieved 
in the carrying out of the Program or that the 
actions taken are not 
satisfactory or that the Borrower's 
macroeconomic policy is not consistent 
with the objectives of the 
Program and, within 90 days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall have 
not achieved progress or taken actions satisfactory to the 
Association, 
or the Borrower's macroeconomic policy framework shall have not 
become 
consistent with the objectives of the Program, then the Association 
may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or 
any part thereof.”
3.
In Section 2.02, paragraph (e) is renumbered (j).
4.
The following paragraph is added at the end of Section 4.01:
“(d)
Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:
(A)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(B)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not 
later than six months after the date of the Association's 
request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(C)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested.”
5.
Paragraphs (4) and (5) of Schedule 1 are deleted.
6.
Section II of Schedule 3 is deleted and Section III is renumbered Section 3.
Page  3
If you agree with the foregoing amendments, please sign and date this letter in 
the spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be executed in two 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original. Upon your confirmation, please 
return one fully executed original to us.
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of the date the 
Association receives one fully executed original of this amendment letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Hasan Tuluy 
Country Director for Burkina Faso 
Africa Region
AGREED:
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Tertius Zongo
Authorized Representative
