Page  1
November 14, 1995
H. E. the Minister of Finance and Planning
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Re:
Credit No. 2332 BUR
(Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Credit)
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the above-mentioned Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement) 
between Burkina Faso (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the 
Association), dated
February 18, 1992, discussions held between representatives of your Ministry and the 
Association during the last supervision mission of this Project and your letter dated 
___________, 1994, requesting a change of the disbursement conditions for the second 
and third tranche.
We are pleased to confirm the Association's approval to this request and, 
therefore, agree to amend the Agreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02:  subparagraph "(o)" becomes subparagraph "(q) and two new 
subparagraphs (o) and (p) are added to read as follows:
"(o)
"SITARAIL" means the consortium formed by, inter alia, Societe 
Internationale 
de Cafe et Cacao of Cote d'Ivoire; SAGA of France and SDV (SCAC 
Delmas-Vieljeux) of France 
to bid for the concession of rail services on the 
Abidjan/Ouagadougou/Kaya railway;
(p)
"Concessionary Company" means the company which will operate the 
railway for 
which SITARAIL submitted a bid; and "
 
2.
Schedule 5, Part A, is modified to read as follows:
 
(a)
in paragraph (1) and (2), the year "1993" is replaced by the year "1994";
 
(b)
in paragraph (3), the year "1992" is replaced by the year "1993"; and
 
(c)
paragraph (5) is deleted and replaced by the words:
 
"5.
The Borrower and the Government of Cote d'Ivoire have jointly 
signed a 
Memorandum of Understanding with SITARAIL, satisfactory to the 
Association, relating to the 
concession of rail services on the 
Abidjan/Ouagadougou/Kaya route.  Such Memorandum of 
Understanding to specify, 
inter alia:  (i) the general principles of concession; (ii) the 
equity structure and 
the composition of the Board of Directors of the concessionary company; 
(iii) the 
duration of the concession; (iv) the fee to be paid; and (v) the number of SCFB 
staff to be rehired by the Concessionary Company.";
(d)
paragraph (6) is deleted and replaced by the words:
 
"6. 
The Borrower has launched an international call for bids in form 
and timing 
satisfactory to the Association, for the privatization of the urban 
transport activity that 
is presently being carried out by Regie X9";
 
(e)
paragraph (7) is deleted and replaced by the words:
 
"7.
The Borrower and Air Burkina have presented to the Association an 
action plan,  satisfactory to the Association for the restructuring of Air Burkina 
taking into account 
actual economic conditions, including the expiration 
of budgetary subsidies;
Page  2
(f)
paragraph (9) is deleted.
 
3.
Schedule 5, Part B, is modified to read:
 
(a)
in paragraphs (1) and (2), the year "1994" is replaced by the year 
"1995";
(b)
in paragraph (3), the year "1993" is replaced by the year "1994": and
 
(c)
paragraph (5) is deleted and replaced by the words:
 
"5.
The Borrower and the Government of Cote d'Ivoire have jointly: (a) 
signed by 
December 31, 1994, a concession agreement with a Concessionary Company of 
which SITARAIL is 
the majority shareholder, satisfactory to the Association, for the 
operation of the 
Abidjan/Ouagadougou/Kaya railway; and the Borrower has 
approved such agreement in the 
appropriate form; and (b) have transformed 
SFCB into a Societe de Patrimoine, established 
according to regulations and 
by-laws satisfactory to the Association.";
(d)
paragraph (6) is deleted;
 
(e)
new paragraphs (6) and (7) are added to read:
 
"6.
The Borrower has concluded an agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, 
pursuant to the call for bids referred to in Part A. 6 of this 
Schedule, as amended."
7.
(a)
The action plan for Air Burkina, referred to in Part A. 7 of 
this 
Schedule, as amended, has been implemented, satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(b)
the Borrower has submitted an action plan, satisfactory to 
the 
Association, for the reorganization of management activity of the 
airports in the Borrower's
territory, pursuant to the recommendations audit referred to in Section 3.06 (a) 
of this 
Agreement and the action plan referred to in paragraph (7) of Part 
B of this Schedule.
All other provisions of the Development Credit Agreement as amended herein shall 
remain in force.
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and 
dating the confirmation form on the attached copy of this letter and returning it to 
us, while keeping the
original for your records.
This amendment will become effective as of the date of confirmation of your 
agreement as indicated hereafter.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade
Director
Western-Central African Region
Africa Regional Directorate
CONFIRMED:
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Page  3
