CREDIT NUMBER 2332 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(Transport Sector Adjustment/Investment Credit)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           //-      /,1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2332 3UR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                4                    , 1992,
between BURKINA FASO (the "Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter, dated
/    oi     , 1991, from the Borrower describing a program of
policies, goals and actions designed to achieve an adjustment of
the Borrower's transport sector (the "Program") and declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)   the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution
of the Program and, as part of the Program, having undertaken to
carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project and of urgently needed impot, s required during the execution
of the Program;
(C)   the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from other
donors to assist in financing part of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section  1.01.   The  "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Air Burk.na" means the company registered under that
name and established under the laws of the Borrower;


﻿-2-
(b)   "ASECNA" means Agence pour 1a S6curit6 de la Navigation
A   aienre An Afrique; and "ASECNA-Burkiia" refers to the agency
responsible for operations carried out within the Borrower's
territory, pursuant to Article 10 of the Convention de Dakar, dated
October 25, 1974;
(c) "BCEAO" means Bangaue Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de
1'Ouest;
(d)   "CFAF" or "CFA Franc" means the currency of the
Borrower;
(e)   "CFPE" means the Centre de Formation Professionnelle de
I'Equipement of METC;
(f)   "DEP"  means  the  Direction  des  Etudes   et  de  la
Planification of METC;
(g)   "DGTP" means the Direction G6n6rale des Travaux Publics
of METC;
(h)   "DTTM" means the Direction des Transports Terrestres et
Maritimes of METC;
(i)   "METC" means   the Minist6re   de   1'Equipement, des
Transports et des Communications of the Borrower;
(j)   "NAGANAGANI" means the company registered under that
name, and established and existing under the laws of the Borrower;
(k)   "PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit established
within METC under the Project;
(1)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to a first exchange of letters, dated April 13 and May 13,
1988, and to a further exchange of letters, dated April 29 and June
4, 1991, between the Borrower and the Association;
(m)   "R4gie X9" means Rgie Nationale des Transports en
Commun X9, a company established and existing under the laws of
the Borrower;
(n)   "SCFB" means Soci6tA des Chemins de Fer du Burkina, a
company established and existing under the laws of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(o)   "Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to
in Sections 2.02 (b) and (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-nine million six hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 49,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required: (i) for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) during the execution of the Program
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Categories (1)
to (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account (hereinafter
referred to as "Special Account A") in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appro-
priate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
(c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Category (6)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account
(hereinafter referred to as "Special Account B") in BCEAO on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(d)   Deposits into, and payments out of, any of the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
(e)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn


﻿-4-
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year, specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1, commencing
May 1, 2002 and ending November 1, 2031. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on November 1, 2011 shall be one


﻿-5-
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 195 Dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may :revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. In respect of Category (6) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(a)   The Directeur National of BCEAO is designated as
representative of' the Borrower for the purpose of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions; and
(b)   without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts BCEAO with responsibility for the pre-
paration of withdrawal applications and for the collection of the
documents and other evidence to be furnished to the Association in


﻿-6-
support of such applications; such withdrawal applications shall,
to the extent practicable, be consolidated so as to apply for
withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than $300,000
equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreemen and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through
METC and SCFB, and under the coordination of the PCU, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, engineering and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of eitner party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)   with effect from January 1, 1992, not less than 60% of
the Borrower's road sector expenditure budget shall be earmarked
for road rehabilitation and maintenance; and
(b)   within that part of the budget so earmarked for re-
habilitation and maintenance, adequate allocations shall be made,
with effect from January 1, 1992, to cover the full cost of
appropriate routine maintenance of the priority network.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)   not later than January 1, 1992, establish procedures,
acceptable to the Association, for the supervision of routine and
periodic maintenance road works;
(b)   not later than July 1, 1992, establish an equipment
rental company to assume the functions of the Directorate of
Equipment of DGTP, and
(c)   not later than October 1, 1992 restructure CFPE, in such
a way as to enable it to respond more effectively to the increased
needs for training, particularly within the private sector.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)   have a satisfactory audit of the accounts of ASECNA-
Burkina for the period 1986-90 undertaken and completed, not later
than March 31, 1992; and
(b)   not later than June 30, 1992, submit an action plan,
acceptable to the Association, and designed to bring about a
reduction of the wagebill of SCFB to a level compatible with its
estimated medium term revenue levels.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall submit to the Association:
(a)   not later than September 30, 1992 and, thereafter, not
later than September 30 of each subsequent year during which the
Project is due to be executed, an annual work program, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
giving details of all activities to be carried out under Part A of
the Project during the fiscal year next following; and
(b)   not later than March 31, 1993 and, thereafter, not later
than March 31 of each subsequent year, up to and including March 31
immediately following completion of the Project, a report on the
execution of the annual work program for the preceding fiscal year.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance


﻿-8-
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of SCFB and the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account or payment out of any of the
Special   Accounts  was   made,  all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and


﻿-9-
(iv)    ensure that the said accounts and records shall
be audited   on a   semiannual basis by    said
auditors, who shall prepare audit reports
accordingly and furnish them to the Association,
not later than three (3) months after the end of
such semiannual audit period, along with an
opinion as to whether the statements of
expenditure  submitted   during  such   period,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause SCFB:
(a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, and engineering
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
administrative practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out;


﻿- 10 -
(b)   the Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under any one of the contract-plans referred to under
Parts A.6, A.7 and B.5 of Schedule 5 of this Agreement;
(c)   Rdgie X9 or Air Burkina or SCFB, as the case may be,
shall have failed to perform any of its obligations arising under
the contract-plans referred to, respectively, under Parts A.6, A.7
and B.5 of Schedule 5 of this Agreement;
(d)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of thp- Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that R6gie X9 or
Air Burkina or SCFB, as the case may be, will be able to perform its
obligations under the contract-plans referred to, respectively,
under Parts A.6, A.7 and B.5 of Schedule 5 of this Agreement;
(e)   any legislative or regulatory text concerning Rdgie X9
or Air Burkina or SCFB shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of R6gie X9 or SCFB or Air Burkina, as the
case may be, to perform any of its obligations under the contract-
plans referred to, respectively, under Parts A.6, A.7 and B.5 of
Schedule 5 of this Agreement;
(f)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of Rdgie X9 or SCFB or Air Burkina, or for the suspension of its
operations.
(g)   (i)    Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
or of the imports required during execution
of the Program shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(ii)    Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if the Borrower establishes to the


﻿- 11 -
satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
suspension,   cancellation,    termination   or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such  agreement; and   (B) adequate funds are
available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obli-
gations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   any event specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) )f Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Association is satisfied with the progress achieved
by the Borrower in carrying out the Program and that the macro-
economic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the
objectives of the Program.
(b)   The auditors referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement have been selected, and an accounting and auditing system,
which shall be satisfactory to the Association and adequate to
satisfy the requirements of the said Section 4.01, has been duly
established.
(c)   The Borrower has adopted the arr6t6 establishing a new
organigram, acceptable to the Association, for DGTP, and appointed


﻿- 12 -
the required number of higher level staff, having qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association.
(d)   The  Borrower has   adopted  the  d6cret  formalizing
exceptions to existing procurement and payment procedures, for small
contracts for road maintenance works of a repetitive nature, with
a view to ensuring timely execution of works and payment of
contractors' and suppliers' bills within a period not exceeding 60
days from certification of satisfactory works execution.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
planning is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist&re du Plan
B.P.7050
Ouagadougou
Burkina Faso
Telex:
5555 SEGEGOUV
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
BURKINA FASO
By                                       r
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
7Z     Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Civil works:                                100%
(a) for Part A.1          3,530,000
(a) of the
Project
(b) for Part A.1          9,530,000
(c) and (e) of
the Project
(c) for Part E.1            150,000
of the Project
(2) Equipment for Parts           80,000        100%
C.2 (b) and (c) of
the Project
(3) Materials:                                  100%
(a) for Part C.1 (c)         80,000
of the Project
(b) for Part C.2 (a)        380,000
of the Project


﻿- 15 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4) Consultants'                               100%
services, studies
and. training:
(a) for Parts A.2         5,550,000
and A.3 of the
Project
(b) for Part B              380,000
of the Project
(c) for Parts C.1           750,000
(d) and (e) of
the Project
(d) for Part D of         1,800,000
the Project
(e) for Part E.5 of         100,000
the Project
(5) Operating costs              500,000       100%
(6) Goods and services        22,510,000       100% of foreign
required during                           expenAditures
execution of the
Program
(7) Refunding of               1,130,000       Amounts due
Project                                   pursuant to
Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                    of this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                3,130,000
TOTAL                49,600,000


﻿- 16 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; provided however that, if the currency of the Borrower is
also that of another country from the territory of which goods or
services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods
or services shall be deemed to be foreign expenditures;
(b) "goods and services" means, in relation to Category (6)
of the table in paragraph 1 above, any or all of the following
items: fuels and lubricants; bituminous products and additives;
cement and chalk; resins and hydraulic binders; materials for
roadway seals; scaZfolding materials; iron and steel bars for pre-
stressed concrete; vehicles (cars, trucks and buses) and related
spare parts; construction equipment and related spare parts;
workshop equipment and related spare parts; construction and
mechanical tools; signalling equipment; spare parts for railway
equipment and rolling stock; spare parts and maintenance services
for aircraft; computer hardware and software;
(c)   "operating costs" means the incremental costs arising
under the Project on account of salaries and travel allowances, and
the purchase of two vehicles and office equipment, for the PCU.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed SDR 4,500,000 may be made in respect of Category (6) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after the date
falling four months prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   under Categories (1) (a) and (1) (b) of paragraph 1
above, until procedures satisfactory to the Association for the
supervision of road maintenance works and for their audit have been
established; and
(c)   under Categories (2) and (3) (b) of paragraph 1 above,
until SCFB has: (i) attained a total traffic volume which is 30%
higher than that reached during 1991; and (ii) entered into a
contract for the transport by rail to port of the zinc ore


﻿- 17 -
concentrate produced by a proposed mine in the Perkoa district of
the Borrower's terr"1tory.
4.    (a)   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to Category (6) of paragraph 1 above after, under
said Category, the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 10,510,000 unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the
actions described in Part A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have
been taken; and (iii) that the macro-economic policy framework of
the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
(b)   No further such withdrawals or commitment shall be made
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to Category (6) of paragraph 1 above after, under
said Category, the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account an6 the total amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 16,510,000 unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.02 of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the
actions described in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement have
been taken; and (iii) that the macro-economic policy framework of
the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
5.    If, after any of the exchanges of views described in paragraph
4 above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association,
then the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Category (6) of
paragraph 1 above or any part thereof.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to maintain and rehabilitate
the Borrower's transport infrastructure and improve efficiency of
sectoral operations.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Roads
1.    Civil works, including: (a) construction of 367 km of paved
roads; (b) reconstruction of 152 km of paved roads and of 860 km of
gravel roads; (c) periodic mainteinance of 386 km of paved roads, and
of 2280 km of unpaved roads; (d) regravelling of 360 km of paved
road shoulders; (e) rehabilitation of 2730 km of earth roads; and
(f) routine maintenance of 8875 km of the priority network.
2.    Road works supervision and studies.
3.    Technical assistance in favor of DGTP, CFPE, and small- and
medium-scale enterprises.
Part B:     Road Passenger Transport
1.    Restructuring of Rdgie X9.
2.    Studies of urban traffic in Ouagadougou.
3.    Feasibility studies for terminal facilities.
Part C:     Railways
1.    An emergency program for SCFB, including: (a) spare parts for
the maintenance of locomotives, freight and passenger cars; (b)
rehabilitation of workshop facilities; (c) emergency track main-
tenance; (d) technical assistance to improve operating and
accounting procedures; and (e) technical assistance to the agency
for international freight handling established jointly with Soci6te
Ivoirienne de Chemins de Fer.


﻿- 19 -
2.    A consolidation program for SCFB, including: (a) track
maintenance; (b) signal and equipment maintenance; and (c) selective
renewal of equipment.
Part D:     Civil Aviation
1.    Financial restructuring, business development, and formulation
of a contract-plan for Air Burkina.
2.    Staff btraining for Air Burkina.
3.    Financial restructuring of NAGANAGANI.
4     Improving airport management in the Borrower's territory.
Part E:     Institutional Support
1.    Rehabilitation of DTTM's office facilities.
2.    Equipment for DTTM and DEP.
3.    Reinforcement of the capacity of DTTM and DEP.
4.    Development of a road safety program.
5.    Studies for introduction of trade facilitation measures.
6.    Establishment of PCU.
* Pc
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works for Categories (1) to
(5) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's
territory may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$2,000,000 per contract and items which cannot be grouped or groups
of items estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 per contract,
up to an aggregate amount for civil works and items equivalent to
$6,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$60,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate count equivalent
to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded. on the basis
of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three


﻿- 21 -
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works and to
each other contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are
to be made out of Special Account A, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two confcrmed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of Special Account A in respect of
such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to. the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of Special Account A, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other inficrmation required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Procurement of goods for Category (6) of paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $2,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines, subject to the following modifications:


﻿- 22 -
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical   journal   of   wide   international
circulation; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods
required."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $2,000,000 shall be awarded:
(a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis
of such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been
found acceptable by the Association;


﻿- 23 -
(b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two c-ountries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used
where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines;
and
(c)   by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more
than one supplier.
3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of Special Account B, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Sectioi, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of Special Account B, the documentation and the information
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the provisions of
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
5.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Section
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.


﻿-24 -
Section III. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project
and in executing the Program, the Borrower shall employ consultants
and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants and experts shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as .xecuting Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case
of Special Account A, Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) in
the case of Special Account B, Category (6) set forth in said table;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of (i) goods and services required
for the Project, and (ii) the imports required during the execution
of the Program, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into each of the
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
equivalent, in the case of Special Account A, to CFAF 210,000,000
and in the case of Special Account B to CFAF 600,000,000.
2.    Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that any Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the relevant Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish such Special Account shall be made rs follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the relevant Authorized Allocation,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of such Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the relevant Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of any Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into such Special Account


﻿- 26 -
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on. behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the relevant Special Account such amount as the
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
been shown by said documents and other evidence
to have been paid out of such Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into any Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once  the  total unwithdrawn   amount of the    Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the same Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.


﻿- 27 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount of   the  Credit allocated to     the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
relevant Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into such Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the relevant
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
eviaence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5
Conditions for the Making of Withdrawals under
Category (6) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement
Part A:     Actions referred to in Paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Second
Tranche)
1.    The Borrower has submitted its 1993 Transport Sector Program
of Investments and Public Expenditures, which shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
2.    The Borrower has made adequate allocations in its 1993
Transport Sector Program of Investments and Public Expenditures for
road maintenance expenses.
3.    The Borrower has provided evidence that all funds allocated
for road maintenance in its 1992 Transport Sector Program of
Investments and Public Expenditures have been duly committed.
4.    The Borrower has provided evidence that: (a) it has ceased
altogether to undertake any road maintenance works by force account
other than mechanized works for the routine maintenance of earth
roads; and (b) payment delays of the Borrower vis-&-vis private
contractors and the public administration do not exceed two months.
5.    Either one of the following events has occurred: (a) SCFB has,
(i) attained a total traffic volume which is at least 30% higher
than that reached du-ing 1991, and (ii) entered into a contract for
the transport by rail to port of the zinc ore concentrate produced
by a proposed mine in the Perkoa district of the Borrower's
territory; or (b) the Borrower has nominated a liquidator and
started the process of liquidating SCBF.
6.    The Borrower and R6gie X9 have concluded a contract-plan on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
7.    The Borrower and Air Burkina have concluded a contract-plan
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
8.    The Borrower has provided evidence showing that the action
plan relating to NAGANAGANI is being implemented in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 29 -
9.    On the basis of the audit referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of
this Agreement, the Borrower has submitted an action plan, which
shall be satisfactory to the Association, for airport management in
the Borrower's territory.
Part B:     Actions referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Third Tranche)
1.    The Borrower has submitted its 1994 Transport Sector Program
of Investments and Public Expenditures, which shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
2.    The Borrower has made adequate allocations in its 1994
Transport Sector Program of Investments and Public Expenditures for
road maintenance expenses.
3.    The Borrower has provided evidence that all funds allocated
for road maintenance in its 1993 Transport Sector Program of
Investments and Public Expenditures have been duly committed.
4.    The Borrower has provided evidence that: (a) it has entrusted
responsibility to the private sector to undertake: (i) in the region
of Ouagadougou, all mechanized works for the routine maintenance of
earth roads scheduled in that region, and (ii) in one or more of
the other nine regions of the Borrower's territory, a volume of
mechanized works for the routine maintenance of earth roads, which
shall be not less than the volume of such works scheduled to be
undertaken in Bobo-Dioulasso; and (b) payment delays of the Borrower
vis-&-vis private contractors and the public administration do not
exceed two months.
5.    Either one of the following events has occurred: (a) in the
event that Part A.5 (a) of this Schedule applies, the Borrower and
SCFB have concluded a contract-plan on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association; or (b) in the event that Part A.5 (b)
of this Schedule applies, the sale of the assets of SCFB has been
duly initiated.
6.    The Borrower has produced evidence showing that the contract-
plans referred to in Part A.6 and A.7 of this Schedule, as well as
the action plan for airport management referred to in Part A.8 of
this Schedule, are all being implemented in a manner satisfactory
to the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


