Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17327
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3106-JO)
December 24, 1997
Human Development Group
Niddle East & North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION IREPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR [NVESTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3106-JO)
CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
May 1990: US$1 = JD 0.540
May 1997: US$1 = JD 0.700
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
EFS           Education Finance Study
GOJ           Government of Jordan
GDCET         General Directorate of Curriculum & Educational Technology
GSSCE         General Secondary School Certificate Examination
HCC           Higher Certification College
HCST          Higher Council for Science and T'echnology
HRDSIL        Human Resources Development Sector Investment Loan
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
MOE           Ministry of Education
MOHE          Ministry of Higher Education
NCERD         National Center for Education Research and Development
NCHRD         National Center for Human Resources Development
ODA           Overseas Development Agency
OECF          Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
SIL           Sector Investment Loan
VTC           Vocational Training Corporation
Vice President: Kemal Dervi§
Country Director: Inder Sud
Sector Director: Jacques Baudouy
Task Manager Patricia Maughan-Colon



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3106-JO)
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary ................................................i
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ...............................................1
A.. Introduction    ..1
B. Achievement of Objectives ..............................................3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .                              ................................ -8
D. Project Sustainability ...............................................                                          10
E. Bank Performance ...............................................                                                10
F. Borrower Perfornance ................................................11
G. Assessment of Outcome ...............................................                                           II
H. Future Operations ...............................................                                                12
1. Key Lessons Leamed ...............................................                                              13
PART II.  STATISTICAL TABLES ...............................................                                       15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ...............................................                                    16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ...............................................                                17
Table 3: Project Timetable ................................................ 18
Table 4A: Allocation of Loan Proceeds                                       ............................................... 18
Table 4B: Loan Disbursement: Cumulative Estimated &  Actual .............. ........................ 19
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..........                       ..................................... 20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation ...............................................                      21
Table 7: Use of Technical Assistance ...............................................                               23
Table 8: Project Costs &  Financing ............................................... 25
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ...............................................                               26
Table 10: Status of Loan Covenants ...............................................                                 26
Table 1 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................................. 28
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...............................................                             28
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ............................................... 29
Annexes
1: ICR  Mission Aide-Memoire ...............................................                                       30
2: The Borrowers Contribution to the ICR ...............................................                           34
3. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3106-JO)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Human Resources
Development Sector Investment Loan (HRDSIL I) to the Hashemnite Kingdom of Jordan, for
which Loan 3106 in the amount of $73.0 million was approved on June 29, 1989 and made
effective on May 15, 1990. The loan was closed on June 30, 1997, thirty-six months after the
original closing date of June 30, 1994. The final disbursement took place on October 14, 1997.
2.     The ICR was prepared by George Za'rour (Sr. General Educator) and Patricia Maughan
(Operations Officer) of the Human Development Group of the Middle East and North Africa
Region (MNSHD), and was reviewed by Mr. Jacques Baudouy, Director, Human Development
Sector, and Ms. Marlaine Lockheed, Education Sector Leader. Preparation of the ICR began
before the completion mission (May 1997) and is based on material in the project file,
discussions with the Borrower and information collected during the ICR mission. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR with its own evaluation of the project's execution (see
Annex 2) and has also commented on the draft ICR.
ii






EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Introduction. Jordan has had a strong and continuous commitment to the development
of its human capital base, and the Bank has been one of its international partners in that endeavor
for almost twenty years. The Human Resources Development Sector Investment loan (HRDSIL
Ln.3106-JO) was the eighth Bank operation to assist Jordan with education and training
investments in nineteen years. This support was based on the Government's education
development strategy, formulated in the early 1970s, in which Jordan identified human resources
as its most important productive asset. Earlier Bank-supported projects succeeded in improving
access to education and in increasing the supply of skilled manpower. Improving the quality of
education was first emphasized as a sector objective in the Seventh Education Project (1988).
2.    In September 1987, under the patronage of HM King Hussein, the Government held the
first National Conference on Educational Reform at which an Educational Reform Program
(ERP) to improve the quality of basic and secondary education was formulated. The Bank
endorsed this shift towards quality improvement.
3.    Project Objectives.   The major purpose was to support the first phase of the
Govemment's 10-year ERP. The ERP's overall purpose was to raise the quality of basic and
secondary education in order to develop students' higher cognitive skills to give Jordan the skill-
and knowledge-intensive manpower base it needs to develop its domestic capacity. A series of
policy measures, qualitative improvements, and institutional changes in basic and secondary
education would support the achievement of these goals. The Development Objectives selected
for the project were: to raise the quality of basic and secondary education and to enhance student
achievement levels; to use sector resources more efficiently; and to develop institutional
structures that would be responsive to the system's qualitative and quantitative needs over the
long term.
4.    The project financed the following four components: (i) restructuring the school system
by extending compulsory basic education from 9 to 10 years to provide students with a more
solid grounding in basic knowledge and skills; (ii) improving the quality of teaching and leaming
by modemizing curricula and textbooks and emphasizing development of higher cognitive skills,
by raising teacher qualification requirements, upgrading existing teachers' qualifications and
introducing other staff development measures, and by improving the quality of school facilities;
(iii) improving the efficiency of resource use by conducting a covenanted Education Finance
Study (EFS) focusing on cost savings and recovery and implementing its recommendations; and
(iv) enhancing the capacity to sustain sectoral reform by establishing three agencies: a National
Center for Educational Research and Development (NCERD), an "Intermediary" to act as the
Bank's counterpart and implementing agency for the project, and a Textbook Publishing Unit.
5.    Implementation Experience and Results. Achievement of objectives: The project
largely achieved its quality and institutional development objectives which have proven to be
sustainable, but it was less successful in achieving the efficiency objective. NCERD conducted
an achievement monitoring study in 1995 which showed that the initial impact of the reform on
achievement was mixed. The study assessed achievements in math, Arabic and science, but could
not link gains in achievement to the reform program. However, a follow-up study is being
designed now to link the changes to reform inputs and to provide systematic feedback about the
performance of the education system and achievement trends. Moreover, it should be recognized
that realization of the ultimate reform goals -- development of students' critical thinking and
problem-solving abilities and the strengthening of Jordan's manpower base -- will require more
time and appropriate tools to assess.
i



6.    Activities under the first and second project components, supporting the qualitv
improvement objective, were almost all implemented. Restructuring the school svstem and
improving the quality of teaching and leaming were completed: the compulsorv basic education
was extended, post-basic education was restructured into comprehensive and applied secondary
streams, a system of evaluation for students at the end of the basic cycle was introduced, new
curricula for the Basic Cycle were developed, better quality textbooks were developed and put
into use, and a system for preparing teachers at universities has been established. With respect to
activities under the fourth component, supporting the institutional development objective,
significant policy and institutional changes were introduced and are now continuing: The
NCERD's functions are expanding and it has been renamed as the National Center for Human
Resources Development (NCHRD); its EMIS and national assessment capabilities are well
established and it has become an intellectual leader in education both within Jordan and in the
Middle East and North Africa Region. It has also evolved into a competent project
implementation organization.
7.    There were however several short-comings, which are being addressed under the Second
SIL (LN 3864 -Jo) which became effective in July 1995. For example, limited action was taken
to expand the capacity of vocational training, and it was clecided that the Second SIL will address
vocational education issues in a more rational manner In the textbooks sub-component, the
pressure to complete publication and distribution did not allow sufficient time for trying out
curricular materials prior to universal adoption. Although university-based pre-service teacher
training has been expanded and is being strengthened, more work will be needed to improve the
quality of in-service teacher training. In addition, the objective of upgrading all Basic Cycle
teachers to a BA degree by the end of the 10-year reform period also had to be scaled down.
Finally the third development objective, supporting the use of sector resources more efficiently,
was partially achieved for the following reasons: (i) some of the assumptions of the EFS were not
valid; (ii) cost recovery measures proposed by the study were not substantial enough to improve
the efficiency of the system; and (iii) since some of the recommendations were not well justified,
the Government hesitated to introduce changes unless more appropriate tools in implementation
are found.
8.    Costs and Financing: Project costs were lower than estimated at appraisal, with an
under run of $25 million. This was due mainly to: (i) favorable exchange rate changes
(depreciation of the dinar), which provided extra financing for project activities; (ii) lower than
expected price and physical contingencies and substantially lower costs for land acquisition to
construct schools. The financing plan changed considerably as additional cofinancing (OECF
matched the Bank loan in a $73 million cofinancing) and technical assistance grants (from ODA,
European Community, and USAID and an implementation grant from Japan) were provided and
reduced the Government's contribution to the project.
9.    Key factors affecting achievements:  The most important factor was the strong
stakeholder and political commitment at various levels. The ERP process secured high level and
broad stakeholder support from the civil society, teacher organizations, parents, etc. The
Borrower's preparatory work began long before project processing and ownership of the
individual components of the ERP was well established in the technical directorates of the MOE,
where MOE's Secretary General, General Directorates of Education and National Subject
Committees in addition to the Board of Education were heavily involved in project preparation.
As a sector investment operation, project activities were financed as subprojects appraised,
.i.



monitored and coordinated bv the 'Intermediary" agency.1 This process offered the flexibilitv
necessary to adjust the project as the reform program progressed and, at times. to modify the
interventions designed to implement sub-components.  Thus the implementation design
contributed to the achievement of the major objectives. In addition, availability of external
funding in the form of grants for secuLing technical assistance and for conducting studies had a
positive impact.
10.   Performance: The Borrower's and the Bank's performances were satisfactory.
Government staff were motivated to implement the project to a high standard of quality. The
Borrower remained in compliance with loan covenants and was timely with audit and progress
reporting. Bank preparation and supervision missions worked in partnership with the Borrower
to resolve issues that contributed to the clarification of goals and streamlining of procedures. On
two occasions both the Borrower and the Bank failed to follow the recommendations of their
technical specialists when they agreed to rush the introduction of new textbooks and curricula.
This resulted in sub-optimal results in these areas. But generally both the Bank and the Borrower
were diligent in identifying problems and introduced remedial measures in a timely manner.
11.    Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned. The two development objectives,
aimed at improving the quality and developing the institutional structures, were largely achieved
but the third objective, aimed at improving resource efficiency, was partially met. The long-term
systemic changes introduced under the project have been even more important than the physical
achievements. The continuous approach that has been adopted in curriculum development with a
built-in system of evaluation and revision of textbooks, the transfer of all pre-service training to
universities, aligning national examinations with the new curricula, institutionalizing national
assessment practices and research -- are important products of the project and provide a sound
basis for additional sustainable changes.
12.    The key lessons to be learned from this project are:
(a) Education reform programs require a long-term strategy, continuing consensus
among different stakeholders and Government ownership: The project enjoyed the strong
ownership of the Government because it financed the core of Jordan's long-term education
reform program (ERP). A comprehensive reform program in education is a long-term process
that requires the broad support of stakeholders over time and a phased, flexible approach to
implementation. This long-term process also depends on coordinating well many different
aspects and components if it is to take root and materialize. Curriculum development, textbook
authorship, staff development, policies of incentives, educational technology, tests and
examinations, and supervision -- all have to be directed towards achieving the goals of the reform
in the long run. Attitudes and behaviors need to be changed including those of parents and the
public in addition to education personnel at all levels. Although this is not easy, careful planning
and strong monitoring that directs all these inputs in a way to attune them with the goals of the
reform and their realization in the long-term is of central importance. Government ownership and
commitment of resources also helped to get the project operational and to ensure project
sustainability.
The "Intermediary" was an agency set up to provide centralized direction and coordination for implementing
the national programs and subprojects that together comprise the reform program as a whole. It consists of a
Policy Council and a Technical Unit.
iii



(b) Technical institutions have a great potential to impact implementation: The establishment of
institutions such as NCHRD and charging it with the responsibility of institutionalizing kev
functions and activities needed to help maintain the momlentum of the reform were crucial for the
overall success of the project. High political support and strong knowledgeable leadership are
necessary ingredients for the success of such centers. The central role given to NCHRD, the
'Intermediary" (the project implementing unit), worked well and should be adaptable to other
operations, such as the proposed Higher Education Development Project. Changes in the
composition of the Policy Council and of the corresponding expertise at NCHRD may be needed
for different projects.
(c) Fundamental policy change requires greater effort at consensus building which
cannot be assumed a priori: Too much weight was placed by the Bank on the recommendations
of the Education Finance Study, with the expectation that it would kick start the financial reform
of the education system. In fact a study is one part of a multipart process by which more
efficient use of resources is gradually achieved over time. Even if the design and the quality of
the study is appropriate and the conclusions are well justified, it is unrealistic to expect that it
will directly lead to an action plan. A study cannot directly lead to action unless proper steps and
implementation mechanisms are discussed in depth with the Government and adequate
monitoring tools are identified.
(d) Project implementation should respect technical standards: Because the project was
under strong pressure to meet implementation target dates, some components were implemented
more quickly than technically desirable. As a result of this, technical standards were not
sufficiently maintained, detracting from quality. Most notably, the Board of Education was
occasionally forced to approve textbooks that did not incorporate the required revisions, so as not
to interrupt the textbook implementation plan. In addition, this rushed schedule for introducing
new curricula resulted in a time-frame for implementing the in-service teacher training program
that was unrealistically short.
(e) Lending instruments must match objectives: In the context of a long term reform
program which will impose significant changes on a sector wide basis, the choice of a sector
investment loan (SIL) proved to be highly appropriate. It allowed for periodic development and
appraisal of subprojects, building on the ongoing experience in the overall reform process. It
also provided flexibility to change interventions during implementation adapting to new
circumstances and challenges.
13.   Future Operations.   Two operations emerged from this project: the Second HRDSIL
(FY95) in which many component activities are continuing as integral parts of the ongoing
education reform, and a Higher Education Development project. In addition, education
authorities in Jordan have already started discussing the processing of a Third SIL operation to
support a next phase of educational reform.
iv



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
THE HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
Background
1.    The Human Resources Development Sector Investment Loan (HRDSIL - Ln 3106-JO)
evaluated in this report was prepared by the Borrower with Bank assistance. The project was
appraised in December 1988 and the $73 million loan, which was approved by the Board on June
29, 1989, became effective on May 15, 1990. A lag in effectiveness after signing occurred due to
delays in concluding cofinancing agreements, a condition of effectiveness for the Bank loan.
2.    In the absence of natural resources, Jordan traditionally has emphasized the development
of human capital as a nucleus of its development strategy and as an instrument of social and
economic advancement of its people. Such a policy was translated into systematic efforts to
expand and develop the education sector, and the World Bank has collaborated since 1972 with
several credits and loans. Jordan's rates of literacy and school enrollments improved to become
among the highest in countries of comparable per capita income category. In addition, no gender
disparity in education enrollments exists at any level, including tertiary. However, the growing
general concem particularly in the late 1980s was that rapid expansion has been achieved at the
expense of quality.
3.    Productivity requirements, competitiveness, and maintaining comparative advantage
necessitate continuous improvement in the quality of education and training. This was the
principle underlying the Educational Reform Program (ERP) which was formulated, during
September 1987, in the First National Conference for Educational Development, under the
patronage of HM King Hussein. A Central Task Force, committees of specialized experts, Field
Committees, and a follow-up Committee with continuous guidance from and involvement of
HRH the Crown Prince -- all contributed to and sharpened the focus of the discussion papers
prepared for the Conference. It resulted in a 10-year reform program aimed at raising the quality
of basic and secondary education and enhancing student achievement levels. Bank processing of
the Sector Investment Loan (SIL) under review, which was the eighth Bank operation to assist
Jordan with education and training investments, started two months after the National
Conference and it aimed at helping the Government implement the first four-year phase of this
program, in collaboration with cofinanciers.
Objectives and Description
4.    The ERP's overall purpose was to raise the quality of basic and secondary education in
order to develop students' higher cognitive skills to give Jordan the skill- and knowledge-
intensive manpower base it needs to develop its domestic capacity. This goal was translated into
a set of policy interventions, institutional changes and qualitative improvements designed to: (a)
enhance student achievement levels by (i) restructuring the school system, (ii) improving the
quality of teaching and leaming, and (iii) using resources more efficiently; and (b) to develop an
institutional structure that will be responsive to the system's evolving qualitative and quantitative
1



needs over the long term. The Development Objectives selected for the project were: to raise the
quality of basic and secondary education and to enhance student achievement levels. to use sector
resources more efficientlv: and to develop institutional structures that would be responsive to the
system's qualitative and quantitative needs over the long term.
5.    The objectives of the national educational refDrm have been subdivided into seven
national programs, covering the following areas: curriculum development; textbook
development; teacher and supervisory staff training; educational technology; educational facility
improvement; vocational training expansion; and educational research and development. The
plan was to have these national programs carried out over a ten-year period (1989-98) in three
phases. These programs were supported through HRDSIL I (Phase I) and its successor operation
HRDSIL II (Ln. 3864, 1995). With the exception of curriculum development, all national
programs would consist of subprojects, each of which would be a mini-investment program with
its own discrete set of sub-objectives, target groups, and action plans. The overall program was
intended to be: (a) cumulative over time, whereby later initiatives would build on foundations
laid by earlier ones; and (b) interactive in that the outputs of individual programs were designed
to support and enhance each other. In addition, implementation experience in each phase would
be systematically monitored and evaluated and the results used as feedback for modifications.
The SIL approach (introduced for the first time in education projects in Jordan) offered the
necessary flexibility for making adjustments as the ieform program progressed, promoted
application of objective criteria for the allocation of funds to subprojects, and encouraged
coordination arnong the beneficiaries.
6.    Project activities in this sector investment operation were conducted through subprojects
appraised, monitored and coordinated by an agency called the "Intermediary". The
"Intermediary" was established by Prime Ministerial decree in 1988 and consisted of a Policy
Council and a Technical Unit. This agency was formed to act as the Bank's national counterpart
for the ten-year reform period and to serve as the central implementation agency. Its mandate
was to ensure coordination of the various subprojects which comprise the reform program. The
Bank and Government thus delegated specific appraisal and supervision functions to the
"Intermediary". The National Center for Education Research and Development (NCERD)
professional staff assumed all of the Technical Unit's functions in 1990. These responsibilities
included appraising subproject proposals submitted by potential beneficiaries, preparing appraisal
reports and recommendations for consideration by the Policy Council, monitoring subproject and
overall project implementation and preparing supervision and monitoring reports, and contracting
technical assistance.
7.    The "Intermediary" Policy Council, chaired by the Secretary General of the Higher
Council for Science and Technology (HCST), consists of senior staff from all entities
participating directly in the educational reform program (MOE, MOHE, VTC and NCHRD), as
well as from the Ministry of Planning. This broadly based membership brings together
representatives of different ministries essential for sectoral policy and institutional development.
The Council (a) approves or rejects subproject proposals on the basis of appraisal reports
submitted by the Technical Unit; (b) makes policy decisions on implementation within
parameters agreed with the Bank; (c) formulates and recommends sector policies to relevant
Ministries and agencies on the basis of experience gained through implementation of the reform
program; (d) reviews implementation reports submitted by the Technical Unit; and (e) conducts
annual reviews and a mid-term review of program implementation jointly with Bank
counterparts.
2



8.    The Sector Investment Loan (Phase I of the reform program) financed the following
components:
(a) Restructuring the school system by: Extending compulsory basic education from 9
to 10 years (and raising compulsory education age from 15 to 16 years ) to provide students with
a more solid grounding in basic knowledge and skills, and reducing secondary from 3 to 2 years;
restructuring streaming in the secondary cycle to address the diversified interests and abilities of
individual students; accelerating the transfer of apprenticeship-oriented vocational training from
the formal secondary cycle to the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC); and reorganizing the
promotion/examination system in line with these changes.
(b) Improving the quality of teaching and learning by: (i) Redefining curriculum
objectives to reflect higher cognitive skills, modemizing curricula to make them more flexible
and responsive to individual leamning capacities; (ii) providing new or substantially revised
textbooks that support curriculum objectives and are instructionally effective; (iii) raising teacher
and supervisory staff qualification requirements: for basic education teachers from two to four
years of post-secondary education, and for secondary school teachers and school principals from
four to five years of post-secondary education; and establishing university based pre-service
teacher training programs and expanding existing capacity; (iv) upgrading 4,000 of the exisfing
community college graduate teachers to a BA equivalency and 1,500 secondary teachers and 360
principals and supervisors to a BA-plus-pedagogical diploma through a certification program,
and providing in-service training to 12,000 basic education teachers and 5,500 supervisory and
support staff, to enhance their capacity to cany out reform objectives; and (v) improving the
quality of classrooms by replacing existing rented facilities with 180 purpose-built schools, 90 of
which would be completed during Phase I to accommodate about 52,000 students currently in
rented facilities and create about 36,000 new student places; and providing libraries, labs and
other facilities.
(c) Using sector resources more efficiently and increasing cost recovery levels by:
Conducting a study of further cost savings and cost recovery opportunities, and implementing
recommendations of the study.
(d) Institutionalizing the capacity to sustain sectoral reform by: (i) Strengthening the
capacity of the Technical Unit (part of the "Intermediary") established within the Higher Council
for Science and Technology to appraise subprojects and coordinate and monitor their
implementation; (ii) establishing NCERD to help maintain the momentum of the refonn through
sectoral research and the evaluation of the reforn program; (iii) institutionalizing the curriculum
reform by strengthening the capacity of the Directorate of Curriculum in MOE to manage
curriculum preparation and revision on the basis of user feedback; and (iv) establishing a new
Textbook Publishing Unit in MOE and a textbook storage and delivery system.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
9.    The project largely achieved its quality and institutional development objectives that
were committed during Phase I of the ERP. In fact, more was realized in certain components
than was programmed because certain general directorates of the MOE were already involved in
reform activities right after the 1987 National Conference. A number of activities, especially
those that did not need loan allocations or that were part of the potential contribution of the
Government of Jordan (GOJ), were in progress even as SIL was under preparation. For example,
curriculum development for the Basic Cycle was already advanced in 1989, prior to project
3



effectiveness. In a similar manner. required legislation for school svstem restructuring and
establishment of NCERD proceeded unaffected by the delay in effectiveness related to
cofinancing arrangements. It should be noted however that several programs, particularlv those
which depended on external technical assistance, suffered a setback during the Gulf Crisis (1990-
1991).
10.   The following is a list of accomplishments in SIL components listed in para. 8 which
constitute Phase I of the reform program:
(a) Restructuring the School System -
(i) A new Education Law was enacted extending compulsory basic education from 9 to
10 years and reducing secondary education from 3 to 2 years. This has been implemented
nationwide in all the schools starting in the 1988-89 school year. Part of the rationale was that
10 years of basic education for all would provide students who do not pursue secondary
education or who are directed to applied vocational education more solid grounding in basic
knowledge and skills. One of the concems voiced by the Bank team at the time was that
requiring all students to take the same program until the age of 16 overlooks individual
differences that become more conspicuous in the upper levels of basic education. Efforts were to
be exerted in the preparation of the textbooks and in teacher training to address this potential
issue.
(ii) Post-basic education was diversified into two major streams: comprehensive and
applied secondary. The comprehensive secondary education is further subdivided into two broad
categories: academic and comprehensive vocational. The applied secondary stream is a terminal
apprenticeship program offered by vocational training onters. Students in the comprehensive
streamns sit for the General Secondary School Certificate Examination (GSSCE) at the end of the
12th grade and successful students are eligible for admission to higher education institutions,
whereas, students in the applied secondary stream are not eligible to sit the GSSCE. The new
streaming of secondary education allows students in one branch of the comprehensive system to
study elective courses in another branch. There is a corc: curriculum of 12 periods per week in
each of the two years of comprehensive secondary education. Full application of these measures
started in 1995 with Phase II of the national reform program.
(iii) Limited action was taken under the project to expand the intake capacity of
vocational training centers under the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC) and to broaden
the specializations offered. Based on the results of a vocational policy paper, the education
authorities intend to raise the percentage of enrollment in vocational education to 50 percent for
boys and 35 percent for girls by the year 2000. Under the reviewed project, a vocational training
needs analysis was conducted to serve as a basis for the expansion of the vocational training
capacity. However the results of this study were considered not conclusive especially that the
team of experts faced logistics problems in carrying out the analysis. Thus, it was decided that
the second S1L will address vocational education issues in a more comprehensive manner.
(iv) Four main reforms of the examination system took place. First, the former general
examination at the end of Grade 9 was eliminated and a system of evaluation -of students
completing the new basic cycle was introduced. In this system, weighted averages of marks in
grades 8, 9 and 10 became the determining factor in promotion to the secondary level and a
major detenninant of streaming. Second, secondary school graduation was separated from
passing the GSSCE, with students obtaining a Secondary School Completion Certification
4



without sitting the GSSCE. Passing the GSSCE is required for eligibility for higher education.
Third, starting in 1990-91, students were allowed to repeat GSSCE subject exams that thev failed
in earlier sittings rather than repeat the whole exam. Thev were also allowed to sit the exam in
parts with the condition that they complete all requirements in at most three years. Finally, a
new GSSCE aligned with the new secondary curriculum was developed and first administered in
1997.
(b) Improving the Quality of Teaching and Learning -
(i) New curricula for all school subjects in the Basic Cycle were developed and
approved by the Board of Education. Special attention was given to the evolution of topics in a
certain subject from year to year and the sequence of their presentation. Guidelines were
developed for the various National Subject Committees involved in curriculum development and
which supervised textbook authorship in the following areas: catering to individual differences;
promoting critical thinking; incorporating practical activities and experiences; introducing new
concepts relating to environment, health, population and safety wherever it is deemed
appropriate; and, taking into consideration the cognitive and physical growth of children. Pre-
vocational education was also introduced in all grades of the Basic Cycle. The new curricula are
much more detailed than previous curricula as they include detailed objectives and guidelines
helpful for textbook authorship and for teaching. An early version of the mathematics
curriculum was reviewed by two non-Jordanian experts but this initiative was abandoned partly
because of the extra time required considering a very ambitious implementation schedule and
partly because of a feeling that Jordan has adequate capabilities for the purpose.
(ii) Historically prior to SIL, Jordan published textbooks on an ad hoc basis
commissioning authors in certain subjects to prepare textbooks which were usually reviewed by
subject supervisors prior to adoption. Final manuscripts, including the illustrations and layout,
were usually prepared by private local publishers who won the bid to print the textbooks. The
decision to build a publishing capacity in the MOE to prepare manuscripts camera-ready for
private publishers to print paralleled a decision to provide a full range of new or substantiallv
revised textbooks and teachers' guides for Grades 1-12 in all subjects. ODA technical assistance
was instrumental in developing this capacity. It was also decided to adopt the ambitious
schedule of publishing textbooks in all subjects for three grades per year simultaneously --
Grades 1, 5 and 9 during the first year; 2, 6 and 10 during the second year, and so on. Although
this was not easy to achieve and schedule adjustments had to be made, most textbooks and
teachers' guides reached schools on time. Many textbooks were published in two parts -- one per
semester -- to alleviate production schedule pressure on authors, National Subject Committees,
and the Board of Education. The publication schedule came under further pressure when the
textbooks were evaluated, revised, and submitted for a new publishing process (usually two years
after the initial introduction).
(iii) A new education law (1988) mandated raising teachers' qualifications by requiring
that all new basic cycle teachers have a university degree or equivalent and provided a
transitional period for upgrading the skills of basic education teachers already in service. As a
result a certification program to upgrade academic qualifications of basic education teachers was
introduced. The law also required that secondary teachers and school principals have a one-year
post-graduate pedagogic education (like a teaching or pedagogic diploma). Implementation of
the law required that university-based pre-service teacher training and other programs be
expanded to prepare basic cycle teachers of different categories, fonmerly assumed by community
colleges. Accordingly, three buildings for faculties of educational sciences were constructed and
5



equipped at the universities of Jordan, Yanmouk and M[utah as part of the project. In preparing
the faculties of educational sciences to expand their programs, the NCERD initiated and
organized a study tour during 1990 for education faculty from the three universities to visit
Michigan State University and review its pre-service teacher training program. In addition
international specialists visited Jordan to advise on the development of their teacher education
programs. A project financed by the European Community to sponsor potential faculty members
of education for higher degrees and to upgrade the programs of the faculties is still ongoing.
(iv) To upgrade existing community college giraduates to a BA equivalency, a Higher
Certification College (HCC) for teachers was established to shoulder the bulk of this certification
program while universities were adjusting to absorb more education students. There were about
22,000 existing teachers with two years of post-secondary education. About 3,500 teachers were
certified by August 1995 (the objective for Phase I was 4000) which is relatively high
considering that the HCC was prevented from admitting new students to the program in 1991.
Based on the results of repeated negative evaluations performed by NCERD, the Council of
Higher Education in June, 1991, transferred the HCC's functions and responsibilities to the
Colleges of Educational Sciences of Jordan, Yarmouk and Mutah universities, starting a process
of phasing out the HCC. The program for upgrading secondary teachers, principals and
supervisors through a post-BA pedagogical program was already ongoing prior to SIL and
because of the nature of enrollment of principals and supervisors, it is not clear whether the
objective to upgrade 1,500 secondary teachers and 360 principals and supervisors was reached
during Phase I. In-service training was provided to all teachers, supervisory and support staff
who were involved in grades for which new textbooks were introduced. The number of teacher
trainees exceeded the objective of 12,000 basic teachers by far, partly because there were many
cases in which a teacher of different grades was trained in consecutive years corresponding to the
introduction of new textbooks in those grades (thus counted more than once). About 3500
principals and supervisors were also trained. The in-senrice training program was developed to
disseminate the new curricula and textbooks and concentrated on: a common core about the
education reform program and its goals; professional cornpetencies in the respective fields of the
target group; and the utilization of the new textbooks and materials. But due to a rushed time-
frame imposed by the new curricula, the design of the in-service training program was inadequate
and could not transform teaching approaches as expected. Moreover, because of lack of
incentives, teachers were not attracted to attend the program which was mostly conducted on a
weekend day. In fact, it was unrealistic to expect that such a rushed and inadequatelv designed
in-service training program could have transformed teachi:ng methodologies to promote analytical
skills and problem-solving abilities. Nevertheless, better preparation and quality training
materials could have initiated a process of change which requires follow-up by supervisors,
principals and changes in the emphasis of examinations, in addition to further training; and
(v) To improve educational facilities, the physical construction of schools was
completed. The project built and equipped 181 schools (from both SIL and OECF), creating
about 151,000 new student places. Seventy thousand of these replaced places in rented facilities;
25,000 replaced double shift places; and about 56,000 new places were built to accommodate
enrollment growth. The project also provided facilities to existing schools, building 101 libraries
(147 were planned), 96 laboratories (143 planned), 111 audio-visual rooms (161 planned), and
104 vocational education workshops (152 planned). Provision of physical facilities was outpaced
by population growth of between three and four percent per year. This problem was exacerbated
by retumees from the Persian Gulf in 1990-91.
6



(c) Using Sector Resources More Efficiently -
(i) In the context of the affordability issue, it was agreed that an education finance study
will be carried out to examine opportunities for cost savings and cost recovery in the sector and
the agreed recommendations of the study would be implemented. Although several studies were
launched and some measures were taken to reduce costs most of the recommendations were
unrealistic and could not be implemented in the existing circumstances. The education finance
study (EFS), conducted by an intemational expert and completed in June 1994, assumed that: (a)
the private sector would absorb about 30% of total basic education enrollments at about the year
2000, as compared to less than 10% in 1994 (in 1996/97, its share was still under 11%); and (b)
annual natural increases in enrollments would be only 1.8%, whereas annual population growth
is estimated at 3%. These assumptions produced a very low growth scenario for public
enrollments. Moreover, the study's policy recommendations aroused considerable concem. For
example, adopting the recommendation to close small schools could significantly reduce access
to basic education in remote areas; adopting the recommendation to increase the teaching
workload could lead to strong teacher resistance. For these reasons these two recommendations
were not adopted. A third recommendation, that resources be shifted from higher education to
the basic and secondary levels, was questioned by university administrators, who argued that
their funding was insufficient and salaries unattractive.
(ii) Nevertheless, Govemment was committed to using sector resources more efficiently
and the MOE conducted a series of studies that explored additional ways to realize this. These
studies examined cost per student and utilization of classroom space and school facilities, among
others. Some of the recommendations of these studies were already being implemented, such as
increasing class size in urban areas through replacement of rented schools, which have small
rooms, with purpose built schools. Reducing the size of workshops was also adopted for
reducing costs. Moreover, in 1994, a Ministerial decree mandated an increase in registration fees
(of approximately $3 equivalent per year for elementary students and about $6 equivalent for
secondary students). However, implementation of this decree was suspended due to popular and
parliamentary opposition.
(d) Institutionalizing the Capacity to Sustain Sectoral Reform -
(i) Establishment and staffing of both the 'lntermediarv" Technical Unit and NCERD
were taking place at about the same time in 1989-90 when it was decided (in 1990) to have
NCERD's professional staff assume all of the functions of the Technical Unit.
(ii) The NCERD became fully operational in early 1990 as a semi-autonomous body
incorporated under the Higher Council for Science and Technology (HCST). It has since
expanded its activities to include resource mobilization, consultation, monitoring, training and
dissemination. NCERD staff work closely with MOE on a number of development activities,
including subproject appraisal in their capacity as the Intermediary Technical Unit. The Center's
President is currently a member of the Board of Education. Regional cooperation, mainly with
other Arab countries, began in 1991 and has intensified since. Integration of development and
policy research functions has provided both scale economies and cross-fertilization of ideas. In
1996, the Center's evaluation and policy research mandate was expanded to include higher
education and it was accordingly renamed the National Center for Human Resources
Development (NCHRD). NCHRD produced over 50 studies and reports, many of which focus
on policy related research, and worked with MOE on development of the HRDSIL II project. In
addition, an educational management information system (EMIS) was established to provide a
7



consolidated educational database capable of integrating data from dispersed sources. The policv
research programs and EMIS have helped both MOE and NCHRD to identifv sector issues and
fonnulate recommendations for decision makers. The Center also developed sample-based
national assessments to monitor and evaluate both the reform process and system performance.
These assessments should enable to evaluate the impact of specific reform measures on student
achievement.
(iii) The experience gained from the curriculum reform has provided on-the job training
to strengthen the Directorate of Curriculum in the MOE to build a capacity in curriculum
development. The experience was enriched during project implementation, with assistance from
ODA and monitoring from the 'Intermediary" and the Board of Education. While textbooks are
adopted for universal use prior to evaluation, they are evaluated and revised after adoption.
Evaluation and revision procedures were repeatedly modified in light of experience, with an
increasing emphasis on assessing the relevance of conteni:, the appropriateness of material to the
grade level for which it is intended, and the pedagogic suitability of the approach adopted to the
objectives of the material.
(iv) With respect to textbook development and distribution, capacity building for
preparation of camera-ready textbook manuscripts (including editing, artwork and layout,
development of printing specifications, and follow-up on printing) was undertaken, with ODA
assistance in the General Directorate for Curriculum and Educational Technology (GDCET).
With substantial improvement of publication capacity and. progressive professionalization of the
system, the physical quality of textbooks steadily improved. In addition, central and regional
textbook storage facilities were constructed and a system for textbook distribution developed and
is functioning efficiently. It is worth noting that key officials of the GDCET developed enough
expertise to become involved in extemal consultation assignments.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
11.   The Sector Investment Loan has implemented its components set in Phase I of the
Education Reform Program (ERP) in a highly satisfactory manner, and has laid the foundations
for further implementation of the educational reform. In spite of few problems, overall project
implementation was satisfactory and enhanced the institutional capacitv of the involved
"Intermediary" and MOE offices. Furthermore, the Bank exercised a great deal of flexibility,
amending the loan agreement to accommodate evolving preferences at OECF in favor of shifting
financing. Capacities were built in curriculum and textbook development as well as in evaluation
and revision of textbooks; the number of rented and double-shift schools was reduced; and the
proportion of schools with complete educational facilities jlibraries, labs, workshops and audio-
visual facilities) was increased. In-service teacher training programs introduced the new
philosophy and content of revised curricula to all concerned teachers and administrators, and
several thousand Basic Cycle teachers were given the chance to upgrade their qualifications to a
university degree. With respect to activities under the fourth component, aimed at increasing the
capacity of the system to sustain sectoral reform, significant policy and institutional changes
were introduced: The NCERD's functions are expanding and it has been renamed as the National
Center for Human Resources Development (NCHRD); its EMIS and national assessment
capabilities are well established; and it has become an intellectual leader in education both within
Jordan and in the Middle East and North Africa Region. NCHRD also carried out its
intennediary functions quite well, benefiting from the knowledge and familiarity of the NCHRD
president with Bank operations, regulations, and procedures. In spite of personnel changes at the
8



MOE during SIL implementation, particularlv in the office of the Minister of Education, there
was continuity in major policies of the reform program,
12.   Nevertheless, the SIL encountered some problems. Implementation was delayed by
about one year, as effectiveness had been made contingent on conclusion of cofinancing
agreements which were delayed. During the last two years of the project, the MOE General
Directorate of Projects and School Buildings was reorganized into several entities. Some were
headed by officials without sufficient experience in implementing Bank supported projects,
resulting in some disruption. The vocational training components in the new post basic programs
had not been designed on the basis of a thorough analysis of the policy issues and economic
implications. Issues related to cost effectiveness and relevance need to be analyzed and corrective
policy measures agreed before heavy investments are made. Finally, more coordination among
the various general directorates and stakeholders would have accelerated achieving project and
reform goals.
13.   Project costs were lower than estimated by $25 million ($252.5 million was planned and
$227.8 million utilized). This was due mainly to: (i) a favorable exchange rate which provided
extra financing for project activities; (ii) lower than expected price and physical contingencies
and substantially lower costs for land acquisition to construct schools (the estimate of $51
million for price and physical contingencies was excessive because the SIL was processed at a
time of drastic economic instability including a close to 25% devaluation of the dinar vs. the
dollar. In fact, Government's contribution was 47 percent lower than estimated ($105.1 million
planned and $53.49 million actual) -- mainly due to: (i) a saving of $22 million in the cost of
land acquisition; (ii) during the Gulf Crisis, the Bank raised the disbursement ratio for the civil
works category from 65% to 80% during three years of project implementation; and (iii) grant
financing and technical assistance were provided by the Japanese government, British ODA,
USAID and the European Commission.
14.   The 1988 policy decision to upgrade all basic education teachers from a two year
Community College Diploma to a four year University degree by 1988 was not fully
implemented. The extent of coverage of this policy objective was scaled down, and the MOE
which finances the tuition costs of these teachers started to be more selective in sponsoring
candidates. The HCC, one of the entities originally responsible for delivering the training, was
abolished after about three years of operation due to its inadequate performance. One of the
problems was that teachers were working full time and taking about 10 credits a semester, which
is a heavy load. Another problem was that the great majority were not eligible for universitv (as
opposed to community college) admission at the time of their secondary school graduation.
Moreover, distance between a teacher's home and the concemed universities, the pressure of
family responsibilities, lack of motivation, and weakness in English for students taking science
and math courses -- all contributed to the problems faced. The assumption that providing teachers
with training to upgrade to a BA level would considerably improve their teaching capabilities
and competencies is still an open question. The manner in which the policv was implemented
does not provide a valid research design to be used as a basis for answering the question.
15.   The textbook production implementation schedule was overly ambitious and under
political pressure. Adjustment of the schedule in view of the magnitude of the task, the multiple
review and approval layers, lack of authorial experience, and the need to build publishing
institutional capacity all had to be addressed. Delays were also encountered in procurement of
equipment and supplies for the Faculties of Educational Sciences involved in the pre-service and
upgrading teacher training programs, a major cause of loan extensions.
9



16.   Monitoring tools were introduced. The Government implementation team was generallv
innovative and expeditious in using a Japanese TA grant .for studies on evaluation and policv
development, and in the development of the EMIS and advancing national assessment and
monitoring. NCBRD has established a national system for assessment of educational progress
that will track student achievement as well as monitor the progress and efficiency of the
educational system. To assess the impact of the ERP, baseline data were collected in 1993, in
different domains of variables including: students' academic achievement; community and
family background; school practices in administration involving principals and supervisors;
teaching practices and instructional processes; and beliefs, attitudes, and perceptions of students,
teachers, and parents. A follow-up study was conducted in 1995 and the achievement results are
presented in Section G - Assessment of Outcome.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17.   National policy makers have become increasingly convinced that curriculum
development is a continuous and long term process. Due to ihis conviction and commitment, the
institutional capacity that the project developed in curriculum development, preparation of
textbook manuscripts, and textbook evaluation and revision is expected to continue functioning
well beyond completion of the project. Similarly, the system for storage and distribution of
textbooks established under the project is expected to be sustained. School building maintenance
was assigned a budget line, increasing the chance of routinizing maintenance by making it a
continuous and normal part of MOE operations.
18.   NCHRD's regional leadership role in EMIS and in assessing the educational system
perfonnance contributes to its sustainability by enabling it to supplement Government financing
with eamed revenue from extemal activities. NCHRD, which receives allocations from the
Government budget, has not used SIL funds available for its operations. Thus indicating that its
prospects of post-project financial sustainability are stnmng. The Center occupied new,
independent premises in September 1997 which were financed by the Government. Continuing
support to the ERP through the implementation of HRDSIL n1 and the continuing involvement of
cofinanciers (OECF, ODA and OPEC), increase the probabilily that project achievements will be
extended and sustained and implementation of the ERP will continue.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
19.   Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactorv. During preparation and supervision,
Bank missions worked in partnership with the Borrower to resolve issues that contributed to
clarification of goals and streamlining of procedures. For example, the Bank missions were
instrumental in convincing the Government that integration of the curncula and textbooks in
various primary cycle subjects was premature in view of the lack of expertise in this area and the
overly tight production schedules adopted. However, the Bank was not as successful in
convincing the Govenment that the goal of certifying all practicing teachers at a university
degree level would be difficult to achieve. Similarly, stronger reservations as to the feasibility of
meeting the armbitious completion and adoption schedule for new textbooks should have been
made by the Bank.
10



F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
20.   The Borrower's performance has been highly satisfactory. Continuous and strong
commitment to the reform process at the highest level of authority set the tone for the working
levels throughout the project preparation and implementation. That commitment was reflected in
the fact that HRH Crown Prince Al-Hassan chaired the concluding meetings of project
processing missions, and that these meetings were attended by three Ministers and many high
officials. The Government preparation team was also responsible for implementation.
21.   With project design closely based on the results of the National Conference on
Educational Refonn, country ownership of both individual components and the ERP as a whole
was high. MOE General Directorates responsible for activities affected by project components
contributed resources and manpower to the preparation process, facilitating development of well
defined interventions. The MOP and NCHRD were innovative and consistent in their efforts to
secure grant financing for the project's technical assistance program. The government remained
in compliance with project loan covenants, as well as with audit and progress reporting. When
uncommitted funds were identified in both the Education VI (Ln. 2378) and VII (Ln. 2890)
projects, the Government promptly requested that these funds be used to construct additional
schools under this project, thereby extending the school construction program. Coordination and
collaboration between MOE Directorates and NCHRD improved as implementation proceeded.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
22.   The overall objectives of the project have been largely achieved in a satisfactory manner.
Laws for restructuring the educational system were enacted, policies introduced, curricula
developed and better quality textbooks ultimately evolved. A system for preparing teachers at
universities has been established and is being strengthened, although problems were encountered
in upgrading the qualifications of Basic Cycle teachers.  The proportion of students
accommodated in purpose-built schools has increased and sound capabilities have been
established in curriculum development (including manuscript preparation) accompanied by a
change of approach to make the process continuous instead of ad hoc. The capabilities and
leadership role of NCHRD have been referred to repeatedly from a variety of independent
sources. One concem that should be expressed is ensuring that the Center continues to attract
expertise especially at the helm to sustain its high quality performance in the long run.
23.   However, the project was less successful in achieving the efficiency objective and the use
of sector resources was only partially improved. To reduce costs, Government introduced few
measures such as reducing the size of workshops, increasing class size in urban areas, and
making the designs of schools more efficiently. However, the EFS recommendations for
increasing cost recovery were not implemented for the following reasons: (i) some of the
assumptions of the EFS were not valid; (ii) cost recovery measures proposed by the study were
not substantial enough to improve the efficiency of the system; and (iii) since some of the
recommendations were not well justified, the Govemment hesitated to introduce changes unless
more appropriate tools in implementation were identified. This may be a result of high
expectations which were not realistic. In fact too much weight was placed by the Bank on the
recommendations of the Education Finance Study, with the expectation that it would initiate the
financial reform of the education system. Program or project activities should not be highly
dependent on the results of contemplated or planned studies. Even under optimum conditions of
conducting a study, political considerations could offset its recommendations. In fact cost
implications of interventions or feasibility measures introduced in a project should be an integral
11



part of project processing and should be achieved over time. Thus. a studv can not directlv lead
to action unless proper steps and implementation mechanisms are discussed in depth with the
Govermment and adequate monitoring tools are identified. In vocational education, the studv
which was performed to identify prospective demand for vocational training was judged to be not
conclusive and action in this subsector was postponed for suibsequent phases of the ERP.
24.   NCHRD conducted an achievement monitoring studly that showed that the impact of the
initial few years of the reform on achievement was mixed. Baseline data were collected in May
1993 from 4th, 5th, and 8th grade students who had no exposure to the education reform.
Follow-up data were collected in May 1995 from 4th and 8th grade students who had been
schooled under reform conditions for four years. In addition to measuring achievement in Arabic
language, mathematics and science, students' attitudes and perceptions about schooling,
classroom practices, out of school activities, and home environment were also measured. These
indicators show that student achievement in the 4th and 8th grades improved by 12 and 7 percent
respectively in math, and by 3.6 percent in Arabic for the 4th grade (with no improvement in 8th
grade Arabic performance), while achievement results in science declined in both grades. In
general, achievements in private schools improved more than in public ones and the United
Nations Relief and Work Agency schools, and the urban schools showed a better performance
than the rurl ones. With respect to gender, the performance of female students improved more
than their male cohorts. However, since it is difficult to measulre achievement results in the short-
term, a follow-up study is being currently designed (November 1997) to link the changes to
reform inputs and to provide systematic feedback about the perforfmance of the education system
and achievement trends.
25.   Shifting the entire educational system from traditional teaching and learning approaches
to practices promoting critical thinking and analytical skills is a goal of the ERP. To this end,
SIL was designed to lay the foundations for subsequent phases of the ERP and it has
accomplished this remarkably well. Although most of the objectives listed in the SAR as targets
or indicators were satisfactorily achieved, assessing the project's impact on the promotion of
critical thinking is more difficult and will take more time and availability of proper analytical
tools.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
26.   Educational reform program is a continuous process aad there is a growing realization on
the side of the GOJ as well as those directly involved at the Bank that such reform needs more
than 10 years. Jordan's education reform program is cumulative over time, with later initiatives
building on the foundations laid by earlier activities. Program activities are also interactive and
synergistic, with outputs designed to enhance and support each other. Monitoring and evaluation
of implementation experience provide feedback necessary to make subsequent modifications.
Two operations emerged from this project: the Second HIRDSIL (FY95) in which many
component activities are continuing as integral parts of the ongoing education reform, and a
Higher Education Development project. In addition, education authorities in Jordan have already
started discussing the processing of a Third SIL operation to support the next phase of
educational reform. Moreover, many SIL initiatives are being pursued in a variety of directions.
New secondary curricula were first implemented in 1995-96, and the GSSCE examination based
on the new curricula was first administered in 1997. There is some indication that examination
questions calling for utilization of higher cognitive skills are being introduced. Finally, the
General Directorate of Curriculum and Textbooks has subnnitted proposals to the Board of
Education for further development of textbooks, for exploration of proposals for multiple
textbooks, and for experiments with consolidated and integrated curricula in grades one to four.
12



I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
27.   The key lessons to be leamed from this project are:
(a) Education reform programs require a long-term strategy, continuing consensus
among different stakeholders and Government ownership: The project enjoyed the strong
ownership of the Government because it financed the core of Jordan's long-term education
reform program (ERP). A comprehensive reform program in education is a long-term process
that requires the broad support of stakeholders over time and a phased, flexible approach to
implementation. This long-term process also depends on coordinating well many different
aspects and components if it is to take root and materialize. Curriculum development, textbook
authorship, staff development, policies of incentives, educational technology, tests and
examinations, and supervision -- all have to be directed towards achieving the goals of the reform
in the long run. Attitudes and behaviors need to be changed including those of parents and the
public in addition to education personnel at all levels. Although this is not easy, careful planning
and strong monitoring that directs all these inputs in a way to attune them with the goals of the
reform and their realization in the long-term is of central importance. Government ownership and
commitment of resources also helped to get the project operational and to ensure project
sustainability.
(b) Technical institutions have a great potential to impact implementation: The
establishment of institutions such as NCHRD and charging it with the responsibility of
institutionalizing key functions and activities needed to help maintain the momentum of the
reform were crucial for the overall success of the project. High political support and strong
knowledgeable leadership are necessary ingredients for the success of such centers. The central
role given to NCHRD, the "Intermediary" (the project implementing unit), worked well and
should be adaptable to other operations, such as the proposed Higher Education Development
Project. Changes in the composition of the Policy Council and of the corresponding expertise at
NCHRD may be needed for different projects.
(c) Fundamental policy change requires greater effort at consensus building which
cannot be assumed a priori: Too much weight was placed by the Bank on the recommendations
of the Education Finance Study, with the expectation that it would kick start the financial reform
of the education system. In fact a study is one part of a multipart process by which more
efficient use of resources is gradually achieved over time. Even if the design and the quality of
the study is appropriate and the conclusions are well justified, it is unrealistic to expect that it
will directly lead to an action plan. A study cannot directly lead to action unless proper steps and
implementation mechanisms are discussed in depth with the Government and adequate
monitoring tools are identified.
(d) Project implementation should respect technical standards: Because the project was
under strong pressure to meet implementation target dates, some components were implemented
more quickly than technically desirable. As a result of this, technical standards were not
sufficiently maintained, detracting from quality. Most notably, the Board of Education was
occasionally forced to approve textbooks that did not incorporate the required revisions, so as not
to interrupt the textbook implementation plan. In addition, this rushed schedule for introducing
new curricula resulted in a time-frame for implementing the in-service teacher training program
that was unrealistically short.
13



(e) Lending instruments must match objectives: fI the context of a long term reform
program which will impose significant changes on a sector wide basis, the choice of a sector
investment loan (SIL) proved to be highly appropriate. It allowed for periodic development and
appraisal of subprojects, building on the ongoing experience in the overall reform process. It
also provided flexibility to change interventions during implementation adapting to new
circumstances and challenges.
14



HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3106-JO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
PART II: STATISTICAL AND OTHER TABLES
Table  1:             Summary of Assessments
Table 2:             Related Bank Loans
Table 3:             Project Timetable
Table 4A:            Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table 4B:            Loan Disbursements
Table 5:             Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:             Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:             Use of Technical Assistance
Table 8:             Project Costs & Financing
Table 9:             Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:             Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:             Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:            Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Table 13:            Bank Resources - Missions
Annexes
1:            ICR Mission Aide Memoire
2:            The Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
3             Map
15



Table 1: Summarv of Assessments
SUBSTANTIAL            PARTIAL        NEGLIGIBLE          NOT
APPLICABLE
A. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Sector policies                                                     x
Institutional development                      x
Physical objectives                            x
Gender Issues                                                                                       x
LIKELY                      UNLIKELY               UNCERTAIN
B. PROJECT SUSTAINABILTY                       x
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY              SAT{SFACTORY              DEFICIENT
C. BANK PERFORMANCE
Identification                                                               x
Preparation assistance                                                       x
Appraisal                                                                    x
Supervision                                                                  x
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY              SATISFACTORY              DEFICIENT
D. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Preparation                                    x
Implementation                                                               x
Covenant compliance                                                          x
Operation                                                                    x
HIGHLY SATISFACTORY    SATISFACTORY           NOT          DEFICIENT
SATISFACTORY
E. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                        _
16



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit                           Purpose                  Year of Approval      Status
Title
PRECEDING OPERATIONS
Cr. 285-JO                     Improve quality of education; increase supply  1972        Completed
Education                      of skilled manpower.                                        satisfactorily
Cr. 534-JO                     Improve quality of education; increase supply  1975        Completed
Education 1I                   of skilled manpower.                                        satisfactorily
Ln. 1781-JO                    Improve quality of education; increase supply  1979         Completed
Education mII                  of skilled manpower.                                        satisfactorily
Ln. 2068-JO                    Improve quality of education; increase supply  1981         Completed
Education IV                   of skilled manpower.                                        satisfactorily
Ln. 2246-JO                   Increase supply of skilled manpower:; provide   1983         Completed
Education V                    access to basic schooling for nomadic                      satisfactorily
populations; strengthen Ministry of Education.
Ln. 2368-JO                    Expansion and improvement of compulsory        1984         Completed
Education VI                   and general secondary schools; enhance                      satisfactorily
implementation of pre-vocational programs.
Strengthen MOE's institutional capacity in
project preparation and implemnentation.
Ln. 2890-JO                    Improve the quality, relevance and cost        1987         Completed
-ducation VII                  efficiency of education at the primary,                     satisfactorily
secondary and tertiary levels;
Reinforce institution building; and
Strengthen the linkage between
education/vocational training and skilled
manpower demand.
FOLLOWING OPERATIONS
Ln. 3864-JO                    Support the govemrnent's 10-year Education     1995         Progress
BRDSIL II                      Reform Program.                                             satisfactory
Continuation of HRDSIL I (Ln. 3106)
17



Table 3: Proiect Timetable
STEPS IN THE PROJECT                 DATE PLANNED                   DATE ACTUAL
CYCLE
Identification                                02/88                          04/88
Preparation                                                                  08/88
Appraisal                                                                    12/88
Negotiations                                                                 03/89
Board presentation                                                          06/29/89
Signing                                                                     08/18/89
Effectiveness                                  11/89                        05/15/90
Project Completion                           12/31/93                       05/30/96
Credit Closing                               06/30/94                       06/30/97
Table 4A: Allocation of Loaun Proceeds
CATEGORY                   ORIGINAL    * REVISED   DISBURSED  UNDISBURSED
ALLOCATION  ALLOCATION
Civil Works                    59.6               55.8            56.56             -0.35
Equipment & Fumiture             -                10.4             9.46             0.94
Printing Supplies
Consultant Services             3.2               6.8              6.64             0.24
& Fellowships                  4.7                -0-
Special Account
Unallocated                                                        0.34             -0.34
5.5               -0-
TOTAL                          73.0               73.0            73.00            0.00 1/
NOTE: * Last revision made on November 7, 1995 at Government's request. Consultant Services & Fellowships were fully
Funded by a Japanese Grant in the amount of $2.5 million equivalent. 1/ Special account is being reconciled. Figures may not
add up due to rounding.
18



Table 4B: Loan Disbursement - Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Million)
FISCAL   APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                  ACTUAL             ACTUAL % OF
YEAR                                                              ESTIMATE
1990                 12.00
1991                 24.50                    6.65                  27%
1992                 38.50                   13.71                  36%
1993                 55.00                   31.73                  58%
1994                 73.00                   50.71                  69%
1995                                         64.53
1996                                         69.47
1997                                         73.00
Table 4Ek Lowa Disbursmt - CunJdaiv Estinsd  aid Actu.
70
8)
150                               &ilpaise% Esf1inte
4 0 -            ,5GoL  Ll          5 
301
20-
19



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
SAR TARGETS    ACHIEVEMENTS
INDICATORS                                (06/94)                (06/97)
1. EDUCATION FINANCE STUDY                                      06/89                  06/94
2. CURRICULA & TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT
- Curricula Approval                                         12/91                  12/92
- Textbook - Basic Cycle                                     09/93                  12/95
- Warehouse Construction (2)                                 12/92                  06/94
- Additional Warehouses (2)                                    -                    09/95
3. TEACHER & OTHER STAFF TRAINING 1/
- 3 Education Faculties Buildings                            12/92                  1995
- CERTIFICATION PROGRAM:                                     4,0C0               3,500(8/95)
- Teacher Updating                                          12,000                 40,000
- Other Technical Staff                                       750                    620
- Principals and Supervisors                                 4,800                  3480
4. EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY
- Specialized Facilities 2/                                   603                    412
- Added in Education VI Project                                -                    (52)
5. EDUCATIONAL FACILITY IMPROVEMENT
- TOTALNO. OF SCHOOLS:                                        152                    181
- Sub-Project I                                                50                     50
- Sub-Project II                                               45                     45
- Sub-Project Im                                               57                     80
- Educ.VI & VII Uncommitted Funds                               -                     6
- OECF                                                         -                    (107)
6. VTC EXPANSION
- Vocational Education Study                                 04/90                   1993
- Ein El Basha Extension                                      12/92                 12/94
- Testing & Training Center                                   12/92                 06/94
- Irbid Training Center                                      06/94                  09(95
- Tafileh Training Center                                    06/94                  09/95
7. NCHRD Activities
- Sub-project appraisals (no.)                                NA                      26
- Studies & Reports                                           NA                      40
S. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 3/
- Specialist Services (person months)                        356 pma               100.7 pm
- Consultants/Experts                                       1021pm                 124.9 pm
- Fellowships                                                 172                     63
NOTES:
1/ Data for the Phase I program (Ln.3106-JO) is provided up to June 1995 (end of the academic year). Phase II of the
reform program for which activities are financed under the HRDSII II Loan - No.3864-JO), began in July 1995 when the
loan becamne effective.
21 Libraries, Laboratories, Audio-visual rooms, Vocational Education Workshops.
3/ Technical Assistance was fnanced under a Japanese Grant (Details of its use are provided in Table 7 attached)
20



Table 6: Key Indicators for Proiect Operation
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES                             STATUS OF KEY INDICATORS
1. Restructure the School System                      1.1 New education structure instituted;
1.2 Three major streams: science/math; arts/humanities; and
technical/technology provided;
1.3 Specialization broadened in two existing VTCs and
equipment upgraded; demand survey used as basis for VTC
capacity expansion.
2. Revise the Examination System.                     2.1 The basic education completion examination was
abolished and replaced with a new system of promotion from
the tenth grade to secondary education (11th grade) based on
performance in the previous three grades;
2.2 The General Secondary School Completion Examination
(GSSCE) changed in structure and regulations.
3. Use resources more efficiently and increase cost recovery   3.1 Covenanted study on Financing of Education conducted
levels.                                               and completed and reviewed jointly by the Bank and
Government. Measures were initiated to implement some
recommendations.
4. Curriculum Development.                            4.1 National curriculum committees established for each
subject;
4.2 Basic education curricula approved by the Board of
Education and submitted for manuscript preparation;
4.3 New curricula for secondary schools approved.
5. Textbook Development                               5.1 Textbook publishing capacity at MOE set up;
5.2 New textbooks and teachers' guides in all subjects
published and introduced,
5.3 New textbooks tested for a full year and revised in line
with feedback from 'users';
5.4 One central warehouse and two district warehouses
.constructed by the end of Phase I
6. Raise teacher qualification requirements.          6.1 New education law legislated;
6.2 Certification program to upgrade academic qualifications
of basic education teachers started;
6.3 Certification program at three universities begun;
6.4 Community college training program for basic education
teachers phased out and teacher training capacity expanded at
the Universities of Jordan, Yarmouk and Mutah.
7. Improve the academic and pedagogical leadership capacity  7.1 Academic qualifications of principals upgraded to a BA +
of principals and supervisors.                        pedagogical diploma equivalency and of education
supervisors to an MA through certification training at
universities.
8. Introduce basic education teachers and other staff to the  8.1 Train the trainer programs completed;
reform objectives, new curricula, textbooks; and train them in  8.2 40,000 basic education teachers; 120 lab assistants and
new pedagogical methods to use the new inputs more     640 librarians, audio visual technicians trained;
effectively.                                          8.3 In-service training provided to about 2,800 principals and
to 700 education supervisors.
21



Table 6
(Continueh)
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES                             STATUS OF KEY INDICATORS
9. Provide educational technology.                    9.1 Special facilities constructed and specialized staff trained;
9.2 Software: programs ,primarily for in-service teacher
training programs, developed.
10. Improve the quality of classrooms and introduce   10.1 Rented facilities replaced with purpose-built schools;
specialized facilities.                               10.2 Natural increases in enrollments accommodated;
10.3 Special.zed facilities provided (labs, libraries,
workshops) in new and some existing new schools.
11. Strengthening the Technical Unit of the Intermediary.  11.1 The Intermediary's capacity for monitoring,
coordinating; and appraising sub projects, as well as to
monitor their implementation has been favorably assessed.
The Unit is currently implementing the HRDSIL II project.
12. Establish institutional capacity and innovation in  12.1 NCERD (now NCHRD) established, staffed and work
education over the long term.                         program agreed with Bank.
13. Institutionalize the process of the ongoing curriculum  13.1 MOE Directorate of Curriculum strengthened to manage
reform.                                               curricula preparation and the revision process.
14. Institutionalize textbook development and distribution.    14.1 The MOE's Textbook Publishing capacity developed
and is fully olperational.
22



Table 7: Use of Technical Assistance
A Japanese Grant in the amount of three hundred million Yen ($2.89 million equivalent) was provided for the
project's technical assistance program; it was fully committed at project closing. The Grant financed fellowship
training programs and the use of expert services to undertake several studies. The following is a summary of the
activities undertaken under the Grant.
STUDY/ACTIVITY                                    EXECUTED BY:
1. Post-Doctoral Fellowship Program                 Michigan State U & AMIDEAST
2. Measurement & Evaluation                          R. Sandman (Consultant)
(Expert for the University of Jordan)
3. Database & Statistical Analysis Programs         H. Khan (Consultant)
(Expert to the University of Yarnouk)
4. Improve National Capacities in Research           Harvard Institute for Institutional Development
(IID)
5. Textbook Development                              Biological Sciences Curriculum Study (BSCS)
6. Social Sciences Textbook Development              M. Farah (Consultant)
7. Technical & Vocational Education studies          ILO
8. Dev. of Admin. & Managerial Services &            Jordan Institute of Public Administration (JIPA)
Capacities of the MOE and NCHRD
9. An Evaluation Study of the Vocational Programs    University of Jordan
in Secondary Schools.
10. Human Resources Development in Jordan:           Royal Scientific Society (RSS)
Potential and Strategies
11. An Analytical Study of Unemployment and          RSS
Poverty in Jordan
12. An Evaluation Study of Supervision, Pre-         Yannouk University
Vocational, Computer and Music Education
13. Preparation and Development of Modular           Vocational Training Corporation (VTC)
Training Units
14. Development of Training Materials for Safety     VTC and the Occupational Safety & Health
Officers Program                                  Institute (OSHI)
15. Procurement Management Course                    ILO (Turin Center)
16. Development of Learnig Materials                 Noor Al Hussein Foundation'The Jubilee School
23



Table 7 B (Confinuedj
STUD-1.4CTI WTY'                                  EXECUTED B1'
17. Violent Behavior Among Students in                Ministry of Education (MOE)
Govenment Schools in Jordan
18. Utilization Rate of Educational Facilities in     MOE
Government Schools
19. instructional Management Behaviors, Student       MOE
Background, Variables and Teaching Practices in
Effective and Non-Effective Secondary Schools
20. Evaluation of Top Educational Leadership          MOE
Training Programs and Masters' Programs at the
MOE and Jordanian Universities
21. A Study on University Linkage with the Private    Edgar Harrell (Consultant)
Sector
22. A Survey of Labor Force Trends and Practices      NCHRI)
for Vocational Level Skilled Workers in Jordan
23. A Perfornance Review of the Vocational            NCHRI)
Training Corporation
FELLOSHIPPROGR1 f
IEXECUTING                                          No. OF
BENEFICIARY        AGENCY               AREA OF STUDIES              PERSONS        MAN/MONTHS
U of Jordan     Michigan St. U.  Post doctoral program in Educatiion      1               4
Yarmouk U.      Michigan St. U.  Post doctoral program in Education       2               8
Mu'tah U.       Michigan St. U.  Post doctoral program in Education       1               4
NCHRD           Michigan St. U.   Study Tour                              1               .3
MOE             Michigan St. U.   Study Tour                              4               1.2
U. of Jordan     AMIDEAST        Post doctoral program in Education      13               33
Yarmouk U.       AMIDEAST        Post doctoral program in Education       13              33
Mu'tah U.        AMIDEAST        Post doctoral program in Education       12             32.5
NCHRD            AMIDEAST        Study Tour                               1               .5
MOE              AMIDEAST        Study Tour                               6               3
NCHRD           ILO Turin Cent.  Procurement Management Course            1               1
MOE             ILO Turin Cent.  Procurement Management Course            1               1
MOHE             ILO Turin Cent.  Procurement Management Course           1               1
NCHRD           EDC              Math & Science                           1               .3
MOE             EDC              Textbook Development                     2               .6
GD.Curriculum    EDC             MOE Study Tour                           3               1.5
63             124.9
24



Table 8: Proiect Costs & Financing
(US$ Millions)
PROGRAM COSTS                         PLAN                           ACTUAL '
Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign      Total
1. Curriculum Development               -        0.1        0.1        9.8        2.2       12.0
2. Textbook Development               3.8        4.0        7.8        7.2        7.6       14.8
3. Teacher/Supervisory Staff Trng.   21.9       12.0       33.9        7.3        7.5       14.8
4. Educational Technology             3.7        5.2        8.9       12.7       13.6       26.3
5. Educational Facility              82.2       57.7      139.9       60.5       87.4      147.9
Improvement
6. Vocational Training                3.3        4.6        7.9        2.4        3.8        6.2
7. EducationResearchandDev.           1.2        1.0        2.2          -        3.6        3.6
8. Program Management                 0.5        0.3        0.8        2.2          -        2.2
TOTAL BASE COSTS                    116.6       84.9      201.5      102.1      125.7      227.8
Physical Contingencies                8.0        8.3       16.3          -          -          -
Price Contingencies                  23.9       10.7       34.6          -          -          -
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS                 148.5      103.9      252.4      102.1      125.7      227.8
FINANCING
1. Government                       105.1          -      105.1       28.5      29.34      55.64
2. Bank                              25.1       47.9       73.0       26.0      47.00      73.00
3. OECF                              17.8       55.2       73.0       42.0      38.00      80.00
4. USAID                                -          -          -          -       0.74       0.74
5. Japanese Grant                       -          -          -          -       2.89       2.89
6. ODA                                0.4        1.0        1.4       0.60       1.60       2.20
7. Uncommitted Funds from Ed.VII        -          -          -       1.80       1.30       3.10
8. Uncommitted Funds from Ed.VI         -          -          -       3.20       4.83       8.03
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 148.4      104.1      252.5      102.1      125.7    227.80
SOURCE: Staff Appraisal Report Plan and NCHRD financial status reporting during the May 1997 completion
mission.
* Estimated Costs at project closing (06/97)
Notes: Governnent financing was less than planned due to lower than estimated price and physical contingencies and
a favorable rate of exchange for both the Yen and the US dollar vis-A-vis the Jordanian dinar. Financing through
grants was provided by ODA for curricula and textbook development; a Japanese grant for technical assistance; and by
US sources for the EMIS component and for a study on Vocational and Technical Education.
25



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Costs and Benefits were not calculated for the project.
Table 10: Status of Loan Covenants
AGREEMENT   LOAN/    TEXT                     COVE-   STATUS    DESCRIFTION OF COVENANT                           COMMENTS
CREDIT        REFE-         NANT
NUMBER        RENCE       CLASS(ES)
L31060     Sec. 3.02(a)      10            C       The Borrower shall enter into agreements    Done
with the universities (Jordan, Yarmouk,
Mu'tah) for institutional, operational,
financial and accounting arrangements
necessary to carry out their respective sub-
projects on teacher training.
Sec. 3.03(a)      10           C       The Borrower shall (i) cause the Technical  Done
Unit to appraise the sub-projects in
accordance with guidelines, criteria and
procedures acceptable to the Bank; and (ii)
cause the Policy Council to review each of
the sub-projects, and upon approval of
said Policy Council, to refer the sub-
projects to the M4inistry of Planning,
following for such purposes, guidelines,
procedures and criteria acceptable to the
Bank
Sec. 3.03(b)      10           C       The Borrower shall present to the Bank for  Done
approval not later than one month prior to
the scheduled slat of implemeatation (i)
all sub-projects the implementation of
which is scheduled to commence during
the one-year peliod commencing after the
Effective Date of this Loan Agreement;
(ii) sub-projects scheduled to commence
after 6,/30/90 and which the Bank has
selected for revi,zw.
Sec. 3.03(d)      10           C        The Borrower sthall not permit a change to   This was never an issue
be made in the scope of a sub-project  during the project's
which has been approved by the Policy  implementation phase.
Council or the Bank without the
concurrence of the Policy Council or the
Bank, as the case may be.
Sec. 4.01(b)      01           C       Furnish to the Bank not later than six  Reports were submitted
months after the end of each fiscal year, a   regularly.
certified copy of the audit report including
an audit of the Special Account.
Sec. 4.01 (c      01           C       The Borrower shall retain until at least one   Being done.
ii)                                year after the last withdrawal from the
loan account and make all records
(contacts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documets) evidencing such
expenditures, and enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
26



AGREEMENT         LOANI        TEXT         COVE-        STATUS       DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                  COMMENTS
CREDIT       REFE-         NANT
NUMBER       RENCE        CLASS(ES)
Sch. 5 (2a)      10           C       For the purpose of ensuring the proper  The Technical Unit was
supervision of the execution of the Sector   established and fully
Development Program and the project, the  functional
Borrower shall continue to maintain the  during project
Technical Unit established within HCST    implementation.
with organization, staffing and TORs that
are satisfactory to the Bank.
Sch. 5(3)       10           C       The Borrower shall provide to the Bank    The study was completed
for its review and comments by 6/30/89,    in January 1994 and a
TORs for an education finance study to  copy provided to the
identify, evaluate and recommend      Bank. Few of the
opportunities for cost savings and cost  recommendations were
recovery to be carried out under Part B(2)   adoptable.
of the project, and shall by 12/31/89,
review the study's recommendations with
the Bank; and by 3/31/90 execute a
program to achieve the recommendations.
Sch. 5 (4)       10           C      The Borrower shall provide to the Bank  The study was completed
for its review and comments, by 09/30/89,  in 1993 by USAID
TORs for the study of demand for      financed experts and a
vocational training (Part A(4) of the  copy provided to the
project, by 04/30/90 review the       Bank. Plans to carry out
recommendations of the study with the  the action program were
Bank; and by 07/31/90 carry out a     incorporated in the Phase
vocational training action program agreed   II project (HRDSIL I -
to by the Bank and the Borrower.      Ln.3864-JO).
Sch. 5 (7)       10          C       The Borrower shall cause the Tech. Unit    Progress reports were
to prepare and funish to the Bank not  routinely prepared.
later than June 30 of each year a progress
report on the conclusions and
recommendations indicated by the
monitoring and evaluation activities,
including subsequent years' programs and
any proposed revisions to be introduced
into the Sector Development Program.
Status: C - Complied with
27



Table 11: Compliance with ODerational Manual Statements
There is no evidence of non-compliance
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs1
Stage of                  Planned                    Revised                    Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks          US$         Weeks          US$          Weeks        US$
Thousands                  Thousands
Through appraisal            -             -             -            -           130.8       311.1
Appraisal-Board              -             -             -            -           45.4         107.1
Board - Effectiveness        -             -             -            -              -           -
Supervision                  -             -             -            -           76.4        235.8
Completion                  8.0                          -            -            9.333       22.5
TOTAL                 -_                                _                  261.9       676.5
I Also includes Bank-fmanced and trust fund consultants.
2   Board Presentation was on 06/29/89 and Effectiveness on 05/15/90.
3   As of November 1997.
28



Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
STAGE OF    MONTH/   NUMBER              TOTAL         SPECLiLIZED            PERFORMANCE RATINGS                 TYPES OF
PROJECT        YEAR           OF         FIELD         STAFF SKILLS                                             PROBLEMs3
CYCLE                    PERSONS        DAYS         REPRESENTED2
IMPLEMEN-         DEVELOP-
TATION             MENT
STATUS4        OBJECTIVES
12/87         4            21       EC,SIE,TE
Through          02/88          2            14       EC,IS/E
Appraisal        04/88          4            14       EC,E.TEX
08/88         7            18       EC,E,A,TEX,FA
Appraisal        12/88          8            12       EC,E,A,TEX,EP,O0
through Board
Approval
Board              -            -             -
Approval
through
Effectiveness
1           4            17       TVE,E,A,
Supervision        2            5            22       E, A, 00,OA,DO                1                 1
3           3            16       E,A,OO                        1                 1
4           3            21       E,A,OA,                        1                1
5           4             18      E,A,OA                         1                1
6           4             8       E,A,EC,OA                     1                  1               CP
7           2             10      IS,OO                         1                 1                CP
8            1            6       00                            1                 1                CP
9           2             13      TVE,OO                        1                 1                CP
10           3            9        E,OO                          1                 1                EP
11           1            10       00                            1                 1                EP
12           2            10       E,00                                            1                EP
Completion         13           2             9       E,00                          1
NOTE: Supervision of the project was carnied out in conjunction with other projects in the Education portfolio.
4       Staff Specializations: A = Architect, EC  Economist, ES = Education Specialist; EN = Engineer; EP = Education Planner;
GE = General
Educator, OA= Operations Analyst; 00  Operations Officer IS = Implementation Specialist; PS = Procurement Specialist;
TVE = Technical Vocational Educator, IA = Information Analyst; DO = Disbursement Officer, FA-= Financial Analyst,
TEX =Textbook Specialist.
Tvpes of Problems:  M = Managerial; TA = Technical Assistance; TR =Training, CP = Civil Works Procurement;
EP =Equipment Procurement.
6         Egg:  1= Problem Free; 2 = Moderate Problems; S = Satisfactory.
29



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OFt JORDAN
THE HUMAN DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMEN4T LOAN (HRDSIL PROJECT)
LOAN 3106-JO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
MAY 22 - MAY 31, 1997
AIDE-MEMOIRE
INTRODUCTION
1.    An implementation completion mission composed of Mr. George Za'rour (Sr. General Educator)
and Ms. Patricia Maughan (Operations Officer) of the Human Development Group (MNSHD), Middle East
and North Africa Region visited Jordan from May 22-31, 1997 to continue preparation of an
Inplementation Completion Report (ICR) for the subject project, as well as review the implementation
progress of the Second Human Resources Development Sector Investment Loan (Ln. 3864-JO). The ICR
team focused on: (a) the degree of achievement of project objectives; (b) prospects for the project's
sustainability; (c) project outcome; and (d) the plan for the project's future operation. As the project was
fully disbursed with its major objectives achieved at the time of the mission, the ICR team had prepared a
draft report in advance of the mission and collected missing information on its arrival. The mission is
grateful to H.E. Dr. I. Jaradat, Secretary General, Ministry of Education (MOE), Dr. Mohammed Atiyyah,
Director of International Projects and MOE implementation staff, as well as to Dr. Victor Billeh, President
of the National Center for Human Resources Development (NCHRD) and its staff for the support provided
to the mission, which greatly facilitated its final review of the project's implementation phase.
2.    The mission met with the MOE General Directors and senior officials of the General Directorates of
Training (at the Education Training Center); General Education; Vocational Education; Examinations;
Curriculum and Textbooks; Education Technology; Projects and School Buildings; and The Computer
Center. The mission also visited the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC) and the Deans of the Faculties
of Educational Sciences at the Universities of Jordan and Yawmouk, and participated in a few sessions of a
workshop/conference conducted by the VTC and visited two project schools. The MOE personnel provided
their views on the experience of the implementation of the first part of the Education Reform Program and
detailed their experiences of the project activities with which they were involved. The mission toured the
university facilities constructed under the project and were particularly pleased to note the fully equipped
and furnished classrooms and laboratories which were acquired from the loan.
3.    On behalf of the MOE administrative departnents (finance, procurement, civil works and follow-
up), Dr. Atiyyah prepared a Borrower's Report for the ICR on the project's implementation experience,
while Dr. Billeh summarized one of his reports on Educational Reform in Jordan: An Analytical Overview,
which provided a comprehensive review of the Phase I Reform Program. NCHRD, under the guidance of
Dr. Billeh also prepared seven detailed reports on the status of each national program financed under the
project, namely: curriculum development, textbook development; teacher and supervisory staff training;
educational technology; educational facility improvement; vocational txaining; and educational research and
development. The reports provide a comprehensive overview of each target area for the reform program
and are a useful source of data on the subsectors.
30



PROJECTINFORMATION
4.    The loan in the amount of $73.0 million was approved in June 1989 and became effective in Mav
1990, its start up having been delayed by the Govenmment of Jordan's signing of the OECF loan (a
condition of the Bank loan's effectiveness) in the matching amount of $73.0 million which cofinanced the
project. The Bank project covered seven national programs and thirty-four subprojects in national programs
noted in para. 3 above. The project's activities supported the Government's education reform program
which was successful in improving the relevance of schooling and student achievement, increasing cost-
efficiency, as well as institutional and organizational strengthening in the education sector. NCHRD was
successful in obtaining funds from USAID under the BRIDGES project to develop an Educational
Management Information System (EMIS), as well as financing for a study of the Vocational Training
System in Jordan. Two grants supported technical assistance activities under the project. The Department
of Foreign and International Development, formerly the Overseas Development Agency (ODA) provided a
grant in the amount of $ 2.8 million which was used for textbook development activities. A Japanese grant
in the amount of $2.8 million equivalent provided funding for fellowship training and experts to prepare a
variety of activities and studies related to human resources development.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.    Project developmental objectives were fully achieved. Improving the relevance of schooling and
study achievement. New curricula were finalized and instituted as well as the development of new
textbooks. Increasing cost efficiency. A covenanted education finance study was completed in 1994 and
some of its reconinendations have been implemented by the Government to ensure cost efficiency in the
sector. Institutional and Organizational Strengthening in the Education Sector. Three new Vocational
Training Centers (VTCs) and an upgraded one were provided through the project; a study of Vocational
and Technical Education (VTE) which provided recommendations for improving the system was
completed. VTE is a significant component of the second phase of the education reform program, as
defined under the Second Human Resources Sector Investment Loan - HRDSIL II (Ln.3864). As planned,
the NCHRD has been effective in consolidating the reform program's objectives as well as conducting
independent studies and research to improve the education system, and the national assessment of
educational achievement.
6.    The project's closing date (originally June 30, 1994 and now June 30, 1997) was extended on three
occasions, mainly due to delays in finalizing the equipment and fumiture procurement process. Loan
amendments were also requested by the Government, first to accommodate the OECF's decision to support
school construction as well as the provision of equipment and fumiture for the schools they built. Funds
were reallocated among the various loan categories to support an expanded civil works program, and in
particular from the technical assistance (TA) category as financing from the Japanese grant was used for
project TA. Project costs were lower than estimated (about $25.0 million; $252.5 million planned vs.
$227.8 million utilized) and as a result, the Government's contribution was reduced substantially ($105.1
million planned vs. $53.49 actual). The difference in planned project costs and financing is explained by (a)
a favorable exchange rate for both the OECF loan and Japanese Grant which provided extra financing for
project-funded activities; (b) a higher than planned share of Bank financing for civil works when
disbursements were increased from 65% to 80% for three years during the Bank's Gulf crisis initiative; (c)
overestimated costs for price and physical contingencies (about $51.0 million); (d) lower than projected
construction, equipment and furniture costs; and (e) grant financing from the USAID project (BRIDGES)
was acquired through NCHRD's application for assistance for their EMIS. Development of the EMIS was
timely as it facilitated the Government's compilation of statistics on the increase of educational services
required as a result of Jordanian repatriation following the Gulf War.
31



7.    The Bank responded favorablv to the Government's request for an increase in the Bank's share of
funding for project civil works, through its Gulf Crisis Initiative, and to other requests to amend the loan to
include financing for equipment and furniture, which was originall]v to be provided by the OECF loan, and
to various reallocations of loan proceeds as grant financing becarne available for technical assistance and
other activities in the project. About 70% of the loan was disbursed by the original project closing date
(June 1994) and the loan was fully disbursed in early May 1997. As noted earlier, the favorable exchange
rate of the Yen provided additional funding from both the OECF loan and the Japanese grant-financed
activities. Uncommitted funds from both the Education VI (Ln.2378) and Education VII (Ln.2890) projects
were used to build additional schools under the HRDSIL project. Audit and progress reporting for the loan
was timely, and full compliance of loan covenants was achieved, The design team envisaged two risks
during project implementation, namely, (a) external and domestic financing difficulties -- that if the OECF
loan did not materialize in the full amount and the possibility of coumterpart funding constraints; and (b) the
capacity to implement the complex sector operation. Both the Bank and Govermnent were thorough and
consistent in their efforts to mitigate both occurrences. With regard to the latter, the establishment of the
NCHRD has proved to be, not only a most viable means of consolidating the reform program, but it has
established itself as a focal point for Human Resources Developments in Jordan, and in the Arab Region,
through its regional training and consultative activities.
THE PROJECT'S OPERATIONAL PHASE
8.    HRDSIL II (Ln.3864-JO) provides for a natural continuation of the reform program. Curriculum
development, textbook evaluation and revision, EMIS and national assessment activities will continue as
regular activities of the educational system. The General Secondary School Examn is being aligned to the
new curricula, school-based innovations are encouraged, and classroom teachers are being sensitized to
diagnostic approaches. The Government will continue its policy to get rid of rented school buildings and to
eliminate double shifts. The General Directorate of Curriculum and Textbooks has already submitted
proposals to the Board of Education for further development of school textbooks and, exploration of
proposals for multiple textbooks, and experimenting with consolidated and integrated curricula in Grades 1-
4. A second OECF loan is being negotiated (early June 1997) which is to provide additional support for the
MOE vocational training programs; the vocational training corporation; and community colleges. The
technical and vocational education and training (TVET) program is also being consolidated through a
strategic plan developed as part of an ongoing Canadian project (Economic Development through Technical
Skills - EDTS).
9.      Of relevance to the Operational Phase, the Bank's ICR team also supervised the HRDSIL II
project (Ln.3864) which became effective in July 1995 and is progressing satisfactorily in many areas,
although slower than expected in the civil works program (construction of the Learning Resources Centers
and the Examinations Building); and in the start up of the TA activities. Its scope is largely defined by the
education reform program and the measures that will be supported are directed towards the realization of its
overall goals over the 1995-2000 period (Phase II of the reform). Specific objectives include: (a) assisting
the Borrower in improving the quality of basic and secondary education; (b) improving technical/vocational
education and training; and(c) strengthening the institutions and operations of the education sector. The
project's components are focusing on: (a) deepening the qualitative impact of the reform through: staff
development; examinations/assessment; and school-based innovations; (b) institutional development for:
LRCs; textbook publishing and distribution; feedback systems for the General Secondary School Certificate
Examination; EMIS; and a national assessment program; and (c) improving the facilities for teaching and
learning through: school expansion; rehabilitation; and new construcition.
32



CONCLUSION
10.   HRDSIL I has generated a great deal of interest among the population about the educational svstem
and the reform program has been the subject of numerous seminars and workshops. There is agreement that
many positive contributions have been made to the education system. However, a major concern is still
voiced about the teacher and the teacher training programs which need to be reformulated to select capable
candidates and offer more relevant and innovative pre-service and in-service programs. The specific
objectives of the project have been achieved a large extent and there is a very high probability that the
achievements are sustainable. The project embodied and reflected a high degree of cooperation between the
Borrower and the Bank. Overall, both groups performed their obligations in a satisfactory manner. The
flexibility and willingness to modify schedules, abolish institutions and change directions in mid-course
reflect the maturity, boldness and professional confidence of those entrusted in project implementation.
World Bank ICR Mission
Amman, Jordan
May 31, 1997
33



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EDUCATIONAL REFORM IN JORDAN: AN ANALYTICAL OVERVIEW
Preparedfor Submission to the World Bank
as the Borrower's Report
for the Implementation Completion Report
of the
Human Resources Development Sector Investment Loan (HRDSIL - Ln. 31 06-JO)
VICTOR Y. BILLEH
President
National Center for Human Resources Development (NCHRD)
Amman-Jordan
May 1997
34



I. INTRODUCTION
1.    Education has been increasingly assigned the task of developing human resources to respond to
current and forthcoming development needs of the domestic and regional economies. The unprecedented
demands put on education have given new perspective to the meaning of educational quality and added new
dimensions of relevance, efficiency, equity, and access. Quality in education is currently being defined in
terms of validity of inputting outputs and processes for attaining the broader real-life goals of education,
i.e., the social, economic, and cultural consequences of education in local, national and global contexts.
Quality, in this sense, refers to inputs and educational processes that focus upon: developing such skills as
critical analysis, innovative approach to real life problems, team work, collective action, social interaction,
and community organization: and fostering such attitudes and values as needed for achieving the cherished
goals of human dignity, freedom and holistic human development and progress in a global community and
global economy.
2.    Jordan has shown spectacular progress in reducing adult illiteracy and providing universal access to
basic education (grade 1-10, age 6-16) for all school-age children. By 1991 the net primary enrollment rate
had reached 97.17 percent (96.1% for boys and 98.33% for girls). Gender disparity in education, at all
levels, basic, secondary and tertiary has been virtually eliminated. The rapid expansion of education at all
levels has been achieved generally at the expense of quality and relevance, the central issues that expedited
the educational reform in the first place and that serve as measures of its success.
3.    In the mid-1980s, it was evident that Jordanian work force had to be better educated and better
trained to maintain a competitive edge in the regional labor market and to respond to the needs of the newly
emerging technical and professional occupations of the employment market at home. There was general
national consensus that the general education system needs a major change to build a high quality educated
and technically skilled broad work force base to help build the domestic economy on the one hand, and to
make the national economy less dependent on the economies of the Gulf states on the other. Thus, the
macroeconomic trends in the region, the inherent limitations, and points of strength of the national
economy conjoined with strong social and geopolitical factors had set a stage for initiating radical reform of
the education system in Jordan.
H. THE PROCESS
4.    The grimness of the economic situation was matched by the alertness of the leadership at the verv
top. His Majesty King Hussein, in his 1985 address to the Parliament,  reiterated the role of quality
education in sustained national development and in improving the qualitv of life for all people. The
emphasis was on linking education with the social and economic development needs of the countrv to
respond to the challenges of the 21st century. His Majesty entrusted HRH Crown Prince Al-Hassan the
task to follow up the reform program.
5.    A Commission on Educational Policy in Jordan was set up by the Prime Minister to prepare a
comprehensive study of the system. After one year, the Commission submitted its repozt to the
Government. The General Education part of the report was discussed by the Board of Education in 17
sessions all chaired by the Crown Prince. As a iresult of these deliberations the Board decided that further
study of the key issues was needed. A Central Task Force comprising of representatives from both public
and private sectors was set up. To support the work of the Central Task Force, committees of specialized
experts were convened to study the situation and scrutinize issues in each subject area. The work of
specialized expert committees and the Central Task Force was supported by Field Committees set up to
collect information from Govemorates, Education Directorates, and selected schools.
35



6.    A Follow Up committee was created to complete the cvcles of reviews of expert committees'
reports, to coordinate the works of various teams and committees and to integrate the various components
into major thematic reports. Then, each report was discussed in a seminar, constituted of 50-60 experts
representing various sectors of the economy and segments of society. These seminars were chaired by HRH
the Crown Prince and were attended by the Prime Minister, the Mmnister of Education and other Ministers.
The transparency of discussions clarified the perception of the educational process in Jordan and sharpened
the focus of the discussion papers prepared for the first National Conference on Educational Reform held
under the patronage of and inaugurated by HM King Hussein 6-7 September, 1987.
7.    At the conclusion of the National Conference, a Follow-Up Committee was charged to carry out the
recommendations generated by the Conference and to translate therm into a national plan of action. The
Ministry of Planning then invited the World Bank which sent several missions to study the Human
Resource Development Sector plan in Jordan. These series olf activities culminated in designing a
comprehensive education reform plan which was marked by thbe criteria of: relevance, acceptability,
feasibility, affordability, and inplementability.
m. THE CONTENT
Reform Objectives
8.    The recommendations of the September 1987 National Conference on Educational Reform were
translated with assistance from the World Bank into a 10-year long Education Reform Plan aimed at
enhancing the quality of basic and secondary education to build a technical knowledge and skill- intensive
workforce base needed to develop its domestic technological capacity and to maintain its comparative
advantage in the regional labor markets. This major goal was broken down into the following fundamental
objectives of the reform:
a. To enhance student achievement levels and raise the quality of educational output.
b. To improve the intemal and external efficiencies of the education system and to continue increasing its
access to all school age children in the country.
c. To develop an institutional structure capable of meeting the system's qualitative and quantitative needs
in the long run.
d. To increase relevance of basic, secondary, and vocational educastion to contemporary and future social
and economic needs of the country.
Reform Strategies
9.    More often than not the seeds of success and failure of reform programs are inherent in their content
and implementation design. The requirements of successful implementation of a reform program go
beyond a sound plan. The planners have to scout for probable obstacles and their potential sources and then
to interweave countermeasures for potential threats along with the strategies of major thrust into the warp
and woof of the plan. The government of Jordan assisted by the World Bank experts adopted a set of policy
measures, institutional framework, and implementation strategies.
36



A. Policy Measures
10.   In order to achieve the major goal of improving the quality of educational system's output, existing
policy framework and the structure of general education system needed to be changed. The policy changes
entailed:
i) Reconstruction of the basic structure of the education system;
ii) Upgrading (quantitatively and qualitatively) the inputs and the process of the education system;
and
iii) Improving the cost-efficiency of the education system.
11.   Restructuring the education system included: Compulsory basic education was extended from 9 to
10 years (i.e. compulsory education age was raised from 15 to 16 years). It was thought that extending
compulsory education up to grade 10 would provide a more solid knowledge and skill foundation to the
basic education graduates to enter into secondary education vocational training or labor market. In order to
cater for students' diverse needs, interests, abilities and career aspirations the secondary cycle was
restructured into two main streams: Comprehensive Stream  and Applied Secondary Stream. The
comprehensive stream was further divided into Comprehensive Academic track and comprehensive
vocational track. The two tracks of the Comprehensive Stream have a common core of subjects for all
students in secondary education, which constitutes about 35% of the program.
12.   Students in the comprehensive vocational track who are aspiring to continue their studies beyond
secondary education are required to study two supplementary academic courses to become eligible for
university education. This new system of secondary education was implemented for the first time in the
academic year 1996/1997. It is intended to attract better students to enroll in vocational education program.
The applied secondary stream is a terminal apprenticeship program offered by VTC, and by some centers at
MOE (mostly for female students). The trainees study at vocational centers for 2 years followed by one year
of apprenticeship at an industrial or commercial institution.
RB Institutional Framework
13.   It was clearly conceptualized that the educational reform is an ongoing process and not a single-
shot event. Implementing a long-rage reform program (ten-years-long in this case) and then sustaining its
momentum of change required the establishment of permanent support systems. The institutional
framework thus, encompassed establishment of new institutions as well as institutionalization of some key
functions and activities then carried out within existing administrative organs of the Ministry of Education.
14.   Institutionalization plan included:
a. Creation of a National Center for Educational Research and Development (NCERD) under the
constitutional umbrella of Higher Council of Science and Technology, an autonomous body whose
activities are directly guided and supervised by HRH the Crown Prince as Chairman. NCERD was charged
with the responsibility to institutionalize such key functions and activities as needed to help maintain the
momentum of the reform. Among them were: (i) to conduct educational policy analysis studies and other
policy-based large-scale sectoral research;  (ii)  to identify state-of-the-art appropriate educational
technologies, instructional materials and aids, and other potentially useful cost-effective innovations; (iii)
to evaluate them, field test them,  and to propagate their use; (iv) to monitor and evaluate the
implementation of various reform subprojects; and (v) to conduct longitudinal evaluation of the whole
reform program.
37



b. Establishing an Intermediarv agencv to act as the World Bank's Jordanian counterpart as a Technical
Unit to monitor the technical aspects of the implementation of reform projects. This Technical Unit was
established as part of NCERD.
c. Institutionalizing the development, production and distriibution of textbooks through establishing an
autonomous Textbook Publishing Unit with modem facilities and streamlined system of storage and
distribution of the textbooks.
d. Institutionalizing ongoing process of curriculum design and development at the MOE through
continuous trial and formative feedback from the field.
e. Institutionalizing the continuous process of in-service teacher training.
f. Institutionalizing continuous teacher support system by establishing Learning Resource Centers in
different regions.
g. Institutionalizing the data based decision support system by establishing an Education Management
Information System (EMIS) at the NCERD, and at the Ministry of Education.
C Implementation Strategy
15.   The implementation strategy of the whole 10-year-long comprehensive educational reform program
was designed against the criteria of feasibility,  flexibilitsy,  and affordability. The three-pronged
implementation strategy consisted of£
a. Dividing the whole program into seven separate but closely interlinked components called the seven
national programs.
b. Dividing the 10-year-long program into three successive phases of implementation: Phase 1 (1989-
1992) devoted to laying the foundations for the seven national programs; Phase 11 (1993-1995) for
implementation of the core programs; and Phase Im (1996-1998) for implementation of more innovative
programs.
c. Ensuring successful implementation of the programs through securing financial guarantees and
developing indigenous technical capacity for executing, monitoring, evaluating, and duly modifying any
elements of the programs on ongoing basis.
16.   The programs were designed to be interactive to support one another and to produce synergistic
impact. A stage-wise building block implementation approach was conceived to successively improve the
later initiatives on the basis of the experience gained from earlier stages, leading to cumulative benefits
over time.
Overview of the Seven National Programs
A. Curriculum Reconstruction:
17.   Major objectives of curricular reform included:
38



a. Modemizing the contents and objectives to increase their relevance and utilith by introducing
contemporary issues like population education,  environmental education, information technology,
prevocational education, civics education, and global education.
b. To reorganize the sequence of content and concepts in conformity with the principles of developmental
psychology and learning experiences of children in context of the local environment.
c. To establish horizontal linkages between the content concepts and cognitive objectives related to
different subjects.
d. To organize curricula as to promote higher level cognitive skills and abilities such as critical tbinking,
innovative approach to problem solving, integrating diversified knowledge and skills from different areas
to apply to solving novel problems in real life situations; and
e. To present the curricula in a way that would be amenable to up-to-date pedagogy, modem educational
technologies, innovative teaching / learning methodologies, and self-leaming strategies.
18.   Accomplishment of curricula reform was an essential prerequisite to initiating most other national
programs, especially, development production, and publication of textbooks, teacher guides and learing
materials. The Ministry of Education lost no time in commissioning National Subject Teams to revise and
reconstruct basic and secondary education curricula.
Action plans and schedules were set up with target dates for draft completion, review and revision,
and approval for manuscript preparation. The drafts were circulated to all the district education directorates
for review and comment by subject supervisors, school principals, and teachers. The revised versions
were then submitted to the Board of Education for approval. The approved curricula were then passed on to
the MOE's Textbooks Publishing Unit which then went through its procedures of manuscript preparation,
editing, publishing and distribution.
19.   The curriculum development efforts were supported by specialist technical assistance for: science
and math curricula development; curriculum-based methods of promoting critical thinking and student
inquiry, and methods of catering for individual differences; and curriculum evaluation methodology. In
addition to providing specialist services, fellowships / observation visits were provided for members of
curriculum development teams and the staff of Curriculum Directorate. The progress of work was regularly
monitored and assessed regularly through mid-term and annual review meetings according to the
implementation schedule.
B Textbooks Development:
20.   This national program comprised designing, developing, and publishing some 500 new titles for
basic and secondary textbooks spread over 10 years. To start with during phase I the program included: (i)
establishing a Textbook Publishing Unit in the MOE to edit, design, develop and supervise the production
of textbooks and other materials meeting good international standards; (ii) establishing a national
warehousing and distribution system to supply textbooks and materials to directorates and schools in a cost-
effective speedy manner, (iii) introducing new textbooks for basic education grades according to a
prioritized scheme of work; (iv) conducting one-year trial testing of each textbook on the basis of actual
user experiences; and (v) adopting necessary measures (including changing production specifications) for
textbook production economies and cost recovery. A three-year technical assistance programn included
specialist services in textbook editing, design, and production, helped establishing the Textbook
Publishing Unit and trained its staff.
39



C Teacher and Supervisory Staff Training Program
21.   It was obvious that the success and failure of achieving the reform objective ultimately rests in the
hands of the teachers, what they do or do not do in the classrooms. In this, schools principals also play a
significant role. Upgrading the teachers' academic knowledge and pedagogical skills and enhancing
administration and guidance capabilities of the school principals and supervisors, therefore, was perceived
as a crucial component of the whole reform program. To achieve this objective the Government had passed
a law raising the certification requirement of the basic teachers to BA/BS degree or its equivalent
qualification, and of the secondary teachers to BA/BS degree p]lus one year post-graduate teacher training.
Principals and supervisors were required to have an MA degree in education.
22.   The teacher and supervisory staff training program was designed to launch a three-pronged attack
on the problem:
(a) Certification Program: To raise the qualifications of existing (i) basic education teachers to BA/BS
level through a 2-year university level program at the Higher Certification College, created for this
purpose; (ii) secondary teachers and school principals and supervisors to post graduate diploma and MA
levels respectively, through part-time diploma and MA programs offered at the three public universities.
(b) Pre-Service Program: To enlarge the capacity and to modernize the pre-service teacher education
program at the Faculty of Education Sciences in each of three universities to meet the projected demand for
basic education teachers in future. This was to replace the 2-year Community College Teacher Training
Program with a 4-year university degree program in teacher education. Starting from 1992-93 these
universities were to tum out 2000 basic education teachers annually in addition to their existing capacity.
c) In-Service Program: Providing in-service short-term training to all basic education and secondary
teachers, school principals, supervisors, and other staff in how to use the new curricula and textbooks
more effectively to achieve the reform objectives.
23.   Needless to say, each component was translated into an action plan to be implemented through a
number of subprojects. Each subproject from its inception through designing, development, appraisal,
approval, implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and follow up has to go through a streamlined system
that scrutinizes each element of its composition and process to ensure its ultimate success in terms of its
overall contribution to the success of the whole reform program.
D. Educational Technology:
24.   The program was designed to provide existing schools with: (a) specialized physical facilities for
libraries, laboratories, workshops, and (b) new instructional materials to supplement and support
classroom instruction as well as teacher training. During the implementation of this program officials were
faced with the problem of selecting schools to be assisted because the majority of existing schools lacked at
least 2 or more of the specialized facilities (labs, libraries, workshops). Utilizing the newly developed
EMIS, NCHRD trained MOE staff to analyze school data and develop objective criteria to select eligible
schools from all Govemorates. This is one example of institutionalizing a process of utilizing available
information in developing objective criteria for utilizing available resources efficiently and for the
distribution of these resources equitably to all regions.
40



E. Constructing and Equipping New Schools:
25.   Overall quality improvement required improvement of physical facilities (school buildings) for
basic and secondary education. Over the whole ten-year period of reform, student places were to be
constructed for more than 400,000 students, to replace the rented facilities and to accommodate increased
numbers of students due to natural population growth. A school size and grade structure analysis study
conducted by NCHRD, however, revealed that an alternative strategy of extending the existing school
buildings wherever possibility for horizontal or vertical expansion exists rather than constructing new large
school buildings would provide a more effective and less costly solution to existing student space problem.
The World Bank on the recommendations of the study, accepted to amend the loan agreement, to allow for
the financing of school expansion program.
F. Vocational Training:
26.   The essence of the vocational training program was contained in conducting a comprehensive
national need analysis survey to determine the scale and types of specialized skills required by the labor
market, employers' willingness to take in apprentices, and potential student demnand. It was on the joint
review of the findings and recommendations of this survey by the Government and the World Bank that a
strategic plan of action included in the Phase II of the reform was developed. The new strategic plan for
Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) contains some 21 different subprojects to be
implemented in the 2nd phase.
G. Educational Research and Development:
27.   Establishment of an independent and centralized unit to:  (a)  monitor and evaluate the
implementation and impact of reform activities; (b) conduct policy-based research and policy analysis; and
(c) institutionalize educational innovation and education management information system in order for
sustaining the reform momentum over the long term was considered crucial and given priority by both
Government and the World Bank. This new unit, called the National Center for Educational Research and
Development (NCERD), now renamed as National Center for Human Resources Development (NCHRD),
was created in December 1989 under the umbrella of the Higher Council of Science and Technology whose
chairman is HRH Crown Prince Al-Hassan.
28.   The institutional framework developed for the educational reform called for two kev functions to be
performed by an independent body outside of the beneficiaries and implementing agencies namely, the
Ministry of Education (MOE), Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE), Vocational Training Corporation
(VTC), and the Public Universities. The two functions were: (i) the development function and policy
research function. Eventually both research and development functions have been carried out by the
NCHRD. Besides, several other functions have been added which include: (i) documentation, publishing
and dissemination of educational research; (ii) to initiate new subprojects needed to strengthen a national
program and to secure funds from various international donor agencies to finance them; (iii) to coordinate
among various international donor agencies and their education sector activities in Jordan; (iv) to serve as
regional nexus through providing technical assistance and organizing and hosting educational seminars and
training workshops in cooperation intemational agencies; (v) to establish and institutionalize computerized
educational databases and an effective Education Management Information System (EMIS); (vi) to conduct
EMIS training workshops at national and regional levels; and (vii) to promote coordination and
cooperation and to serve as catalytic agent among various stakeholders and key players in the education
system including intemal and extemal donors.
41



IV. THE OUTCOMES
Assessment of Outcomes
29.   Educational reform is a complex long-term process. While its outputs can be directly observed and
easily quantified, its outcomes take much longer to be realized. Outcomes and qualitative achievements can
only be perceived and, at best indirectly inferred, from various social economic, and cultural indicators, in
the long run. Nevertheless, achievement of immediate objectives and improved outputs of the system is the
barometer of anticipated outcomes. The education reform plan in Jordan had built-in mechanisms of
constant monitoring, follow-up, and both intemal and extemal periodic reviews and evaluations designed to
supply formative feedback to keep programs on track, to introduce improvement, and thus, to ensure the
achievement of its long-term goal.
30.    Besides the quantitative achievements which were clearly demonstrated, there has been qualitative
improvements which have been reported through a number of studies generated by the review and
evaluation process. To start with, the implementation agency for each sub-project conducted its own
monitoring and intemal evaluations, then the World Bank has conducted its own interim and mid-term
reviews covering all aspects and components of the reform programs. The NCHRD as an extemal agency
outside of the MOE has conducted comprehensive evaluations of several key sub-projects. While the
findings of those evaluations have recorded observed improvements, the recommendations emerging from
them have finally resulted in modifications and improvements of the current and subsequent sub-projects.
Notable among the comprehensively evaluated sub-projects are: Higher Certification College (HCC)
program; Short-term In-service Teacher Training program; Pre-service Teacher Education Program at the
Universities; Learning Resource Centers; Utilization of Facilities at Schools; and Textbook Training
Program.
3 1    In addition to all this, the NCHRD has set an unprecedented model for EMIS and sarnple-based
monitoring of learning achievement in the Arab World. The NCHRD has established a system for
longitudinal assessment of educational progress and designed a multipurpose assessment program that
would simultaneously provide continuos formative feedback on both quantitative and qualitative aspects of
the education system, track student achievement in cognitive as well as affective domains, and monitor the
progress and efficiency of the education system. To this effect, NCHRD has developed a research design
that would collect base line data on five different domains of variables (including: community and familv
background; school practices administration, principals and supervisors; teachers practices and instructional
processes; students academic achievement; and students' teachers' and parents' belief, attitudes and
perceptions to serve as bench marks at the beginning of the educational reform and later after the
implementation of the reform to assess its impact. This project was successfully implemented by the Center
through a study known as "the national assessment of the quality of basic education in Jordan". These
extemral evaluation and independent studies, while uncovering hidden weaknesses in elements of sub-
projects, have also revealed various positive, encouraging signs of improvement of instructional quality.
The perceptions of improvements and positive impact of the reform, therefore, are not derived subjectively,
they are derived from various types of perceptible observations and objective data analyses.
32.    The real goal of the educational reform however, as spelled out earlier in this report, was
enhancing student achievement levels through improvement of the quality of education. By their very
nature qualitative objectives are not directly measurable and take longer time to be realized. The measures
taken to improve the quality of education, however, have been implemented and are continued to be
implemented. The qualitative and quantitative improvements introduced in the form of variety of
traditional as well as innovative educational inputs are expected to manifest their impact in due course of
time. The successful implementation of the first half of the 10-year-long reform program without any
42



insurmountable hindrances indicates the achievement of most immediate objectives of this phase and serves
as a take-off platfonn for realizing the long-term goal of the reform.
Some Pitfalls
A. Raising Qualification Requiremnentsfor Basic Teachers.
33.    It was logical necessity to increase the subject knowledge and pedagogical skills of the basic
education teachers in order to improve the quality of instruction in the classrooms. The Government from
the very outset had decided to upgrade the qualification requirements of the basic teachers. This decision
was applied retroactively to all the existing basic school teachers. The vast majority (about 67%) of them
had only 2 years of Community College post-secondary education. All of them were required to acquire
two years of university equivalent academic education. Most of these teachers did not meet the university
admission requirements to start with, then, the universities did not, in general, recognize the 2 years of
community college education at par with two years of university education. Also the universities had no
capacity to accommodate them into their pre-service teacher education programs even if they wanted. The
Ministry of Higher Education was keen to discharge this responsibility by opening a Higher Certification
College (HCC) with campuses in three cities.
34.    Three independent evaluations successively conducted by three teams commissioned by the
NCHRD brought all the problems of the HCC in the open. The three reports concurred in their findings and
recommendations. Eventually, the MOHE relented in its stand and the programs of HCC were phased out
of the irrelevance of the whole higher certification program to classroom instruction; inconveniences of
teachers to attend the program; purely academic nature of the program; predominance of lecturing; course
content being above the comprehension level and beyond the background experiences of the teachers, and
numerous other negative factors. On hindsight, one can see that it was not wise to apply the decision to
raise teacher certification requirement to the existing teachers, most of them were incapable of benefiting
from such a requirement, many of them were about to retire and majority of them was not motivated.
B. In-service Short-Term Training
35.    Although the MOE by organizing short-term in-service training program for all the teachers
conducted a mammoth operation, the performance, as revealed by evaluation, was far from satisfactory.
The training was simultaneously organized in over 100 sites scattered all over the countrv, one dav per
week on the weekend. The teachers were least interested in wasting their weekend on the training. The
progran was largely theoretical than practical. Even activity-based discovery methods were imparted
through lecturing rather than through actual involvement of the students in discovery activities. There was
shortage of training materials, even some trainers were not supplied with training materials. And training
materials when supplied were generally inadequate and ineffective for the purpose. Many trainers did not
possess adequate training skills themselves. Most trainers were supervisors and did not have enough time
to prepare for the job, their primary motive was to eam some extra income by working on the weekends.
Thus lack of qualified trainers and adequate training materials further diluted the loosely designed program.
As a side effect, since most supervisors were engaged in training, their normal duties suffered.
36.    Even though, short-term in-service training is a continuous function, some kind of training always
goes on, yet the concerned MOE authorities have refrained from institutionalization of training by creating
a permanent short-term in-service training institution with its own qualified staff. The main reason behind
this seems to be the vested interest of training staff in maintaining the status quo, i.e., the ad hoc nature of
training. Because if qualified staff are appointed on full-time basis they will have to do the training as part
of their normal duty.
43



C Pre-service Teacher Education Program
37.    The education science faculties at the universities were asked to produce modem teachers of
primary education (class teachers) and basic education (field teachers) without having trained and qualified
staff in these and other related fields. Nor the faculties had the capacity to cope with sudden expansion
necessitated by the closure of teacher training programs at the community colleges. The reform required
teacher education and training programs to undergo major changes. The education sciences faculty staff at
the universities, rooted in their own bureaucracies, naturally resisted change.
38.    In this respect, as in many other cases, the NCHRD took several initiatives. For one thing,
NCHRD kept the pressure on the universities to introduce changes in their teacher training program. The
major problem was brought to the attention of the Crown Prince called for a meeting of all concerned
parties including university presidents, ministers of education, Finance and Planning. The major issues
were discussed, and an agreement was reached to sponsor abut 50 Ph.D fellowships by the Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Planning, and universities. In order to orient the education faculties to the needed
change, the NCHRD organized fellowships for the Education Faculties in the needed areas of pre-service
training to study at the reputed colleges of education in the Foreign Countries.
39.    The major weakness lies in the practice teaching component of the teacher training. The practice
teaching program is not properly structured, there are no models and no mentors and there is hardly any
source of guidance for the trainees. To this effect, the NCHRD organized 2 programs and secured extemal
grants to implement them. One included 45 three-month fellowships for University Faculty to observe how
practice teaching is organized and conducted in actual classroorns at Professional Development Schools in
the U.S.A by teacher training colleges renowned for their effectiveness. The second program entailed
bringing in specialized consultants from abroad to work with university staff and to train them in how to
organize and conduct practice teaching and develop effective practice teaching programs. Both these
programns helped not only soften the resistance of the faculties but also create their interest in modemization
of teacher training programs.
D.  Textbook Publication
40.    The textbook authoring, developing and publication pirogram was svnchronized with curriculum
reconstruction program on the basis of subject and grade, so that authors start working at the textbook as
soon as the curriculum is approved for that grade and subject. The design stipulated that new textbooks
would be introduced in all grades within 4 years. This process was to start with grades 1, 5, and 9 the first
year, and to take grades 2, 6, 10 the next year, and so on. On paper this looked an efficient schedule but in
practice it presented many unforeseen problems. Although authorship teamns were carefully selected against
a set of criteria, no-body in the country had experience in writingy school textbooks. Authorship teams were
dominated by university professors and academia who had virtually no experience even in dealing with
school textbooks not to speak of writing them. Most of them had no knowledge what is taught in grade
schools, and how, apart from what they had gone through when they were pupils themselves. Although,
there were some subject supervisors, and a few teachers even, as members of the teams, they had some
practical experience in teaching the subject in schools but they lacked the depth and up-to-date knowledge
of the discipline, and were generally under the shadow of the university professors who generally headed
the teams.
41.    Then there were problems of coordination and cooperation among authorship, review, supervisory
and editorial teamns. The first batch of books, as a consequence of various difficulties and complexities of
the whole process was delayed by one year and thus bottlenecked the flow of the textbook production
stream. To take three grades (say 1, 5, 9) in a batch although at that time seemed logical, it created
problems for the authors in presentation of the content and organization of sequence. On hindsight again
44



I would suggest that taking three grades at a time was not a very good choice. If we have to do it
again I would recommend taking only two grades at a time starting from bottom of the
education ladder [e.i, (1,2)4 (3,4) + (5,6),.
Reasons for Outcomes
42.   Not to expect any obstacles in the implementation of a refonn program of this magnitude would be
unrealistic. Problems were certainly encountered. Fortunately, most of them were successfully dealt with
and the 10-year-long reform program is going ahead under HRDSIL II, satisfactorily. Numerous visible and
invisible factors contribute to success of a program. It is not easy to enumerate all of them. We could,
nevertheless, attribute the attained degree of success of the education reform in Jordan to the following
major factors:
a. Nationwide community participation and involvement of all sectors of economy and all segments of
society.
b. Strong political will, firm commitment at the highest level of national leadership including deep
interest of the King and active involvement of the Crown Prince.
c. Adoption of the reform program as a long-term (10 years) Human Resource Sector Development
Investment Program financially backed by the World Banks Human Resource Development Sector
Investrnent Loan (HRDSIL) policy.
d. Sound planning of a comprehensive and integrated education reform program.
e. Carefully throughout sound implementation strategy.
f Continuous monitoring of the implementation process by an independent body (NCHRD).
g. Development and establishment of effective institutional framework.
Hindsight
43.   The implementation of education reform in Jordan has involved and affected numerous agencies,
institutions and individuals. The authorities and personnel who participated in the implementation at
various levels and in different capacities have all gained immense experience and enhanced their knowledge
and practical skills in various fields. The whole process from preparation to implementation of the reform
has set many landmarks, build a huge repertoire of priceless practical experience and know-how,
bolstered confidence, and above all, tremendously enhanced the national capacity in a number of fields.
Going through the experience and having done it has developed technical capacity, has build self-
confidence, and created self-reliance and motivation to conduct any subsequent reform with greater
enthusiasm in a much better way.
45



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOME OF JORDAN
THE HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
LOAN 3106-JO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
(MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, DIRECTORATE O]F INTERNATIONAL PROJECTS)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The First Human Resources Development Sector Investment Project (Ln. 3106-JO) evaluated in
this report was prepared by the Borrower with assistance in mid-1988. The project was appraised in
December 1988; Negotiations were held in March 1989; and the loan for $73.0 million was approved by
the Bank's Board of Directors in June 1989. The loan was signed on August 18, 1989 and became effective
in May 1990. The project was conceived and designated as a sector investment loan for the development of
the human resources sector in Jordan and to finance a series of high priority investments during an overall
period of ten years. The Education Reform Plan was divided into three phases of five years each. Thus, the
project was recognized as the Human Resources Development Sector Investment (HRDSIL) Project, Phase
I.
2.    The project came as the Bank's continuous assistance to the Government's investnent in the sector
of human resources, and was consistent with the country's development efforts started in the early 1970s
when Jordan emphasized that human resources were the countty's most important productive asset. Bank
support to the sector began in 1972 with a series of seven traditional loans (Nos. 285, 534, 1781, 2068,
2246, 2368 and 2890 respectively). There was strong emphasis in those projects on vocational/technical
education.
3.    These projects were carried on successfully and participated in improving access to education and
increasing the supply of skilled manpower. The present educational system is well developed and has been
generally successful in improving the standard of living in the country. The first sector investment loan
(HRDSIL I - Ln.3106-JO) followed by the sector investment loan (HRDSIL II - Ln.3864-JO) are
supporting national programs and subprojects in curriculum reform, textbook development, teacher and
supervisory staff upgrading, educational technology, improvement of school facilities, testing and
examination development, vocational training, administrative capacity and educational research and
development.
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The HRDSIL I loan formulated an Education Reform Program based on the following general
objectives: (a) develop Jordan's domestic technological capacity, and (b) maintain its regional comparative
advantage in terms of labor services. The loan was proposed to help the country translate the above
objectives into a set of policy interventions, institutional changes and quality improvements. The HRDSIL
I Phase I project specifically aimed at:
(a) restructuring the school system by: (i) extending basic education by one year; (ii)streamlining
the secondary cycle; (iii) improving vocational training; and (iv) reorganizing the promotion/examination
system;
46



(b) improving the quality of teaching and learning bv: (i) redefining curriculum objectives; (ii)
revising textbooks; (iii) raising teacher and supervisory staff qualification requirements through pre- and in-
service training; and (iv) improving the quality of classrooms by replacing existing rented facilities;
(c) conducting a study of further cost savings and cost recovery opportumities; and
(d) institutionalizing the capacity to sustain sectoral reform by: (i) strengthening the capacity to
appraise subprojects and coordinate and monitor their implementation; (ii) establishing the NCHRD; (iii)
institutionalizing curriculum reform by strengthening the MOE Department of Curiculum; and (iv)
establishing a new Textbook Publishing Unit in MOE and a new textbook storage and delivery system.
HI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.    There were no real critical variances between planned and actual project implementation except for
the execution of the procurement process at the three university colleges of educational sciences which
caused a considerable delay in the completion of the project. Thus, the project has been extended for three
years to be closed on June 30, 1997, in order to enable the universities to procure the laboratory and
workshop equipment.
6.    There were major factors that affected achieving the major objectives and participated in causing
the delay in completing the project as planned. Such factors were:
(a) the decision to transfer the teacher training program from the Seventh Education Project to the
HRDSIL I project;
(b) the decision to attribute the responsibility of the technical assistance program implementation
to the National Center for Human Resources Development (NCHRD) instead of the Project Inplementation
Unit (PIU) at the Ministry of Education (MOE); and
(c) the August 1995 MOE reorganization that dissolved the PIU and delegated its functions to four
separate general directorates within the ministry which had little or no experience in project
implementation.
IV. PROJECT RESULTS
7.    The overall objectives of the HRDSIL I project were satisfactorily achieved despite the fact that it
has been extended for three years due to the delay of implementation. The capacity of the education system
was greatly increased by the project. The education quality and the schooling conditions were also
improved by replacing rented facilities and reducing the double shifting. The new schools constructed in
this project provided opportunities to students in the basic and the comprehensive secondary cvcles to leam
in modem and suitably lit and ventilated classrooms in the most densely populated areas and improved
access to education in small towns, villages and rural areas as well.
8.    The gross area per student place is slightly lower than proposed for the basic cycle at the appraisal
but construction costs were almost identical to estimates at appraisal. Meanwhile, the furniture and
equipment costs were slightly less than proposed. All the funiture and equipment have been purchased and
found to be satisfactory and adequate.
47



V. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
9.    Since the educational reform aimed at improving the quality of classrooms by replacing existing
rented facilities, the provision of adequate school facilities is very important for good quality instruction.
The HRDSIL I project schools will all soon reach their target enrollments, and the expenditures for their
operation match with the education system norms, when the schools of the project reach their full capacity,
the instruction will be improved at a reasonable percentage. As the new schools and the extensions to
existing schools of the project will evacuate rented facilities, get rid of double shifting and face the annual
natural growth of population, this will add its contribution to decrease expenditures in the MOE's recurrent
budget as a result of saving rentals.
10.   The fact that this project is fully integrated into the educational system will help assure its
sustainability. Investment in education remains the Govemment's top priority, and financing will be
forthcoming. The school maintenance problem remains to be kept into consideration although it has been
given more attention in this project.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
11.   In the conceptualization of the HRDSIL I project, Bank performance was very helpful and
satisfactory. Both the content and the objectives of the project were appropriate and contributed
substantialy to improving the Government's education strategy. The Bank responded promptly to a request
from the Government to accept financing from the Overseas Development Agency (ODA) for technical
assistance to develop training, curriculum and textbook development. In order to further contribute to the
educational objectives of the project, the Bank agreed to extend the project's closing date for three years to
finalize the incomplete schools and the procurement of equipmrrent. This extension enabled the MOE and
the three universities (Mu'tah, Jordan and Yarmouk) to complete the components of the project and use
some uncommitted funds. During the several missions, the members of the Bank staff on those missions
supervised the steps of the implementation of the project very helpfully and satisfactorily, and were all very
helpful and cooperative with the Government's staff in the best way. They were all specialized and capable
to carry out their tasks.
VII. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
12.   The PIU acted promptly in expediting actions necessary for project processing, and the original
physical components of the project were not completed on schedule due to the lack of experience, or even,
the absence of experience of some of the MOE staff, especially after the Ministry's reorganization in
August 1995 and the fragmentation of the PIU. Some delay was experienced in the three university
colleges in the area of procurement.  After the Bank extended the project for three years, the
implementation of the project improved and the establishment of the Directorate of Intemational Projects
in MOE has its own effect on the expediting project implementation.
VIII. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
13.   Supervision was regular throughout project implementation as shown in the project files. An
excellent working relationship was developed by the Bank through its highly qualified staff members
during all the supervision missions. The Govermment authorities were involved in project implementation
and showed responsibility for nearly all the components of the project. The Bank worked in close
cooperation and collaboration with MOE officials, and those of the other concerned departments, which was
the factor that contributed substantially to better understanding on both sides of problems encountered and
the most appropriate solutions for them.
48



IX. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
14.   Records related to the project, including working papers of missions for the preparation,
supervision and monitoring are well documented. Progress reports and financial records were provided by
the MOE to the Bank regularly. The staff appraisal report was comprehensive and detailed in a way that
enable the Government to implement the project without much difficulties.
Dr. Mohammad Atiyyah
Director of Intemational Projects
Ministry of Education
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
January 1997
49






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26528
36°                                                 38'
tt00002i884-0.0:'                                                               /~~~~~~~~~~~~.0
88888 8887    i    I,bid A                                                        al /u       -          \
rh              Al                           \        DEVELOPMENTSECTORattta Hrf f
t                                                                                           32-- \  INVETMEN   PROJECT
/ Mada                                an                                   Roads
SeS JORDAN
Al   @/         (    \  SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES
alrAonctranah                                         DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
91 (AlKarak: ( \INVESTMENT PROJECT
rTafilahS X                          ai                                           Roads
|  Ash<2  (   g<J                                  \       °~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Selected Towns
!|   National Capital
Ra's an                                                                                          3 0'1  O
y    /   N~~aqb                         
*0        25          so Miles
6Aqabo                                                                  0      25    50 Kilo-te-s
Al Mudaw-waralm
Th. bo-ed,vs-, color., d-rfnnonions -nd onh.r,nf mo-t;o. shAen
Si f 1                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~his map do nonimfrey on the pent of The Won(f onk Graup, onyjdgmnnt
36'                                                   38'
DECEMBER 1994



