Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6-A.. 3/Qb_ D
Report No. 7641-JO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
MAY 22, 1989
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
US$1.00       =  JD .540 (February 1989)
Abbreviations and Acron5!s
ETD               :   Educational Technology Directorate
GCC               :   Gulf Cooperation Council
GDCET             :   General Directorate of Curriculum and Educazional
Technology
GDPSB             :   General Directorate of Frojects and School Buildings
GDRP              :   General Directorate of Research and Planning
HCC               :   Higher Certification College
HCST              :   Higher Counnil for Science and Technology
MOE               :   Ministry of Education
MOHE              :   Ministry of Higher Education
NCERD             :   National Center for Educational Research and Development
ODA               :   United Kingdom Overseas Development Administration
OECF              :   Japan Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
SIL               :   Sector Investment Loan
VTC               :   Vocational Training Corporation
Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ..................................                          (iv)
I. INTRODUCTION                                   .                                     I
H. SECTOR                   ..............................................              2
A. Growth, Employment and Education              ..                              2
1. Macroeconomic Background.                                                2
2. Labor Market Issues.                                                     3
B. Strengths and Weaknesses of the Sector             .        .                 4
1. Sector Strlucture.                                                       4
2. Past and Projected Enrollments.                                          5
3. Education Expenditures.                                                  6
4. Systemic Weaknesses ......................................               7
C. Main Issues...                                                                 7
1. Curriculum and Tixtbooks.                                                7
2. Teaching and Teacher Trair.ing.                                          8
3. School Facilities ....................................                  10
4. Vocational Education .10
5. Educational Research and Development .11
D.  Experience with Bank Lending for Education           .      .               11
E. Government and Bank Strategy                       ..                       12
III. THE SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM .13
A. Reform Program Policy and Institutional
Measures                   ...13
1. Policy Framework    ..13
2. Institutional Framework    ..15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Jordan in December 1988. Mission members comprised Ms. Kolan (mission
leader/sr. economist); Messrs. Go (sr. architect); and Za'rour
(sr. educator). Participating consultants were Messrs. Bocock (operations
analyst); Martinez (economist); Read (textbook specialist); Ruiz-Esparza
(educator); and Simkims (education planner). Mr. Verspoor (sr. implementation
advisor) participated in the missions preceding appraisal. The report was
prepared by Ms. Kolan and M4r. Bocock, with production assistance from Ms.
Cast4llo.
This docume-nt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page
B.  Reform Program Implementation Strategy .....................    15
C.  National Programs      ..........................................   16
1. Curriculum Development .    ................................1 ]6
2. Textbook Development .......     .............................    18
3. Teacher and Supervisory Staff
Training        ...............................................  21
4. Educational Technology ......     ............................  25
5. Educational Facility Improvement           ...                 26
b. Vocational Training ........    .............................    27
7. Educational Research and Development ................ ....    28
IV. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT, IMPLEMENTATION, COSTS AND
FINANCING PLAN ......  ..........................................       30
A. Program Management                  .       ..... 30
1. The Sector Approach                ..... 30
2. Management Structure             ....30
B. Program Implementation                .....32
1. Preparation, Appraisal and Approval of
Subprojects     ...........................................  32
(a) Criteria for Appraisal and Approval of
Subprojects ........   ............................    33
(b)  Guidelines for the Allocation of Funds ...........    35
2. Subproject Implementation .     .      ............................. 35
(a)  Implementation Responsibilities ............... ...    35
(b) Implementation Schedule ........  36
(c)  Supervision         ......................................    37
C.  Program Costs and Financing ......     .........................    38
D.  Program Affordability .................. ...................    44
E.  Procurement        ...............................................  46
F. Disbursements .... .         .        .        . .......  48
V. BENEFITS AND RLSKS        .............................................  49
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................               51



(i i)
LABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page
ANNEXES
I.1 Sector Development Policy Statement ....  ...................    54
I.2 Action Program on Policy Measures, Institutional
Changes and Quality Improvements ....   ...................    57
II.1 Comparative Education Indicators .....    .....................    65
II.2 Enrollment Trends, and Enrollment Projections
and Cost Estimates .............. ........................    67
II.3 Student/Teacher Ratios ................ .. ..................    69
II.4 Ministry of Education Current and Capital
Expenditures (1983-87 in current prices) ..   .............    70
II.5 Ministry of Education Current and CapitrA
Expenditures (1983-87 in constant prices) ..............    71
11.6 Ministry of Education Recurrent Budget by Type of
Expenditure (1983-87) .. ....................... . ........    72
11.7 Breakdown of Ministry of Education Recurrent
Budget (1987)              ................    73
II.8 Flow Chart of Educational Inputs and Outputs ..............    74
-II.1 Basic Education Teacher Certification Program
Model    ......................... .........................  75
III.2 Action Plan for In-Service Training Program .............. .    79
III.3 National Center for Education Research and Development
(NCERD)    ........................ ........................  81
IV.1 Program Implementation Responsibilities ...................    84
IV.2 Composition of the Intermediary .....    ......................  85
IV.3 Sample Formats for Preparing Subprojects and
for Subproject Appraisal Reports . ..             .       86
IV.4 General Criteria for Subproject Preparation,
Appraisal and Approval .............   ....................    90
IV.5 Specific Appraisal Criteria ......    .........................    93
IV.6 Summary of Foreign and Local Specialist Services ......... .   119
IV.7  In-Country Training and Overseas Fellowships ..  ............   125
IV.8 Documents Available in the Project File ......... ..........   128



(iv)
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Loan and Progmrm Supimary
Borrower           The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Benericiaries:     Ministry of Education
Ministry of Higher Education
Higher Council for Science and Technology
Universities of Jordan, Yarmouk and Mutah
Vocational Training Corporation
Loan Amount:       US$73.0 million equivalent
Tetms:             17 years, including 5 years grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Program
Description:       Human resources play a critical role in Jordan's economy.
Lacking natuiral endowments and relying heavily on imports,
the country s prosperity depends on human catital earnings
in the form of remittances from Jordanians working in the
regional labor market and exports of services. Since the
mid-1980s, Jordan has been losing its comparative advantage
in these two areas owing to changing macroeconomic
conditions and the qualitative shortcomings of its education
system. The Government recognizes the need to raise the
quality of basic and secondary education so as to give
Jordan the skill- and knowledge-intensive manpower base it
requires to (a) develop its domestic technological capacity,
and (b) maintain its regional comparative advantage in terms
of labor services. It has therefore formulated an Education
Reform Program, to be implemented in three phases over a
;Cen-year period, which translates the above objectives into
a set of policy interventions, institutional changes and
quality improvements. The proposed sector investment loan
would help the Government implement the fifst four-year
phase of this program which aims at:
(a) Restructuring the school system by:
(i)  Extending basic (compulsory) education from nine to
ten years to provide students with a more solid
grounding in basic knowledge and skills, and reducing
secondary education from three to two years;
(ii) Restructuring "streaming" in the secondary cycle to
address the diversified interests and abilities of
individual students, and to provide opportunities for
early specialization;



(v)
(iii) Accelerating the transfer of apprenticeship-oriented
vocational training from the formal secondary cycle to the
Vocational Training Corporation, and restructuring the
existing industrial arts secondary stream into a
technical/technology stream; and
(iv) Recrganizing the promotion/examination system to better
assess student performance.
(b) Improving the quality of teaching and learcing by:
(i)  Redefining curriculum objectives to promote higher
cognitive skills, modernizing curriculum content, and
making curricula more responsive to individual differences;
(ii) Providing a full set of new or substantially revised
textbooks that support curriculum objectives and are
instructionally effective (initially covering over 400,000
students in six basic education grades);
(iii)  Raising teacher and supervisory staff qualification
requirements: for basic education teachers from two to
four years of post-secondary education, and for secondary
school teachers and school principalr from four to five
years of post-secondary work; setting up a new system of
university-based pre-service teacher training; and
expanding pre-service training capacity by an additional
2,000 students per year;
(iv) Upgrading 4,000 of the existing community college graduate
teachers to a BA equivalency and 1,500 secondary teachers
and 360 principals and supervisors to a
BA-plus-pedagogical-diploma through a certification
program, and providing in-service training to 12,000 basic
education teachers and 5,500 supervisory and support
staff, to enhance their capacity to carry out reform
objectives; and
(v)  Improving the quality of classrooms by replacing existing
rented facilities with 180 purpose-built schools, 90 of
which would be completed during Phase I to accommodate
about 52,000 students currently in rented facilities and
create about 36,000 new student places; and providing
libraries, labs, and other facilities.
(c) Using sector resources more efficiently and increasing cost
recovery levels by conducting a study of further cost savings
and cost recovery opportunities, and implementing
recommendations of the study.
(d) Institutionalizing the capacity to sustain sectoral reform by:
(i)  Strengthening the capacity of the Tech:iical Unit
established within the Higher Council tor Science and
technology to appraise subprojects and coordinate a:id
monitor their implementation;



(vi)
(ii) Establishing a National Center for Educationial
Research and Development to help maintain the momentum
of the reform through sectoral research and the
evaluation of the reform program;
(iii) Institutionalizing curriculum reform by strengthening
the capacity of the Directorate of Curriculum in MOE
to manage curriculum preparation and revision on the
basis of user feedback; and
(iv) Complementing the curriculum reform process by
institutionalizing textbook development and
distribution through the establishment of a new
Textbook Publishiing Unit in MOE and a new textbook
storage and delivery system.
Estimated Cost of the Sector Program  a/         Local        Foreign      Total
------      US$ million 
1.  Curriculum Development                         0.0          0.1           0.1
2.  Textbook Development                           3.8          4.0            7.8
3.  Teacher/Supervisory Staff Training            L1.9         12.0          33.9
4.  Educational Technology                         3.7          5.2           8.9
5   Educational Facility Improvement              82.2         57.7         140.0
6.  Vocational Training                            3.3          4.6            7.9
7.  Education Research and Development             1.2          1.0           2.2
8.  Program Management                             0.5          0.3           0.8
Total Base Costs b/                              116.5         85.1         201.6
Physical Contingencies                             8.0          8.3          16.3
Price Contingencies                               23.9         10.7          34.7
Total Program Costs                              148.4        104.1         252.5
Financing Plan                                    Local       Foreign       Total
------    US$ million   ------
Bank                                              25.1        47.9         73.0
ODA                                                  .4        1.0          1.4
OECF c/                                           17.8        55.2         73.0
Government                                       105.1         -0-        105.1
(of which taxes and duties)                    (23.1)        -0-        (23.1)
Total                                            148.4       104.1        252.5
a/   Inclusive of taxes and duties.
b/   Totals do not add up due to rounding.
cl   The Japanese Government is considering cofinancing in an equivalent amount
to the Bank loan, i.e., US$73.0 million. Although no final response has
been received, Japan is expected to provide this amount. An observer from
the Japan OECF participated in the Bank's appraisal mission and we expect
the OECF appraisal to take place shortly. The signing of the loan
agreement between OECF and the Borrower is a condition of effectiveness of
the Bank's loan agreement. Should the amount of the OECF loan be less
than the amount applied for, the school construction under the program
will be adjusted in light of the financing available.



(vii)
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year
1990          1991           1992           1993      1994
-             ----- US$ million              ---------------------
Annual                12.0            12.5           14.0           16.5       18.0
Cumulative            12.0            24.5           38.5           55.0       73.0
Ecmomic Rate
of Return:            Not applicable
Benefits
and Risks:            Beriefits.  The prime benefit of the project would be the
upgrading of Jordan's human resources base into an
increasingly knowledge-intensive, skills-adaptable work
force, capable of responding flexibly to changing
employment opportunities and needs. This in turn would
give Jordan the manpower it needs to promote high
value-added, technology-based, export-oriented
manufacturing and service activities, as well as helping
to revive Jordan's competitiveness as a regionwide source
of skilled labor. Specific benefits would include the
following: basic education quality would be
strengthened, specialization at the secondary level
enhanced, and ,echnical/vocational education made more
relevant to modern technology and market needs; teacher
quality would be upgraded, and other educational
inputs/resources would be substantially improved and used
more cost-effectively. The capacity of the education
system would be qualitatively enriched and the basis
would be laid for long-term, ongoing reform through the
1990s and beyond. The delegation of subproject ..ppraisal
and supervision responsibility to the Government would
help enhance its planning and management capacity and
support the application of objective criteria to other
investments in the sector.
Risks. The operation has two potential risks. The first
concerns external and domestic financing. Should OECF
cofinancing not materialize in the full amount, or should
domestic financial constraints reduce the amount of
counterpart funding available to the operation, the
Government has agreed to reduce total program costs by
extending the implementation period of the school
construction program to cover the amount of the
shortfall. The second risk is related to implementation
capacity. The complexity of the program and the Large
number of subprojects (over 30), many of which are



(viii)
interlinked within and across program components, could
overstretch the Government's implementation capacity.
This risk is mitigated by the following factors: the
beneficiary institutions and the Intermediary have been
instrumental in planning and designing the reform and its
components (and are therefore fully knowledgeable about
its objectives and implementation requiremer.ts', the SIL
incorporates a large technical assistance component
(about 107 manyears of in-country training and overseas
fellowships and 30 manyears of specialist services, a
portion of which has already started) to supplement
indigenous technical and managerial capacity; the program
is incremental and can be adjusted over time to take
account of implementation delays; and there are extensive
bui't-in opportunities for Government/Bank reviews of
progress against the detailed targets and performance
indicato-s set forth in the mutually agreed Action
Program.
EM3PH
May 1989



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOIM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
1. ENTRODUCTION
1.1      The Government of Jordan has requested Bank assistance in financing
its education reform program, aimed at substantially upgrading the quality of
basic and secondary general and vocational education. The program would be
implemented over a ten-year period (1989-98), with a total investment cost
estimated at US$948.4 million equivalent. To facilitate implementation, the
program would be carried out ir three phases (para 3.4); the proposed Sector
Investment Loan (SIL) would help the Government to implement the Phase I
(1989-92) program, estimated at US$252.5 million, withi a foreign exchange
component of US$104.1 million (412). The Government would contribute about
US$105.1 million equivalent. Of the remaining US$147.4 million, US$73.0
million would be financed by the Bank, and cofinancing in the amount of US$1.4
million equivalent would be provided by the UK ODA. The Japanese Government
is considering cofinancing in an equivalent amount to the Bank loan, i.e.,
US$73.0 million. Although no final response has been received, Japan is
expected to provide this amount. An observer from the Japan 3ECF participated
in the Bank's appraisal mission an4 we expect the OECF appraisal to take place
shortly. The signing of the loan agreements between the cofinanciers (ODA and
OECF) and the Borrower is a condition of effectiveness of the Bank's loan
agreement. Should the amount of the OECF loan be less than the amount applied
for, the school construction under the program will be adjusted in light of
the financing available (para 4.26).
1.2      The education reform program is the latest initiative in the
Jordanian Government's long-term strategy to develop human capital
capacity--a strategy dictated by the economy's limited natural resources.
Previous governments have allocated a high proportion of public expenditure to
the education system, and these investments have over the years contributed
substantially to economic growth. Because Jordan has to import most of its
raw materials and food, efforts to expand human capital "exports" have in the
past been seen as critical in maintaining macroeconomic balances. Inflows of
net factor income from abroad--consisting mainly of remittances from
Jordanians working elsewhere in the Middle East--equalled nearly half the
value of goods imported during 1984-87.
1.3      Jordan's economy grew rapidly during the regional boom of the late
1970s and early 1980s, but subsequently lost momentum in the wake of the
regional recession in the GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council) State:s. With the
concomitant reduction of new employment opportunities in the GCC states, the
share of external factor income in GNP fell from nearly 25% in 1982 to under
15b in 1987.



- 2 -
1.4      The Government of Jordan has responded to this slowdown by focusing
on a human resources strategy that aims to increase employment opportunities
by expanding both the quality of the labor supply and the quantity and quality
of skilled labor demand in the domestic economy. The strategy includes a
comprehensive ten-year, three-phase reform of basic and secondary education,
together with institutional and poiicy development initiatives for
scientific/technological capacity building. This approach is designed to help
Jordan to develop into a skilled human resources entrepot along the lines
pioneered by Hong Kong and Singapore, with which Jordar, shares attributes such
as limited natural resources, a hard-working and increasirngly educated
population, a stable government and institutions, a relatively open trade and
foreign exchange regime, an advantageous geographical location, and a
dedicated leadership.
1.5      The education reform component of the wider strategy is designed to
ensure that the system produces graduates with a high-quality general
education that emphasizes problem solving, critical thinking, analytical
skills, and the ability to apply information in creative, productive ways.
This process is in turn intended to provide domestic industry with the high
quality manpower base that it needs to develop indigenous technological
capacity in high value-added, export oriented production (while also enabling
Jordanians seeking employment overseas to find good jobs in competitive
markets). To achieve these objectives, the Government has prepared, with Bank
assistance, a comprehensive .ong-term program to improve all aspects of
Jordan's basic and secondary education system. The background, rationale and
broad structure of the reform as a whole are outlined in the Government's
Sector Development Policy Statement, provided in Annex I.1; a detailed Action
Program that defines Phase I reform activities, target dates and performance
indicators is given in Annex T.2.
II. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Growth, Employment and Education
1. Macroeconomic Background
2.1      In 1987 Jordan's population was estimated at 3 million and its GDP at
US$4,930 million equivalent, nearly 60% of which was accounted for by
services. The economy has a very narrow productive base and few natural
endowments; apart from its educated and hard-working people, Jordan's only
indigenous resources are phosphate, potash and l4mestone. Virtually all of
its oil has to be 4mported less than 5% of its agricultural l.nd is arable,
and water is an increasingly scarce resource, subject to the corneting demands
of irrigation, urbanization and industrialization.
2.2      A critically important factor contributing to Jordan's prosperity in
the late 1970s was the expanding employment of Jordan's educated labor force
in GCC States. Nearly all of Jordan's goods exports also went to GCC States.
Since the mid-1980s, however, falling oil prices have substantially eroded
these sources of overseas earnings; they have also resulted in a 30X reduction
in the third main component of external income, namely, grants from other Arab
countries. These developme ts were partly offset during 1984-87 by falling



imports and Government mobilization of additional resources. Overseas
borrowings were increased from the very low levels of the early 1980s, and
Jordan's relatively high foreign exchange reserves were drawn down. The
situation deteriorated sharply in 1988, however. Remittances fell by nearly
6% in nominal terms from their 1987 levels, and external debt service payments
(refl Pting heavy borrowings to finance past deficits) rose by 15%; meanwhile,
official reserves were reduced to only half a month's worth of imports.
Finally, GDP fell by nearly 3.5% in real terms in 1988 (having previously
slowed from an annual growth rate of 10% during 1979-82 to just over 5% in
1982-84 and to less than 1% during 1984-87).
2.3      The Government's policy measures to deal with these difficulties have
included an approximately 23% depreciation of the Jordanian dinar vis-a-vis
the US dollar in real terms; interest rate deregul.ltion and financial market
liberalization; measures to deregulate industry; and an austerity budget for
1989 that includes spending cuts that are the equivalent of a 58% reduction in
spending for development projects and a 33% cut in total expenditures, along
with a freeze on wages. The Government is also working with, the Bank on the
preparation of a trade and industry adjustment loan.
2. Labor Market Issues
2.4      The initiatives outlined in para 2.3 have been designed to shift
incentives away from imports towards exports and to encourage efficient import
substitution. A preliminary Bank analysis suggests that there is already some
evidence of a positive short-term industrial response. It remains to be seen,
however, how effective these measures will be in improving long-standing
conditions in the domestic labor market or in reviving GDP. Officially
registered unemployment has been rising rapidly on an annual basis since 1981,
reaching nearly 10% by 1986. Dealing with unemployment is essential for
restoring economic growth but is complicated by a number of factors. Jordan's
population growth rate is extretiely high (about 3.8% p.a.); female labor force
participation has been rising sharply (from 8% to 14% between 1979 and 1986);
and the labor market is heavily segmented. Despite rising domestic
unemployment, 30% of the labor fcrce are unskilled guest workers. One of the
measures taken in response to the recent macroeconomic difficulties has been
to raise the permit fees for foreign labor in order to encourage local
employment.
2.5      Finally, the economy's substantial dependence on the earnings
remitted home by Jordanians working abroad has already been noted (paras 1.2
and 2.2). If Jordan is to diversify the thrust of its human resource
development strategy and eventually supplant earnings from overseas employment
with domestic job opportunities (para 1.4), even skilled workers will require
training in, e.g., the creative application of knowledge in problem-solving or
decision-making contexts.
2.6      The above factors suggest that increasing numbers of Jordanians must
become better educated in order to compete for skilled jobs. While the
regional market for the kinds of skilled occupations in which Jordanians excel
should revive with the recent depreciation of the dinar, it may become harder
for Jordan to maintain its regional comparative advantage in future years, as
GCC states set up training programs for the skilled occupations currently
filled by Jordanians. It thus becomes essential to broaden and upgrade
Jordan's labor force to qualify it for new technical and professional
occupations at home.



- 4-
2.7      This diagnosis in turn implies the need to: (a) improve the education
system so that new Jordanian labor market entrants can provide the domestic
economy with the high quality human resources needed; and (b) reduce Jordan's
dependence on the health of GCC States' economies by broadening the skills mix
demanded in domestic labor markets. The Government is currently exploring
ways to expand technical/professional employment in the domestic economy,
preferably in skill-intensive, high value-added activities. Studies, which are
to be undertaken with Bank assistance, will assess the opportunities for
scientific and technological capacity-building in the economy (para 1.4).
2.8      The Government considers its basic and secondary education reform
program (para 1.5 and paras 3.1 et seq.) to be the critical foundation of _          
wider strategy for economic growth. Nevertheless, the substantial
expenditures required to implement the full reform program (nearly US$1
billion over 10 years) raise legitimate questions as to whether additional
investment in education should be Jordan's top priority. This issue has been
addressed in detail in the Bank's recent staff analysis of Jordan's economy:
after reviewing recent macroeconomic developments and likely prospects, the
analysis identifies the reduction of uremployment as being critical to
economic recovery, and enhancing the quality of Jordan's education system as
being critical to reducing unemployment.
2.9      The emphasis on qualitative improvement is of central importance.
The education system's impressive quantitative coverage in terms of
enrollments (paras 2.13-2.15) conceals a number of qualitative deficiencies
(para 2.18 et seq.). The priority objectives of the reform
(curriculum/textbook/instructional materials improvement; enhanced teacher
effectiveness; improved physical facilities; and increased capacity for
technical/vocational training) are designed to improve the quality of the
system's output (well-prepared labor market entrants). However, no
quantitative expansion of general education enrollments, beyond that dictated
by the natural increase in the school-age population (currently 4% p.a.), is
included in the reform.
2.10     Jordan will undoubtedly have to rely on its human capital resources
for reviving domestic growth and maintaining external balances over the long
term--whether those resources are directly exported as in the past, or
whether, as a result of scientific and technological capacity building (paras
1.4 and 2.7), they are used for domestic production and export of high
value-added goods and services. The Government's human resources strategy is
designed to cover both eventualities by enhancing the quality of the education
system and hence improving the capacity of school leavers to compete in any
(reasonably configured) labor market, at home or abroad.
B. Strengths and Weaknesses of the Sector
1.   Sector Structure
2.11     Jordan's formal pre-tertiary education system currently comprises a
compulsory basic cycle of six years of primary and three years of preparatory
schooling; this is followed by an optional three years of general secondary
and two or three years of vocational education. "Public" education is
sponsored by the Ministry of Education (MOE); policies for basic and secondary
education are established by the National Board of Education. In 1987-88, MOE
schools accounted for about 74% of total general education (i.e.,
primary/preparatory/secondary) and vocational enrollments, amounting to about



- 5 -
687,000 and 29,500 students respectively, out of a grand total of about
963,000. The remaining 262 of enrollments are sponsored by the private sector
(il%), United Nations Relief Agency (14%), and other Government agencies
(1%). Outside the pre-tertiary formal education system, the Vocational
Training Corporation (VTC), an autono:.ouq agency under the Ministry of Labor,
provides three-year apprenticeship training programs for skilled workers at
the post-basic education level.
2.12     The Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE) is responsible for tertiary
education, i.e. universities, polytecbnics, and community colleges. Policies
for higher education are established by the Higher Education Council (HEC),
which approves the establishment of institutions for higher education,
determines fields oS specialization and tuition fees, and identifies financial
resources and approves budgets. The universities are governed by their own
boards, which are responsible for establishing general policy guidelines and
determining the annual number of students ' be admitted to different
programs. Both private and public organizati..as also provide their own
upg..ading programs. Management training is provided primarily by the Jordan
Institute of Public Administration and the Jordan Institute of Management.
2.   Past and Proiected EnroHments
2.13     Jordan has one of the highest rates of coverage of school-age
population among middle-income countries. Gross enrollment rates in 1985/86
were: i13% in primary (yrades 1-6); 97% in preparatory (grades 7-9); 65% in
secondary (grades 10-12); and 242 in higher education. Jordan's primary
enrollment rate exceeds that of comparable countries in the region (e.g.,
Algeria, Egypt, Morocco), and seconidary enrollments are the highest in the
Middle East. (Annex II.1 provides comparative education indicators.)
Approximately 71% of students completing secondary school enter higher
education institutions; 1985-86 enrollments in higher education totaled
53,753. The four universities in Jordan accountee for 491 of these
enrollments; the remainder attended Jordan's 52 puolic and private community
colleges (in addition, 57,000 Jordanians were studying abroad). Female
education grew at an average annual rate of about 4.71 between 1976-77 and
1987-88; female enrollments in 1987-88 represented 481 of total enrollments.
2.14     The aggregate annual growth rate for primary and secondary pupils
(4.0% p.a. for all school categories over the 1983-87 period: Annex II.2, p.1)
marginally exceeds Jordan's population growth rate (3.8% p.a.). Bank staff
projections of the primary, preparatory and general secondary school
population into the 1990s (using a 41 annual growth rate) suggest that this
subgroup (comprising 571,000 primary, 221,000 preparatory, and 103,000 general
secondary pupils in 1987/88) would rise to 1.1 million halfway through the
reform program, and to 1.3 million by 1997/98 (Annex II.2, p.2). The cost
implications of such an expansion are substantial: on the basis of an
estimated cost of US$815 per student place, the incremental cost to the
schooling system of natural increase alone (i.e., with no allowance for
quality upgrading) would be about US$157 million by 1992/93 and US$350 million
by 1997/98. This suggests that top priority needs to be given to further cost
reduction and cost recovery efforts within the education sector (para 3.5).
It also suggests that policies that directly add~ress Jordan's extremely high
birth rate must become a wider national priority in the 1990s (para 2.38).



- 6 -
2.15     Teacher numbers have also grown substantially.  In only four years
(between 1983-84 and 1987-88) the number of MOE teachers alone expanded from
approximately 23,500 to 33,400--an annual growth rate of over 9X. The most
rapid percentage increase in teaching staff by level of schooling was in
secondary education--an annual rate of 16.9b over the same four-year period.
Overall, while both student and teacher numbers grew substantially, the
s .dent/teacher ratio decreased. Thus, for MOE schools and between the
1983/84 and 1987/88 school years, the ratio for primary schooling fell from 32
to 29, while that for general secondary schooling fell from 21 tr 12, and for
vocational education from 19 to 14 (Annex II.3). The main reason for the
decrease at the primary level has been the system's growing reliance on rented
facilities with small rooms that 'Limit the number of students chat can be
accommodated. At the secondary level, the decrease is primarily due to the
increasing use of specialized teachers with relatively low course loads.
3.   Education Expenditures
2.16     Despite its stress on educational attainments, Jordan has found it
hard to maintain the spending levels necessitated by rising enrollments. In
current prices in 1987, MOE's sbare of current government expenditures was
11.6b and its share or total government expenditures was 8.1b, (down from
12.3% and 8.Z, respectively, in 1983: Annex II.4).  Although current
expenditures by MOE have risen consistently in recent years (by 4.3b p.a.
between 1983 and 1987 at constant prices: Annex II.5), this rise has been
slower than that of current government expenditures (5.8b), total government
expenditures (5.9X), or government domestic revenues (6.6%). Given that new
enrollments increase at about 4t p.a. (in 1987, new enrollments stood at
28,000), the MOE budget has barely kept up with the increasing demand for
schooling. This has led to two major deficiencies: increasingly limited
budgets for non-personnel expenditures and widespread use of rented
facilities. Despite the 5.3b increase in capital expenditures in real terms
over the 1983-87 -eriod, nearly 50b of all students were accommodated in
rented facilities in 1987, adversely affecting the quality of learning (paras
2.30 and 2.31).
2.17     The average annual increase in the recurrent budget has been 3.9% in
real terms since 1983 (Annex II.6); within this overall rate, personnel costs
(estimated at 87% of the recurrent budget in 1987) have risen at an annual
rate in real terms of 5.7b since 1983, while all other items is*rvices and
supplies), accounting for llb of the recurrent budget in 1987, have fallen at
an average annual rate of over 2.5b. This pattern indicates that the
Government, in trying to provide teachers for the growing population, has
spent less on other inputs essential to high-quality education. Meanwhile,
almost no funds have been available for upgrading the teacher corps. In 1987,
while the MOE recurrent budget for general education allocated over JD 57
million for personnel costs alone, total recurrent expenditures for in-service
training were only JD 370,000 (Annex II.7).



-7-
4.   Systemic Weaknesses
2.18     Although Jordan's general education system is quantitatively
impressive in terms of enrollment rates, its quality is becoming inadequate in
terms of Jordan's human capital development and deployment needs. Curricula
have put too much stress on "knowing" and too little on "thinking." As a
result, the core of many Jordanian students' educational experience can best
be characterized as memorization of academic material. Students are trained
to pass exams rather than to reason, and rote learning has been rewarded at
the expense of analytical and conceptual skills or "learning by doing." The
system does not impart the higher cognitive capacity to process and apply
information creatively; in particular, it is seriously deficient in fostering
skills such as rational inquiry, analytical thinking, and effective problem
solving, all of which are essential to the successful application of past
learning to new problems. Far greater emphasis also needs to be placed on the
use of libraries, science and language labs, and practical experimentation.
2.19     The proposed education reform (paras 1.5 and 3.1-5, and Annex I.1)
recognizes that Jordanian students need a schooling system that trains them to
(a) think flexibly and critically; (b) be intellectually open to, and capable
of absorbing and processing, new information and concepts; and (c) apply what
they have absorbed and processed in productive ways. The Government also
recognizes that to achieve these ambitious objectives, key education system
inputs, such as curricula, textbooks, teachers, supervisors, school buildings
and facilities must all be viewed as parts of an integrated whole. The simple
schematic shown in Annex II.3 illustrates the interactive nature of the
various components and the importance of carrying out the reform program on
the basis of a systems approach.
C. Main Issues
1.   Curriculum and Textbooks
2.20     Content and relevance.  As an education system approaches universal
basic level coverage, curricula need to become more flexible in order to
accommodate students from varying socio-economic backgrounds with different
intellectual atta.inments ai,d interests. This requires textbooks that cover
core material for all students but permit "branching" or "skipping" to meet
the needs of slow or advanced learners, and/or "streamed" curricula, each with
its own set of course materials for different groups of students. Jordanian
curricula lack this flexibility. They are also outdated in terms of content;
the broad spectrum of course work needs to be expanded and updated to include
environmental concerns and conservation needs, population and health issues,
and contemporary social/political/economic realities. Deficiencies in content
partly reflect the fact that there is no systematic basis for curriculum
revision and that mandated periodic revisions are not done (some subjects have
not been revised in two decades).
2.21     Developmental and institutional factors.  Because curricula and
textbooks currently used in Jordanian schools are an amalgam of various ad hoc
initiatives, they lack coherent sequencing and logical linkages between
different levals of the same subject; for example, secondary mathematics
curricula were developed before those for elementary mathematics. In general,
curricula have been introduced or changed (a) in reaction to a specific
complaint or perceived need; (b) in response to an international development,



-8-
e.g., modern mathematics; or (c) as a by-product of a political understanding,
e.g., the Jordanian-Syrian elementary curricula developed in the mid-1970s.
Instances where a single group, such as the national team for mathematics,
takes responsibility for curriculum and textbook development are the exception
rather than the rule.
2.22     Meanwhile, those responsible for curriculum developmen'; are not
necessarily individuals at the cutting edge of the subject matter or with wide
pedagogical skills and/or practical experience. Instead, curricula tend to be
developed by committees whose membership is drawn from universities and MOE;
any role played by classroom teachers is incidental and minor. Similarly,
textbooks are developed independently by individual authors, teams or
joint-venture operations; there is virtually no coordination with curriculum
committees or revision process to ensure that textbooks reflect curriculum
objectives.
2.23     Finally, curricula and textbooks are not subjected to systematic
research, evaluation or field testing before or after adoption and
dissemination, even if comments or reactions collected from the field are
available.  The General Directorate of Curriculum and Educational Technology
(GDCET) has no research capacity, and Jordan has no autonomous education
resea-ch institute or center for curriculum and textbook development.
2.24     Textbooks.  The existing Textbook Unit of MOE's GDCET is seriously
understaffed; more importantly, the staff lack training in oublishing
techniques and the professional standing necessary to meet curriculum
developers and authors on equal terms and provide the technical input to
upgrade the quality of textbooks. The Directorate is largely concerned with
the processing of reprints and the timely delivery of stocks to central and
district warehouses. The production process is formalized via printing
contracts so rigid that any creative endeavor to improve book appearance and
quality is impossible; it is completely inadequate to handle the development
of the 500 new titles required by the reform, or to publish the books in
accordance with the necessary standards.   In the case of storage, the
appraisal mission estimated that as many as lOb of all textbooks were rendered
unusable by careless storage (estimated cost: US$350,000 a year). In the case
of distribution, shipments are frequently undertaken in very small trucks with
still smaller payloads. Stock control systems are currently entirely manual
and need substartial upgrading to handle the volume of materials likely to
flow from the reform.
2.   Teaching and Teacher Training
2.25     Four basic issues adversely affect the quality of classroom teaching:
(a) inadequate teacher qualifications; (b) poor pre- and in-service training
programs; (c) inappropriate classroom teaching methods; and (d) weaknesses in
academic qualifications of school principals.
2.26     Teacher qualifications.  Approximately 6,000 students a year graduate
from Jordanian universities at the bachelor level. Of this total, about 50%
are arts and sciences graduates who could, in principle, become teachers. Of
the latter 3,000, about 700 have MOHE scholarships, about 1,000 have
scholarships reserved for children of the military, and about 1,200-1500 pay
their own way. Currently, most MOE scholars (about 600) and about half of the
own-account students (700) become teachers. These numbers are far too low to



-9-
provide the nearly 5,000 new teachers needed each year. As a result, up to
70X of basic and secondary education teachers have only a two-year community
college degree or less. This situation reflects, inter alia, the low prestige
of teaching in the eyes of students and society, and the relatively poor
earnings teachers can expect. Until mid-1988, teachers did not benefit from
Jordan's generous system of allowances to supplement basic salaries to the
extent that engineers, physicians and several other occupations did. A
university graduate teacher received only about one-third the starting pay of
a newly graduated engineer; many male teachers were therefore forced to seek a
second job, leaving them little or no time to prepare for their teaching
duties. Meanwhile, precisely because of the low prestige and low pay, males
were not readily attracted to teaching, especially at the basic education
level. This, plus the fact that female teachers are not permitted to tea_h
boys beyond fourth grade, results in a surplus of female teachers and overall
inefficiency .i teacher utilization. To correct the salary differential, the
Government increased allowances in mid-1988 and decreased those for technical
professions, such as engineers. This move is expected to attract better
qualified graduates into the teaching profession.
2.27     Teacher training.  As in many other countries, teaching is often not
treated as a profession for which top quality training is required. Many of
those who enroll in pre-service teacher training programs at community
colleges do so because their secondary school completion exam scores were too
low to gain them admission into university. In turn, community college
training programs have been weak in providing essential subject matter
knowledge or pedagogical training--partly because teaching faculty at
community colleges are often themselves insufficiently knowledgpable or
pedagogically experienced to encourage inquiry-based learning by student
teachers. As a result, programs have failed to encourage trainees to move
away from rote learning and into analytical thinking, mastery of theoretical
materials, or creative instruction techniques. Existing in-service teacher
training programs are basically short refresher courses in pedagogy offered
during summer vacations.
2.28     Teaching methods.  Classroom teaching emphasizes inflexible coverage
of prescribed material that makes little or no allowance for the differences
between slow and advanced learners as groups--let alone the differing
aptitudes and needs of individual students. This approach to instruction is
abetted and perpetuated by the context and content of pre-service teacher
training and in-service supervision. Finally, the system does not reward the
teacher for his or her creativity. The criterion for success is adherence to
the textbook and making sure that what is specified in the program is covered,
rather than effective, high-quality instruction.
2.29     School principals.  These weaknesses at the classroom level are
compounded by the fact that school princi?als are under-qualified (602 of all
principals have less than a university degree). They are over-burdened with
administrative tasks, and lack the opportunity (and the capacity) to play a
leadership role. Selected on the basis ef seniority, they are not
specifically trained for their role--although a university degree and a
minimum of three years' experience are required for secondary school
principals, and a community college diploma and three years' experience (or a
secondary school diploma and five years' experience) are required for basic
education. Principals are expected to teach at both the basic and secondary
levels.



3. School Facilities
2.30     The combination of a rapidly increasing school-age population and the
Government's determination to provide universal access to basic education has
forced the education system to resort to rented facilities, mainly private
houses. In 1987, nearly 50% of all general education students were taught in
rented premises and one-fourth of this group were in rented double-shift
schools. Conditions in rented schools are unsatisfactory. The quality of
teaching and learning is adversely affected by poor lighting, inadequate
sanitary facilities and overcrowding; these shortcomings are exacerbated by
the absence of library and/or multi-purpose rooms and storage facilities and
by limited, if any, playground areas. Because of the small classrooms, rented
facilities are also less cost-effective than purpose-built facilities since
they make less efficient use of teaching staff (the student/teacher ratio in
rented primary schools is 26:1, compared with 32:1 in the existing
purpose-built schools).
2.31     Rental accommodations impose two other significant impediments to the
equity and quality of education.  Rented schools predominate in the three
largest cities and are further concentrated in the lower-income districts.
The reality of a physical environment that substantially and perhaps
permanently reduces learning opportunities contradicts the principle of
universal primary education and the equal opportunity goal that underlies it.
Rented facilities are also concentrated at the primary school level.
Schooling can become a chaotic, meaningless experience for young learners, at
the most critical stage in their education--its beginning. Attentiveness and
interest in school work, let alone the development of effective study habits,
are likely to be permanently impaired.
4.   Vocational Education
2.32     Vocational education plays a major role in preparing young Jordanians
to be productive labor market entrants and, thereby, to contribute to
sustained national economic growth. The official vocational education entity
is the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC), which concentrates on providing
young males and females with blue collar and commercial skills through
three-year apprenticeship programs. VTC, which is operated cooperatively with
private industry, also sponsors intensive short courses and upgrading programs
for unemployed workers. The Corporation's programs have been supported by
previous Bank lending (most recently in the FY86 Manpower Development
Project), and its record is generally good; both enrollments and outp"t more
than trebled in the mid-1980s. VTC estimates that its annual intake capacity
in 1990 will be roughly 14,800 males and 8,700 females; Jordan's Board of
Education has recently adopted a vocational preparation policy paper which
proposes that vocational training be expanded to provide places for 50% of all
male graduates of the compulsory education system and 30% of females.
Meanwhile, some of the key components of the reform (notably the proposal to
extend compulsory education to the end of the 10th grade and to introduce a
new "technical" stream in grades 11 and 12: para 3.8) will have substantial
direct consequences for labor markets generally and for non-academic (i.e.
vocational) education in particular. Thus, the issue of vocational education
planning becomes one of how best to frame a program for the 1990s '.iat
provides adequate, but not excessive, capacity for training young labor market
entrants. The Government has included both upgrading of existing VTC
facilities and expansion of overall capacity in its reform.



- 11 -
5. Educational Research and Development
2.33     At present, MOE's General Directorate of Research and Planning is
responsible for evaluative work on education. The Directorate is not equipped
to carry out policy-based analysis to help implement the proposed reform, or
to provide the impetus required to promote systemic innovation. It is also
doubtful whether MOE could offer adequate compeu.sation to attract the caliber
of staff needed to plan and implement an evaluation program of the magnitude
and complexity required by the reform--or whether it would be organizationally
feasible and/or appropriate for the Ministry to evaluate policies for which it
is the executing agency.
D. Experience with Bank Lending for Education
2.34     The proposed sector investment loan is the culmination of the Bank's
relatively long experience with the Jordanian education sector. Since 1972,
the Bank has financed two credits and six loans in the sector; these
operations have closely paralleled the priority needs and level of
sophistication of the Jordanian economy and education system. The early
education projects focused primarily on the development of an institutional
structure, especially with respect to staff development, for secondary and
vocational schools and community colleges. The Project Performance Audit
Report (No. 2492, Sec, M79-336) for the First Education Project, while noting
its institutional impact, especially in educational planning, identified the
need for improved TA coordination and more intensive training in management
and administration, factors that were taken into account in the design of
subsequent projects. The Project Completion Report for the Second Education
Project (PCR No. 4261) highlighted its contribution to addressing skilled
labor shortages. The Completion Report for the Third Education Project (PCR
No. 6251) noted that, despite site acquisition and contractor delavs, physical
implementation had progressed satisfactorily. On the "software" side, it
suggested that fellowship training should be emphasized in preference to
specialist services and that in-country English language training should be
stressed to facilitate training overseas, as well as to communicate with
specialists. These recommendations have been taken into account in the design
of subsequent projects where a significantly large number of fellowships,
financed by the UNDP, USAID and the European Economic Community, are being
provided.
2.35     To support Government efforts to improve access to schooling for a
rapidly growing population, Education IV, V and VI have focused on school
construction. Education IV has also financed the construction of a
paramedical training institute to address domestic and regional shortage of
nurses and other paramedical staff. Civil works in Education IV (with the
exception of the paramedical institute), in Education V, and in Education VI
have consistently been completed on or ahead of schedule. The ongoing
Manpower Development Project, which is ahead of schedule, supports the further
expansion of vocational training capacity and the development of management
training at the Jordan Institute of Management. As a result of Government
efforts and Bank support, the sector is ahead of educational development in
other middle-income countries. The apprenticeship training provided by the
Vocational Training Corporation, which has received significant Bank support
over the years, is regarded as a model for middle-income countries and is
currently providing technical assistance to several countries in the EMENA
region, including projects financed by the Bank. MOE's Directorate of School



- 12 -
Buildiigs has developed into a highly effective entity which carries out all
of the engineering, contracting and supervision work for donor- and
Government-financed school construction. Starting with Education V, MOE has
been managing the TA programs associated with Bank-financed projects. The
Government's concern with the quality of basic and secondary education was
reflected in Education VII, which became effective in 1988. This operation
was initially envisaged as a sector investment loan; in order to provide
adequate time for the Goverr1ment to develop its reform program, however, it
was processed as a project with components designed to reflect the reform's
objectives (e.g., establishing a capacity for the measurement and evalustion
of education quality and for the training of teachers in the effective use of
instructional materials).
E. Government and nlank Strategy
2.36     As discussed in paras 1.4 and 1.5, a key element of the Government's
macroeconomic strategy is to attack the problem of rising unemployment by
improving the quality of both supply and demand in domestic labor markets,
through coordinated action on education system reform and scientific and
technological capacity building. In the case of education reform, the
Government initiated (in 1985) a major effort to review the state of education
in Jordan and propo3e changes to make the system and its outputs more relevant
to national economic development needs. The review was carried out by a
number of committees with membership from academia, government agencies, the
private sector, teachers and parents. This effort culminated in the General
Conference on Educational Development, held in September 1987, which
formulated a set of recommendations which were in turn translated, with Bank
assistance upon the request of the Government, into a ten-year program
consisting of a phased series of measures to support improvements in the
performance and management of basic and secondary education. These measures
are outlined in paras 3.1-3.3.
2.37     The Bank's lending strategy for Jordan supports the Government's
assignment of high priority to human resources development. In particular, it
endorses the emphasis on new policies designed to produce a flexible, skilled
and knowledge-intensive work force and to provide a critical input to science
and technology capacity building. The Bank plans to support this latter
effort with a science and technology sector study, which is expected to pave
the way for a lending operation. Bank strategy also supports sector lending
to Jordan to address broad policy and institutional issues. In this
connection, an industry and trade adjustment loan is currently being prepared
in support of the Government's macroeconomic adjustment effort.
2.38     Finally, the Bank's strategy includes pursuing a dialogue with the
Government on the overriding importance of curbing Jordan's extremely high
rate of population growth. If unchecked, the current rate of expansion (3.8%
a year) could effectively undo the benefits of Government policies and Bank
support for human resources development (close to 30% of the total cost of the
operation described in this report will go to construction of new schools
needed to accommodate natural increases in the student population--para
2.14). As has been the case with past economic and sector work and lending
operations, the Bank would continue to pursue population issues; a health
sector study is currently underway and is expected to lead to a sector lending
operation.



- 13 -
ml. THE SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
3.1      The reform program aims at raising the quality of basic and secondary
education to give Jordan the skill- and knowledge-intensive manpower base it
needs to develop its domestic technological capacity and maintain its
comparative advantage in regionwide labor markets. This goal has been
translated into a set of policy interventions, institutional changes and
qualitative improvements designed (i) to enhance student achievement levels by
(a) restructuring the school system, (b) improving the quality of teaching and
learning, and (c) using sector resources more efficiently; and (ii) to develop
an institutional structure that will be responsive to the system's qualitative
and quantitative needs over the long term. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it will implement the policies and
institutional development measures articulated in the Sector Development
Policy Statement (Annex I.1) and the actions, targets/indicators and target
dates specified in the Action Program (Annex I.2); it also gave assurances
that it will seek Bank agreement to any changes in these policies, measures
and action items during the implementation period (para 6.2(a)). The policy
framework, institutional changes, and quality improvement objectives and
actions are summarized below.
A. Reform Program Policy and Institutional Measures
3.2      The main components of the Government's proposed policy reform and
institutional development strategy are as follows:
1. Policy Framework
3.3      To achieve the fundamental reform objective of enhancing student
achievement levels, the Government plans to implement the following policy
measures:
(a) Restructuring the school system by:
(i) Providing students with a more solid grounding in basic
knowledge and skills through extension of basic
(compulsory) education from 9 to 10 years;
(ii) Addressing the diverse abilities and interests of
individual students, and providing oppori  nities for
specialization in line with students' career or further
education asprirations, through a restructured two-year
secondary cycle with a unified core curriculum and three
subject-based streams (math/science, arts/humanities and
technology);
(iii) Promoting a new emphasis on (and giving new stal:us to)
technology and technicians through the establishment of a
specialized technological secondary stream and the
accelerated transfer of responsibility for specific
industrial skill training to the VTC; and



- 14 -
(iv) Implementing a promotion and examination system that
conforms to the new structure through (a) promotion into
secondary schooling based on grade point averages at the
end of Grade 10; (b) the elimination of the former
general examination at the end of Grade 9; and (c) the
introduction of new specialized stream-specific
examinations at the end of the secondary cycle.
(b) Improving the quality of teaching and learning by:
(i) Redefining curriculum objectives in terms of developing
higher cognitive skills and abilities; modernizing
curriculum content to reflect' both up-to-date pedagogy
and contemporary issues; making curricula more flexible
and responsive to individual learning abilities and
interests; and establishing stronger integration between
basic and secondary education curricula;
(ii) Providing a full range of new or substantially revised
textbooks that are explicitly designed to support
curriculum objectives, and ensuring that textbooks and
learning materials are instructionally more effective
than hitherto;
(iii) Raising teacher qualification requirements for basic
education teachers from two to four years' post-secondary
education, and for secondary school teachers from four to
five years' post-secondary work; and setting up an
expanded and revised system of university-based
pre-service teacher training;
(iv) Upgrading the existing community college graduate
teachers' academic knowledge to a LA equivalency through
a certification program, and providing ongoing in-service
training to enable teachers to make effective use of new
materials and diversified instructional methods;
(v) Upgrading the academic qualifications of supervisors and
school principals through a certification program; and
(vi) Improving the quality of school facilities by providing
libraries, labs, and audio-visual equipment and gradually
eliminating rented classrooms.
(c) Using sector resources more efficiently by:
(i) conducting an education finance study (para 3.5) that H
would identify and implement further measures for cost
reduction and cost recovery; and
(ii) implementing the recommendations of the study through an
Action Program to be agreed between the Government and
the Bank (para 6.2(b)).



- 15 -
2. Intitutional Fran.ework
Enhancing the capacity to sustain sectoral reform by:
(i)   Strengthening the ability of the Technical Unit established
withiiz the Higher Cou.ncil of Science and Technology (PCST), a
new Jordanian entity, to appraise and allocate funds for
subprojects of the reform program and monitor and coordinate
their implementation;
(ii)   Establishing a National Center for Educational Research and
Development (NCERD) to help maintain the momentum of the
reform through policy-based and other large-scale sectoral
resea.rch; to identify potentially useful and cost effective
innovations; and to conduct a longitudinal evaluation of the
reform program;
(iii)   Institutionalizing the process of ongoing curriculum reform
by strengthening the capacity of MOE to manage the process of
curriculum preparation and revision on the basis of feedoack
from teachers, other expert referees, and student achievement
levels; and
(iv)    Complementing the curriculum reform process by
institutionalizing textbook development and dissemination
through the establishment of a new Textbook Publishing Unit
in MOE, together with new facilities and streamlined
arrangements for textbook storage and distribution.
B. Reform Program Implementation Strategy
3.4      The Government's implementation strategy for the reform as a whole
has been designed against three criteria: feasibility, flexibility, and
affordability. The reform's objectives have been subdivided into seven
national programs, covering the following areas: Basic and Secondary School
Curriculum Development; Textbook Development; Teacher and Supervisory Staff
Training; Educational Technology; Educational Facility Improvement; Vocational
Training Expansion; and Educational Research and Development. These programs
would be carried out over a ten-year period (1989-98) in three phases:
Phase I (1989-92) : Start-up and foundation
Phase II (1993-95) : Implementation of core program
Phase III (1996-98): Implementation of innovative programs
3.5      The overall program wo,.d bt: fa) cumulative over time, using a
building block approach whereby later initiatives build oil foundations laid by
earlier ones; and (b) programmatically interactive and synergistic, in that
the outputs of individual programs are designed to support and enhance each
other. In addition, implementation experience in each pha.e would be
systematically monitored and evaluated and the results used as feedback for
modifications. In the context of the affordability issue (paras 4.29-4.35),
an education finance study will be carried out early in Phase I to examine
opportunities for further cost savings and cost recovery in the sector. The
study will examine the prospects for further cost savings and cost recovery
through changes 4n policies and practices in the following three priority
areas: current physical constraints, such as classroom size and catchment



- 16 -
area, on teacher/class unit ratios; present teacher loads/numbers of contact
hours; and textbook production standards in relation to useful book life, and
textbook sale/loan schemes. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that it will, by June 30, 1989, provide for Bank review, terms of
reference of the study; by December 31, 1989, review its findings with the
Bank; and by March 31, 1990, commence implementation of a mutually agreed
program to achieve further cost savings and cost recovery in the education
sector (para 6.2.(bj). Progress on implementation of the overall program will
be provided in semi-annual progress reports and discussed at annual review
meetings (Action Program, Annex I.2, p. 1). Finally, the ten-year time frame
for the reform program as a whole will provide financial flexibility to spread
its costs over a sufficiently long period in order to keep its budgetary
requirements, at any point in time, at manageable levels.
C. National Progrms
1. Curriculum Development (Total outlay: US$0.2 million equivalent:
Bank fimlancing US$0.1 million)
(a) Program Summary
3.6      Curriculum reform has two main aspects: (i) changes in the structure
of the system (involving extension of compulsory education, reform of
secondary school streaming, and new procedures for promotions and
examinations: paras 3.7-3.9); and (ii) improvements in the content of
curricula to remedy the defects noted in paras 2.20-2.23 and enhance the
relevance and utility of subject matter and the teaching approacbes used (para
3.10).
(b)  Program Components
3.7      Extension of compulsory education.  Under the new Education Law,
revised in 1988 to reflect the policy framework mandated under the reform,
basic education has been extended by one year, effective 1988/89, to cover
Grades 1-10 inclusive (instead of Grades 1-9 as at present). For those youths
who do not plan to go on to secondary school, the new ten-grade compulsory
cycle would offer one extra year of basic education and synchronize the
average age for completion of the basic cycle with the labor market entry age
(16); the extra year is expected to provide those who go on to VTC
apprenticeship programs with more maturity and basic skills, thereby raising
their learning curve. For students who plan to stay on in formal education,
the new system is expected to provide a more solid foundation in basic skills
prior to streaming them in the secondary cycle.
3.8      Secondary curricula and streams.  New secondary curricula would be
developed and introduced in Grades 11 and 12 in the 1990/91 school year,
accompanying the introduction of the revised streaming system (to be finalized
in the 1989/90 school year). The latter would permit greater specialization
and thus respond to criticism from the universities about the inadequate
subject matter knowledge of first-year students and the consequent need to
review secondary cycle subjects in the first university year. The Government
proposes to maintain the math/science .nd arts/humanities streams but to
substantially upgrade the quality of teaching and learning. The new syster
would also restructure the existing industrial arts stream in secondary
schools into a new technical/technology stream. This would provide students
with the technical knowledge and skills to switch with relative ease between



- 17 -
techniciati/technologist positions in different industries in line with labor
market signals. This restructuring would also have the effect of linking the
social prestige attached to formal education with the needs of the economy for
technicians/technologists, by encouraging students with abilities in this area
to pursue higher education. Meanwhile, responsibility for vocational streams
oriented to direct labor market entry would continue to be transferred to
VTC's apprenticeship programs (para 2.32).
3.9      Finally, students who wish to enter secondary schooling would be
streamed on the basis of their academic performance in Grades 8, 9 and 10.
(This would replace the general national examination formerly given at the end
of Grade 9.) Application of the new system would start with students who will
be in the eighth grade durinr the 1989/90 school year, and the system would be
fully operational by the 1991/92 school year. For the secondary cycle, the
current General Secondary School Completion Examination would be replaced by
specialized examinations based on students' streams. The new system would be
implemented in June 1994 (Action Program, Annex I.2, p.2).
3.10     Curriculum development and review.  The Government has established
National Subject Teams to revise basic and secondary curricula. The teams
have concentrated on developing curricula whose content and approach
emphasize: (a) fostering student creative thinking by designing curricula that
promote critical inquiry, practical problem-solving, and conceptual,
analytical and information processing skills; (b) enhancing student
achievement by building flexibility into the curriculum, specifically
including possibilities for remedial instruction for slow learners and special
assignments for advanced students; (c) modernizing curriculum content and
making it relevant to current conditions and issues (such as political
changes, environmeutal issues, health problems); (d) reorienting classroom
instruction methods to emphasize activity-based experiences and applied
learning; (e) providing teacher guidance to enhance creativity and flexibility
in implementing the curricnlum; (f) enhancing the occupational/vocational
orientation of students; and (g) designing continuity and integration into the
curricula of different grades and subjects.
3.11     The current status of the basic education curricula and the timetable
for their review are shown in Table III.1:
Table III.1: Basic Education Curriculum Development Schedule
(Data Refer to Months)
Draft            Review              Approved for
Subject             Completion             and                Manuscript
Revision              Preparation
Mathematics            11/88             11/88-01/89               02/89
English Language       12/88            01-03/89                   03/89
Science                02/89            03-06/89                   07/89
Islamic Education      12/88            01-08/89                   09/89
Arabic Language        01/89             01-08/89                  09/89
Social Studies         03/89            04-11/89                   12/89
Arts and Music         04/89             04-11/89                  12/89
Physical Education    12/88             01-08/89                   09/89



- 18 -
Draft curricula are circulated to the 21 district education directorates for
review and comment by supervisors, principals and teachers. The revised
versions are then submitted to the Board of Eddcation for approval. The
approved curricula are to be passed on to MOE's Textbook Publishing Unit,
which would then begin its cycle of manuscript preparation and editing (based
on curriculum specifications), contracting with printers, supervision of
publication, and book distribution (paras 3.15-3.19).
(c) Staff Development
3.1..    To support curriculum development efforts, 37 man-months of
specialist services would be provided for: science and math curriculum
development; curriculum-based methods of promoting critical thinking and
student inquiry, and methods for catering to individual differences; and
curriculum evaluation methodology. In addition, 34 man-months of
fellowships/observation visits would be provided for members of curriculum
development teams and the Curriculum Directorate staff (Annexes IV.6 and
IV.7). Progress towards implementation of the staff developmen. program and
general work program for the Curriculum Directorate would be assessed at
mid-term and annual review meetings (Action Program, Annex I.2, p.2).
2.  Textbook Development (Total outlay: US$9.8 million equivalent
Bn fisancirLa. UJS$5.1 million)
(a) Program Summary
3.13     MOE has prepared a ten-year program (1988-98) for publishing about
500 new or substantially revised basic and secondary textbook titles to
respond to requirements of the new curricula. Books for mathematics, science,
social studies, Arabic language and Islamic education would be prepared for
Grades 1-10; books for English would be prepared for Grades 5-10. During
Phase I, the program would: (a) establish a Textbook Publishing Unit in MOE
(para 3.15) to edit, design and supervise the production of books and other
materials on a par with good international standards; (b) design, construct
and equip a national warehousing and distribution system to handle the school
districts' demand for textbooks (para 3.16); (c) introduce new textbooks for
three high-priority, relatively fast-developing basic education subjects
(expected to be math, science and English: para 3.17) into all but two basic
education grades, and textbooks for three other subjects into all but four
grades (Table III.2); (d) follow-up textbook introduction in every case with
one-year user testing (trialling: para 3.18); and (e) take the necessary
steps, including changing production specifications, for textbook cost
recovery and production economies (para 3.19).
3.14     Table III.2 shows the schedule for basic education textbooks.  The
full introduction cycle covers a five-year period spanning the latter part of
Phase I and the first part of Phase 1.
(b) Program Components
3.15     New institutional capacity for textbook publishing.  To help meet the
reform program's requirements for new or substantially revised textbooks and
to institutionalize the textbook publishing process, a Textbook Publishing
Unit has been created within MOE's General Directorate of Curriculum and
Education Technology (GDCET). The Unit's textbook editors would work closely



- 19 -
with curriculum development and evaluation committees and be expected to
develop production standards and design ideas that would effectively realize
curriculum concepts while staying within budgetary limits. The Unit would
also develop professional management systems, which would enable it to deliver
a wide range of books on time, while also exercising proper supervision over
the production cycle and quality control.
TABLE III.2
5-YEAR S^HEDULE FOR TEXTBOOR INTRODUCTION INTO BASIC EDUCATION RGADES
I   I                G        a       A        D        E        S
|INTRODUCTION I------- |-------I------- I------- ------- -------------- ------- ------- -------
DATES            11 |   2           3        4        5       6   | 7           8        9      101
|       SEPT.    MA   I         I        I                                              MAM    I  I  |  |  A    I
1        1990ISC    I           I        I        ISC   I          I        I        ISC   I          I
I              I        I       I        |        |    EN      I        I     |      |    Ell  |      I
S   .  I            ,I  I        I        I           A    I       I         I       I   A
S              A1991    SS   ISC   I    I           AC    I SC   I         I           SS      SC   I
|         | ISS    js       I       I        |IS    |s EN              I        IS    | EN   I
SEP. I          I       I        I       I        I        I MA I           I        IAR
1        19921          ISS  ISCI                 I       ISS  ISCI                  I       ISSI
I   I        I     I        I     I              I      N    I       I          I      I
SEPT. |          |      |M         M    I         I        |AR M             YA
1        1993      1        I      SS    ISC              I        I  S       SC    I        I        I
I     I        I       l~~~        ~~ist  I                  is       M;I 
I              I        |I        I S    I        I       |I         I S    |  E     I       II
|       SEPT.                               AR I  |      I  I      I        |AR         I
1        19941          1       1        ISSI              I       I        ISsI              I
I              I                I        |IS I  I  I  I                        25st  1  1             |is
------I                  I-i          I        --- ---------- ----- - -  - -- ---I   I
KEY:  MA - Mathematics
EN = EngLish Language (grades 5 - 10 only)
SC = Science
AR = Arabic
SS = SociaL Studies
iS = Islamic Studies



- 20 -
3.16     Improving textbook storage and distribution.  The distribution of
textbooks and other materials is managed by MOE, through a network comprising
a central warehouse in Amman and 10 district stores. As noted in para 2.24,
current storage and distribution arrangements are inadequate and wasteful. A
new central facility and network of 10 district warehouses will be built by
the end of Phase I; design and costing will be based on the findings of a
feasibility study to be completed by June 1990 (Action Program, Annex I.2,
p.4).
3.17     Textbook publishing process.  To synchronize textbook publishing with
the availability of individual curricula, publishing subprojects will be
divided into fast stream and slow stream groups. Fast-moving, high-priority
subject packages (math, science and English) wo-ild be published first, with
work on them starting in the spring of 1989; other subject packages would
follow as they become ready and as the Textbook Publishing Unit, which was
fully staffed as of December 1988, becomes proficient in handling the flow of
titles (Action Program, Annex I.2, p. 3). With respect to publishing options,
the MOE plan calls for flexibility and a careful assessment of possibilities
such as adaptations, translations, or co-publications with commercial
publishers.  Printing would be contracted locally (para 4.38(c)).
3.18     The textbook program includes a "user testing" (trialling) component,
whereby books will be tested for a year, and revised in line with feedback
from teachers and supervisors. (This process will also provide feedback about
the curricula on which the textbooks are based.) Trialling of new math and
science textbooks for Grades 1, 5 and 9 and for Grades 2, 6 and 10 would be
completed by July 1991 and July 1992, respectively; trialling of new English
textbooks for Grades 5 and 9 and for Grades 6 and 10 would be completed by
July 1991 and July 1992, respectively. Trialling of new textbooks for Arabic,
social studies and Islamic studies for Grades 1, 5 and 9 would be completed by
July 1992 (Action Program, Annex I.2, p. 4).
3.19     Cost recovery and economies in production costs.  At present,
textbooks for Grades 1-4 are provided free to each student; for Grades 5-10,
they are loaned and expected to have a life of two years; for Grades 11 and
12, they are sold at prices that reflect production costs plus a standard
mark-up of 15%. As part of the Government's plan to increase efficiency and
cost recovery, the education finance study (para 3.5) would review the
feasibility and scale of possible economies from (a) extending the loan system
downwards to Grades 3 and 4; (b) extendirng sales to Grades 9 and 10; and (c)
extending the average life of loaned books from two to three years.
(c) Staff Development
3.20     A three-year program of technical assistance for the textbook program
includes the services of specialists in textbook editing, design and
production (72 man-months) to help set up the Textbook Publishing Unit and
train Jordanian staff for their new roles. Four senior staff from GDCET have
already taken a publishing course overseas, and a four-week seminar on
textbook editing, design, publishing and production management was held in
Jordan in November 1983. Both the overseas publishing course and the
in-country seminar would be repeated during 1990. In total, 400 man-months of
in-country training would be provided (Annexes IV.6 and IV.7). Progress in
implementation of the mutually agreed staff development and general work
program of the Unit would be assessed during the joint mid-term and annual
review meetings (Action Program, Annex I.2, p.8".



- 21 -
3. Teacher and Supervisory Staff Training (Total outlay: US$42.6 million equivalent;
Bank financing, US$8.9 million)
(a) Program Summary
3.21     Because the benefits of the reform as a whole will be won or lost in
the classroom, the Government places special emphasis on upgrading teachers'
and school administrators' ability to implement the reform at the grassroots
level. To this end, the new Education Law has raised teacher certification
requirements as follows: basic education teachers are to have a B.A./B.Sc.
degree and secondary teachers a B.A./B.Sc. plus pedagogical qualifications
based on course work of at least one academic year. The teacher
training/upgrading component of the reform would focus on the following major
initiatives during Phase I:
(i)   Upgrading the academic qualifications of existing basic and
secondary education teachers (about 4,000 and 1,500, respectively)
and of supervisors and principals (about 360) through
certification training at the Higher Certification College and the
Universities of Jordan, Yarmouk and Mutah (paras 3.22-3.24);
(ii)   Providing in-service training to basic education teachers (about
12,000) principals (about 4,000), and supervisors (about 800) and
other staff (about 750) in the pedagogical skills needed to use
the new curricula and textbooks effectively (paras 3.25-3.27); and
(iii)   Expanding the capacity of the Universities of Jordan, Yarmouk and
Mutah for teacher candidate (pre-service) training to enable these
universities to train an additional 2,000 basic education teachers
a year starting in the academic year 1992/93. This would
effectively replace the existing two-year community college
teacher training programs with a four-year baccalaureate program
(paras. 3.28-3.30).
(b) Program Components
3.22     Certification of basic education teachers.  By far the largest
portion of the certification effort would be the program for existing basic
education teachers, to be undertaken by the Higher Certification College (HCC)
created for this purpose, at campuses in Amman and Irbid (and in Karak from
September 1989) and by three universities (University of Jordan in Amman,
Yarmouk University in the north and Mutah University in the south). HCC has
already developed its curricula and has begun certification training for an
initial intake of 600 students. It is expected that students will take
approximately 70 credit hours over a 2-3 year period while also continuing
their teaching duties. Starting in the 1989/90 academic year, HCC expects to
have a combined total annual intake of 1,100 students at its three campuses.
The universities, whose courses would be coordinated with those of HCC to
ensure comparability of coverage, are expected to start their programs in
September 1989; their combined intake is expected to be 1,000 students a
year. Total expected intake (HCC plus universities) is 2,100 a year (Action
Program, Annex I.2, p.4).
3.23     Annex III.1 provides a stock and flow model of how the certification
process for community college graduates is expected to work; the model



- 22 -
suggests that the Government's planned provision of certification places is
appropriate. To summarize, the total eligible population in 1988/89 is about
22,700; of this total, about 15,900 are expected actually to demand
certification. Estimated demand peaks (on the assumptions used in the model
in the Annex) at just over 17,000 in 1990/91, declining annually thereafter by
the difference between annual demand increments (in the form of community
college graduates needing certification) and annual reductions in the accrued
stock of demand (in the form of HCC and university certification course
graduates). Taking into account the new system for pre-service training which
is planned to begin full-scale operation in Phase II (from 1992/93 onward),
the number of community college graduates needing certification falls steadily
to a residue of about 4,700 by the end of the reform period. The Government
would evaluate the HCC and university certification programs annually during
Phase I and make any necessary alterations in intake figures, candidate
selection criteria and curricula (Action Program, Anne.x I.2, p.5).
3.24     Certification of secondary education teachers and supervisors/
administrators. Upgrading programs are also planned for secondary teachers
with BAs but no education diploma, and for supervisors/administrators who are
currently without an MA degree. These schemes are smaller than the basic
education certification program, but they are critically important because of
the pivotal role these target groups play in the education system as a whole.
The program for BA holders without diplomas would be pedagogical and would be
offered by the universities. It is projected to start with 600 candidates in
1989/90, building gradually to about 1,130 candidates starting in 1992/93 and
to about 1,200 starting in 1995/96; the planned total output for the ten-year
reform program is 8,800. Educational leaders without an MA would also attend
university courses; their number is expected to be small (120 a year
throughout the reform period: Action Program, Annex I.2, p.5).
3.25     In-service training: short courses in reform goals, programs and new
materials and approaches.  Short in-service training courses are also needed
to institutionalize the ongoing professional development of teachers. These
courses would introduce teachers, administrators and resource personnel to the
objectives of the reform and to the new curricula, textbooks, teaching and
student assessment methods, as well as to teacher performance evaluation
criteria (Action Program, Annex I.2, pp. 5 and 6).
3.26     The programs would have two prime areas of focus: awareness training
in the overall goals of the reform and in its new curricula and textbooks, and
pedagogical training in more effective teaching methods to be used in
conjunction with the new materials. Awareness training would cover
supervisors, principals and resource personnel as well as teachers. Possible
training methods and formats would include (a) usi.g "distinguished teachers"
to provide demonstration lessons for less experienced teachers; (b) programs
of "reflective practice," whereby supervisors work with teachers and provide
feedback and support to the teacher while assessing his/her performance; and
possibly (c) distance education programs, based on correspondence by mail but
also making use of radio or television. These programs would be linked to a
tutorial/mentoring system provided that pilot testing shows that this approach
offers benefits comparable to "live" interactive learning (para 3.27).
In-service short courses are expected to become operational at the grass roots
level in mid-1990. (Annex III.2 gives details on the program and course
coverage.)



- 23 -
3.27     As with all other aspects of the reform, Phase I is expected to lay
the foundation for the full-scale operation of in-service short courses. The
resources needed during the early years under the SIL would therefore be
relatively small in comparison to later years' needs. Moreover, as noted in
para 3.36, the Government plans to review the extent to which distance
education based on TV/VCR/cassette delivery modes and self-instructional
training materials can be used effectively to supplement, or even partially
substitute for, "face-to-face" training by an instructor. On the other hand,
available research suggests that attitudinal change in general, and especially
the kinds of new pedagogical practices needed to promote critical thinking in
students, is best done through face-to-face instruction and group interaction,
rather than through audio-visual passive learning or self-instructional
written materials.
3.28     New structure for pre-service training.  As noted in para 3.3 (b)
(iii), the Government intends all basic education teachers to have a B.A.
degree or an equivalent qualification. While efforts during Phase I would
concentrate on upgrading existing teachers who currently only hold a community
college diploma, new university-based programs for the preparation of basic
education teachers would also be developed and pilot-tested in Phase I, with
full-scale implementation planned for Phase II. Meanwhile, the Government
would also begin tapping other existing sources for the 5,000 new basic
education teachers estimated to be needed each year. In all, three
initiatives are planned: (a) obtaining more recruits than at present from the
existing pool of B.A. graduates; (b) obtaining some additional teachers from
among Jordanians studying abroad; and (c) setting up the new university-based
courses referred to above. Each of these initiatives is briefly outlined
below.
3.29     The Government plans to double the number of arts and sciences B.A.
graduates who enter the teaching profession each year, from about 1,300 (para
2.26) to about 2,500, by redirecting scholarship students (who are already
required to make themselves available for public service of some kind) into
teaching, and by improving teacher pay and working conditions. Because these
individuals would come from the existing undergraduate population, they would
impose no additional costs on the university system. Overseas students
(23,000 are currently sponsored by MOHE) are also potentially available for
teaching: channelling 500 of them into teaching each year would be
administratively feasible and impose no additional net costs on the system.
An additional 2,000 new undergraduate places would bring the gross annual
teacher intake up to the 5,000 requirel. The Government therefore plans to
expand the existing annual output of the University of Jordan, Yarmouk
University, and Mutah University, as follows:
University of Jordan        1,000
Yarmouk University            750
Mutah University              250



-24 -
Assuming a four-year B.A. course, total incremental enrollments in BA courses
would be as follows:
Current    Planned   Increase
University of Jordan                12,000      16,000      +4,000
Yarmouk University                  11,000      14,000      +3,000
Mutah University                     4,000       5,000      +1,000
27,000     35,000        8,000
3.30     Inputs for expansion.  The University of Jordan would accommodate its
additional students (estimated at half the total, or a graduating class of
1,000 a year) at a new campus in Amman on land already owned by the
Government; Yarmouk and Mutah would accommodate their increases by expanding
on their existing sites. Expansion would involve civil works, furniture and
equipment for additional classrooms, labs, and administrative/common
facilities. Construction of expanded facilities is expected to start in
October 1990 (Action Program, Annex I.2, p.5). Similarly, while additional
faculty would be required, all three universities would save administrative
overhead by relying on existing departments covering admissions, accounting,
student counseling, etc. The overall objective would be to have the expanded
system ready for full-scale operation by the 1992/93 academic year.
(c) Staff Development
3.31     The Government plans to continue its participation in bilateral
fellowship programs in the education sector along with the United States,
United Kingdom, Federal Republic of Germany and France. However, the scale of
the reform, especially the ambitious teacher training program outlined above,
requires substantial additional technical assistance support in this area; the
main components of this additional support are as follows:
(i) New pre-service baccalaureate programs. The universities need
to expand both the scale and breadth of their course offerings to meet the new
demands outlined in paras 3.28-3.30; in addition, to expanded bachelors'
programs for pre-service teacher preparation, they also need to offer more
courses at the post-bachelor level (covering, e.g., mathematics/science/social
studies education, measurement and evaluation). To build up ar appropriate
range of courses, the Government has estimated that two kinds of technical
assistance are required: (a) a "visiting faculty" program, involving roughly
10 person-years of visiting professorships for individuals from university
systems overseas who would spend 2-4 semesters at a Jordanian University,
setting up courses and building a nucleus of Jordanian staff to replace the
"visiting faculty" as their secondments ended; and (b) an overseas fellowship
program, under which a small number of Jordanians could study abroad for up to
three years in subject matter areas not yet covered in Jordanian universities
(such as vocational education, educational psychology, or educational
technology) and then join university staffs to set up new courses upo11 their
return. About 60 person-years (20 persons x 3 years) would be requ4red. The
visiting faculty and the overseas fellowship program would start as of the
1989/90 academic year (Action Program, Annex I.2, p.5).



- 25 -
(ii) Other teacher training programs would be supported by 26
man-months of specialist services in the areas of: instructional methodologies
for catering to individual differences; promotion of critical thinking;
teaching of science, math, humanities and vocational subjects; distance
education; teacher training planning; and training in materials development.
In addition, 34 man-months of short-term fellowships would be provided, 30 of
which would be for science teaching (Annexes IV.6 and IV.7 give details).
Progress in the implementation of the staff development programs would be
assessed during the joint mid-term and annual review meetings.
4.  Educational Technology (Total outlav: US$11.0 million equivalent;
Bank financing, US$2.3 million)
(a) Program Summary
3.32     The educational technology program would complement other quality
improvement measures (curriculum, textbooks and teacher training) with two
kinds of inputs: (a) new physical facilities and hardware in schools, namely,
laboratories, libraries, workshops, learning resource centers and equipment
(paras 3.33 and 3.34); and (b) new "software," in the form of broadcasts or
vieeotaped educational TV programs to be used in support of student
instruction and teacher training (paras 3.35 and 3.36). The ten-year reform
program for the basic education cycle calls for the eventual provision of
science labs in about 745 schools, audio-visual viewing/storage facilities in
about 560, and library facilities in about 820. The new facilities would
begin to be added to existing purpose-built schools in Phase I. For existing
secondary schools, the plan calls for physics and biology labs in about 295
schools and chemistry labs in about 34, and for audio-visual storage
facilities in 377 schools and libraries in about 246. In addition, starting
in Phase II, the 3 learning resource centers for teachers currently financed
on a pilot basis under Education VII would eventually be increased to 11, and
the capacity of MOE's Educational Technology Directorate (ETD) would be
strengthened to produce educational TV programs and video and audio
cassettes. Finally, a staff training program would be prepared and
implemented to train new and existing staff involved in the educational
technology program, i.e., laboratory assistants, librarians, and the staff of
learning resource centers and of ETD.
(b) Program Components
3.33     Specialized facilities and equipment in new schools.  Science
laboratories, libraries, and audio-visual viewing/storage facilities and
related equipment would be included in the 180 schools whose construction will
be initiated during Phase I, of which 80 basic education and 10 secondary
schools are expected to be completed by the end of this period. Audio-visual
hardware would include tape recorders, video cassette players F-d radios for
basic education schools and tape recorders, video cassette pla,.rs,
televisions, overhead projectors and movie projectors for secondary schools.
3.34     Specialized facilities and equipment for existing schools.  During
Phase I, about 150 laboratories, 150 libraries, and 100 audiovisual facilities
would be provided in about 180 existing basic and secondary schools
(representing about 15% of the total number of schools) with over 400 pupils
each.



- 26 -
3.35     Software preparation.  As indicated in para 3.27, in-service teacher
training would be supplemented with audio-visual materials on a pilot basis.
In addition, Phase I would include pilot production work on educational
television programs based on the new curricula. Educational television is
already being used selectively as a teaching medium in Jordanian schools;
Jordanian TV broadcasts eight educational TV programs per week. About 360 of
the 510 secondary schools currently have color television and about 200 have
video players. Educational television programs are prepared by the Ministry
of Education.
3.36     Software preparation would be limited to in-service teacher training
programs and a selected number of grades. The MOE has recently conducted a
study on the effectiveness of educational television programs and audiovisual
cassettes. The study would be reviewed jointly by the Bank and the Government
and a mutually agreed plan of action to maximize effectiveness would be
developed by January 1990 (Action Program, Annex I.2, p. 6).
(c) Staff Development
3.37     A total of 25 new staff would be recruited to operate the learning
resource centers (financed under Education VII) and to train teachers to
prepare and use their own instructional materials. These staff would be
recruited on a phased basis and would also train teachers in outlying areas
who do not have access to the centers. For newly constructed secondary
schools, 10 laboratory assistants and 10 librarians would be recruited. MOE's
General Directorate of Educational Development would prepare and conduct the
courses for new and existing staff involved in educational technology inputs
at the school level. The training to be provided includes: two-week training
programs (to be completed by September 1992) for new recruits and for existing
laboratory and library staff (120 and 640, respectively) on the implications
of new curricula and textbooks; and a two-month training program (to be
completed by June 1990) for the staff of learning resource centers (Action
Program, Annex I.2, pp.5 and 6). The in-service training program for basic
education teachers would include modules on laboratory and library use.
Technical assistance would include 18 man-months of specialist services in
library materials procurement, librarian training, educational TV and video
cassette production, teacher training for instructional materials preparation
and use, and educational technology program evaluation. Annex IV.6 gives
details of the TA package. Progress in implementation of the mutually agreed
staff development programs would be assessed during the joint mid-term and
annual review meetings.
5.  Educational Facility Improvement (Total outlay: US$175.8 million equivalent;
Bank financing. US$52.8 million)
(a) Program Summary
3.38     As noted earlier, the Government plans to upgrade Jordan's physical
facilities for general education as an input to overall qualitative
improvements in teaching and learning.  Over the full three-phase, ten-year
period of the reform, a total of 432,370 student places would be constructed,
156,900 of which would be for replacement of rented facilities and 238,470 for
the creation of new student places. In Phase I, priority would be given to
the replacement of rented facilities. By the end of Phase II, all rented



- 27 -
facilities would have been replaced, specialized facilities would have been
constructed in existing schools, and a proportion of the new student places
would have helped to accommodate natural growth. In Phase III, the emphasis
would be on accommodating natural growth and, to the extent the budget
permits, eliminating double-shifting.
(b) Program Components
3.39     The Phase I program would construct about 88,670 student p.aces and
would have two components: (a) about 52,300 piaces (59%) would be for the
replacement of rented classrooms; and (b) the remaining 36,370 (41%) would
accommodate about 25% of the estimated annual growth in enrollments. The
construction program, which includes the construction of libraries, labs and
audio-visual rooms as outlined in para 3.33, would be implemented through four
subprojects (consisting of about 45 schools each), of which two (80 basic and
10 secondary schools) would be completed within the Phase I implementation
period (Action Program, Annex I.2, p.6). The two other subprojects would be
started in Phase I but completed during Phase II.
3.40     The sites for Phase I construction are derived from MOE's priority
construction list, which is based on the following criteria: eliminating the
most crowded rented facilities first, and selecting sites so that the walking
distance from the catchment area does not exceed 2-3 km for basic education
schools and 5 km for secondary schools. The appraisal mission and the
Government have discussed the catchment areas for each of the Phase I schools
to determine efficiency and size, reviewed the list of sites, and agreed on
the continuation of double-shifting in purpose-built schooling. Design
standards for the new schools would be the same as those agreed for Education
VII. The average school would accommodate about 1,000 students, with
individual classrooms accommodating 40.
6.  Vocational Training (Total outlay: UTS$9.6 million equivalent;
Bank financing, US$2.6 million)
(a) Program Summary
3.41     The proposed vocational training program, to be implemented by the
VTC, would be divided into two parts for implementation purposes: upgrading of
two existing centers and modest capacity expansion in one of them, and
constructing and equipping new centers, subject to a study of prospective
demand and capacity.
(b) Program Components
3.42     Expansion/upgrading of existing centers.  The upgrading program would
involve the broadening and bringing up-to-date of the skills training provided
at two existing VTC centers. The upgrading would mainly consist of equipping
the centers with the types of equipment and shop set-ups being used by
prospective employers--modern welding equipment (MIG and TIG welding
machinery) and pneumatic- and hydraulic-control work stations. In addition,
the capacity of one of the two centers would be expanded by setting up a fine
mechanic workshop for40 trainees. The upgrading program has been appraised by
the Bank and will not be processed as a subproject. The expected completion
date for the program is November 1990.



- 28 -
3.43     Constru  ion and equipment of new centers.  An important objective of
the Government's eform program is to increase the number of students going
into vocational training programs (para 2.32) to help meet current and
expected skills shortages. Furthermore, as discussed in para 3.8, a
proportion of the students who might ccnerwise have enrolled in industrial
arts streams in MOE-operated secondary schools are now likely to be placed in
the VTC-operated vocational training programs. Since most centers are already
operating at or near full capacity (especially for males), the creation of
additional training places will become necessary.
3.44     Bearing in mind wider manpower issues, including changes in labor
market demand and the need for labor market entrants to be trained in ways
that allow them to adapt flexibly to these changes, the question of building
and equipping new VTC centers needs careful study during Phase I before any
decisions are taken on expansion, beyond the modest increases outlined in para
3.42. The Government has agreed to conduct a comprehensive study in 1989 on
the scale and types of specialized skills required by the market, employers'
willingness to take in apprentices, and potential student demand. Terms of
reference for the study would be provided to the Bank for review by September
1989; findings and zecommendations would be jointly reviewed by April 1990,
with the goal of implementing a jointly agreed action program starting in July
1990. Subprojects to implement the program would be processed on the basis of
criteria and fund allocation guidelines to be be agreed upon by May 1990
(Action Program, Annex I.2, p.1).
3.45     Staff development needs would be identified in the proposed study or
possible subsequent vocational training subprojects.
7.  Educational Research and Development (Total outlay: US$2.6 million equivalent;
Bank financing, US$0.6 million)
(a) Program Summary
3.46     The Government has decided to set up a small, independent and
centralized unit to (a) monitor and evaluate how effectively individual
programs and subprojects operate and how they contribute to the overall reform
strategy; (b) conduct policy-based research (especially large-scale,
sector-wide research projects that are beyond MOE's capacity); and (c)
institutionalize educational innovation, so as to maintain the momentum of the
reform over the long term. The new unit, to be called the National Center for
Educational Research and Development (NCERD), would be under the Higher
Council for Science and Technology and would work closely with, but be
independent of, the Intermediary. During Phase I, the Center would
concentrate on its evaluation function and other data development activities.
The Center would be expected to evolve during Phases II and III into an active
promoter of continuing change and productive innovation--a function intended
to continue after the formal conclusion of the ten-year reform effort. The
Center's functions, institutional status, staffing, and work program are
outlined in Annex rII.3.



- 29 -
(b) Program Components
3.47     During Phase I, NCERD would concentrate on: (i) preparing and
implementing a comprehensive longitudinal monitoring and evaluation system
whose results would provide feedback for program design modifications during
Phase II; (ii) initiating its research study function; and (iii) using its
work in these areas as inputs into its third, longer-range function which is
to develop into a center of excellence for educational research and
development and become an agent of positive change in the education system.
3.48     In addition to drawing on the evaluative and research work just
noted, the foundation-laying process during Phase I would involve working with
MOE's General Directorate of Research and Planning on the establishment of a
national education data base; developing an information system about promising
new educational initiatives elsewhere; building a network of competent
individuals able to undertake contract research on the Center's behalf or act
as catalysts of change in the system; and beginning to conduct (or contract
out to experts) policy-oriented studies in educational research, including, in
particular, analysis of the sectoral (and wider economic) consequences of key
aspects of Jordan's education reform. Topical areas might include (a) changes
in curricula, textbooks, other instructional materials, exams, etc. (covering
changes in both content and how it is presented and including effects on
teachers, students and education quality); (b) changes in teacher training
(including both pre-service training of new teachers and in-service
upgrading/reorientation of existing ones), along with the consequence for
trainee teacher intake levels of changes in the selection process for new
teachers and improvements in the status of teaching an a profession; and (c)
emerging problems (or unforeseen opportunities) arising from the reform
process itself as it begins to affect its target populations (students,
teachers and administrators) and hence the economy as a whole. The Center
would be established by December 1989 and core staff recruited by March 1990.
During each annual review meeting, the Government and the Bank would review
the Center's research output and outcomes during the preceding year, discuss
the work program for the following year, and propose areas of study for
inclusion in the program. Subsequent research programs would be agreed upon
at annual review meetings. Studies conducted by the Center would be submitted
to the Bank for review and comment (Action Program, Annex 1.2, p. 7).
(c) Staff Development
3.49     NCERD would be supported by an evaluation specialist and a research
methodology 4esign expert (12 man-months in total). Technical assistance
would also be provided to GDRP, comprising a total of 36 man-months of
specialists' services in statistical analysis educational planning and in
education economics. These specialists would also provide technical support
as needed to NCERD. In addition, the TA program would finance 10 man-months
of study tours to institutions with expertise in monitoring and evaluating
education systems, and 5 man-months of financing for both NCERD and GDRP staff
to attend international steiinars on innovative interventions in education
(Annexes IV.6 and IV.7 give details). Progress in implementing the staff
development program would be assessed during the joint mid-term and aanual
review meetings.



- 30 -
IV. PROGRAM MANAGEMENT, IMPLEMENTATION, COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Program Managemen;.
1. The Sector Approach
4.1      The Government's reform program is well suited to a sector approach.
It extends over 10 years (1989-98) atid introduces wide-ranging policy measures
and institutional development activities for basic and secondary education.
The sector approach offers the necessary flexibility for making adjustments as
the reform program progresses, promotes application of objective criteria for
the allocation of funds to subprojects, and encourages cooperation and
coordination among the beneficiaries through the operations of the
Intermediary (para 4.4 et seq.). The Intermediary is an independent body
which has a Policy Council (with authority to approve subprojects) with
high-level membership from each of the beneficiaries.
4.2      Proceeds of the Bank and OECF loans and xhe ODA technical assistance
grant (para 4.26) would help finance seven national programs: curriculum
development, textbook development, teacher and supervisory staff training,
educational technology, educational facility improvement, vocational training,
and education research and development. With the exception of curriculum
development (para 4.11), all national programs would consist of subprojects,
each of which would be a mini-investment program with its own discrete set of
sub-objectives, target groups, and action plans. External funds earmarked for
national programs would be provided by the Government (through the
Intermediary) to the beneficiary institutions, under general and specific
criteria for approval of subprojects and guidelines for allocation of funds
(paras 4.10-4.12).
2. Management Structure
4.3      The Government has already established the basic management structure
for the SIL-supported reform. The beneficiaries would be responsible for
implementing the subprojects in each program after they have been appraised
and approved by the Intermediary. The names and areas of responsibility of
the beneficiaries are as follows:
Ministry of Education            : Curriculum Development, Textbook
Development, In-service Teacher
Training, Educational Facility
Improvement, Educational Technology,
Education Research and Development
Ministry of Higher Education   : Teacher Certification
University of Jordan             :  Pre-Service Teacher Training; Teacher
Certification
Yarmouk University               : Pre-service Teacher Training; Teacher
Certification
Mutah University                 : Pre-service Teacher Training; Teacher
Certification



- 31 -
Vocational Training Corporation: Vocational Trainin&
The Higher Council for Science
and Technology (HCST)1'    :   National Center for Education Research
and Development (NCERD)
Implementation responsibilities are set ouL in Annex IV.1.
4.4      The Intermediary is a special entity set lp to provide centralized
direction and coordination for implementing the national programs and
subprojects that together comprise the reform program as a whole. The
Intermediary was established by a decree from the Office of the Prime Minister
and consists of a Policy Council and a Technical Unit. The work of the
Intermediary is envisaged as coterminous with the ten-year reform program and,
therefore, does not involve the permanent interposition of a new agency to
supervise beneficiaries activities. However, the expertise that the
Technical Unit staff, in particular, develops in the course of implementing
the reform will represent a permanent addition to indigenous capacity building
in human resources policy and program implementation. The establishment and
operation of the Intermediary also offers substantial potential benefits in
terms of sectoral planning and management functions. Since the Bank has
delegated specific appraisal and supervision functions to the Intermediary,
during negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will continue to
maintain the Intermediary Technical Unit with organization, staffing and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank during the implementation period (para
6.2(c)).
4.5      The Policy Coun-il.  Policy Council membership is listed in
Annex IV.2. It includes nigh-level representation from all entities
participating in the SIL program, and also from the Ministry of Planning and
the Royal Scientific Society. This broadly based membership brings together
all the entities essential for sectoral policy and institutional development.
It also helps to integrate educational policies with national planning and
macroeconomic goals. Its responsibilities are to (a) approve subprojects
appraised and submitted by the Technical Unit (para 4.6); (b) keep itself
apprised of the progress of subprojects and the program in general through
monthly reports from the Technical Unit; (c) make policy decisions about SIL
implementation within parameters agreed upon with the Bank; (d) formulate and
recommend sector pol.cies on the basis of data and experience garnered through
the SIL program; (e) carry out annual reviews and a mid-term review of program
implementation with the Bank; and (f) act as Lhe governing body of the
Intermediary.
4.6      The Technical Unit.  The Technical Unit's responsibilities are to
(a) appraise subprojects prepared by beneficiaries, and prepare subproject
appraisal reports and submit them to the Policy Council with recommendations
HCST was set up in November 1987.  Its mandate is to take the lead in
building a national scientific and technological base in Jordan and in
coordinating research and sectoral planning. The Council is sub-divided
into specialized departments as follows: education and manpower, health
and environment, industry, agriculture, water supply, information
technology, international relations, and mining.



- 32 -
for approval; (b) help the beneficiaries prepare subprojects as requested; (c)
supervise the implementation of subprojects and the program in general; (d)
prepare implementation progress reports and submit them to the Policy Council
in line with an agreed timetable; (e) be responsible for the program's overall
financial supervisic-., including budgeting and allocation of funds for
pproved subprojects, and arrangements for annual audits; (f) contract
technical assistance (para 4.19) for subproject appraisals and for other
implementation purposes; and (g) act as the Secretariat to the Policy Council.
4.7      Staffing of the Technical Unic currently includes a director who is
also the Director of the Education and Manpower Department of HCST, the entity
within which the Technical Unit operates. Other staff include a manpower
training specialist, an engineer, and an accountant (all full-time); and two
educators and an economist (on part-time secondment).  The Government has
provided assurances that thi. Unit will be staffed by a general educttor, an
evaluation specialist, and a financial officer to work on a full-time basis by
September 1989.  The relative inexperience of the Intermediary with sector
investment operations poses a risk (para 5.5).  To reduce this risk, the Bank
has taken the followir-g measuzes: (i) Bank staff have conducted three seminars
for the Intermediary and representatives of the beneficiaries on
characteristics of sector investment loans; (ii) the Bank has reviewed prior
to negotiations, appraisal reports prepared by the Intermediary for three
subprojects (school construction, edicational technology and textbook
development), in order to determine standards of preparation and appraisal;-
(iii) it has arranged for the Technical Unit Director to visit the Bank and
become familiar with legal and disbursement procedures; (iv) 12 man-months of
financing have been provided under the proposed loan for an education
specialist familiar with Bank procedures and sector investment loan operations
to help train Intermediary (and beneficiary) staff in subproject processing;
and (v) the loan provides financing for 24 man-months of local or foreign
subject matter experts (on a needs basis) to help with technical appraisals of
subproject proposals. In addition, the Bank will review for approval all
subproject appraisal reports prior to their scheduled start of implementation
during the one-year period following loan effectiveness and thereafter,
appraisal reports for subprojects selected by the Bank for review (paras 4.20
and 6.2(h)). Total Phase I outlays for management of the reform program by
the latermediary are estimated at US$1.0 million equivalent, of which US$0.6
million would be financed by the Bank.
B. Program Implementation
1.   Preparation, Appraisal and Approval of Subprojects
4.8      Subprojects would be identified, prepared and implemented by the
relevant general directorates of MOE and MOHE and equivalent units in VTC and
HCST, as well as by participating universities. While individual subprojects
would differ, their basic format would adhere to certain commonalities in
order to facilitate review and appraisal. Subproject applications would be
given a preliminary review by the submitting beneficiary institution. In the
case of MOE, this would be done by a steering committee headed by the
Secretary General; similar reviews would be done by MOHE, VTC, HCST (for



- 33 -
NCERD), and the universities (for their respective subprojects). A favorable
review would constitute institutional endorsement of a subproject, which would
then be submitted to the Technical Unit of the Intermediary for appraisal.
4.9      The Technical Unit would begin each appraisal by determining whether
each subproject was properly prepared. Inadequately prepared subprojects
would be returned to the entity of origin with a clear statement of the
deficiencies and an offer to help carry out any revisions. Accepted
subprojects would be assigned to technical staff for appraisal on the basis of
an agreed set of criteria (paras 4.10-4.11). Using a standard format (Annex
IV.3), technical staff would prepare an appraisal report which would be
reviewed and endorsed by the Technical Unit Director and then submitted to the
Policy Council for approval. Approved subprojects would be submitted to the
Ministry of Planning for final endorsement, after which the entity of origin
would be authorized to implement them. The flow chart on the next page shows
the steps and the parties involved in generating and appraising subprojects.
The review and approval role of the Bank is discussed in paras 4.7 and 4.20.
(a) Criteria for Appraisal and Approvai of Subproiects
4.10     The Intermediary would appraise and approve subproject requests on
the basis of four general criteria: (a) relevance to the objectives and
prio.rities of the reform program (quality enhancement at the basic and
secondary levels, and improved institutional capacity to respond to the
system's qualitative and quantitative needs over the long term); (b) technical
quality (whether specified inputs can be expected to produce desired output);
(c) implementation capacity (whether the subproject can be implemented
effectively); and (d) cost efficiency (whether the subproject can be
implemented at reasonable cost). Subprojects would be limited to the national
programs listed in para 4.3. Annex IV.4 provides the general criteria for
subproject preparation, appraisal and approval.
4.11     In addition to the above general criteria, the Intermediary would use
specific subproject appraisal criteria for five of the seven national programs
(Annex IV.5). The two exceptions are curriculum development and vocational
training. The curriculum development program (with a relatively modest total
estimated cost of US$160,000) is already well defined and falls under the
exclusive legal authority of the National Board of Education. The
Intermediary would help identify experts to review math and science curricula;
the Board of Education would identify expert reviewers for the remaining
subjects, referring to criteria in Annex IV.5 for guidance. In the case of
the vocational training national program, the Bank has already appraised the
portion of the program covering the new equipment and facilities expansion
needs of two existing facilities constructed under previous Bank projects.
The scope of the remaining portion, for building and equipping new centers,
would be determined by the Government and Bank (by July 1990), following
completion of a vocational training demand survey (which would also define the
program-specific subproject appraisal criteria and fuud allocation guidelines
to be applied by the Intermediary to vocational training subproject
proposals). The Intermediary's supervisory function would include ensuring
that the curriculum program is effectively coordinated with the other national
programs. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will
select and implement subprojects in accordance with guidelines, criteria and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para 6.2 (d)).



FLOW CHART FOR GENERATING AND PROCESSING SUBPROJECTS
No~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r Yeses
yYes                                          \/              Com                               No~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pwie
AScrww                                           Scmn                                   by su_ mj c
bApp   , ;.  .  j           *                    J         t  _  Zed                      -\A/     >~~~~~~=1,  N
No            Ys.                                  Yes                                        y e
I Ism i n   |Yess                                      MOP    I        /n            I    IPC      I             IIPSpoj 
im_etd           . Appowr,    g 0\Ns              dd/ \ Needs d          /Subme                           bD IPC
.TU IntefloBiWy TOChflICOI U~i                      e        the Ban In years 2,3 and WB Rs.                 & 'a
END                                                                               andC onS    .........A
A BBREV I AT I ON S
IPC, - btewla Paoly Counc   I         I '                  Appiss to al Subprct
ITU - In_melyTechnbal Uni                                        b  t   nfi>yntdhe gaUbEL nYomt 2.3 Sand 4
Ws -WWoan                       \/u    point
ElaV44729



- 35 -
(b) Guidelines for the Allocation of Funds
4.12     Eligibility criteria and national programs.  The institutions
eligible for receipt of loan proceeds for the national programs or for the
subprojects would be the relevant departments of the beneficiary institutions
identified in para 4.3. It is expected that overall allocations, including
contingencies, would not exceed (in US$ million): 0.2 for curriculum
development; 9.8 for textbook development; 42.6 for teacher and staff
training; 11.0 for educational technology; 175.8 for educational facility
improvement; 9.6 for vocational training; 2.6 for educational research and
development; and 1.0 for project management (the Intermediary). The total
allocation for national programs and program management would not exceed
US$252.5 million.
4.13     Concentration of funds.  Within the above limits for national
programs, it is expected that there will be 34 subprojects in total,
identified below for each national program:
Textbook Development                          8
Textbook Publishing Unit               (1)
Textbook Publishing                    (6)
Textbook Distribution                  (1)
Teacher Training                             17
Pre-service Training                   (3)
Certification Training                 (4)
In-Service Training                    (10)
Educational Technology                        2
Audio-Visual Aids                      (1)
Learning Resource Centers              (1)
Educational Facility Improvement              4
(Annual investment programs
1989-92)
Education Research and Development            3
NCERD                                  (2)
MOE Gen. Directorate of Planning       (1)
2.   Subproject Inplementation
(a) Implementation Responsibilities
4.14     School construction.  The largest volume of subprojects in terms of
cost (US$175.8 million) falls under the responsibility of MOE's Genera.
Directorate for Projects and School Buildings (GDPSB), which would manage the
construction of 180 new schools during Phase I (90 of which would be completed
and equipped by December 1992). GDPSB would also oversee the construction of
specialized facilities in about 180 existing schools and warehouses for
textbooks. GDPSB currently carries out all MOE school construction programs.
It has three directorates: (a) the Directorate of Engineering Affairs,
responsible for studies, educational facility plar.ning and design, engineering
and quantity surveying; (b) the Directorate of Projects, in charge of



- 36 -
accounting, procurement and technical assistance; and (c) the Directorate of
School Building Services, with responsibility for land acquisition, leasing
and renting of school facilities, and maintenance. GDPSB has already
demonstrated the cost efficiency of its operations, its capacity to deliver
ahead of schedule, and its adherence to high performance standards in past
Bank-financed and other projects. Its capacity to work within Bank guidelines
has also improved significantly during the implementation of the last three
Bank-financed education projects, which has given it experience in dealing
with ICB and LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.15     Architectural design and sites.  Private architectural/engineering
firms contracted by GDPSB are responsible for architectural and engineering
designs and for preparation of bid documents and site supervision in close
consultation with GDPSB architects and engineers. GDPSB has developed (under
Education VII) accommodation standards and prototype floor plans for basic
education schools, which would be used for the design of Phase I schools.
Building design and construction standards are economical and appropriate to
the curricula, teaching program and methodology planned. Standard floor plans
are flexible enough to permit adaptation to different site and climatic
conditions. About 75% of the school sites under Phase I have been selected
and are now being acquired and registered. Selection of the remaining sites
is well underway and is expected to be completed by September 1989, the
planned date of loan effectiveness.
4.16     Maintenance.  GDPSB has initiated a maintenance study under Education
VII. The resulting new maintenance program, which would include setting up a
"maintenance inventory" system in GDPSB to improve maintenance planning and
budgeting, is expected to become fully operational during Phase I. The
incremental recurrent costs of buil4ing and equipment maintenance implied by
the ten-year reform program are re:atively low because of the low maintenance
required by new buildings; the figures also reflect the fact that all
buildins-a will be under contractor warranty for the first three years of use.
The new maintenance figures are also in line with the building maintenance
expenditures incurred by MOE in the last six years. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it will ensure the provision of sufficient
annual budgetary allocations for acceptable maintenance of school buildings
and equipment provided under the reform program (para 6.2(e)).
4.17     Other national programs.  As noted in para 4.3, existing agencies in
each beneficiary institution would be responsible for implementing assigned
subprojects. Most subprojects would be the responsibility of MOE, where an
implementation structure with Bank project experience already exists.
Likewise, MOHE has the implementation capacity to handle its share of the
teacher certification program. The three main universities would cooperate
with MOHE in the certification program; they would also implement subprojects
for pre-service teacher training--for which they have adequate administrative
experience and capacity. HCST would provide administrative support for NCERD
during its formative phase; it has sufficient capacity for this purpose.
(b) Implementation Schedule
4.18     As already noted, the reform program is planned to be completed in
three phases over the 1989-98 decade. Phase I would be implemented over four
years (1989-92), with the Completion Date falling on December 31, 1992. To
allow sufficient time for submission of final withdrawal applications, the



- 37 -
Closing Date would be June 30, 1994. The ten-year implementation period for
all three phases provides flexibility in the event of unforeseen delays. The
Government has already adopted the majority of the necessary policy and
institutional development measures: (i) it has enacted an Education Law which
specifies the new structure of basic and secondary education and teacher
certification requirements; (ii) taken the decision to phase out two-year
teacher training programs at community colleges by the end of the 1992193
school year and to initiate four-ye r training at universities; (iii) started
implementation of the teacher certification program; (iv) established the
Intermediary; (v) started drafting the by-laws for the NCERD; and (vi)
established and fully staffed the Textbook Publishing Unit. Curriculum panels
have been actively working since March 1988; the math curriculum for basic
education has already been approved by the Board of Education and four other
basic education subject curricula are near completion. It is expected that by
September 1989, the planned date of loan effectiveness, 7 of the 34
subprojects in Phase I will have been appraised and submitted for Bank review.
4.19     Technical assistance and staff development plans.  'ihe
state-of-the-art nature of many of the program's components and the core
objective of institutional strengthening during Phase I make it essential that
the Intermediary and the executing agencies be provided with the technical
expertise necessary to ensure successful completion of their tasks. The SIL
therefore includes a substantial amount of technical assistance (about 30
manyears of specialist services and 107 manyears of in-country training and
overseas fellowships) in support of all the programs except school
construction. Total Phase I outlays for TA are estimated at US$6.3 million of
which the Bank would finance US$4.9 millior. and ODA US$1.4 million. The
textbook development, curriculum development and pre-service teacher training
programs would be the largest beneficiaries of TA (program-by-program
descriptions are provided in Chapter III and Annexes IV.6 and IV.7). To
simplify management, the Government is planning to enter into sole source
contractual arrangements for Bank-financed TA programs (valued at US$1.6
million) to expand teacher training capacity at the Universities of Jordan,
Yarmouk and Mutah. To monitor the ODA-financed TA program, prepare the
fellowship programs and assist with recruitment of specialists, a project
coordinator will be assigned to MOE for a period of two years. He/she will
also serve as a science education specialist. During negotiations, Government
assurances were given that: (i) Bank-financed specialist services and overseas
fellowships will be selected/awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines and
mutually agreed criteria and terms of reference (paras 4.38(b) and 6.2(f));
and (ii) the technical assistance program will be implemented in a timely
manner; grants or other funds will only be substituted for Bank-supported TA
if non-Bank financing is readily available and causes no delay in
implementation timetables (para 6.2(g)).
(c) Supervision
4.20     The Intermediary's Technical Unit would be responsible for
supervising the effective implementation of national programs and
subprojects. It would collect and compile up-to-date implementation data to
serve as the basis for monthly reports to the Policy Council and semi-annual
progress repurLi to be submitted to the Policy Couacil and the Bank. These
reports would focus on objectives, attainment of targets, adherence to
timetables, financial management, internal coordination, general management,
identification of implementation problems, and recommendations and work plans
for the next implementation period. The Bank and the Intermediary would hold



- 38 -
annual reviews which would cover the progress of project implementation,
discussions of policies affecting the sector, and the progress of
institutional reforms. These reviews would also make random checks on
national programs and subprojects to ensure that they conform with agreed
criteria, and would compare actual achievements with targets and make
adjustments needed to facilitate implementation. The Bank would also review
in detail the implementation of a selected number of subprojects (amounting to
about 252 of subprojects during Phase I). During negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that it will furnish the Bank for its approval: (i) appraisal
reports for all subprojects during the one-year period following loan
effectiveness; and (ii) subsequent to this period, appraisal reports for
subprojects selected by the Bank for review; in all cases, reports will be
submitted to the Bank at least one month prior to the scheduled start of
implementation (para 6.2(h)). The Government also gave assurances that: (i)
joint annual implementation review meetings will be held in June of each year,
to discuss progress and agree or subsequent programs (para 6.2(i)); and (ii)
an in-depth mid-term review of the Government's progress towards Phase I
targets will be held with the Bank in January 1991; within six months of the
lo&n Closing Date, a completion report will be prepared by the Intermediary
and submitted to the Bank (para 6.2 (j)).
C. Proraum Costs and Financing
4.21     Ten-year reform program.  The baseline cost of the Government's
ten-year investment program to implement the reform is estimated at JD359.6
million (US$666.0 million equivalent). The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$297.5 million equivalent, representing 45% of baseline costs.
The total cost, including contingencies, is estimated at US$948.4 million
equivalent (Table IV.1 provides the details).
TABLE IV. 1
4ASHEITE KINMDON OF JMDAN
MUlMI R.ESTU"RVEs DEVELOP... SECTOR  I-O ,    nAN -  O. C YEAR W V,Of9 p,N,
PROJECT COST SUIARY
Loa31 FVoeign Thtul L=31 F:Zci:n %t8l S".::!CMnge  CVSts
^., I'IUMI rUL'IUM D-l !'         0.0   0.1  0.1  f.0   A. 1          ' 1
P. TEM3MOS                        6.0   4,9  0.9  *i.0 9o ,1 .        45     s
9, T!euER TRAhNINNS              18.1   6.7 44,12.4 ?2.9             is    12
D. 'O-Mf>L . ........ ,CATM-K TE.    y  ,C   Q825 51.A   *+s <<.e esq's 56    14
E. EDN!CAT!ONAL ACFMI!TY N,n.0,E? OT  127.6  116.8 244,4 2!6.2  21.3 452.S  48  !
'. M     CMT.!L T A!IN4          1.,9  2.6  4.4  3.4   4.2  2.        58
C. ED1JtTAtNAL !LEPEH   !EV JCOPNENT    2.4   0.6  3.0  4.5   1.1  5.c,   1g
H. F'3NOu4 MMA:SMET               0.6   0.5  1.'  1.2   O.9  2.1'     42 
t-'1 SAIn s,E COSTS               19".0  !60.6 359.6  1S. 59 6'.       45   .08
. i             c      a. '? U.0 32.0   ' . I.  48 s
7AS.t..o  ? 44.9                           !3 1
T^t:1 sPPntce' r2_                290.9  22, 5    I 53.7  40.? ?4.1 4   !    M"



- 39 -
For the ten-year reform program, baseline investment costs represent US$636.8
million and baseline recurrent costs US$29.2 million. Table IV.2 provides the
details.
XABLE IV.2
u.MAnE'TE K!NGD0n 0F ORMDAN
HIMA4 RESOUJRCES DEYELD.PHENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN - 10 YEAR REC.   PRM-Rnr.
Sa,IY AMMOLNTS.COST SUMM.YRY
F cre^.  ase
Lo31c  F-weing  T:tal   L.cal  Fo:1ni Total3  E.:a.e    '.Sts
'. 2.W'EST.''T COSTS
A. MIL U0RY1                            105.1    85.5   90.6  194.6   15C8.7  252.9             1 I!5
. D'!'P!!!i'                      5t    ~.854,C   s, 59.         100.9  110.?          -7
C. FuRNU!Pnr                            14.6    11 .9   26.5    ".0    22.1   49.1                       7
^. M02UT!N                             3.7     4.3    8.0      6.9      7.9   I4.9          r          t
ch  J,,: ihrLJ2gtt*                      31.6        -   31.6    58.         _   co,                      ,o9
-. M._!!12CAL ASSISTANCE
SPECMALIST SERTJICES                   0.2     2.0    2.2      0.4      3.9    I.:
TIMItINS AND FE _'VSHIPS               0.1      0.2    0.3      0.3     0.3    0.6                     0
SWLAMES AND' PRMFESS!NA!L FEES         2.1        -    2.1     4.0        -    4.0           -
ETUD!ES                                 .0     0.3    0.       0.0      0.5    0.6          01         
S*-T'ta1 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            2.5      2.5    5.0      4.6     4.7    9.3          '1
S. TEACERV TRAININe                      X.4         -   MM2,4    41.4       -   41.4            -        6
Tota'l IUESTMENT COSTS                     125.2   158.?  343.9   342.9   293.9  636.8             1'       96
Ptrsi^'1 Vonti   oMies                   17.3    15.7   33.0    32.0    29.2   61.1            48         9
Ptice C=titmecies                        68.4    44.2  112.6   126.6    81.9  209.5    "        9        31
T'^al !MCLUDINS COTIMMENCIES              2_70.8   218.7  489.5   501.4   405.0  906.4            45      136
I!.     0RENT,  COSTS
!'NCENENTtAL STAFF SLARIES             '?.9        -    7.9    33.1        -   33.1           -         e
D. OPERATION AN  !AINTENANCE            -4.0      1.9   -2.1    -7.4      3.6   -3.9         -2        -1
Total RECURRUT COSTS                        13.9      1.9   15.8    25.7      3.6   29.2           '2        4
Pti.: Cantingen4 ies                      6.2      0.6    6.9    11.6      1.2   12.8                     '
Total INCLUDING 6ONTIMENCIE       S         20.1      2.6   22.7    37.2      4.9   42.0    "      1         6
Total 9A'. I   COSTS                        199.0   160.6  359.6   3e6.5   297.5  666.0            s45      10
h,ssical Contingencies                    17.3    15.7   33.0    32.0    29.2   61.1             48        9
et C--tii.trieties                       74.6    44.9  119.5   138.2    83.1  221.2   3                 33
Tt".! ,Dr-  MSTS                            2q90.    221.2  512.1   538.7   409.7  948.4            13      142
==      5     -  ===55=       = ---X ====55=  ===5=5



- 40 -
4.22       Summary of Phase I costs.   Phase I base&ine costs, estimated at JD
108.8 million (US$201.6 million equivalent), represent 30Z of baseline
ten-year reform program costs; the foreign ixchange component (US$85.1
million) amounts to 42% of total Phase I baseline costs. With the addition of
physical and price contingencies, Phase I program costs total US$252.5 million
equivalent, with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$104.1 million,
or 41% of the total cost (Table IV.3).
TAMLE IV.3
MASHEMITE XIN6tOM "F .2R4AN
.U.  RFES0UP.CER nrt:rIX r.CNT SEC.'T  INIESTMEM !L.'AN - PUASE I (19-199r
PRUJE'T MST SUMMIARY
"Jl M1l1' cn)      UJS$ Miil-:=1            I Total
--- ---- - ----- -- ----- - --.^wf 
..eg   Base
^.al 'F. ?.431 T ....1'orei!m Tcta2l E::.-n,   Costs
4. CIURR.RjrIMU DEVELOPMENT           0,0    3.1  0.1   3,0   0.1  0.1         91       0
TX !Tpn                               2.0    2.2  4.2  '.8    4.0  ?7.         5        4
T.  A *.R I-AININS                  117 .5123   1.            20 .
^r~u                                                        1 AveYtS af.l'N. 11.8  S.S  1-,  11.,0 t7,3 1. 9  17
:s.nUCATIn , 'EC"H^'.C^             _0 v,   ,v '. .io,                        c 
2.EUATOA V Ex   -C.                .0    2.   4.9   3.7    5.2  2,9         59       4
E. EUJCATIONAL FACIIT'Y "IM EM-4T    44.4   31.2 ?5.'  ?2.2   57.7 140,0       41      69
- VOCATIONAL T!RA'.'                  1.8    2.5  4.3   .3    4*6  '.         59       4
9-. EDOCtvATION P_.S:rff ANO t'J'.'LOP6N.T  0.6   0,5  1.2   t.2    1*0  2.2  46      1
H. P..PA4 MNANAGEMEMT                 0.3    0.2  0.4   0.5   0.3 0.8           42      0
2fos INE COv9I"_^vTS             62.9   45g.9 i08.8 116vC  85,1 2'1.6       42    100
s^- -^   fl^^nt2nncies               4.3   4.5  .2   2.0    8.  16.          51 
:i*^        *o:tsnu^^^:^s  1 ,9    5,0 :w.?  '7.9   10.7  34.71  17
r-.:tzl *On-.EC~- !ITC                 ?'5 I    'zS.2   :19.4  '^9'4.1 -  M       l i    ^ w
4.23       Table IV.4 provides a breakdown of investment and recurrent costs of
Phase I operations. Baseline investment costs total US$199.6 million
equivalent, and baseline recurrent costs total US$2.0 million equivalent. The
US$252.5 mil'lion equivalent total Phase I program cost, including
contingencies, is made up of investment costs of US$250.2 million equivalent
and recurrent costs of US$2.3 million equivalent.



- 41 -
TAM  IV.4
-HA SHEMI,TEc ,tt|,eM,a ' .!r !n nA:
.A..,... . 1.TO C_T ':!. ..N
~~ ~~~   ~~ PIfmlO;- V:0 tU?ha-l VA7                                      I
__ _   -       _      .    * M'4^^.....      . am
ZF   i     3~
*                                             ::222===  ==== ==  =z
1,4IVESTMES'4T "COSTE
A. CIVIL UORKS                         33.9    27.5   61.4    62.7    511.0  113.7          45        56
D. E(OP' PLNT                           1.2    12.3   13.5      2.2    22.9   250           91        12
C a0IT'LJE                              3.0     2*5    5.5      5.6     4*6   10.1          45         5
Do PRODUCTION                           1.3     1*5    2.8      2.4     2.7    5.1          53         3
E. LAND ACGUISITION                    15.1       -   15.1    29.0        -   29.0           -        14
F. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
SPECIALIST SERYIES                   0.2     1.6    1.7      0.3     2.9    3.2          91         2
TRAININS AN  FEL.ONSH!Ps             0.1     0*4    0.5      0.1     0.8    1.0          86         0
SALARIES AND PROFESSIONAL FEES       0.6       -    0.6      1.2       -    1.2           -         1
SU.1DIES                             0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    0.0          91         0
SW-Tctal TEHNICAL ASSISTANCE            0.9     2.0    2.9      1.6     3.7    5.4          70         3
8. TEADC     TRAINING                   6.6       -    6.6    12.3        -   12.3           -         6
Total INVESTENT CSTS                      62.0    45.8  107.8   114.8    84.8  199.6           42        99
S.s."e31 "otignuencies                  4.3     4.5    8.8      8.0     8.3   16,3          51         8
Pr    Coc Cntrde nies                  12    .?  .8   18,5    23.6    10.7   34.3           31        17
Tot^al NT_'8WINS CONTINEIES               79.0    56*1  135.1   146,4   103.8  2'50.2          41       124
A. !^!CRE!MENTAL'  TAFF SAUIRIES       1.4      _      1.4     2.7       -    2.7           -         1
9. UPERATION AND M.AINTENANCEl        -0.5     0.1   -0.4    -1.0      0.3   -0.7         -37        -0
Total r-^Cf'rRHT COSTS                     0.9     0.1    1.1      1.7     0.3    2.0          13         1
P?i:o Crntineancies                    0.2     0.0    0.2      0.3     0.0    0.4                    0
Total !!CLL', DING COONTINEIEN             1.1     0*2    1.3      2.0     0.3    2.3          12         1
Total PIAM!ME COSTS                        62,9    45.9  108*8   116.1    85.1 2201.6           42       100
%sic         a       ' Z=tingecies       4.3     4.5    O,8      8*0     9*3   16.3          51         8
vricv C ortirfnleies                    12.9     5.9   18.7    23.9    10.7   34.            i1        17
.Tet  ......E.  ..STS                       0.1    56.2  136.3   148.4   104.1  252.5           41       125
=   __2 __22-___ 2 2  2          = =        =S2



- 42 -
4.24     Basis of cost estimates.  Aaseline costs for the ten-year program
refer to 1988 last quarter prices. Civil works costs are derived from awarded
contracts and cost analyses for comparable facilities under ongoing
Bank-financed education projects. Equipment and furniture costs are based on
MOE's standard lists, which are adequate and economical. The total cost of
construction, site development, architects' fees, equipment and furniture
averages JD 440 (US$815 equivalent) per student for both basic education and
secondary schools. The cost of land is not included in the above unit cost,
but it is calculated as a separate category in the cost tables. Technical
assistance (TA) cost estimates are based on recent experience in Jordan and
comparable TA in Education VII. The man-month cost of specialists includes
salaries, travel, housing, overhead, and recruitment costs. Items directly
imported for the Phase I program are exempt from import duties and taxes, but
locally procured goods, supplies and materials are estimated to include about
US$23.1 million in duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component of
US$104.1 million (excluding taxes and duties) has been computed on the basis
of 421 for civil works; 901 for equipment; 42% for furniture; 80S for raw
materials; and 90% for TA.
4.25     Contingency allowances.  An average of 8% of base costs (US$16.3
million) for physical contingencies has been applied to Phase I costs.  Price
contingencies are based on the implementation schedule and the following
expected annual price increases, which average 17% of base costs (US$34.7
million).
1989          1990         1991-98
Local          12.01          5.0%          4.1%
Foreign         6.3%          1.51          4.1%
4.26     Financing plan.   The financing plan (Table IV.5) for Phase I calls
for US$147.4 million (58%) in donor financing and US$105.1 million (421) in
Government financing of which US$23.1 million equivalent represents taxes and
duties. The proposed Bank loan of US$73.0 million would finance 29% of Phase
I total costs and 491 of foreign exchange requirements. Cofinancing in the
amount of US$1.4 million equivalent would be provided by the UK ODA. The
Japanese Government is considering cofinancing in an equivalent amount to the
Bank loan, i.e., US$73.0 million (para 1.1). Although no final response has
been received, Japan is expected to provide this amount. An observer from the
Japan OECF participated in the Bank's appraisal mission and we expect the OECF
appraisal to take place shortly. The signing of the loan agreements between
the cofinanciers (ODA and OECF) and the Borrower is a condition of
effectiveness of the Bank's loan agreement (para 6.3). Should the amount of
the OECF loan be less than the amount applied for, the school construction
under the program will be adjusted in light of the financing available (para
6.2(k)).



- 43 -
TABLE IV.5: Financing Plan *
(US$ million)
Category of Expenditures
IBRD    ODA     OECF          GOVT.    TOTAL
Civil Works                         59.6    -0-      31.0        43.0    133.6
Land Acquisition                     -0-    -0-       -0-        32.7      32.7
Equipment, Furniture                 -0-    -0-     36.3          4.2      40.5
and Library Books
Production (Textbooks)               3.2    -0-       -0-         3.0       6.2
Technical Assistance                 4.7    1.3       -0-         -0-       6.0
Teacher Training                     -0-    -0-       -0-        14.8      14.8
O&M and Incremental Salaries         -0-    -0-       -0-         2.3       2.3
Unallocated                          5.5    0.1       5.7         4.9      16.3
TOTAL        73.0    1.4      73.0        105.1    252.5
* Totals do not add up due to rounding.
4.27    Retroactive financing.  Retroactive financing of up to US$3.0 million
(US$2.5 million for civil works and US$500,000 for TA, representing 4% of the
proposed Bank loan) will be made available to the Government to cover
expenditures for: project preparation; fellowships for Ph.D. candidates to
teach at new colleges of education; specialist services; and payments to civil
works contractors and architectural fees incurred between January 1, 1989 and
the date of loan effectiveness (tentatively scheduled for September 1989).
The Government has agreed that only those civil works contracts awarded Lnder
ICB or LCB procedu.es that comply with the Bank's procurement guidelines would
be eligible for retroactive financing. During negotiations, the Government
gave assurances that all claims for retroactive financing of eligible
expenditures incurred between January 1, 1989 and the date of loan
effectiveness, not co exceed US$3.0 million, will be made in accordance with
Bank guidelines (para 6.2(1)).
4.28    Recurrent cost implications.  The recurrent costs of the reform
program comprise: (a) incremental salaries (of teachers to be upgraded,
additional laboratory assistants, audio-visual technicians and librarians, and
new staff for the Textbook Publishing Unit); and (b) incremental operations
and maintenance (OEM) costs of new buildings axd equipment. For the full
ten-year program, estimated incremental recurrent costs, net of contingencies,
are as follows: (a) salaries, US$33.1 million; (b) O&M, US$-3.9 million (the
negative figure for O&M reflects savings in rents now paia for facilities that
will be replaced by purpose-built schools, together with the fact that new
schools would be under builders' warranties during their early years of
operation). Total baseline net recurrent costs over ten years are estimated
at US$29.2 million. On an annualized average basis, incremental salaries
represent less than 2% of MOE's personnel expenditures (which were



- 44 -
approximately US$183 million equivalent in 1987). On the same average basis,
net total recurrent costs represent 1.4 percent of MOE's total 1987 recurrent
budget (about US$210 million). For Phase I only, comparative figures (net of
contingencies) are: recurrent salary costs, US$2.7 million; and O&M costs,
US$-0.7 million, giving a four-year net total of US$2.0 million. On an
annualized basis, both salary and total recurrent costs in Phase I represent
less than half-of-one percent of the relevant 1987 expenditures by MOE.
D. Progam Affordability
4.29    In view of Jordan's constrained budgetary position, it is important to
evaluate the affordability of the reform over its full ten-year life span.
The estimated capital and recurrent expenditures with and without the reform
covering the ten-year reform period are presented in Table IV.6. Expenditures
without the reform are based on Government plans for handling an estimated 4%
annual growth of new enrollments over the 1989-98 period. Table IV.6 also
presents three series of the ratio of total education expenditures to GDP with
and without the reform from 1989 to 1998. The three series are generated
under optimistic, moderately optimistic, and pessimistic sets of assumptions
about the rate of growth in GDP over the 1989-98 period.
4.30    The program requires an average of an additional 1% of GDF for
education during the 1990: under all three scenarios. During the peak
expenditure years under the pessimistic scenario, the reform program requires
an additional 1.6X-1.8X of GDP. With the reform, the absolute share of
education expenditures in GDP could rise from about 4.5% in 1988 to over 71.
Although there is a large variance in the annual estimates, government
spending for basic and secondary education, with the reform, 'ould have to
grow at an annual average rate of over 6% over the decade. The affordability
of these financing requirements is critically dependent on two factors: the
expansion of external assistance flows, and implementation of the cost
recovery and cost saving measures mentioned in para 3.5.
4.31    The present operation is itself an example of the Government's efforts
to expand external financing for education. In addition to assistance from
traditional external supporters of human resource development in Jordan, the
SIL is expected to attract substantial support from a new source, Japan's OECF
(para 4.26). The Government is also in the process of identifying other
potential donors for Phase I and later phases.
4.32    The Government has also already taken budgetary decisions designed to
help finance education reform. The 1989 budget shifts spending away from
physical infrastructure to make room for education expenditures (para 2.3).
The Government is also planning taxation changes that will increase general
revenues. These measures are being considered in the wider context of the
Government's adjustment effort, for which it has made a separate request to
the Bank for an industry and trade adjustment loan. Finally, it was agreed at
negotiations that the Government will conduct a study of further cost savings
and cost recovery options in the education sector, and will implement agreed
findings of the study, starting in March 1990 (para 3.5 and 6.2(b)).
4.33    Fallback strategies.  Even if Government funding falters, the core of
the program could be maintained by (a) scaling down school building and
retaining double-shifting in purpose built schools; and/or (b) spreading



- 45 -
implementation over a longer period. The Government has already agreed to use
new purpose-built schools in double-shifts whenever feasible during Phase Is
although it is still committed to the long-term goal of operating single-shift
purpose-built schools.
4.34    A longer implementation period would also reduce annual resource costs
without eliminating the "software" expenditures of the reform.  The size of
the shortfall in domestic financing capacity would determine the extent of the
downscaling required and hence the number of years by which the implementation
period would need to be extended.
CAPITAL LM  8CURAET EXAZuU          itN A. D9UlIT THE -fu hflfiRAS L  PECEALE OP
(O mllion 81  19a 8 priCeg)
lsag    119Q0   11921   1  197  X     q7     19Q4                 19 1945A_ |   Q        q7      c8|TUT
I. Capital fxpenodture
Assoiated with the Reform (a)                  3.0     15.3     21.8     23.9      is.6     2S.9     23.0      13.7     12.6      5.4      1".4
2. Recurrent Expenditure Associated with
fefoer tb)                                   -0.2       4.1      4.8      4.7      5.5       6.1      6.0      6.1       7.1      t.3      S1.S
S. total xpqnditure AssoCiate  With             2.8      19.4     26.6     28.6      31.5     30.0     29.0      19.8     19.7    12.7      219.9
the Refore
4. Capital Expenditure without the
Reform (tC                                     1.2      1.6     14.9     15.4      16.1     16.7     17.4      18.1     18.8     19.5      139.7
S. Recurrent ExPeoditure without the
Rufone Id)                                   73.1      76.0     79.1     82.3     85.5    89.0       92.5S    96.2    100.1    104.1      877.9
6. Total Expenoiture without the Reform         74.3      77.6     94.0     97.7    101.6   105.7      109.9    114.3    118.9   123.6    1017.6
7. Grand Total with Reform                      77.1      97.0    120.6    126.3    132.9   135.7      138.9    134.1    138.6    136.3    1237.5
Se nario 1: GOP (so millions. 19881 (a)       1724.5   1793.5   1901.1   201S.2  2136.1  2264.2   24e0.1   2544.1  2696.7  2858.5
Percent Total Expenoiture w/o Osform/GP         4.3       4.3      4.9      4.8       4.8     4.7       4.6       4.S      4.4      4.3
Perent total txpenditure with Refoer/GOP        4.5       5.4      6.3      6.3      6.2      6.0       5.8       S.3      5.l      4.8
Se nario St: GOP (JO millions. 19U8) (f)    1724.5   1776.3  1847.3   192t.2   1998.1  2877.9    2161.1   2247.5   2337.4  2430.9
Percent Total Expenditure W/o Refus/GOP         4.3      4.4      5.1      5.1       5.1     5.1       5.1      5.1       5.1      5.1
ftrcent total Expenditure with ReforM/P         4.1       5.5      6.5      6.6       6.7     6.5       6.4      6.0       5.9      5.6
Scenario tl: GOP (JO millions. 1988) (a)   1665.5   166S.5   1698.8   1732.8   1767.4  102.8   1838.8  1075.6  1913.1   1951.4
Percent Total Expenditure w/o Reform/GOP        4.5       4.7      5.5      S.6       5.7      5.9      6.0      6.1       6.2      6.3
Percent Total Expenditure with Reform/GP        4.6       5.8      7.1      7.3       7.5      7.5      7.6       7.1      7.2      7.0
OTIES:
(a)  Includes all expenditures on construction. furniture. equipent. and land acaulsitlon for schools. textbook distribution centers and
teacher tratning facilities.
(b) To be celarable with Govermwent figures. row 2 Includes as  recurrent' expenditures all non-Capital Investment program costs (for e.g..
textbook development) as well as recurrent Costs for increrntal salaries and UN.
IC) Tee are Governnnt estimates of the capital expenditures needed to acceedate the natural growth of the student Population.
(d) These figures are projections based on a total current expenditure for 1987 of JO 70.31 million and an annual rate of growtn of 4 percent.
lel Projections for GOP are at 1988 prices. GOP is ass,wd to grow at 2.5% in 1988: 0.5 in 1989; 48 in 1990; and 6S for 1991-1998.
(fI  Projecttons for GOP are at 1988 prices.  GOP is assumd to grow at 2.55 in 1988; 0.5  in 1989: 38 in 1990: and 4% for 1991-1998.
(9) Projections for GOP are at 1988 prices. GOP is assumed to grow at 1I in 1988: decrease 1.58 in 1989: experience 0e in 19O; and grow at 28
for 1991-1998.



- 46 -
4.35    During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will
maintain its budgetary Support for the reform program and that, in the event
that budgetary constraints compel reduction of this commitment, it will extend
the implementation period of the school construction program to cover the
amount of the shortfall (para. 6.2(k)).
E. Procurement
4.36    Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table IV.7 below.
TABLE IV.7: Procurement Arrangements
Project Element                         Procurement Method                 Total
ICB     LCB      Other    N.A      Cost
------(US$ million)----- ---
Civil works: schools, special         26.0     73.5      45.5*     -      145.0
facilities, textbook               (16.9)   (47.8)                      (64.7)
distribution centers and
teacher training facilities
Land acquisition                                 -         -     32.7      32.7
Equipment, furniture and library        -        -       44.0*     -       44.0
books
Technical a.sistance: specialists'    -          -        6.3      -        6.3
services, local and overseas                           (4.9)             (4.9)
training
Textbook production: printing           -       5.8       0.9      -        6.7
and authorship                               (3.4)                       (3.4)
Teacher training                                 -         -     15.5      15.5
O&M and incremental salaries            -        -         -      2.3       2.3
TOTAL         26.0    79.3      96.7    50.5    252.5
(16.9)  (51.2)    (4.9)    (-)    (73.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
* Subject to cofinanciers' procurement procedures.
4.37     Procurement methods for civil works are as follows:
(a) Civil works contracts for the expansion of the teacher training
facilities of the Universities of Jordan and Yarmouk, valued at a total of
US$15.2 million, plus a number of school construction contracts in Amman,
Irbid and Zarka, which would be grouped in about six bid packages of four
schools each, valued at a total of about US$24.0 million, are likely to be
attractive to overseas firms. Of the above contracts, amounting to US$39.2
million, US$26.0 million are estimated to be awarded under Government/Bank
financing and through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in



- 47 -
accordance with Bank guidelines and will be subject to prior review by the
Bank. The remaining contracts, estimated at US$13.2 million, are expected to
be financed by the OECF and awarded through procedures acceptable to OECF.
(b) Other civil works contracts, amounting to a total of US$105.8
million and consisting of new construction or expansion of schoolbuildings and
the expansion of teacher training facilities of the University of Mutah, are
not likely to attract foreign bidders, as experience in the last four
Bank-financed educatioi operations and one health project have shown. With
respect to schools, this is owing to the dispersed locations and small size of
contracts (valued at, US$1.0 million each and grouped, to the extent possible,
in packages of two s'chools each); with respect to the expansion of the
facilities for Mutah University, estimated at US$1.5 million, this reflects
the small contract size. The Jordanian construction industry is well
developed and can carry out the civil works components effectively. Of the
above civil works contracts, those valued below US$4.0 million up to an
aggregate amount of US$73.5 million, would be financed under Government/Bank
financing and would be awarded through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures, acceptable to the Bank. The remaining contracts (US$32.3 million)
are expected to be financed by the OECF and awarded through procedures
acceptable to OECF. The Bank will carry out a prior review of sample bidding
documents for civil works contracts to be awarded under LCB in order to
ascertain their conformity with Bank guidelines. Procurement documentation
and contract award recommendations for Bank-financed civil works procured
under LCB will be maintained by the Intermediary and be available for review
by Bank supervision missions. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that LCB procedures to be used in the SIL will conform to Bank
guidelines (para 6.2(m)).
4.38     Procurement methods for goods and services are as follows:
(a) Equipment, furniture and library books, valued at US$44.0 million
are expected to be financed by the OECF (US$39.4 million) and the Government
!         (US$4.6 million).  The procurement of these items would be carried out in
accordance with procedures acceptable to OECF.
(b) Technical assistance, valued at U$6.3 million, would be financed
by ODA (US$1.4 million) and the Bank (US$4.9 million). Procurement of
ODA-financed TA would be carried out in accordance with ODA procedures. To
simplify management, the Government is planning to enter into sole source
contractual arrangements for Bank-financed TA programs for expansion of
teacher training capacity at the Universities of Jordan, Yarmouk and Mutah
(valued at US$1.6 million). During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that Bank-financed specialists and overseas training programs will
be selected/awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines and mutually agreed
criteria and terms of reference (paras 4.19 and 6.2(f)).
(c) Production of textbooks (valued at US$6.7 million), comprise
printing and authorship fees. Printing (valued at US$5.8 million) would be
contracted out under LCB, because individual print orders would be small and
scattered throughout the four-year implementation period, and also because the
books would be printed in Arabic. Textbook printing contracts valued at
US$500,000 or above will be subject to prior Bank review. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the LCB procedures to be
used in the SIL will conform with the Bank's guidelines (para 6.2(m)).



- 48 -
F. Disbursements
4.39     The proposed program would be implemented over a four-year period  and
proceeds of the Bank loan disbursed over five years. The loan Closing Date would
be June 30, 1994. The proposed disbursement period is judged feasible because of
the nature of the proposed operation (the Bank loan would be financing a
percentage share of the Government's four-year reform investment program) and on
the basis of the satisfactory performance of the borrower under previous Bank
loans.
TABLE IV.8: Disbursement Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year    Disbursements          Cumulative             % of Total
Disbursements
----------------(US$ million) ---------
1990
1                  6.0                  6.0                    8.2
2                  6.0                 12.0                    16.4
1991
1                  6.0                 18.0                   24.7
2                  6.5                 24.5                   33.6
1992
1                  6.5                 31.0                   42.5
2                  7.5                 38.5                    52.7
1993
1                  8.0                 46.5                   63.7
2                  8.5                 55.0                    75.3
1994
1                  9.0                 64.0                   87.7
2                  9.0                 73.0                   100.0
Closing Date: June 30, 1994
4.40     The Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of five years against 29S
of total program expenditures. Table IV.8 shows the estimated loan disbursements
by semester. Disbursements of loan proceeds would be made on the basis of:
(a)   65% of total civil works expenditures;
(b)   50% of total expenditures for textbook printing and related
items; and
(c)   100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of local expenditures for
in-cuLntry and overseas training and specialist services.
All disbursements for contracts above US$50,000 equivalent financed by the
Bank loan would be fully documented. Disbursements for contracts below
US$50,000 would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs).
Documentation of expenditures would be maintained by the Intermediary and
available for review by Bank supervision missions.



- 49 -
4.41     Special Account.  In order to facilitate timely withdrawal o,   '
proceeds of the Bank loan, the Government would open and maintain a Sp -ial
Account in US$ at the Central Bank of Jordan under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would make an initial deposit of US$6.0
million, enough to cover estimated expenditures for four months. The Bank
would replenish the account whenever one-third of the authorized amount had
been utilized, on the basis of standard documentation for reimbursable
expenditures.
4.42     Accounts and audits.  The Intermediary would keep separate accounts
for Bank-financed project expenditures in accordance with accounting
principles and practices acceptable to the Bank. These accounts and the
Special Account would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable
to the Bank, and copies of the audited statements would be forwarded to the
Bank within six months of the end of the Jordanian fiscal year. During
negotiations, the Government gave assurances that: (a) sector loan accounts,
including the Special Account, will be audited by auditors acceptable to the
Bank and in accordance with appropriate auditing principles; and (b) the Bank
will be provided within six months of the end of the fiscal year with (i)
certified copies of the project accounts, and (ii) an audit report of such
scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate
opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified statements of
expenditure (para 6.2(n)).
V. BENEFIM  AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1      With the advance of technology in the region and rapid shifts in
labor market needs and competition from labor-surplus countries, Jordan is
faced with the economic imperative of developing the technological capacity to
become a regional supplier of high value-added goods, while also reviving its
regional comparative advantage as a source of skilled manpower. Achievement
of these objectives depends on a major overhaul of the education system so
that it can produce labor market entrants who are intellectually and
technically equipped to respond to changing employment opportunities and
demands. From a macroeconomic perspective, the key benefit of the ten-year
education reform program would be the substantial upgrading of Jordan's human
capital base, which is also its prime source of GDP growth. From a sectoral
perspective, the reform is comprehensive, affecting all inputs to basic and
secondary education. Its policy framework is well linked to the macroeconomic
needs of the country. Some specific benefits of the reform are set out below.
5.2      Qualitative benefits.  The extension of basic (compulsory) education
to 10 years would strengthen the quality of general education and enable
secondary education to focus on more specialized employment preparation. In
particular, students who pursue vocational training would benefit from a
better grounding in basic skills. The acceleration of the transfer of
MOE-operated vocational training programs to the Vocational Training
Corporation would provide an appropriate response to market needs while using
the resources of the formal education system more efficiently. In terms of
quality improvement, the education system would start to move away from



- 50 -
rote learning and towards enhancing students' analytical and problem solving
abilities. By the end of Phase I, all basic and secondary education curricula
would have been revised to promote higher cognitive skills and practical
experimentation while enhancing individual abilities and interests. New
textbooks which complement and support curriculum reform would have been
provided to over 400,000 students representing over 65X of basic education
enrollments. Teachers' instructional effectiveness would have been enhanced
by: (a) the provision of certification training to raise the academic
qualifications of nearly 4,000 basic education teachers, representing over 162
of existing teachers, from a community college diploma to a BA equivalency;
(b) the provision of in-service training to about 50% of basic education
teachers to introduce them to the new curricula, textbooks and instructional
methods; and (c) preparatory work on a new structure for pre-service teacher
training (to be fully operational in Phase II). Improved teacher
effectiveness would be supported by principals and supervisors whose academic
qualifications would be upgraded through certification training programs.
Raising teacher qualification requirements from two-years' post secondary work
to a BA (and increasing salaries) is expected to attract and retain more
qualified candidates to the teaching profession and help reduce the current
shortage of male teachers. Finally, the provision of new purpose-built
schools would substantially enhance the schooling experience of over 52,000
students who are currently in rented facilities and create over 36,000 new
student places to accommodate about 251 of the expected natural enrollment
increase. The provision of labs and libraries in 90 new and about 180
existing schools would help promote student inquiry, self-learning and
experimentation. In equity terms, the replacement of rented facilities would
primarily benefit students in low-income urban neighborhoods where these
facilities are currently concentrated.
5.3      Institutional development.  The delegation of subproject appraisal
and supervision responsibility to the Government would enhance domestic
development planning and decision-making and would extend the application of
objective criteria to other investments in education. Furthermore, the
establishment of a multi-agency Intermediary Policy Council would help
coordinate development efforts for the sector and help put education policy
issues into a wider multi-sectoral and macroeconomic perspective. The
institutionalization of curriculum development and textbook publishing within
MOE would help avoid previous fragmented, ad hoc approaches and ensure
coherent, well-integrated future revisions. Finally, the establishment of the
National Center for Education Research and Development would institutionalize
policy-based research, planning and evaluation for the sector as a whole, as
well as creating a national capacity to monitor the realization of reform
objectives and sustain innovation.
5.4      Cost-efficiency.  Operating the new schools under a double-shift
system would enable the facilities to be used more intensively. Replacement
of rented facilities with a low student/teacher ratio (26:1) with larger
classroom space is expected to increase the ratio to 40:1. Construction of
appropriate textbook storage facilities and the training of staff in textbook
storage are expected to minimize damage to books, which currently produces
annual losses of US$350,000 (para 2.24), and reduce the cost of distribution
by increasing the size of shipments. It is expected that further efficiency
gains and increased levels of cost recovery will be realized upon
implementation of the recommendations of the education finance study (paras
3.5, 4.32 and 6.2(b)).



- 51 -
B. Risks
5.5      The operation has two potential risks.  The first concerns external
and domestic financing. Should OECF cofinancing not materialize in the full
amount or should domestic financial constraints reduce the amount of
counterpart funding available to the operation, the Government has agreed to
reduce total program costs by extending the implementation period of the
school construction program to cover the amount of the shortfall (paras 4.26,
4.35 and 6.2(k)). The second risk concerns the capacity to implement a
complex sector operation. The reform program imposes a significant management
burden on the Government. This risk is mitigated by several factors: (i) the
reform, including its policy framework, was initiated by the Government itself
following a two-year review process by a national task force, and preparation
of the proposed SIL was carried out by the Government; it is therefore fully
knowledgable about the objectives and implementation plan for the program;
(ii) the three-phase incremental approach provides a cushion for potential
implementation delays; (iii) the sector investment lending format, although
new to the country, offers flexibility and opportunities (at annual and
mid-term reviews) for mutually agreed adjustments on the basis of early
implementation experience; (iv) the SIL includes a comprehensive technical
assistance plan, which is already being implemented; and (v) the Intermediary
would be supported by assignment of a specialist to provide guidance and
on-the-job training to Intermediary and beneficiary staff in the appraisal and
supervision process, and by Bank reviews of subproject appraisals (paras 4.19
and 4.20).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1      Prior to negotiations, the Intermediary demonstrated its subproject
appraisal capacity to the Bank's satisfaction by submitting to the Bank for
its assessment trial appraisal reports on tL:ee subprojects (para 4.7(ii)).
6.2      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the the Government
that:
(a)    it will implement the policies and institutional development
measures articulated in its Sector Development Policy
Statement, and the actions, targets/indicators and target
dates specified in the Action Program; and will seek Bank
agreement to any changes in these policies, measures, and
action items during the implementation period (para 3.1);
(b)    it will, by June 30, 1989, provide to the Bank for review and
comment, terms of reference for an education finance study of
further cost savings and cost recovery measures; that it will,
by December 31, 1989, review with the Bank the study's
findings and the measures the Government proposes to take on
the basis of those findings; and that by March 31, 1990, it
will commence implementation of a mutually agreed program to
achieve further cost savings and cost recovery in the
education sector (para 3.5);



- 52 -
(c)    it will continue to maintain the Intermediary Technical Unit
with organization, staffing and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank during the implementation period
(para 4.4);
(d)    it will select and implement subprojects in accordance with
guidelines, criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
(para 4.11);
(e)    it will ensure the provision of sufficient annual budgetary
allocations for acceptable maintenance of school buildings and
equipment provided under the reform program (para 4.16);
(f)    Bank-financed specialist services and overseas fellowships
will be selected/awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines
and mutually agreed criteria and terms of reference (paras
4.19 and 4.38 (b));
(g)    the technical assistance (TA) program will be implemented in a
timely manner; grants or other funds will only be substituted
for Bank-supported technical assistance if non-Bank financing
is readily available and causes no delay in implementation
timetables (para 4.19);
(h)    it will furnish to the Bank for its review and approval: (i)
during the one-year period following loan effectiveness,
appraisal reports for all subprojects; (ii) subsequent to this
period, appraisal reports for subprojects selected by the Bank
for review; in all cases reports will be submitted to the Bank
at least one month prior to the scheduled start of
implementation (para 4.20);
(i)    joint annual implementation review meetings will be held in
June of each year, to discuss progress and agree on the
subsequent year's program (para 4.20);
(j)    an in-depth mid-term review of the Government's progress
towards Phase I targets will be held with the Bank in January
1991: within six months of the Loan Closing Date, a completion
report will be prepared by the Intermediary and submitted to
the Bank (para 4.20);
(k)    In the event of a shortfall in OECF cofinancing, or in the
event of a shortfall in domestic counterpart funds, it will
reduce total program costs by extending the implementation
period of the school construction program by the amount of the
shortfall. In any event, it will maintain all other
activities of the reform program intact (paras 4.26 and 4.35);
(1)    all claims for retroactive financing of eligible expenditures
incurred between January 1, 1989 and the date of loan
effectiveness, and not to exceed US$3.0 million, will be made
in accordance with Bank guidelines (para 4.27);



- 53 -
(m)    the LCB procedures to be applied in the SIL will conform with
Bank guidelines (paras 4.37(b) and 4.38(c)); and
(n)    Sector Loan accounts, including the Special Account, will be
audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles; and that the Bank will
be provided within six months of the end of the Government's
fiscal year with (i) certified copies of the sector loan
accounts; and (ii) an audit report of c:uh scope and detail as
the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion
by the auditor on disbursements against certified statement of
expenses (para 4.42j.
6.3      A condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan will be the signing by
the cofinanciers and the Government of the cofinanciers' Loan Agreements (para
4.26).
6.4      Subject to the above conditions, the project constitutes a suitabie
basis for a Bank loan of US$73.0 million to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
481SV(1-63)



- 54 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 1 of 3
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY STATEMENT
Background
1.       Jordan has a long-standing policy of human resources development
through the provision of quality education and appropriate training. The
education and training system has served the interests of the country well in
the past and has expanded rapidly to a point where enrollments at the basic,
secondary and higher educational levels are among the highest in the world.
Rapid quantitative growth has had inevitable adverse effects on qualitative
aspects of the system, however; at the same time, major changes in the
economic climate both at home and abroad and the ever increasing use of
technology in all aspects of life have contributed to the need for a
comprehensive reform of the education and training system.
2.       Taking into account the changing patterns of the country's needs,
policymakers have critically reviewed and reassessed the provision of
education and training in Jordan against the criteria of its relevance and
adequacy for meeting the future needs of the country. Consequently, the
Government has committed itself to reconstruct and modernize the entire
education and training system and to realize the vision of education reform in
partnership with external donors.
The Government's 1987 Reform Initiative
3.       To translate these commitments into action, the Government has
embarked on a comprehensive ten-year education reform program. A
Government-sponsored National Conference on education in 1987 identified a
comprehensive list of priority areas for basic and secondary education reform,
including the following:
(a)  Comprehensive curriculum reform, invo'lving across-the-board review
and revision to make curricula more relevant to modern-day needs,
more reflective of up-to-date pedagogy, and more responsive to
individual students' differing capabilities;
(b) extension of free universal basic education from Grades 1-9 to Grades
1-10, restructuring of streaming (including "technical" options) for
secondary Grades 11 and 12, and introduction of a new system of
admission to the secondary cycle based on previous grade point
averages;
(c) a full range of new or substantially revised textbooks, teachers'
books and other educational materials for all grades and main
subjects taught;



- 55 -
ANNEX LI
Page 2 of 3
(d) A program for upgrading teachers' and school administrators'
qualifications at all levels, involving in particular a certification
program to bring basic education teachers up to BA equivalency (along
with similar programs for secondary teachers and administrators);
(e) A program to familiarize in-service teachers with reform goals and
associated pedagogic/subject matter improvements;
(f) The gradual replacement of rented facilities by new purpose-built
schools equipped with libraries, laboratories and audio-visual
facilities (which would also be provided over time to all existing
purpose-built schools), along with the improved use of educational
television in schools;
(g) Eventual elimination of double shifting in schools;
(h) Evaluation and introduction of improved methods of education cost
recovery and/or revenue raising; and
'i) Establishment of a national educational research and development
capability, which would build a comprehensive monitoring and
evaluation system; establish a national education data base; permit
international comparisons; identify, test, evaluate and introduce, as
appropriate, promising educational innovations; and maintain the
momentum of the reform program into the 21st century.
The Ten-Year Program: Policy Reform and Institutional Development
4.       Raving thus formulated the main components of a comprehensive
educational reform strategy, the Government initiated discussions with the
World Bank on how the reform could be organized into a series of action plans
for implementation with Bank assistance. The outcome of these discussions was
a three-stage ten-year program covering: (a) the implementation of Government
reform policies; (b) the associated institutional development needed to
initiate and sustain reform; and (c) the financing of (a) and (b). The main
components and phasing of the overall program are discussed below.
5.       Phase I (1989-92) would be the start-up and foundation stage,
covering the preparation and introduction of reform policies and qualitative
improvements in the areas of curriculum, textbooks, teacher training,
educational technology, school construction, vocational training, and system
evaluation/research/development. It would also be the stage during which
associated institutional development priorities would begin to be met, in
particular through the establishment and operational startup of: (a) an
Intermediary body that would act as the Bank's Jordanian counterpart for the
ten-year reform period as a whole; (b) a National Center for Educational
Research and Development (NCERD), whose initial focus would be on evaluating
pilot programs in specific policy areas and developing an educational data
base and innovation review capacity; (c) a Textbook Publishing Unit; and (d)
the institutionalization of the curriculum development and revision process.



- 56 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 3 of 3
Finally, a number of major studies to help define activities in later phases
would be completed in Phase I.
6.       Phase II would be the main implementation stage.  By the end of this
phase, most of the original reform policies would have been implemented: new
curricula, textbooks and materials would be integrated into basic and
secondary schools; new secondary streaming systems would be fully operational,
as would new university-based courses for preparing teachers at all levels;
purpose-built schools would have replaced rental accommodations; facilities
and equipment for applying new educational technologies in schools would be
largely in place and operational; and the need for additional vocational
training places would have been determined and substantially met. In terms of
institutional development, the Intermediary would have become a mature
organization, well-practiced in coordinating and supervising the simultaneous
development of individual program areas and fully competent to prepare and
oversee the implementation of program modifications and new initiatives
flowiag from the evaluative and innovation-sponsoring work of NCERD. The
Center itself would also be a mature institution, concentrating on becoming a
center of excellence and innovation serving Jordan together with the wider
region.
7.       Phase III would comprise completion of all reform policies identified
for implementation in the original ten-year program; the associated
institutional development effort would also be complete. The most critical
task at this stage would be for the beneficiary institutions and NCERD to
identify and plan new initiatives and productive innovations beyond those
envisioned in the original reform, making whatever system adjustments and
expansions that might be needed to maintain the momentum of reform into the
year 2000 and beyond.
Financing the Program
8.       In view of the high priority of the education sector for Jordan's
economic development, the Government is determined to ensure that budgetary
and other resources will be available to implement the sector reform program
as outlined above. In the macroeconomic context, steps have already been
taken in this direction through the revenue enhancing and expenditure
restraining measures announced in the 1989 general budget, which has given
priority to education. In the sectoral context, the Ministry of Education has
already initiated studies of priority areas for cost savings and cost
reduction within the sector; these studies are expected to lead to early
proposals for more cost efficient use of sectoral resources. Finally, in the
context of the reform itself, the Government has already mobilized and
diversified external financing for the reform and will continue to do so; it
also intends to ensure that sufficient resources are available to preserve the
reform's policy and institutional develoirnent components intact, by extending
the Phase I implementation period for the educational facility improvement
component if necessary.



- 57 -
ANNEX t.2
Page 1 of 8
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
KLAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMEUT LOAN
ACTION PROGRAM ON POLICY IIEASURES, INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES AND QUALITY IMPROVEMENTS
To monitor progress with respect to the introduction of new and revised policies, institutional changes and
quality improvements covered under Phiase I of the reform program, the Government and the Bank have agreed on
the following key actions, target dates/performance indicators. These would form the basis of semi-annual progress
reports and would be reviewed jointly by the Goverment and the Bank during the wuntal and the mid-term reviews.
|                   MEASURES                              ACTIONS/TARGET DATES        IGUANTITATIVE TARGETS/INDICATORS
I                                           *1. ENHAVCING STUDENT ACHIEVENENT LEVELS  I
l ~~~~~~~~~~........................................ ..........  
|A. POLICY MEASURES                            I                                      I                                     I
1------------------ 1.......... 
11. RESTRUCTtRE THE SCHOOL SYSTEM
|   (a) Extend basic (cocpulsory)              INew Education Law was enacted
education from nine to ten            lin 1988. New structure to be
years and reduce secondary            lintroduced nationmide starting        I                                     I
|       education from three to two            11988/89 school year.                  I                                     |
years.                                I                                      I
|    (b) Revise the astreaning- structure      IProvide three major stream:           IContent of technical/technology
In the secondary cycle to (I)         |scfence/math; arts/humanities;        Istream to be completed by
address diversified interests         land technical/tehnology.             Iby February 1990; curricula
and abilities of individual           lApplication of new structure          Ifor all streams approved
students; (if) promote                Ito be finalized in 1989/90.           jby Decedr 1990; and new
|        specialization; (ifi) use             |textbooks introduced on a                                                   |
resources of the formal secondary                                            lphased basis starting in Septedber
education system more effectively    I                                       11991.
by focusing on increasing the
academic and technical qualIty of
the fleo  into post-secondary
education; and (iv) continue to                                              I                                     I
transfer those vocational             t                                                                            I
training programs that are geared
|        to lmoediate labor market entry
I        to the VTC.
|    (c) Expand the intake capacity of         II. Broaden specializations in two    ITO be completed by Noveeher 1990.
I        vocational training centers under         existing centers and upgrade
|        the VTC and broaden the speciali-         equipment.                         |
zations offered.                      j                                      I                                     I
12. Conduct a demand survey to serve  IThe methodology of the dAmnd          |
I                                              I  as basis for the VTC vocational   |survey to be agreed withtheiOmnk   |
I                                              |  training capacity expansion.        lby September 1989; findings &        I
lIreouendatlons reviewed April
11990; mutualty aoreed action
Iprogram to be impltented             I
istarting In July 1990.  Subproject  I
Iappraisal criteria and fuwd
allocation guidelines to be
I                                              I                                       omutualty agreed upon by Nay 1990.   I
---------------- ---          --------------1-----------------------------------I-------------------------------           1



- 58 -
ANNEX 1.2
Pag 2 of 8
TNHE  ASNENITE KINGDON OF JORDAN
HMUAM RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
ACTION PROGRAN ON POLICY MEASURES, INSTITUTI(iNAL CHANGES AND QUALITY ItPROVNEmITS
-----------I--------------------------------- ----                       -------       I----1------------    -----------1
NEASURES                              ACTIONS/TARGET DATES        JOUMANTITATIVE TARGETS/INDICATORS
1- -------------- --- ---- ----- --- ------- ------------- ------------------------ I------------.-----------*------.---.--.-
12. MISE THE EXAMINATION SYSTEM TO             |1. Replace the current basic          |Development of the new system
ASSESS STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT LEVELS         |  education eompletion examination  Iumderway. Applecation of new
|   AGAINST LONGER-TERN PERFORMANCE AND            with a new system of promotion    Isystem to start with students who
AREAS Of SPECIALIZATION.                      from the tenth grade to secondary Iwill be in the eighth grada during
I                                              |  education (11th grade) based on   Ithe 1989/90 school year; syste         |
|                                              |  performance in the previous three Ito be fulty operational by the
|                                              I  grades.                             11991/92 school year.                 I
I                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~I II
I                                              12. Weplace General Secondary School  ITo be lmplemented in June 1994.
Completion Examinatimn with a new I
system of specialized exminations|
|                                              |1in line with the streaming
I                                              |  structure.                          I
13. USE SECTOR RESOURCES MORE EFFICIENTLY    IThe study conducted under mutually   Ilmpleamntation progress to be
AND INCREASE COSt RECOVERY LEVELS.        laccepteble terms of reference to      |provided in semid-nnual progress
I                                              |be completed by the MOE by            ireports and discussed at ensael
IJume 1989; revIewed Jointly           Ireview meetings.
|                                              Iby the Bank and Government            I
lby December 1989; and implement-      I
lation of the mutually agreed          I
I                                              laction program to start In
|                                              jNarch 1990.
I.  I1PROVE THE CLALITY OF TEACHING AND       |                                      |                                     |
LEARfItN                                  |                                      |                                     I
11. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT                     INational Curriculum Coamittees
Revise basic and secondary education      Ihave been established for each
curricula to help develop higher          isubject. All basic education
opqnitive skills & abilities;            lcurricula to be approved by the
reflect up-to-date pedagogy and           I8oard of Education and submitted
contemporary issues; and address          Ifor manuscript preparation by
individual learning abilities and         Ioecember 1989 (mash curricutum                                              I
I interests                                    Ihas already been approved).  New
curricula for secondary schools
I                                              Ito be introduced in Grades 11 and
112 in the 1992/93 school year.
-      -     -      -     -      -      -       ___I                                  ------------------------------------II



- 59 -
ANNEX 1.2
Page 3 of 8
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
ACTION PROGRAM ON POLICY MEASURES, INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES AND QUALITY IMPROVEMENTS
----                                          -------------------------------------.I.-----------------------------------
|                  MEASURES                  |         ACTIONS/TARGET DATES       IQUANTITATIVE TARGETS/INDICATORS
12. TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT
(a) Provide textbooks and learning       1. Set up Textbook Publishing
materials that are designed to          Unit at MOE (see under 11.4)
I       support curricula objectives and
are instructionatly more effective.  I1. (a) Publish and introduce new    II.  Introduce:
I                                            j       textbooks in math, science,      ( Ca) new math & science text-
English, social scierces,            books for grades 1, 5,       |
Islamic studies and Arabic           9; and rnw English           |
in six of the ten basic              textbooks for grades
education grades, for                Sand 9 by September          |
approximately 400,000        |       1990;
students.                    |  (b) new math & science text-
I                                            I                                    |       books for grades 2, 6, 10;   |
I                                            I                                           and new English textbooks
|                                            I                                     I      for grades 6 and tO by
I                                            I                                    I       September 1991;
(c) new math & science text-
I                                            I                                     |      books for grades 3 and 7;
|                                            I                                           and new English textbooks
for grades 7 by September
1992;
I                                            I                                     I  (d) new Arabic, social
I                                    j {       sciences, Islamic
I                                            I                                    l        studies in grades 1, 5, 9
|                                            |                                     j       by September 1991; in
I                                            I                                     I       grades 2, 6, 10 by
I                                            I                                     I       September 1992.
I                                            I                                    I                                    I
12. Complete 50X of the publishing
process for new math & science
I                                            I                                    |    textbooks for Grades 4 and 8,
I                                            I                                    |    and new English textbooks for
I                                            |                                     |    Grade 8 by December M992.
I                                                                                 13.  Complete the manuscript prepa-
I                                            I                                    g    ration process for new
| I  social studies, Arabic languagel
| I  I    and Islamic education textbooksl
| I  for the basic cycle by January
1993.
I------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------ ------- -------I                ------------------------------------I



- 60 -
ANNEX 1.2
Page 4 of 8
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPNEHT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
ACTION PROGRAN ON POLICY MEASURES, INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES AND QUALITY IMPROVEMENTS
MEASURES                              ACTIONS/TARGET DATES        (QUAMTITATIVE TARGETS/INDICATnRS
--------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
ITEXTBOIK DEVELOPMENT (cont.)                      (b) Test new textbooks for a             Cooptete user testing of:       |
I------------------                                    full year and revise them      |     (a) math & science textbooks
in line with feedback from    |         for Grades 1, 5, 9 & Englishl
l                                              |       n"users".                      |         textbooks for Grades 5 & 9
l  |  l   by July 1991; and
| I                                    I     C(b) math & science textbooks
I                                              l                                      l         for 2, 6  10; English
l                                              l                                      |         textbooks for Grades 6 8 O0
l  {                                   |         by July 1992; and Arabic
l                                              |                                      |         social sciences and
I                                              I                                      i         Islamic studies for Grades
j         1, 5, 9 by July 1992.       I
I                                              I                                      l                                     I
i   (b) Improve textbook storage and           |Construct one central warehouse       |
distribution system.                  land ten district warehouses by the
lend of Phase 1. Conducta a
Ifeasibility study, prior to
|proceeding with plans to design
I& cost the proposed distribution      I
Isubproject by June 1990.              l
.                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I II
---------------------------------------------   -------------------------------------------------------------------_----
13. TEACHER/SUPERVISORY STAFF TRAINING         l                                      l
I                               ~ ~~I                                                                        II
i                                              I                                      I                                     I
(a) Raise teacher qualification           (1. Legislated by the 1988 New
requirements: for basic education    I  Education Law:                       l
teachers from two to four years post- I                                                                            l
|       secondary; for secondary schooL        12. (a) Certification program to       (Annual intake of 300 in 1988
teachers and principals from four to I        upgrade academic quatifi-      Icoopteted.  Annual intakes
five years post-secorndary.           I       cationscf basic education    Iduring the 1989/90 - 1992/93
l                                              l       teachers started October       |period witl be about 375.            l
l                                              l       1988 at the Higher Cotlege    I
for Certification (HCC).
(b) Branch of HCC started in       (Annual intake of about 375 at each
Irbid in February 1989.        Icampus during Phase 1.
branch in Karak scheduled                                            l
l                                              l       for September 1969.            l
(c) Certification program at       lAnnuat intake of 500 by the
l  |    three universities to          (U.,iversity of Jordan; 300 by
l  l   start in academic year          Ithe University of Yarmouk; and
l      1989/90.                      1200 by the University of Mutah.
I--------------------------------------------I------------------------------------I------------------------------------1



- 61 -
ANNEX 1.2
Page 5 of 8
THE HASHENITE KtNODOI OF JORDAN
HUKAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
ACTION PROGRAM ON POLICY MEASURES, INSTITUTIONAL CHANCES AND QUALITY IMPROVEMENTS
---------------------------------------------. ------------------------------------I.---I
WEASURES                  I          ACTIONS/TARGET DATES        IQUANTITATIVE TARGETS/INDICATORS     I
--------------------------.--------------------------------------------------------I------------------I--------------
ITEACIER/SUPERVISORY STAFF TRAINING (cont.)   |  (d) Certification program  to    IHCC program being evaluated.
..........---------.............----------.        be evaluated.                  IResults to be available February
I                                             I                                      11989; appropriate modifIcations |
II                                                                                   Ijt|  be incorporated into the proo b
Igram; annual evaluations to be
I  I                                  Iconduacted throughout Phase I and
I                                     Iresults made available for program  I
I                                             I                                      Imodifications for the next year's
I                                             I                                      Iintake.
I                                     II
I  I                                  jUniversity programs to be
I  I                                  levaluated annually; reeults to be
I  I                                  lavailable by end of academic year   |
I                                     land revisions to be incorporated
I                                             I                                      Iin the following year's program.
I  I                                  I
13. To phase out community-college    |Expanded capacity to be in
I                                             I  training program  for basic         Iplace for additional intake of
e 1    cation teachers tentatively    12,000 teacher candidates as of
I  by 1993/94 academic year and       lacademic year 1992/3.  Visiting
I  expand teacher training capa-      Ifaculty and overseas felltoship
I                                                 c city of the Universities of      Itraining programs to start as of
I  Jordan, Yarmeuk & Mutah by         lacademic year 1989/90. Construc-
I                                             I  an additional 2,000 students        Ition to start October 199C. 
I                                             I  p.a. during Phase II.               I
(b) Improve the academic and             IUpgrade academic qualifications       lAnnuaL intake of 60 for each
pedagogical leadership capacity of   lof prinripals to a DA . peda-         igroup star ;ing in the 1989/90
principals and supervisors.          |gogical diploma equivalency and       lacademic year.
lof education supervisors to an
|                                             IRA through certification
I                                             Itraining at universities.
I   (c) Introduce basic education teachers   11. Strengthen the content and          11. Launch "train-the-trainer"
and other staff to the reform        I  delivery mechanisms of the              program In October 1989.
objectives, new curricula, textbooks;l  current in-service training
and train them in new pedagogical    |  program: provide the equivalent   12. Train about 12,000 basic
methods to use the new inputs more   |  of 60 hours of training                 education teachers; 120 lab
effectively.              |              locally.                               assistants and 640 librarians,
| a/v technicians by September
I                                    | 11992. 
------------------------------------------------------  -------------------------------------............................................................................................... _. -- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -



- 62 -
#ME -1.2
Page 6 of 8
THE RASHEITY KINGt OF JOtDAN
BNU RESOURCES DEVLOPMENT SECTOR INVETHEU  LOIA
ACTION PROMRM ON POLICY MEASURES, INSTITUTIONAL CQARGE AND QUALITY IMPROVEHENTS
I                  M6AJ8URES                            ACTIOS/TARMET DATES         IQUANTITATm  TARGETS/INDICATORS      I
ITEAcuwSUpERViSORY STAFF TRAINING (coant.)  12. Introduce principals and            IProvide in-service training to
----------------------------------               supervisos to the reform           Iabout 4,000 principals and to
objectives. new curricula,        1800 education supervisors by        I
|  textbooks. now pedagogical        iSeptember 1992.
methods and prepare them for t                                         |
|  their new academic leadership      I                                    I
tol .
---------------------------------------------   -------------------------------------   ------------------------------------_
14. EDUCATIONAL TECUOLGY                      |                                     I                                    I
- _ _ _I_  _    _ ---- _----
|   (a) Promote experimentation, practical   |  Construction and equipping          I                                    I
|       skills development and self-learning |  covered under "educational          I                                    |
by the provision of specialized      |  facility improvement" below.       |
facilities (labs. libraries,             T Training of specialized         1                                    |
workshops) in new and sone existing  I  facility staff covered under       I                                    |
schools.                                 ' in-service teacher training" .
. b                                        1                                     I                                    1
(b) Develop, upgrade teachers' skills
in preparing instructional aids and
!       using them effectively.
I                                             I                                     I                                    I
i    cc) Suppleenat curricula and classroom   IDevelop "software" programs          iReview jointly the HOE study and
I       instruction by educational TV broad- Iprimarily for in-service teacher      lasree on the plan of action to      I
|       casts and audio/video cassettes.      Itraining programs and for a          Imaximise effectiveness by January   |
|                                             Iselected number of grades            11990.
I                                             Ion a pilot basis.                    I
I  I                                  I                                    I
I                                ~~~~~~~~~~~I                           I
IS. EDATIONAL FACILITY DWRDV                  I                                     I                                    I
llmprove the quality of classrooms and       |1. Replace rented facilities with    tDuring Phase I, start construction  |
lintroduce of specialized facilities.            purpose-built schools.             lof about 45 schools annually; by    I
|                                             |                                     IDecember 1992, complete construc-   |
|                                     | Ition of 80 basic education and 10   |
I                                             I                                     Isecandary level schools.  lhese     |
|                                                                                   slachools to accommodate
|                                             |                                     | 52,300     students currently in   |
I  I                                  trented facilities. 
---- ---- --- ---- --- ---- ------   - ---------   - - - -------  -------------------   ----------------------------------



- 63 -
ANNUEX 1.2
Page 7 of 8
THE HASHEMITE K!NGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
ACTION PROGRAM ON POLICY HEASURES, INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES AND QUALITY IMPROVEMENTS
1---------------------------------------------1-------------------------------------I------------------------------------
|                   MEASURES                   j           ACTIONS/TARGET DATES       I|UANTITATIVE TARGETS/INDICATORS        I
--------------------------------               .------I----------------------------------------------------------------
|EDUCATIONAL FACILITY IMPROVEMENT (cont.)       12. Accommodate naturat increases in  IThese facilities to accommodate
--------------------------------                   enrollments.                        labout 25X of the natural t
I                                               I                                      |enrollment increase by creating       I
I                                              I                                       |about 36,000 new student pLaces
;I|                                    Iby December 1992.
I                                               13. Provide specialized facilities    |Provide specialized facilities
|                                              |   (labs, libraries, workshops) in   Ito 80 basic education and 10
|  new and some existing new schools.|secondary schools by Decezber
11992.                                I
i          -
|                                  11. INSTITUTIONALIZING THE o-APACITY TO SUSTAIN SECTORAL REFORM 
t(a) Strengthen the Technical Unit             IThe Intermeciary was estab-            IThe intermediary's capacity to be
established within the Higher              [.ished in March 1988 by               lassessed on an ongoing basis
Council for Science and Technotogy to    |Prime Ministerial De.ree.               Iduring Bank supervision missions
I   monitor, coordinate and appraise            I                                      las well as mid-term end annmul
I   subprojects and to coordinate               I                                      jreviews.
I   and monitor their implementation.                              I                                       I
I                                               I                                      II
I                                              I                                       I                                      I
I                                              I                                       I
I(b) Establish institutional capacity           lEstablish a National Center for       ICenter to be established by
and innovation in education over 'he       lEducation Research and Develop-       |Oecember 1989.  Recruit core
long term.                                Iment with responsibility to            Istaff by March 1990.  During
I                                              Icordu t policy-based and other         leach annual review of progress,
Ilarge-scale sectoral research;        |Bank and Borrower would review
I                                              Idisseminate state-of-the-art           ICenter's research output and
Iknowledge throjgh seminars            loutcomes during the preceding year,
land visits by leading educators;      Idiscuss Center's work program for
Iand conduct longitudinal              Ifor the following year, and propose
lassessment of the reform.             la-eas of study for inclusion in
I                                               I                                      |tne program.
I(c) Institutionalize the process of            IStrengthen the capacity of            |Progress in implementation of the
on-going curriculum reform.                IMOE's Directorate of                  Imutually agreed staff development
|Curriculum to manage curricula        Iprogram and work program of the
Ipreparation and the revision          lDirectorate to be assessed during
I                                               |process.                              Imid-term and annual reviews.
I---------------------------------------------I--              -     -- I------------------------------------



- 64 -
ANNEX 1.2
Page 8 of 8
THE HASHEMITE KINGDON OF JORDAN
HUNAN RESOURCES DEVELOPNENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
ACTION PROGRAM ON POLICY MEASURES, INSTITUTIONAL CHANGES AND WQALITY IMPROVEMENTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- I---------------------------------
NEASURES                                 A CTIONS/TARGET DATES         |GUANTITATIVE TARGETS/INDICATORS         I
I---------------------------------------------------------I-                    -    - .I-------------         ---------------------
I(d) Institutionalize textbook development    |A Textbook Publishing Unit was                IProgress in ii4lementation of the
end distribjtIon.                            lestablished in the GDCET and              Imutually agreed staff development
Ifully staffed in November 1988           jprogrun and work program of the
I                                                  Ito handle all aspects of text-           lUnit to be assessed dAring mid-         I
lbook publishing, contracting,            Iterm and anWual reviews.                I
I                                                  Iproduction supervision, and for          I
ithe managhment of textbook               I                                        I
|distribution.                            I
I ..I-------------------------------------I-----------------------------------I



- 65 -                                                              A=31 
Page 1 of 2
WINA141Y WACU0 I11ICAOU
08 MCATtf   RCUUM                       "Al 011 61AU   UNITam   P 969=
*          :~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ; 1      .lsna Ismlmll crm                                           mumno                              'a         FM   ..
A*STA*LA           s    001.6 :08210 :36.35  391t*1. W3L6L023   0 31                       *9tJ32  31,            J1S:3100           :9135899    :304..   SllMT   63u..
MU ZBALAA: so                .1b16 OStb       I 10  :OOVI          :16   631  Zs    (2b       LOO11     tooI    936           11.6        tooi68 4   102         IS3      2S6A110
42211*1.1*    ~~So    0..ob  6.67      6.36        16.0        -9  -9          -9        j)        to0         2         -             99         ,3        1)       20.90
PTNA            si    43*7   9,930       7,79         96.36       5 1     30?36261  99      1o4      too         21        9.91         O    9       26 1    16       22.60
ClUMSY1.3.    19~6    01.2b 12.0       4.0          9.9k       is   -2  -s    996         I6a      0          -9        -            06         94s       it       12.106
Sw.u          79      9.1  12.? 330    9.00        16.2        S3   10   0      99o      94t      aoo         tea       19.0          is0         ia       ia        4. Joe?
St*           i.06b   9206    0.0          22.0        411622i           40b      60          2                  0  .0        40          20        21       1.60
TM            SI     4.2b  1.)1    2.6k           9.0        46362       7     23b       29'       it             2     0.2         too          3o                1.00
Os6    0.4b    1lob    1.6'                26.0        492 22           96 is4b    6         0         39                      4 16.                 26       0.60
0196    0.4             8       .          1.9 5       71 6..           1          2        6         4         67.           401                    9       06
so 6          19.4b    436o   3.0          1-.         I6   32   26.    3           t         636 11644 46 9.t4o                                     21       1.1.
Lam6          77     6.5       1      40          26.9        S)o2   9          O3       936       so        331        6.0          39          16        2o       1.14*
gie. ob    1.30             116         38 4 3             5        62        3         63         3t.6*24                            21       o
110           6o    le.S   1.17       4.9         16.0        463         7      019                 2        2)        1.            100         I0        22       1.30
6       6    1S.2      2706    1.6         27.4        71   6   11       376      gab        1        24        6.0          91          lo         6       0.40
SI     96.b    260b    1.1          10.3         0    4    66- 1  Sob       76        69        396       91.06          0          1to       29       2.00
ZAPStA        sU     19.2 lb  Sb       1.0p         -.            639..          442       31       so4        1         12.4          to          *6        6        .1
ZIKBAM        SI      96b   9406    3.60           20.6          11 62 2   6       6A     91        Ss         SO        11.0          Gs          Is        36       3..
51*U        60     1.3b    260       3.59        7.7        471016            796      46        67         4)        1.0          196         It        2 0 IMF
&     6      CS2    tib        1.    2.0I 2.          193     29         33       36        423         7       2 16 1.6      3            9        ii        ___3
ZAIRE         0~~~~~~8    29.6b6 o        a                    9          41.   t 210  7.  26.4ia --1   16  70  33  10?  21.0         40          to       29        2.904
ZIISAIMI      6       7~76    700 5.     1 7  .    19.         62ot  64     446            0        3    39   6          20.           is           la      22        0.30
isaii   79     .5      3206    9.03'       13.04       43   2      3    I          4         10        46b       6.           10          II        41b       1.00'
56           6) a   0.3b    2106    2.18          21.7       41 29   26         9        10        23         7          .24.        6           s        260      0.0
00     6     0.0      6106    1.1by        -.4         3)3 26          10         69        63                  -             -           2)        25"      2.70
A66           2.6      no6    3.361         64.7b      49   16   26    jo          79b       43        9361      46.04          -0         6        91t  J.
70    11.3      670     9.01        27.71         -    -         -           -jz      -          V6by     -             10          -6m       416        o
I slaw*      63      o9       270b    2.           1.6        4124...   206t              so        10        U           .2           -          2-        1761     -
-u            17     0.6b   1420       1.76       63.61       S      0          WI         -2       -9         401       --                   1  29.  9JM   s          ."0
LA           s0      1.9      320     4.6         9.0        43 232  1o        0         32        32         33       20.0          76          22        10       2.00
"1ton              64      3.2     300      2.8         21.0        4025  20         14         2s       20         16       4.1.0          37           4       26        0.30
41066.1            6)    9.06b    7606    7.41          .6.0           - - 1)    36             91       70         30        9.31         47          2)       10        2.00
lEXICAL            64      6.4     360      3.06        24.         46635   96   26            3        16                  26.            I94         166      24        2.206
Stem8  LAMN        17      3.6     n        4.0b        96.06        -   -    -      2136      S17'                 4 3      23.06          64          Ise      22       .1.6051
TOGO               i6      2.4     400      6.391       26.39       396  396  316   16          74       40         34b1      18.0          32          12621    466b      A.60~1'
480111*            7      27.31,2210        2.7         0.9        *36  3161St   936           69        32        I?        -             67          31        4       21.00
BANANA             749    0.2   2.770       3.7         19.1        363011t    936              99       97         26       -              91          IS       19       --
BARBADOS      7s      0.2   2.660      8.31        11.*       436  316 W 0      b~      1001       996       271       19.91         99a          876     201
BOLIVIA     60      3~~~~~.4  30     4-.141      30.3 so3-                               741                 201                                 131       -        1.0
SelzL              79   10.3   I.7"9       1.6          0.         3         J 1   76         7)61                23'?      6.3b          41'         361     14'1    12.620'
CtilLI             10    10.9   %.M6        1.21b       I3.06b         -       -     -         119621     -         16       -              -           3366     2061    I1.9007
COLON3IA           so    2,A   1.3110,   1.09           20.0        40   10   20    66          we6      42         29        6.0           .-30                 2        Am
COSTA 310A         so      2.      Slob0   6.4          31.         40   27   13    g0          91        1         11    .3                77         40        V         4.00
COlA               is      9.6     -        9.0         11.0        -    -     -     96        112667    t6 196              -             g6          ?JWT1   IS         L9.02b1
001415104to.    so         3.3   1.NI       2.9         13.0        19   21   2       6g         o       it         39,       3.2          96          30        13       to.-0
ECUADDik      s       6.4b  1.110      6.0         36.7        43   It   16    SI         0        -          36       12.6          16          47        16       19.00
IL 34LV68  17  4.4     640      3.461~~~~~~b  23 11 b    4 6   a 27    63           62651    32         39       -             4          SAM       2~        '11
GUAIUtW.A          7s      6.6   1.0t0      11.7or      2.46        - -              -          9621    -          3561     -             09          3"1      1961      3.O0
GUYANA             76      0.6     010      S.Iby       (3.967      -     -    -      -         962      -          3361     -             -           39 my    -          3).)O"
51A111             so      S.Qb    no       I.4'         7.961      63    9     6    233        s0       20         41       19.0          *62          46       27        3.60
sOsInaUS           76      3.0      320     1.361       14.3bY      626  t36  Joe640           99b21    30a         4.161    12.66         686         21' Y     9       6.00,
JAMAICA*           so      2.1   1.110      0.3         3.7        37   43   20    00         96        g6         40        2.)          93          a1        22       9.00
ISIIC.,.           so    03.3   1.660       4.7         17.06       46   39   Is    92         96        33         44        9.3          66          30        17      10.30
KICARACU      76~~i   I*6b    6106    3.0o6        t4.0 -b       -        -    gob        BP66      24,        116                    -           16b       job6
9411A14            76      1.66  1.3306    S.3661       21.e61      426  36  3      26        "by      -          2361     11.6          63s16                  76      346
9AL~AGUA           79      3.0   1. 140     1.4'0       6.2        42   1 7 20    64          63        32         is        3.1'         76          22        2       1.70
end                so    6.91  1,000       3.0         14.)        33   is   19    s0         el        30         39        9.6          69          39       22       14.401
711t1060 6 Too.   77       1.,   3.910      4.661        6.x61      46   la   20    93          98       91         30       10.31         49          43        26      -
UR223A!            7s      2.9   2930       23                      -     ~-    =9 6           ISb -0                46      -             -           6446      -       I7.S061
VEMSZOU.A     16~~i    164  1.44       3.11        9.96       -    -           82        106b2     -          28       -              -     ~      6        1      2.0



- 66 -
ANNEX 11. 1
ONOOM OVATtOO tOIgM                                                                   Page Z o-F-7
nlosl    #A'M  MM          S&COKDMVt$&:IMAAT:dL;04
:lWa VW. iCARM    tMIW    d0o"Tal, GCOVIAWAAArAM    TOtiMU                I9111111116L.40M    :Sno$M9WWt=  ;F&IFAW  tO !CNWU.
tTWsdRW.s(M)  ANINIP11111 10 s401111KNOW          FU    SC  41    (1)   :UTZ*  tCVCIA         :M        .43 pucw!sgoooat    "Tto             fit       ItAl"n
.(tsre)'(111911 I NOCAIM    tosr=llm    I         (1)        (19161   (1)        (9)                                (1)         -to    TIAC=        (%I
(61      01        (a)       (0)
1.4       13   46   ak      ?6b       96       Oa         O
-N_-St&        61   ISO                3.1          0.3        70   A      6     ilb                4.9        I?         41.0                                         t. "3
U     "le   .6,3,0    1.7v          10.8        14   14   It                         46         41        16.0          61           z
gs    1.7       460     4.40         ?.o        66   n      1     671      ft        to         I?                       '061
21h,          66    IG.Lb  tmp        6.7         t6.3        is  44   Al       ilb                           al        16.4          a I
G$     1.06    "D       5.4         19.0        40   If   la      -         w                   310       ts.0          it           it-4     -Id       I.Jo
gm         If    44.16    6"b    1.60           14.0        "    36   -       iSb      PA                   It         I.t          as          j        to
n          w       2.6   4.4n       2.7          6.7        19   40   Lb      61        92       42         it         6.6          96          vi        a
tEL.      a       O.lb    60       6.6ow       19.0b       61  'A   10       Is        IS       on         11        io.s          h,)         .1)
D           04    491       wob    I 4          zo 3        'S   "I   to    "*b        Lot       'A         it         0.10          hk
66     0.1              CS          IIN         61   It    a                         to         26         It.0          -i          J"
-AM
MM            46   Lamb    160        -           10.6        -         -     -  lib      as                  .8          I.S          i                     -b
To              so      1.3      so      1.6         11.0        -    -    -       to       Is
ta                   41101.6    ago      2.01         S."y      -         -     -  36       it.                  41                                  la-
AL                    Imb    twb    1.4,                                          ts        la                   is                                  If        !3        1.100
ea    sy.lb    Iggalo   2.0           f.0       is   a    Z4      n         io                   to         %.q          56          !I        Is       1.10
N;ym    1101                I.,          1.1        41   to   is      It       ittv      69         fib                     64           a        ;4bw      I.-IOY
is    18.3   i.174      I.11010     12.3        UG  as  age    Is           eV       4so        11          7.01         S"          all      16        Wl-
a     43.0      6*6    4.60            9        118  W    US                Is*       Oa         146        0.44         STO         416       196     11.40
____j                     9.1   4.144       IAP         go 6b       11   16   It               07"                  3th        6.0                      tots      vlor    I I.wbv
gem                h,  1164   -    MOF   14.1"    -  -  -   10   101"                                               US    -                             "ft  260   b.W"
tm                 is    92.6   2.1to       4.107        G."y      -    -    -        -       1007                  ze                                  049       too      0. M"
t#BLOA             :,I    1.1b  1           6,11        ILA"        -        -     -  IC       III       96         n                                   $1.       46       11.411
Joao                        ab    420       4.98        10.2        19   44   La      job      age       In         It        ti.t                      6"        is        A.W
UNAIM              is   3 I   -    -                    16.64"   -  -  -   -                   969   -              19        -                         668    -_   37.00"
Igoe=              St    23:sb              6.6p        If.$        is   47   te    #4          la       is         ze        ".0           61          IF        it       j.amw
am                         t b  11.5       3.3         12.7411     -        -     -  jobt      Ilast    61s        gg*       -              10          10       144
041nolml.          46    to:    L.    ,    4.6          tt.5        la   26   Is      so       in        70         te         t6.9         68          $i        t6
SOWAU              is    32.9   2.100       2.9by        6.37       -        -     -  la       iobtlx    -          33b                      is          86bo     no       to Gaby
$1041111           76    37.0   4.020       3.11        16.67       -    -    -       -        96by      -          Zib                      -           biby      -       It: to"
Sim                ?G      0.6   400        of.ap       10.1        "    IS   26      Is       $?by      OD         )Sb                      60          41by     2ib      12.60
lasula             W       7.5   1.2to      S.60        16.0        65   31   is      63       Ill       a?         is         t 1.0         it          so        to       i."?
vom                63      44.5  1,230      1.3         96.1        10   n    26      Ilb      tio       71         11          6.0          S$          16       t I       1.00
a  A.L          ob      0.1b    s3ob    I ip         I? ?        80   20   ti      It*       S$       n          Ill        Me            so           9       20        i.00
V4110 V.0.10.      as      2.01,   40b    7:6            9:1        bis  148   so    $1         6i       u          0          22.00         4.6         II       pi        2.*)
oonwtwcwmtomt
EM      T    lmours"t                       Go              93       70   69   67      U        ol        60         #%        as                                  as       as
samot                                                    t I.?_  (23-  ($-  ($-    (8-      (12-      t I 1-      (11-      (1.4-          (to-        (I-      Le-      (.1.0-
10.0)          S4.1)  96)   4.6)  13)    " I      114)      " )         Ill       412.0)        100)        461       69)      NA)
Itkargilemi, OMwi                          i.6           21.1      U    16   it      et        44       so         41         10            61                    16      Lt..)
obftmi                         4.0           t6.1i    61    Zs   to      Si        el       hi         )s         1)            Os          .16       21       W
Lawat                          1.0           I t.0     Is   at   9 3     213      60        Is         is          9            w           1.        to       1.)
Qu"stte Daviatoot                          1.)            SA      6.1  13   6.s   Z8.0       19.0     U.$         1.0        S.6          !I.S        16.`5      I.i        i.3
ismi                                       6.6           17.0      46   29   to    '11         16       AO         16         16            64          It        11
Satellite ft""IGet                         1.9            a.?      la   to    ?      zo        I?       14         it         I I                       41
ftdiaat                                    *.O           t6.0      43   20   tO      Is        61       ql         Is         I I           's          -b        '!
-        ---- - -- - -- - ----------------   .  .......................................
$1111111116411                                                          pwtoot  t
O&TO  MXAILAM                                               4 - DAIN  PRICAL TO WS IUD                                       W CWCAffOli 061ti  fLy
oot"m  ML at doLictuA                                       S - OMM 'MR UCCOM IWAN GAS% a"                     t - -109 00 STATF. -JIVERSMOT VKA
411011111 queaTtanam                                        9-Comm    F1ttcR$                                  W - PUSLIC ERFENOtTUU  -MLT
tdcLum   tvanr-Tm    liame                                  I - W? WISOLUM    lAttO                              - tscU01115 wta-WIL irloemys
Cm" 9XMImill"
sagem,           COLUM    I 41116 28 *MIA $Mk 4141411 or 94"OUCIR antor ftotd ag"LOU.
Colette 3 to 16i IwLd Beemot Uwmatm aftcor vl"tom. Gorevalmoss aftreet
MUW Os goom sg"tectcat V"rbftk.
------------------------------------------------------------------ ----
C~    Att*S UW"tM  ftU  SM               40 talk 4PROl,"ttM  Of -*ti*W  .11.464900 WGCGCM WA SASIT11116 Of 9VIACL"  0404 *t
04"49146" ""&*P b*VMM ""GM etrts. Umn . 'A tie b"lo at the Ommag date. crods-49toaga lowetso-
-b=Ld to beefteakeod eiab ~         Collates. Oats "ooeatea to tke  I,   table tove bo"  collected Larpti bY Oak 1146teas
I roe 6,         ~ 9"1 ebb C"mmd"  an  $toot "ttftgcg 49 data trm  0"4". efforts "In ew    M&  to sts"I"0111144
Wastage" 4". 04111416 ttelts. to Check do accutacv at the 011194. %"rgbato". seek 4aga on stttl twortact to
se"rel, casolm 4d tko I" to V;VM#4 to %909664 tfto OtdGMSt**Il CA Cbm OCCOAtOb Ot tt. olostatL0441 "tk. td the
"O of tftm    data. the coll-                       liculd to kept tA 4teds
(1) 'Uoftgtft' 40 4*gto" La CU table Wgtod" all aducattoo schol effitatma. bogb tooolkill otd mos-fatmaL.
(3) '1Pr6111WV' OtoMi(n NIOCS to faMttOn 42 t%o ftrot 14-at. ad '0000046W edv"gtm mfors to att 01-tatt"
49 tims oecftdw taq" nsavdum of t"o (*.G.. somrst. caeftie". owmttwtat).
(1) 'USO 60, ir"U' (Col. 6) an *fcft abeotmol fM costry 4wasomses. to em comat"03 thm re 1-11
it to dimato"al tmt AAW callace dott"ttoo of -ttterece- %" was tatico"m emotsteacLi.
(6) '%%Ue CB"G"CM to aserAtiom. (tots. 4 =6 S) loolore to all cafittal, ad me.crest 99comailLcums eavatot to
*i1sm"Age tv gablU 4a olent-pubtLe opfttoo.
(5) 'Iml-Um rutdo' (cote. 7. ka and 16) rotor to 44ftwI VW AO aft 442 satcomew of elt4ttild ebttdrea
*Wbtkd tOU-StIn to ft We"""O sebool, pjbttc eA4 ogtv"o by PAODI. ftiP no dtan W6,609 to 0 Vida
mrom d am In tto ft"lo"ra emurtin *"es to -artst"m tA tie mfttmr of 6014 "te ($.S..
GOD-481"194 empa""B ad amllwAU).  twelims fte                     tnquoglv are kkishn  talks CM  MAWC of
staftew  ogtwtlt to ectmot. over-ow    stofte"  car t3 twi            W  tfta  f&PM    GrA ems tnfta"  Oa gettgo.



- 67 -
ANNEX II.2
Page 1 of 2
:281:s2 1;;:'8: 1983/8k1 1;34;e' 185/96* t7~i UI' s?/eu 8'O*t : :1983.87:
nesre   4,'?7w   ;?.:5$   :7.'14 31,827   :4,98:!    22
"OE                                                        AS                 1t:
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~94
': va'.                                               2a.260    fr,,9Z   *7,453   :i,:aS   :4.489        9.19
Pv:qarv                                               487.890  504.226  5"C,90b  542.519  570.795         4.00
uE                                                      .81 7 :'5.2 :    5.556  403,641  422.176         4.01
Xtwe' Government                                        2. ,7  2.3"9%    2.575    3. 54    2.239    -1.07
UJNRA                                                  92.:'5   91,!90   91.488   91,43S   92.104    -0.01
ar;vvats                                               2,13.7   -!1066   &1.287   '3,900   5,676    13.69
P.scaratory                                            100.5;.  204,802  208.646  214,743  220.811        3.75
POE                                                   141.8'40  152423  1'.430   161.710  169,155       4.50
Other 6oavernnit                                          ;36 S      69    1.078    1,542    1.227       7.04
J4RNA                                                  A1. 239   44.592   44.621   44,162   42,734       0.89
Pn vat                                                  6,548    7,113    7,617    7,329    7,695         4.12
Secandary.genual                                        95.340   98.602   96,400   "9,796  103,131         1.93
MOE                            *                       68,744   91,790   89,454   91,907   94.873         1.68
Other Soverneut                                           769       769       775      641       69      -2.36
Private                                                 6.027    6,043    6.171    6,139    7,559         5.83
'otat, General                                         n73*992  907.630  935,9-2  956.048  994,737         3.69
Secondary, vocational                                    d.d O   29,126   30,789   31,770   33,533         7.29
"OE                                                    20.4:4   22.422   :4.466   26,164   29.507         9.63
Cth   Govyerqnt                                         4.124    5.104    6.338    4,760    3,448    -5.79
573 J      69      561       X27       616     1.83
Pr2 vat                                                   199       432.   224         ::9       162    -7.78
6rand Total                                            823.871  U63,9M2  994,69!  ;19.645  461.22 2         .98
COE, qwn ral                                          391.2W   b19,00  640,340  67,:158  686,804          S.79
NOE, vocational                                        20.4:4  .2,G22  X2,666    o.164   29.507           .a3
Source:Ministry o Education Statistics



ANNEX 11.2
- 68 -                     Page 2 of
Enrollment Projections
And Cost Estimates
AssumPtions:   -    Average Annua. Enrollment Increase:             4S
(based on population increase/year)
-     Cost per Student Place:                       $815
-     Exchange Rate, US$/JD:                        .540
Cost of
Project  School       School       Incrent.   Increuts
Year      Year      Rnrolut      Enroldt   Knroj.dt
JD'OOO
0     1988      894,737             0            0
1     1989      930,526       35,789       15,744
2     1990      967,748       73,011       32,118
3     1991   1,006,457       111,720       49,146
4     1992   1,046,716    151,979          66,856
5     1993   1,088,584       183,847       85,274
6     1994   1,132,128    237,381         104,429
7     1995   1,177,413    282,676         124,350
8     1996   1,224,509    329,772         145,068
9     1997   1,273,490    378,753         166,615
10     1998   1,324,429    429,692         189,023
11     1999   1,377,407    482,670         212,328
12     2000   1,432,503    537,766         236,565
13     2001   1,489,803    595,066         261,772
14     2002   1,549,395    654,658         287,987
15     2003   1,611,371    716,634         315,250
16     2004   1,675,826    781,089         343,604
__________________________________________ -----------



- 69 -
ANNEX 11.3
Student/Tetcher Ratio&
1981/82 1982/3  1981/4  1984/65  1985/k  1 /126 10 7 /81U
Kinderqarteo                                               26       26        21       22        21
ROE
Other  overnmnt
UN
Private                                                   26       2         21       22        21
Priury                                                     32       32        31       29        30
NME                                                       32       31        30       20        29
Other Govemmt                                             33       29        25       3?       1t
Un                                                        41       39        45       42        41
Private                                                   23       31        24       23        23
Prewratory                                                 23        22       21        20       2
NME                                                       21        21       20        19       20
Other 6overoet                                            14        is       17        10       12
Wm                                                        32        33       2         31       32
Private                                                   17        1o        1b       13       14
Scmuaryl,g eral                                            20       1        14        14        a1
NM8E                                                     k2         16       14        14        12
Other overueent                                           12        14        9         7        3
Private                                                   lb         9       13        1         9
SecoUadfl  vocational                                      20        16       14        15        14
NOE                                                       19       1U        14        14       14
Other kvevneut                                            30        21       18        23       16
Wm..                                                      10         9        9         9        8
Private                                                    1t       14        3        12       14
6rad Total                                                 27        25       24        23       23
IOE, geral                                                26        25       23        23       22
NE, vocational                                            19        16       14        14        14
Sore:6800"



- 70 -
ANNEX 11 .4
tinistry of Education Current and Cagital Ezoanditurs
(JO alin
kctual                Prslijinrv           Budqet
- -      ---- 4ctual-      -stMIates-    Avvaqs annual
1982     1983     1904     115      1986      198      1988    8routh t 1983-11)
Curnnt Expendituru'                          55.68    5' .9    57.51    64.84    70.33               5.92
* in SOP                                     3.93     3.73     3.66     4.02      4.20
ifn Current Saovnuent Expmnditurm          12.32    11.47    10.62    11.19    11.63
' in total 6ownrunt Expenditure              8.87     8.74     7.93     8.04      8.11
2 in Duiestic Revenues                      13.95    13.49    13.55    12.60    12.79
Capital Exumnditurst                          4.35     3.86     3.76     6.34      6.25              9.41
I in 6OP                                     0.31     0.26     0.24     0.39      O.37
2 in Gov. Caoital Ezpediture                 2.47     2.53     2.05     2.79      2n38
' in Total Governw nt Expenditurm            0.69     0.60     0.52     0.79      0.72
2 ;n Domestic Revenun                        1.09     0.95     0.89      1.23     1.14
Total                                        60.23    59.85    61.27    71.18    76.58               6.19
i in HOP                                     4.23     3.99     3.89      4.41     4.57
i in Total Sonrmnnt Eap nditurs              9.56     9.34     8.45     8.82      8.83
2 in bosestic Revenst                       15.03    14.42    14.43    13.83    13.93.
Irosth Rate in BOP                                                                                   4.15
6routh Rate in Total Gov. EYp.                                                                       8.30
roth Rate in Crrent 6ow. E.                                                                          7.44
Irowth Rate in Capital Gov. Eso.                                                                    10.43
krouth Rate in DOmtic RneuZ                                                                          8.23
S crmt: CER 1981, Jordanian docum ts, and cosutatiou,
* Eaclude Coemitv Colleges



_ 71 -
ANNEX I. 5
Ninistry of Education Current and Capital Ezuendature
(Jo aillion at constant 1983 orices)
Prelihinary          Budget
----Actual---      --Estimates-    Average annual
1992      9        1984     1985      19U6     1987      1988    Growth S (1983-871
Current Expenditure'                          55.98    5'.90    53.75    60.60    66.09                  4.28
t on soP                                      ;.93      3.49     3.43      T.74      4.10
in Current 6overnmnnt Expenditure          12.32    11.47    10.62    11.19    1t.63
t in Total 6overnment Expenditure             6.97      8.69     7.86      9.13      R.34
S :n Domestic Revenues                       13.95    13.49    13.55    12.60    12.79
Caontal Expenditure#                           4.35      ;.801      .64     5.66      5.35               S.30
:in 6P                                        0.31      0.25     0.23      0.35     0.33
S in 6ow. Capital Expenditure                 2.47      2.53     2.05      2.79      2.38
t in Total  oew rnmn4t Expenditure            0.69      0.61     0.53      0.76      0.67
Y in Donestic Revenues                        1.09      0.95     0.92      1.18      1.04
Total                                         60.23    J7.?1    57.38    66.28    7t.43                  4.36
2 in SOP                                      4.23      3.74     3.66      4.09      4.44
2 in Total Government Expenditure             9.56      .30     8.40      8.89      9.01
% in Caustic Remenus                         15.03    14.44    14.46    13.78    13.83
Growth gate in SIP                                                                                       3.15
Growth Rate in Total Gow. Exo.                                                                           5.90
frowth Rate in Current 6ow. Exo.                                                                         5.78
Growth Rate in Canital BeV. EsX.                                                                         6.20
Growth Rate in Doestic Revenues                                                                          6.56
Sources CEO 1908, Jordanian documents, and computations.
Current exoeoedture deflated by government consumption isulicit deflator
:06ital excenditure deflated by fixed investment imolicit de4lator
Deflators obtained fro  CEN but adjusted to reflect 1983 prices.
* Excludes Coemunity Colleges



- 72 -
ANNEX 11.6
4tnistry of education Recurrent budqet tv tvpo of E.cendituzre
(JO billion at constant 1993 pri)es)
--Itad                 ugt Estiuatms -              -          Averaqe Annual
1992     l983     199U     1985     ;996     1997     1999    6rowth 2 11993-37)
r4ecurrent Sud;et                           54.82   '6.98    59.81    63.87    66.09                ;.as
:ersannel                                  46.12    47.35    49.41    53.05    57.45              S.6S
snit cost                                 75.33    78.81    77.70    83.33    82.12
Bervies\Suopiies                            9.31     7.00     7.79     8.16    7.50               -2.54
unit cost                                 13.57    11.65    12.50    12.82    10.72
Taterials                                  3.05     2.25     2.55     2.65     2.88              -1.34
unit cost                                4.97      3.74     4.09     4.17     4.12
Utilities                                  0.24     0.28     0.35     0.37     0.46              18.31
-n:t cost                                 0.38     0.47     0.56     0.58     0.66
Rent                                       1.32     1.43     1.45     1.49     1.7(7              7.13
init cost                                 2.16     2.39     2.33     2.34     2.48
Other                                      5.60     3.04     3.47     3.63     2.41             -18.95
unit cost                                 9.14     5.05     5.57     5.71     3.45
Transfer Pavmnts                            2.38     2.64     2.62     2.8S     1.12            -17.21
anst cost                                  1.46     1.81     1.95     2.09     0.82
share in tatal recurrent
0ersannel                                  81.17    93.09    82.31    83.06    86.95
Servies\Suoplies                           14.63    12.29    t3.24    12.77    11.35
Transfer Paysents                           4.19     4.63     4.45     4.46     1.69
30urce: 4inistrv of Education Statistics
Current expenditure deflated by qovnrnuent consuution isplitit deflator
* Excludes Coummnty ColleQes



ANNEX II.7
- 73 -
Ireatum  of nauastrw of Educatse RK=mt SWt. 1i9
Idptd  1to                     I 2stnbuto  of Fpnteaoa                     S Share of Tout
A-llogatlUg                         RiN     t iwn
atulleol                                                           -
ivcis Traotgr                     Services transter                  S cu  Irager
Perul  Suliss P _av t  Total Perssu  Suips  Pauutg Total  Pvsil Snil" Pavuts lettl
Odumtratn                    2.47    0.56      0.4     3.74    WOO   22.42   11.30   100.00    3.31         1.19    0.41     !.:
Si   ustam                  17.3      2.12            ".9    93.3    4.7         0.00   100.00   81.,    3.n .3       a     B5.=
Prim"                     20.6    1.31       0.00   :0.2?   95.7    C.Z        0.00   100.00   41.19      1.84    0.00   43.s
Prrr"ty                    16.65    0.72     0.0o0   .:a   95.3    4.17    0.00   100.00   23.63          1.03    0.00   :4.71
Suguary                    11.76    0.19    0.00    1.3    95.2        4.74    0.00   100.00    10.72    0.63    0.06   1M.U
vo tuga "Nutua                0.61    0.43   o.0o 1s      4    65.14   34.44    0.48   10.oo       1.1      0.4     0.01    1.77
COmmaty Colls
1tai Colle"                   0.1     0.26            0o44    4.4    5.4    0.00  100.00    0.25            0.37    0.0      0.6:
rAgtgr ltu Eia               0.22    0.24              0.4    47.5    12.42    0.00   100.00    0.31    0.4         0.00    0.0
Adult Edtas                           0.01    0.17    0.11    0.00    1.56   94.4   100.09    0.0           0.01    0.24    0.26
EdUCAta.. ftyeagaKl.Sga
Ac4 vtaUs                             0.34    0.40     0.3    0.00    41.18   38.42   10.0         0.00    0.49     0.69    :.L
OCaevice Traisiu             0.10    0.26   0.015    0.37    26.76   69.19    4.05   100.00        0.14    0.36    0.02    0.13
Cucrla ad Tent 8ees                   1.74     00       1.83    0.00    9.0       4.91   100.00    04.)    2.4      0.1      2.L
6tiumttsi,                            1.;               1.5    0.00  100.03    0.00   100.00    0.00    1.78   OO0    1.78
Edutas    ulms                                                                                     0.dO    0.00    0.00      0.*
Tout                        61.14      .3      1.19    10.2   86."    11.35       1.0   100.00   8U.       11.35    1.70   10.0*
Sns rI Trs stutgal Idmat   VW    atH 19W
tH_akh  of femorl eiutla esa IN bui I Sues"   S 191611
"it cat istiatuI         de   stawv  11plaxi.



- 74 -
Annex II.S
FLOW CHART OF EDUCATIONAL INPUTS AND OUTPUTS
f  I   Education System1
Research and Evaluation
Education System
P1an<l 5 and Promraringt
ICurriculum/Textbook     2   Teacher Training               School Building
|Develoument Processes r1.'   & EU1rading         r  2I  Equi at Proarr 
Curriculum/Textbook      |   Instruction by        |     School Accomdatioa|
|Content                          Teacher         r     and Facilities       l
Student Learning
________________        ~ in
Classroom
8uman Calital Stock  |



- 75 -
ANNEX M.1
Page 1 of 4
Basic Education Teacher Certification Program Model
The T -le at the end of this Annex presents a simplified but broadly
realistic model of the workings of the certification program for Community
College diploma holders already teaching in basic education. The notes that
follow explain the columns in the Table and the assumptions underlying the
data in each colt m.
Column (i)     : This column shows the yearly inflows of first year enrollees
into the system, as6zming that all planned HCC and
university places under the Government's certification
program in fact come on board as proposed and that annual
urtake of these places, based on expected demand (see notes
on columns (vii) and (viii) 'or demand assumptions), is 100X.
Column (ii)    : Starting in the second year of the program, this column
shows the national total of second year enrollees each
year; it is the difference between the previous year's net
enrollments (first and second year combinea, from column
(v): see below) and number certified (from column vi: see
below).
Column (iii)   : This column adds first and second year students (columns (i)
and (ii) to provide national figures for gross program
enrollments each year (based on a two-year program
strtxcture).
Column (iv)    : This column shows the reduction in yearly gross enrollments
implied by an assumed 80Z retention rate for second year
students (i.e., a dropout rate of 202).
Column (v)     : This column shows net yearly enrollments (first and second
year students combined), reflecting the subtraction of
column (iv) from column (iii).
'olumn (vi)     : This column shows the number of enrollees graduating each
year, again assuming that 80Z of all enrollees enter year 2
and that lOOZ of this group graduate.
Column (vii)    : This column shows the baseline demand for certification each
year, based on the following assumptions: (a) total eligible
individuals (i.e., those teaching in basic education at a
community college were 20,000 at the beginning of 1986/87
and rose at a steady rate of 1,350 a year (net of
retirements and departures from the system) to 22,700 by
1988/89; (b) of this total, only a net 66b would actually



- 76 -
ANNEX Mll
Page 2 of 4
demand certification (the other one-third represents those
planning to retire or leave the system; those with
inadequate academic credentials; and those otherwise unable
to enroll. The net first year baseline demand estimate is
thus:
20,000 + (1,350 + 1350) x 66
100
or 14,982, as shown in column (vii) for 1988/89
Column (viii)   : This column applies the net 66% factor explained above to
the steady increment of 1350 new community college graduates
entering basic education teaching each year. The
calculation is thus 1300 x 66 or 891.
100
This series ends in 1993/94 because a new system will V>_ in
place for qualifying basic education teachers through four-year baccalaureate
programs from the beginning of Phase II in 1992/93; thus the last cohort of
incremental community college diploma holders requiring certification would
have entered community colleges in 1992/93 and graduated two years later,
making them eligible for the certification program in 1994/95 as shown in
column (viii). In fact, column (viii) probably overstates the net incremental
demand in the last two years for which numbers are shown, because some of
those who would have formerly entered community college can be expected to
apply for the pilot phase of the university-based baccalaureate, which should
begin to enroll some students from 1990/91 or 1991/92 onwards.
Column (ix)    : This column completes the picture of the certification
process by relating the "supply" columns (i) - (vi) to the
"demand" columns (vii) and (viii). It shows total net
demand (accrued plus incremental: column (vii) + column
(viii)) LESS total annual numbers certified (the third
sub-column of column (vi) to obtain the net balance of
individuals to be certified at the end of each year of the
certification program. As noted above, column (viii) may
overstate incremental demand in the last few years of the
community college diploma programs for teachers; thus the
net residual figure at the bottom of column (ix), i.e.,
4,728 individuals still requirirg certification at the end
of the reform period, may be unduly large. Nevertheless,
bearing in mind the assumptions described in these notes
about net demand (estimated at only 662 of total
eligibility) and drop outs (estimated at 20% throughout the
certification period), the Table suggests that the
Government's provision for certification is certainly not
excessive; if anything, it may be somewhat conservative.



- 77 -
ANNEX II1l
Page 3 of 4
these notes about net demand (estimated at only 661 of total
eligibility) and dropping out (estimated at 201 throughout
the certification period), the Table suggests that the
Government's provision for certification is certainly not
excessive; if anything, it may be somewhat conservative.



CEltIflCATIOM PROGAM FOR
CMecmzTY COLLEGE GRAOUM (
_   (t)       1i0                 {1St}                  (~~    ~ ~ ~~          ~      ~    ~~~(tv)  lv)  1t0   t)0      18sS0)          (x).
NET                     CWWATIVE
YEAR                       NO. OF ENROLLEES                                                                                  YEMLY       NET       NET  EALACE AFTER
FMON PRVIOUS       YEARLY GROSS       DROPGiaTS FRW        YEARLY NET        YEARLY UWERER    ACCUED INCR NTAL  DEDU=TIN   UMBER
YEARLY INTAKE           YEAR           ENROLLME           PRVIOUS YIAR        ENROLLMENT          CERTIFIED   _     DA        DEoND           CERTIFIED
ll  UtDIIVS   OTAL u1    UUIYL IIAL  am   1111 TL L lla; UIIIs                             MI=L        U IIUL    IIML
19aa/s9  600    0    600    0         0     a   600    0    600    0        0       0   600      0   600      0     0      D   14982      891         15873-0  =15873
1989/90 1100 1000   2100  600         0   600  1700 1000   2700   120    0    120  IS80  1000  2580   480            0   480   15873      691       16764-480  =16284
1990/91  loo 1000   2100  1100  100  2100  2200 2000   4200   220   200   420  1980  1800  3780   880   8oo  1680   16284               891       17175-1680 =1U495
1991/92 1100 lOGO   2100  1100  1000  2100  2200 2000   4200   220   200   420  1980  1800  3780   88    800  1680   15496                891       16386-1660 04706
1992/93 1300 1000   2100  1100  1000  2100  2200 2000   4200   220   200   420  3980  1800  3780   880   800  1680   14706                891       11597-1680 =13917
1993/94 1100 1000   2100  1100  1000  2100  2200 2000   4200   220   IdO   420  1980  1800  3780   880   800  1680   13917                891       148e8-1680 =13128
1994/95 1I00 1000   2100  1100  1000  2100  2200 2000   4200   220   208   420  1980  1800  3780   880   800  1680   12128                          13128-1680 =11448
1995/96 1100 1000   2100  1100  1000  2100  2200 2000   4200   220   200   420  1980  1800  3780   880   soe  1660   11448                          11448-1680 = 9768        X
1996/97 1100 1000   2100  1100  1000  2100  2200 2000   4200   220   200   420  1980  1800  3780   880   800  1680    9786                           9786-1680 = 8e88
1997/98 1100 1000   2100  1100  1000  2100  2200 2000   4200   220   200   420  1980  1800  3780   880   800  1680   808u8                           80 8-1680 = 6408
1998/99 1100 1000   2100  1100  3000  2100  2200 2000   4200   220   200   420  1980  1800  3780  s88    800  1680    6408                           640b-1660   4728
__
'.



79 -                               ANNEX III. 2
Pag,e 1 of 2
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
ACTION PLAN FOR IN-SERVICE TRAINING PROGRAM
Timing            Responsibility
Outline planning for in-service training- identily  Jan-Feb 89  Directorate of Cert.
training needs of National Team                                 Trg. and Super
Recruit tra.ners for Natio -.a Team(1)        Feb-Aug 89        Directorate of Cert..
Trg. and Super.
Recruit National Team(2)                      Apr 89            Oirectorate of Cert..
Trg and Super
ain National Team                            May-Nov 89        Directorate of Cert., Trg.
and SuperlOvemseas.
Establish needs:
plan training the trainers program;           May 89-Feb 90     National Team
develop and produce relevant training materials                 (Dir. of Ed. Tech:
production ot materials)
Recrui Local Teams(3)                         Sep 89            National Team
Train Local Teams                             Oct 89-Sep 90     National Team
Train teachers etc                            June 90 onwards    Local Teams
Superise and evaluate training                June 90 onwards    National Team
Notes:
(1)  Trainers will require expertise in the following areas:
* philosophy and objectives of educational development in Jordan;
* training academic teachers:
* training vocational teaches;
* training educational leaders;
* training personne in educational technology departments.
The majority of expertse wi be obtained boally, but the technical assistance program (see Annex 7)
provides support In specific areas both through visiting consultants and overseas fellowships.
(2)  The National Team wfi comprise expertise in II areas: Grades 1-4: Islamic education: Arabic language
and literatre: English language and literature: mathematics and computing; science; social studies:
vocational education; educational activities; educational administration; educational technology. Its
menmbers will priar aily comprise senior supervtisors, and its terms of reference will be
(a) To identify the training needs gt the following groups:
^ Principals;
* Supervisors:
* Teachers:
* Librarians;
* Laboratory technicians;
* AVA personnel.
(b) To plan programs and to prepare, or ensure the preparation of, traininG malerials for them.
(c) To identify and recruit trainers from among school principals, supervisoms, and excellent teachers.



- 80 -
ANNE IIT . 2
Page 2 of 2
(d) To plan and defiver training prgranm fOr these trainers in relation to the programs and materials
referred to in (b) above.
(e) To develp and ikpolemtnt evaluation procedures for the training the trainers program and the main
training program.
(3)  Local teams will comprise supervisors and selected principals and 'excellent teachers'.



- 81 -                   ANNEX 1ii. 3
Page 1 of 3
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
This Annex summarizes the main functions, institutional
status, end proposed program of work of the NCERD.
. EunatiQua
The Center would have seven main functions:
(i)  To  conduct   a  phased,   comprehensive   program  of
longitudinal impact evaluations of the reform (concentrating in
Phase I on evaluation the programs supported by the SIL and
providing policy ori6nted feedback to the Intermediary the
executing agencies, and the Bank's).
(ii) To develop and mairtain (in close cooperation with the
MOE's Directorate of Research and Evaluation) a comprehensive
educational database for Jordan, and to undertake, on a fee basis,
consultancy assignments approved by its Governing Council (see
below) for ministries, school districts, and Vocational Training
and Higher Educational Institutions in Jordan, and for regional
and international institutions;
(iii) To become a center of excellence and a medium for
documentation and dissemination of information and stateO-of-the-
art thinking on educational development issues, through programs
of conferences, seminars and publications, and provision (via
collaborative prograos with the universities) of opportunities for
graduate research in line with the Center's obJectives;
(iv) To research and test/evaluate innovations in educational
methodology  (including  curricula,  materials  and  technology,
teaching techniques and teacher training);
(v) To research and test/evaluate the appropriateness of
current and alternative approaches to education management and
administration  in  Jordan,   and  to  teacher  and  education
administrator career development;
(vi) To "talent-spot' outstanding individuals in the Jordanian
education system (including teachers,  local school directorate
administrators, MOE and MORE officials, and university staff and
administrators) for secondment to the Center for research
work/experience enrichment, or for overseas fellowships to broaden
their awareness of education systems and components.
(vii) To undertake any other research functions requested by
the Intermediary, subject to applicable criteria for subproject
appraisal and approval.
The Center would be established as an independent entity
affiliated to the Higher Council for Science and Technology (KCST).
As such, it vould have the same status as the Royal Scientific
Society.    It  would  have  a  Q2y1rniag.DDLaA     consisting  of



- 82 -                    ANNEX. III. 3
Page 2 of 3
representatives of the 8CST (Chairman), the MOE, the MORE, the VTC,
and Jordan's universities and community colleges: The Director of
the Center would be an ex officio member of the Board. The Board
would be responsible for:
--   Preparing,  defending  and  controlling  the
budget, including the allocation of funds;
--   Reviewing and approving the Center's annual
and long-term work programs;
--   Approving the conditions  of employment and
individual appointments of permanent and
seconded senior staff (see below) and the
appointments to such overseas fellowships as
the Center might be empowered to award;
--   Promotion of fee-based research consultancies
and joint operat_ons with other domestic or
external agencies; and
--   Appointing   subcommittees   to   review   and
evaluate research proposals, onguing work and
final reports of the Center.
The  =&=rneLgU&  staff of the Center  would consist  of a
Director, up to five permanent or seconded professional statf, and
up    to    five    permanent    or    seconded    support    staff
(administrative/research assistants, typists, etc).  The mission
currently envisages that up to three of the five individuals in
each of the latter two categories would be permanent; agreement
would be reached with the Government on this point before SIL
negotiations.
3. I9.kLrogr.a3
The Center's work program would be expected to evolve in line
with the priority tasks of the phases of the overall educational
reform program.  Thus 4urinL,Ebn _.  its main focus would be on
setting up, and developing the initial findings of, the policy-
oriented impact evaluations of reform programs listed under
'Functions" above, and on developing the structure of the national
education- database, and the institutional and intellectual
foundation for the "Center of excellence" function described above.
Duiu   Phamj,__l,  work  on  these  activities  would  be
supplemented by priority research projects identified by impact
study findings, together with contrsct research for MOE, MORE and
possibly other domestic or external clients. The activities covered
would emphasize applied educational research, including ongoing
analysis   of   (i)  changes   in  curricula,   textbooks,   other
instructional materials, exams, etc. (including changes in content
and presentation, and their effects on teachers, students, and
education quality); (ii) changes in teacher training (including
both pre-service training of new teachers and in-service
upgrading/reorientation  of  existing  ones),  along  with  the
consequences of changes in the selection process for new teachers,
improvements in the status of teaching as a profession, etc. for
teacher intake levels; (iii) emerging problems or unforeseen



- 83 -
Page 3 of 3
opportunities arising from the reform process  itself,  as its
effects work through its target populations (students, teachers,
and administrators) and begin to affect the economy as a whole.
Contacts   with  other  regional   and  international   research
institutions during this phase.
rn..Pkna._Jf1. the emphasis would be on using prior research
experience and evaluation work to develop and test innovations, to
organize overseas fellowships for distinguished educators, and to
develop further the research consultancy and Joint operatione
aspect of the Center's work. In this way, by the completion of the
rsform, the Center would have evolved into a mature, many-faceted
research organization and catalyst of continuing educational
innovation, while also expanding the self-financing component of
its overall program of work.



- 84 -                                      ANEXLIV IJ
THE ASHLOSTE KINSCON Eof JORDAN
HUAN RESCURCES DEVELOPNEHT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
PROGRAM IHPLENENTATZON RE9POMSZBaILTICr
VOCATtINL 
P RAfms5UBPRgECt                     9                   MORE NE     UNIVERStTIES    NCST        TRAINING
._____mCORPORAT
I Curriculum Oevelopment           General Dir. of Curr.
& Education techno-
logy (Directorate of
Curriculum)
Textbook  Development            General DOr. of Curr.
& Educ. Technology
(Textbook Publishing
Division)
1.~~~~~                                                                             ~       ~~~ .  -  _.   ______
Teacher Tratning:
- Certification                                        Higher College  Colleges of
of Certifica-   Educatton
tion Comanity  Science
Colleges
- Pro-service                                                           Colleges of
Education
Science
- In-service                   General Directorate
and Supervision
(Oirectorates of
Basic and Secondary
Education; and
Certification.
Training and
Supervision).
| Educational Technology           General Directorate
of Curriculum and
Ed. Technology
(Directorate of Educ.
Technology)
Education Research and           General Oirectorate                                   National
Oevelop.mnt                      of Education Planning                                 Center for
and Research                                         Education
Research
and Oev.
Educational Facility             General Oirectorate
| mrovemnt                       of Projects and
School Buildings        _                           I
Vocational Training              Vocational Training  |                 ;             I            'Vocational
Corporation            I _               _                        ITrainini I
___I                                                                                   L1lrLCI



- 85 -
Annex IV.2
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
COMPOSITION OF THE INTERMEDIARY
THE POLICY COUNCIL
Chairman, Secretary General, Higher Council for Science and Technology
Deputy Chairman, Secretary General, Ministry of Planning
*ember, Secretary General, Ministry of Education
Member, Secretary General, Ministry of Higher Education
Member, Director General, Vocational Training Corporation
Member, Vice President of the Royal Scientific Society
Member, Director of Economic Planning, Ministry of Planning
Member, Director General, Curriculum and Educational Technology,
Ministry of Education
Member, Director General, Planning, Research and Development,
Ministry of Education
THE TECHNICAL UNIT
Director
Educational Planner
Manpower Specialist
Engineer
Economist
Administrative Assistant
Research Assistant
Financial Officer
Accountant (one at start, another added when needed)
Educator/Educational Planner (specialist financed under TA for one year)
Experts to be contracted as needed
Support Staff



- 86 -
ANNEX IV.3
Page 1 of 4
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
SAMPLE FORMAT FOR PREPARING SUBPROJECTS
A subproject may be prepared in various forms for submission to the
Intermediary, but whichever form is used must include certain key elements
that will be sought out in the appraisal process. Those key elements are
incorporated in this sample format outline.
I.    Heading Information
A. Date, Preparing entity, Person to be contacted for questions or
additional information
B. Statement of subproject endorsement by Steeing Committee of entity
II.   Justification for investment being proposed
A. Problems and issues subproject will address
B. Expected outcomes
III. Subproject Objectives
(Concisely stated and linked to the general and specific objectives of
the Educational Reform)
IV.   Brief (one paragrarh) description of subproject
V.    Required inputs for subproject implementation
A. Staff
1. Professional
2. Support
3. Full-time
4. Part-time
5. Qualifications
B. Transportation
1. Using existing system
2. New vehicles
3. Public system



- 87 -
ANNEX Iv.3
Page 2 of 4
C.   Equipment
D.   Builaiings and/or sites
1. Rented
2. To be constructed
E.   Materials
F.   Technical assistance
1. Type required
2. Selection process
3.  ConLract duration
G. Other
VI.   Staff development plan (if needed)
A.   Assessment of needs
B.   Plan for developing training programs
C.   Entities that will do the training
VII.  Management arraugements for implementation
A.   Responsible person(s)
B.   Supervision
C.   Planning
D.   Financial management
1. Accounting
2. Procurement
E.   Coordination (internal/external)
F.   Monitoring system based on performance indicators
1. Quantities (numbers trained, constructed, printed, distributed,
cortracted, enrolled, etc.)
VIII. Subproject costs
A.   Costs by subproject component and total
1. Per unit costs
B.   Incremental recurrent cost
IX.   Implementation schedule showing each component in a timeframe
X.    Subproject evaluation plan linked to objectives and the cumulative data
compiled by the supervision and monitoring systems.



- 88 -
ANNEX IV.3
Page 3 of 4
SAMPLE FORMAT FOR SUBPROJECT APPRAISAL REPORTS
I.    Subproject's justification and objectives
A.   B:riefly summarize both
B.   Indicate their relevance to the reform
C.   Cite deficiencies if necessary
D.   Recommend revisions if necessary
II.   Summarize subpreject description
A.   Analyze conceptual and techuiical design
B.   Analyze its congruence with objectives and reform
C.   If deficient, provide recommendations
III.  Assess adequacy and appropriateness of inputs
A.   Qualitative and quantitative aspects
B.  Cost effectiveness
C.   Control mechanisms
D.   Timeliness of provision
E.   Recommendations
IV.   Assess staff training program if applicable
A.   Training plan
B.   Correct definition of needs
C.   Acceptability of the training entity
D.   Recommendations
V.    Assess adequacy of management arrangements
A.   Responsibility factor
B.   Supervision of implementation activities
C.   Planning process
D.   Financial management
E.   Procurement procedures and accountability
F.   Implementation coordination
G.   Implementation monitoring
H.   Recommendations
VI.   Assess subproject costs
A.   Check for accurancy
B.   Request back-up information when necessary
C.   Determine cost effectiveness
D.   Recommendations



- 89 -
ANNEX IV.3
Page 4 of 4
VII.  Assess schedule of implementation
A.   Check for its feasibility
B.   Recommendations
VIII. Assess evaluation plan
A.   Feasibility and appropriate linkages
IX.   Recommendation to the Policy Council



- 90 -
ANNEX v.4
Page 1 of 3
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
General Criteria for Subproject Preparation, Appraisal and Approval
The General Cri'.eria, together with Specific Criteria, will form the
basis for subproject preparation by the beneficiary institutions, appraisal by
the Intermediary's Technical Unit, and approval by the Intermediary's Policy
Council.
The General Criteria consist of four elements:
(a)   Relevance to the objectives of the reform program:  Should it
be done?
(b)   Technical Quality:  Will the subproject inputs produce the
desired output?
(c)   Implementation Capacity:  Can the subproject be implemented
effectively?
(d)   Cost efficiency:  Can the subproject be implemented at
reasonable cost?
It is recognized that the weight assigned to each criterion would
vary among subprojects.
A. Relevance to Reform Objectives
The televance of a given subproject would be assessed on the basis of
its expected contribution to the overall goals of the reform as a whole and to
those of the national program to which it belongs, as articulated in the
Government's Policy Statement (Annex III-1). Some programmatic examples are
given below for illustrative purposes.
(i)  Curricula and Instructional Materials.  Whether subprojects to
introduce new curricula and instructional materials (textbooks,
audio-visual aids and other teaching aids) would be expected to
improve the acquisition of basic knowledge and skills, increase
student critical thinking, problem-solving skills, creativity,
resourcefulness, and involvement in classroom, school and
community activities.



- 91 -
ANNEX v.4
Page 2 of 3
(ii)  Teachers.  Whether subprojects for pre-service, certification
and in-service programs are suitable for iacreasing teachers'
academic and pedagogical qualifications (including
resourcefulness, initiative and leadership), and whether this
would result in a more effective use of curricula,
instructional materials and media to realize higher student
achievements.
(iii) Provision of Educational Technology and Physical Facilities.
Whether the proposed subprojects provide physical facilities,
technology, delivery systems or audio-visual software that
would enhance student achievement levels and education quality
by maximizing the impact of new curricula and materials and
would enable teachcrs to apply their improved qualifications to
the best effect.
(iv) Educational Research and Development. Whether the proposed
subprojects would help to improve the effectiveness of existing
reform programs (through monitoring and evaluation feedback);
support new program and policy initiatives (through major
studies of sectoral and subsectoral issues or institutions),
and promote excellence or institutionalize innovations (through
research and testing of promising new pedagogical,
technological or institutional developments in Jordan or
overseas).
B. Technical Quality
Each subproject application would be assessed to ensure that its
design and targets would address quality improvement issues. The analysis
would consider:
Design and Targets. Whether the design is in line with the national
program objectives, design, and targets; it is well defined; whether the
targets are identified and quantified to the extent possible; whether
achievement dates are specified; and whether there are measures to monitor the
achievement of specified targets .
Norms, standards and utilization rates. Whether construction,
maintenance, furnishings, equipment and teacher utilization rates/standards
are specified; and whether they are in conformity with those agreed upon for
the national program.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Whether there is a clearly defined
monitoring and evaluation program which identifies goals and responsibilities,
defines activities to be monitored and evaluated, and provides strategies and
instruments for assessing the financial progress of the subproject; and
whether the subproject includes evaluation feedback that will facilitate any
needed modification in subsequent activities.



- 92 -
A1NNEX IV.4
Page 3 of 3
C. Implementation Capacity
The analysis would use the following criteria to determine whether the
applicant beneficiary institution can implement the subproject.
An assessn.ent of staff. Whether the implementing unit has the
necessary technical and managerial capacity and expertise to carry out the
subproject effectively; whether the subproject identifies staff by subproject
implementation responsibilities, indicates their qualifications, and
identifies specific actions to remedy staff shortfalls or losses.
An assessment of the subproject implementation coordinator. Whether
the individual assigned is technically and managerially qualified; whether
his/her responsibilities and accountabilities are clearly specified.
Coordination within the subpr,ject. Whether the subproject has been
prepared in coordination with the various departments responsible for the
areas covered by the subproject.
Coordination with other subproiects. Whether the subproject
implementation program has been coordinated with related subprojects under the
same national program or under other national programs.
Availability of Funds. Whether the counterpart financing
requirements for the subproject are available.
D. Cost Efficiency
Subprojects would be assessed to determine whether they can be
implemented at reasonable cost without jeopardizing timely delivery or
quality. This would involve consideration of the following:
Unit cost. Whether subproject capital and recurrent unit costs are
in line with estimates used for cost calculations for similar activities
proposed in the relevant national programs; and whether costs are based on
national standards or Bank experience.
Utilization rates. Whether facility and equipment utilization rates
are in line with those used in the design of national programs; and whether
the intensity of use of subproject outputs has been documented and is used to
determine priorities.
Staff Utilization. Whether staff will be efficiently utilized; and
whether staff trained under the subproject will maximize the gains to be
derived from their improved qualifications.



- 93 -
ANNEX rV.5
Page 1 of 26
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR APPRAISAL OF
CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT
Applicability. Since the curriculum development program has no
subprojects, those criteria are not applicable by the Intermediary as in other
national programs which have subprojects; instead they are intended for use by
the Board of Education to evaluate curricula that have been revised in light
of reviewers' comments.
A. Appraisal Method/Scoring System
Curriculum revisions must be appraised against the criterion
questions listed in section C below, using a simple 5-point scoring system for
each question.  Scoring values in each case should be:
I   =    unacceptable
2   =    poor
3   =    acceptable
4   =    good
5   =    excellent
B. Criterion Questions
How effectively does the curriculum being appraised:
Provide the flexibility to address individual students' differing
aptitudes;
Demonstrate a well-coordinated scope (in terms of subject matter
coverage);
Follow a logical and readily understandable sequence, in terms of
both the material to be covered within individual grades and the
progression from one grade to the next;
Promote student creativity and critical thinking;
Help students to practice and master problem solving within the
subject matter;



- 94 -
ANNEX 1V.5
Page 2 of 26
--   Incorporate topics or use examples that are relevant to the
contemporary world (including issues related to the local/regional
environment and related issues such as water quantity and quality,
soil conservation, reforestation, etc., health, population, social
and civic development, modern economic concepts, etc.);
--   Deal with subject matter at a level appropriate to the psychomotor
development of the target student age-group;
--   Stress practical activities/applications of the subject matter;
-- Exemplify learning based on clear student understanding of the
subjec': matter, as opposed to rote learning; and
__   Employ a realistic time frame for classroom coverage of the subject
matter, taking into account the overall school calendar, the
available number of periods fer the subject matter, and the expected
amount of time per task;
No curriculum with an average score of less than 40 should be
certified as acceptable; no curriculum with more than three questions scored
as "poor" (2) or "unacceptable" (1) by more than 10% of all scorers should be
certified as acceptable.
C. Other Criteria
In addition to obtaining adequate scores on the basis of the
above-listed questions, curricula must also satisfy more general criteria.
--   Has the curriculum been reviewed by a sufficient number (to be set by
the Board of Education at, say, 12) of experienced classroom teachers
of the relevant grade and subject and have these reviews been
adequately taken into account in curriculum revision?
-    Is the curriculum well articulated with the curricula of other
subjects at the same grade ievel in (a) requiring levels of student
aptitude/mental development that are broadly similar across subjects
at the same grade level, and (b) linking, where possible, this and
other subjects at the same grade level?
-    Does the c, .riculum give adequate coverage to all three general
categories of the learning process (cognitive, affective,
psychomotor)?
--   Does the curriculum fully reflect the goals of the reform through (a)
the promotion of flexible, inquiring thinking; (b) the relevance of
subject matter to contemporary issues; and (c) the preparation of
students for productive membership in the workforce and society at
large?



- 95 -
ANNEX IV.5
Page 3 of 26
Unless all these questions can be answered affirmatively, the
Board should require curricula to be further revised by the national subject
team. Any curriculum rejected on grounds of failure to satisfy the criteria
in this section and/or those in section B above should be returned with a full
repart, specifying (a) all the criteria not satisfied and (b) detailed
proposals for revision, and general conditions (if any) for resubmission.



- 96 -
ANNEX IV.5
Page 4 of 26
THE HASHEMITE KWGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR APPRAISAL OF
TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT
To be eligible for Bank financing, all subprojects, in addition to
adhering to the general appraisal criteria, will comply with specific
criteria. For this subproject, the specific criteria are set out below.
1.   A detailed organization chart specifying jobs and personnel must be
provided.
2.   All posts must have suitable job descriptions prepared.
3.   Qualifications, experience and salary grades must be agreed and specified.
4.   Premises must be available and in condition to be occupied.
5.   Costed lists of furniture and equipment must be provided.
6.   All designated posts must be filled by persons of appropriate
qialifications and experience.
7.   A detailed, costed training program must be available to cover the
initial setting-up period. It should provide reguilar in-country and
overseas training in defined specialist areas for at least two years
after the Textbook Publishing Unit is established.
8.   A technical assistance program, comprising qualified professionals in the
fields of editorial management, production management and design, must be
provided. It should run for at least two years after the establishment
of the Unit.
9.   There must be a program of regular professional supervision of the Unit
by a qualified publisher for at least two years after its establishment.
10. Detailed operational budgets within financial limits agreed between the
World Bank and the Government must be provided.
11. The Unit should have spending authority within agreed annual budgets
approved by the World Bank and the Government to avoid unnecessary
operational delays.



- 97 -
ANNEX IV.5
Page 5 of 26
12.   The Unit should have authority from MOE to be able to transfer, replace
and hire staff within guidelines established with MOE which are
consistent with existing MOE conditions of service.
13.   The Unit should be at a :ufficiently senior level in the MOE hierarchy
to enable easy access to higher authority within MOE. lt is suggested
that this cannot be achieved unless the Uni.t is established as at least
a Directorate within the General Directorate of Curriculum Development
and Educational Technology.
14.   The Unit should have a constitution that clearly defines its
responsibilities and relationship with subject panels, authorship teams
and other MOE departments involved in the publication process.



- 98 -
ANNEX Iv.5
Page 6 of 26
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR IvEsTMENr LOAN
SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR APPRAISAL or
PUBLICATION SUBPROJECTS
To be eligible for Bank financing, all subprojects, in additior. to
adhering to the general appraisal criteria, will comply with specific
criteria. Those applicabl3 to publication subprojects are set out below.
1.    The relevant curriculum must be completed and approved by the Board of
Education.
2. A Scope and Sequence Outline must be provided. This should include:
-- Key concepts and content for each book in the series;
__ Learning and teaching objectives;
== A statement of the learning/teaching concepts and methodologies that
will be developed via the books; and
-- A statement on treatment, which should cover the proposed balance
between text and illustrative materials for each book in the series.
The balance between different types of text (descriptive text,
exercises, activities, etc.) and the relationships among precisely
specified publication items (pupils' books, workbooks, teachers'
books, A/V aids) should also be stated and justified.
3.  The text development method must be stated and justified.  Acceptable
methods of text development are:
-   Direct commissioning of an authorship team;
-   Competitive bidding to identify suitable authors;
-- Direct commissioning of at, institution to supervise text development;
and
Co-publication or joint venture contract with a commercial publisher.



- 99 -
ANNEX IV.5
nige 7 of 26
4. Specific author teams must agreed upnn by CDET and approved by the Board
of Education.
5. Draft contractual arra-agements between authors and the MOE Textbook
Publishing Unit must be avaIlable for scrutiny.  They must be in
accordance with MOE requirements.
6. Detailed production specifications for all books in the subproject must be
provided. These must be supported by detailed cost estimates and cash
flow projections, provided in a standa-d, agreed format. The cost
estimates must be approved by CDET as within the budgetary limits agreed
between the World Bank and the Government for this project.
7. A publication timetable must be available for all books and A/V materials
specified by the subproject. This should be provided in a standard format
and cover all normal publication stages, including delivery of typescript,
approval deadlines, editing and art work deadlines, composing, proofing,
film and plate deadlines, and manufacturing and delivery deadlines. The
timetable must be explained and justified.
8. Total subproject costs should include:
- Authorship costs;
- Origination costs;
- Raw materials and manufacturing costs for thte duration
of the cycle;
- Trialling and revision costs;
- Evaluation costs; and
- Cost recovery estimates for those titles sold or loaned
at a fee to students.



- 100 -
ANNEX N.5
Page 8 of 26
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR APPRAISAL OF
THE WAREHOUSE SUBPROJECT
To be eligible for Bank financing, all subprojects, in addition to
adhering to the general appraisal criteria, will comply with specific
criteria. Those applicable to the warehouse subproject are set out below:
1. A detailed examination of all existing warehouse/storage units must be
undertaken to demonstrate the need for improved premises botk centrally
and by district. Acceptable reasons for construction and/or upgrading
would be:
-    Existing premises are unsuitable;
-    Existing premises are unsafe;
-    Existing premises are inconvenient; and
-    Existing premises have insufficient capacity for projected volume
requirements.
2. Projections for expected weight/volume requirements up to 1999 must be
available nationally and by district to show expected capacity of proposed
warehouse/storage units.
3. For all proposed new buildings and extensions, there must be proof of site
acquisition and a site survey (to include boundaries and gradients).
4.  For all proposed new buildings, there must be evidence that all zoning and
building permits have been achieved.
5.  Preliminary plans for proposed new construction must be available for
inspection.
6.  Proposals that include specialists, controlled environment storage (for
printing film, video/audio tapes. film, computer dsk, etc.) must be
supported by a full justification.



- 101 -
ANNEX IV.5
Page 9 of 26
7.   Detailed cost estimates (including price escalation contingencies) must
be provided in a standard, agreed format.
8.   Detailed, costed proposals for warehouse operational systems to cover
stock and movement control and accounts systems should be provided. They
should demonstrate a clear c_pacity to manage the upgraded system.
9.   Proposals for all necessary transportation arrangements to cover stock
movement from printers to the individual schools must be available and
costed.
10. A costed training program for warehouse and distribution staff and
management must be provided.
11. An organization chart with job descriptions and minimum qualification
levels must be provided. Clear reporting lines within MOE must be
demonstrated.
12. Senior staff must be appointed or available for appointment.
13. A detailed 4mplementation program must be available which takes into
proper account existing arrangements and will not adversely affect book
distribution.



- 102 -
A1NNEX IV.5
Page 10 of 26
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR APPRAISAL OF
TEACHER TRAINING SUBPROJECTS
To be eligible for Bank financing, all subprojects, in addition to
adhering to the general appraisal criteria, will comply with specific
criteria. Set out below are the criteria applicable to teacher training
subprojects.
A. Specific Criteria for All Teacher Training Subprojects
1.  Training target groups must be clearly defined in terms of:
- Number(s) and type(s) of individuals to be trained (teachers,
principals, supervisors); and
- A specific itemized assessment of the group's training needs, defined
in concrete behavioral terms suitable for comparative pre- and
post-training evaluation (cee para 9 below).
2.    Training objectives must be prepared on the basis of the needs
assessment prepared under Al and be explicitly linked to the objectives
of the reform as a whole, i.e., they should describe behavioral change
in the direction of:
- Enhancing teachers' familiarity with the reform;
- Broadening teachers' knowledge Af subject matter;
- Making effective use of new curricula and textbooks;
- Using teaching methods that foster more student participation;
- Raising the level of cognitive learning in the classroom;
- Upgrading the professional status of teachers;
- Improving managerial and supervisory skills; and
1  *   *    -4   -in  tr1 1 .



- 103 -
ANNEX IV.5
Page 11 of 26
3.    Training content must be based on a plan that explicitly reflects
whatever training objectives have been defined under A2 and be properly
sequenced and designed into a defined and appropriate predetermined time
frame. Content must also reflect the most up-to-date knowledge of the
subject in question; any previously offered course must be updated as
necessary.
4.    Training methods must be explicitly defined in behavioral terms and be
appropriate to the background of the trainees and to the size of the
group. Up-to-date intKractive methods that stimulate trainee
participation and simultanously serve as good teaching models are to be
encouraged.
5.    Trainee selection must reflect a specified selection process that
identifies priorities and promotes a balanced representation between
geographical regions, males and females, and teaching grade levels.
Selection should also reflect a systematic enrollment plan that covers
the implementation period of the subproject.
6.    Training staff must be selected and assigned according to a plan that
specifies:
- The number of staff required year by year (and month by month for
larger subprojects),
- Staff appointment criteria; and
- Staff training needed (and completed) to ensure that staff are
compete,nt to perform in line with criteria 1-4 above.
7.    Training sites and buildings must be selected an.! justified for
subproject appraisal purposes on the basis of their cost effectiveness,
but the need to encourage attendance from trainees who live in isolated
areas should also be taken into account. Buildings requirements must be
specified to show that an adequate number of classrooms, laboratories,
workshops and other facilities will be available for the training
program.
8.    Administrative arrangements for the training program must clearly define
responsibilities for all aspects of administrative support.
9.    A monitoring and evaluation plan must be included in the subproject.  It
must include all instruments to be used for collecting data on
performance indicators of trainee achievement in terms of both
"internal" measures (enrollments vs. targets, dropout and progression
rates, successful completions, etc.) and "external" measures, such as
the impact of the proposed subproject on the quality of schooling. The
plan should also indicate how the results of monitoring and evaluation
would be used to improve the training program.



- 104 -
ANNEX Iv.5
Page 12 of 26
10.   The cost of the subproject must be broken down by component and the
total cost be within acceptable limits.
B. Additional Criteria for Certification Program Subprojects
In addition to meeting the above-described criteria for all teacher
training subprojects, each certification subproject must also meet the
following guidelines:
1.    Qalifications of instructors.  Instructors must have at least an M.A.,
but preferably a Ph.D., in the subject matter they will be teaching.
They should also have had university teaching experience. In terms of
duration of experience, those who teach subject matter must meet the
same criteria as those employed by Jordanian universities; those who
teach pedagogy must have at least two, but preferably five, years'
experience.
2.    quaiifications of trainees.  Trainees must satisfy the following minimum
criteria:
- Five years teaching experience;
- Above-average performance, as indicated in evaluation reports;
- Community college grade point average of 60X;
- For suLject matter teachers, the individual must be teaching the
subject for which he/she was trained;
- For Grade 1-4 te-chers, the individual must have an appropriate
balance of teaching skills and subject matter knowledge; and
- Above-average inter-personal skills, specifically including
successful interaction with students, good communication skills,
creativity, resourcefulness and willingness to adopt new teaching
methods. Note: strong personal skills could balance out a poor
academic background; (the important criterion is not so mue' hiow well
they did in school or haw good their paper credentials are, but how
good they are as teachers).
3.    Equity considerations.  At any point in time, not more than five of the
teachers enrolled in the certification program should come from any one
school with over 50 teachers; for those schools with 30-50 teachers, the
number should not exceed three; and for those with less than 30
teachers, it should not exceed two.
4.    Curriculum and teaching methods.  The cert1fication curriculum must be
appropriate to the needs of the candidates in light of their diversified
backgrounds: if evaluative material is available, the subject proposal
must explicitly identify the ways in which this material has



- 105 -
ANNEX 1W.5
Page 13 of 26
been taken into account in the proposed curriculum and teaching
methods. Each subproject must specify the measures taken to maintain
higher education academic standards while accommodating the subject
matter knowledge deficiencies or difficulties faced by trainees in
absorbing the academic material. The subproject must specify how the
program responds to poor performers--if there provisions for remedial
learning, and what the requirements are for continuation?
5.    Physical arrangements.  Class size should not exceed 30 students: the
class should have access to science laboratories, as appropriate.
6.    Follow-up and evaluation.  Each subproject should include explicit
follow-up and evaluation plans which should specify:
- The mechanism(s) for determining how successfully the certification
training proposed in the subproject translates into improved
classroom performance (this might involve a faculty tutor doing
post-training classroom observation);
- Ways of addressing individual trainee's specific weaknesses
identified by classroom observation, ir.cluding remedial counselling
or special assignment;
- Frequency and duratioti of classroom observation and follow-up; and
- An evaluation plan, including all instruments to be used and the
timing of their use, which specifies the nature and frequency of
evaluation reports.
C. In-service Training Criteria
In addition to meeting the criteria for all teacher training subprojects
set out in section A above, each in-service training subproject must observe
the following criteria:
1.    Each subproject must be based on the following number of training days
for each trainee category:
Supervisors    12 days
Principals     12 days
Teachers        6 days
Resource staff 6 days
2.    To ensure continuity of subject matter, each session must be linked to
the previous and subsequent one; to ensure continuity of trainers, each
subproject must identify trainers against the session they will train.
3.    The methodology to be used for instructional techniques in such
difficult areas as critical thinking and problem solving should be
identified.



- 106 -
ANNEX 1V.5
Page 14 of 26
4.    Details must be provided on monitoring and evaluation and on the
mecnanism for adjusting program content or sequence.
5.    In the light of monitoring and evaluation results, details must be
provided on the mechanisms used to ensure commonality of core content
between subprojects so that outlying areas receive the same standard of
assistance as those closer to the center. Details must be provided on
how any special needs of teachers in different localities will be
assessed and on how programs will be adapted to their needs.
6.    The coordinator for each project must be identified and his/her
responsibilities stated.
7.    Built-in incentives for teachers to participate in in-service training
must be specified.
8.    Each subpruject proposal must define:
- The catchment area, training venue, and availability of
transportation to the training site; and
- Indicate the amount of special funds needed to conduct experiments.



- 107 -
ANNEX rv.5
Page 15 of 26
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR APPRAISAL OF
EDUCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY SUBPROJECTS
To be eligible for Bank financing, all subprojects, in addition to
adhering to the general appraisal criteria, will comply with specific
criteria. The specific criteria for educational technology subprojects are
listed below by investment category.
A. School Libraries Subprojects
1.    The library book student ratios should be 5:1 and 8:1 in primary and
secondaty schools, respectively; however, in primary and secondary
schools with respective enrollments below 400 and 800, the minimum stock
of library books should be 2,000 and 4,000, respectively.
2.    No more than five copies per title should be provided in order to
maximize the number of titles.
3.    For primary schools with 400 or more students, one-half of a teaching
post should be allocated for a resource librarian; for enrollments over
1,000, one resource librarian should be appointed on a full-time basis.
For primary schools, these posts should be filled by teachers who have
received in-service librarian training. For secondary schools,
librarians should be qualified with at least a commuaity college diploma
in library science.
4.    Bookcases with adequate provision for security must be provided to
schools where these do not exist.
5.    All libraries must be furnished with tables, chairs, catalog holders and
shelf dividers, plus a counter for secondary school libraries.
6.    A completion date for the first phase of new schools construction must
be available so that the procurement program of library books and
equipment can be established.



- 108 -
ANNEX IV.5
Page 16 of 26
7.    A list of library books to be procured must be available, broken down
into primary and secondary school lists, and accompanied by relevant and
complete biographic information.
8.    Quantities of books to be procured must relate to the number of
libraries requiring procurement and equipment.
9.    Arrangements for procurement of books and equipment must conform to
WB/GOJ procurement guidelines.
10.   Training courses must be designed for teachers/librarians for the
primary schools, and arrangements made for training teachers/librarians.
11.   Suitable equipment lists for librarians must be available.
12.   The costs of books and equipment must fall within agreed budgetary
limits.
Since library equipment is totally dependent upon school construction,
the library subproject needs to be represented regularly during the life of
the project as each new wave of school construction is completed.
B.  Laboratory Subprojects
l.    A completion date for the first phase of new school construction must be
available so that the equipment procurement program can be established.
2.    An approved list of equipment, complete with all necessary technical
specifications, must be available, broken down into primary and
secondary school lists.
3.    The quantity of equipment to be procured must relate to the number of
laboratories requiring equipment.
4.    Procurement arrangements must conform to WB/GOJ procurement requirements
and regulations.
5.    Training courses for laboratory assistants must be designed and
arrangements for training underway.
'.    Arrangements for the recruitment of laboratory assistants must be
demonstrated.
7.    The costs of equipment must fall within agreed budgetary limits.
Since laboratory equipment is totally dependent on school construction,
the 1<- subproject needs to be represented regularly during the life of the
project as each new wave of school construction is confirmed.



- 109 -
ANINEX JV.5
Page 17 of 26
C. Audio-visual Facilities Subprojects
District Resource Centers must be provided with complementary
equipment to serve 15 to 20 surrounding satellite schools and have suitable
rooms to house the audio-visual aids and equipment to be provided. (Others to
be determined.)
1.    A completion date for the first phase of new school construction must be
available so that the equipment procurement program can be established.
2.    An approved list of equipment, with all necessary technical
specifications, must be available and broken down into primary and
secondary school lists.
3.    The quantity of equipment to be procured must relate to the number of
facilities requiring equipment.
4.    Procurement arrangements must conform to WB/GOJ procurement requirements
and regulations.
5.    The cost of equipment must fall within agreed budgetary limits.
Since audio-visual equipment is dependent upon school construction,
the audio-visual subproject needs to be represented regularly during the life
of the project as each new wave of school construction is completed.
D. Educational Technology Software Preparation Subprojects
Subprojects in this category are of two kinds: (a) experimental ETV
programs to be tested for school use in conjunction with new curricula and
written materials; and (b) pilot distance education programs to be tested in
teacher training. Unless otherwise specified, the criteria listed below apply
to subprojects in both areas. The specific criteria for subprojects in these
categories are as follows:
1.    Subprojects should be designed on a small scale pilot/experimental basis.
2.    Subprojects should only be prepared after the relevant curricula (and
preferably draft textbooks and written material) are available.
3.    Subproject content should take maximum advantage of the specific
strength of audio-visual media, i.e., they should use video
illustrations, animation, (including animated charts) and possibly
filmed panel or classroom discussions; they should not be filmed
lectures.



- 110 -
ANNEX 1V.5
Page 18 of 26
4.    Subproject production techniques should make use of existing technical
expertise available in the ETVU, supported as necessary by technical
assistance from VTV.
5.    Subprojects should be tested in representative schoolrooms and teacher
training sites.  Participants in the tests (i.e., grade students or
in-service teachers) should fill in formal evaluation questionnaires
immediately after the subproject presentation is over.
6.    Presenters of the material (classroom teachers or trainers providing
in-service training) should also fill in evaluation questionnaires.
7.    Questionnaires to be used under 5 and 6 above should be designed with
the assistance of NCERD; audio-visual material should be rated on the
basis of simple point scores for basic parameters, such as:
Appropriateness to the subject matter being covered in the
class/training session;
-- Comprehensibility and appropriateness to students prior knowledge
levels;
E ffectiveness of video techniques used;
- Relative appeal to the viewer compared to written or lecture
material;
Interest value for the viewer;
-- Up-to-dateness of the video material used; and
-- Ease of operation of the medium chosen (VCR/Videotape or live TV
Broadcast).



- 111. -
ANNEX IV.5
Page 19 of 26
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR  VSMENT LOAN
SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR APPRAISAL OF
SCHOOL FACILITIES SUBPROJECTS
To be eligible for Bank financing. all subprojects, in addition to
adhering to the general appraisal criteria, will comiiply with specific
criteria. Those applicable to school facilities subprojects are set out below.
A.    Specific Criteria for Subprojects
1.    Sites must have been surveyed and registered, and each subproject
proposal must show that these sites are appropriate, economical to
develop, of adequate size to accommodate planned and future needs, and
within easy reach of utilities. Sites must be located in accordance
with the regional location plan for the particular category of
facilities to be constructed under the subproject.
2.    Construction drawings must be completed and conform to accommodation and
design standards (including proper disposal of wastes from laboratories
and workshops) acceptable to the Government and the World Bank.
Standards for individual categories of facilities are listed in sections
B and C below. Dates for completion of co2struction drawings and for
starting construction must be set and agreed with the World Bank and tite
Government.
3.    All bidding documents for civil works, furniture and equipment related
to a subproject must be prepared in accordance with the basic
procurement guidelines of the World Bank.
4.    Final equipment and furniture lists must be appropriate for each
proposed subproject. Contracts for directly imported or locally
procured goods must be awarded on the basis of ICB or LCB guidelines, as
outlined in the May 1985 Bank Guidelines.
5.    All cost estimates must be as accurate as possible and within the
budgetary limits established during preparation of each subproject.



- 112 -
ANNEX 1V.5
Page 20 of 26
6.    The time schedule for site acquisition, preparation of drawings and bid
documents, and construction must be within a reasonable and acceptable
period, not to exceed four years.
7.    All construction and procurement subprojects must define how they will
be managed (planning, supervision, financial management, monitoring and
coordi.na;n).
B. Additional Criteria for School Construction Subprojects
In addition to meeting the above-listed criteria for all school
facilities subprojects, each school construction subproject must comply with
the following criteria:
1.    Accommodation standards must conform to those established unaer the
Bank-financed Education VII project. They must also comply with
existing Government standards, which call for 2.5 sq.m. and 3.31 sq.m.
per student, respectively, in primary and secondary schools; and
classroom capacity for 40 students at an average cost of JD 550 per
student in 1988 prices.
2.    Subproject proposals for school construction to replace existing rental
facilities must include:
==    A diagnostic analysis of the deficiencies of the rented facilities;
Clearly defined new site location(s) and analyses of their
appropriateness as replacement sites for the rental facilities to
be eliminated;
--    A clear definition of the catchment area; and
--    Estimates of current and projected enrollment figures for each new
site/school and the number of additional student spaces required
to meet anticipated enrollment.
3.    Subproject proposals for construction of net additions to existing
capacity must include:
--    School location plans, showing the distribution of schools in
relation to communities, transportation facilities, area
population and student enrollment data, projected growth, and
in/out mdigration patterns;
--    Estimates of the number of student places per grade and of teacher
availability; and
Inventory profiles of existing classrooms to determine
requirements for refurbishing, upgrading, or replacing existing
facilities.



- 113 -
A1NEX IV.5
Page 21 of 26
C. Additional Construction Criteria for Libraries, Labs, Audio-visual
Facilities and Workshops
Besides meeting the criteria set out in section A above, subprojects
must conform to the following standards:
I.    For libraries, 62 sq.m. at a unit base cost of JD 4,300.
2.    For science and laboratories, an average net area of about 100 sq.m. and
a unit base cost of JD 7,000.
3.    For audio/visual rooms, 30 sq.m. at a unit base cost of JD 2,100.
4.    For workshops, 225 sq.m. at a unit base cost of JD 22,500.
Note:    These criteria are for construction only; a detailed listing of
additional non-construction criteria for provision of these
facilities is given on pp. 15-18, covering the specific criteria for
educational technology subprojects.



- 114 -
ANNEX 1V.5
Page 22 of 26
THE HASHEMrrE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR NVESTMENT LOAN
SPECIFIC CRITERIA FOR APPRAISAL OF
EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT SUBPROJECTS
To be eligible for Bank financing, all subprojects, in addition to
adhering to the general appraisal criteria, must comply witn specific
criteria. Those applicable to educational research and development are set
out below.
A.    Specific Criteria for all Subprojects for Educational Research and
Development
1.    All subprojects would be formally submitted to the Intermediary by the
Governing Board of NCERD, upon the recommendation of NCERD's Director.
Subprojects could be initiated by other SIL beneficiary institutions
(i.e., MOE, MOHE, participating universities, and VTC), but would first
be submitted through and approved by NCERD. Only research and
development activities with estimated costs of JD 25,000 or more would
be treated as appraisal subprojects. Discrete activities with costs
below this threshold would be considered as NCERD "tasks" for which the
appraisal/approval process would not apply.
2.    All subproject proposals must contain:
A statement of need linking the proposed subproject directly to a
defined area of need in one or more of the otber six national
programs and specifying the expected "grassroots" applications
(and associated benefits) of the subproject in the relevant
national program(s);
--   An action program, specifying (a) main subproject components and
associated deliverables, (b) a timetable for the implementation of
components and the submission of deliverables, and (c)
dissemination proposals (target gro"o(s), time frame,
dissemination media) for the products of the action program;
-- A staffing plan, specifying the numbers, qualifications, duration
of service, and mix of in-house and contracted staff;



- 115 -
ANNEX 1V.5
Page 23 of 26
--   An itemized budget, including costs of staff, equipment, travel,
dissemination and (if appropriate) any offsetting NCERD overhead
charges to the initial proposer of the subproject; and
--   A summary of expected outcomes, specified in terms of
institutional change, program improvement, in addition to
state-of-the-art knowledge or program approaches, etc.
3.    In addition, each section of the subproject proposal must be appraised
against the specific criteria listed below.
(a)   Criteria Related to Statement of Need
Does the subproject proposal adequately demonstrate:
== The priority nature of the need for the subproject in terms of its
direct contribution to the effectiveness of one or more components
of one or more national programs, as defined in the Government's
Sector Policy Statement;
-   The specific nature of the practical "grassroots" applications and
benefits resulting from the subproject implamentatio:i; and
The "niche" nature of the subproject, i.e., its status as an
activity that cannot be (or in practice is not) covered by any of
the beneficiaries implementing other national programs.
(b) Criteria Related to Action Program
Are the action program components appropriate to the defined need;
are they logically sequenced; are they complete (or are other
components needed to meet the defined need); are they designed to
be implemented in ways that do not conflict with he regular
activities of the national program(s) to which the subproject
relates; have they been discussed in detail with the relevant
national program iirplementing agency or agencies, and (if
appropriate) the "grassroots" entities with which the subproject
will be concerned? Are the deliverables fully specified,
appropriately linked to action program components and (if reports,
surveys, etc.) complete in their coverage?
--   Is the timetable for completion of all action plan components and
submission of all deliverables feasible as planned; could it
reasonably be accelerated; does it provide an appropriate margin
for slippage; is it explicitly integrated with the timing of
relevant activities and events in the national program(s) to which
the subproject relates?



- 116 -
ANNEX WV.5
Page 24 of 26
--    Are the dissemination proposals specified in sufficient detail
with respect to target group(s), time frame and media; are the
proposals apprcpriate in each of these nreas; are they complete;
are they likely to have any adverse corsequences for individuals
or institutions not forseen in the subproject proposal? Is
dic,semination expected to be the main change agent supported by
the subproject; if so, does the expected dissemination effort
justify resources to be used for implementing the subproject?
(c)   Criteria Related to the Staffing Plan
Are proposed staff numbers, qualifications and duration of service
adequately justified in terms of fulfilling the action plan; are
numbers, qualifications and duration of service appropriate and
adequate; can the subproject expect to identify and recruit the
individuals identified in the staffing plan with reasonable ease? Has
full account been taken in the staffing plan of existing or potential
availabilities of specialist staff under current bilateral/multilateral
technical assistance programs? Is the mix of in-house and contracted
staff appropriate in terms of the skills needed and possible other
commitments of in-house staff? Are chains of command and individual
responsibilities appropriate for subproject execution,.practical, and
adequately spelled out? Does the staffing plan explicitly consider the
contribution that working-level individuals at the grassroots could
contribute to the subproject?
(d)   Criteria Related to Itemized Budget
Does the budget as a whole and each of its specified components
adequately cover the subproject's resource needs; is the budget
internally cost-efficient in terms of the relationship between
expenditures and output; is the budget adequately justified in the
proposal in terms of detailed costings and the scale of expenditures in
comparison with other similar activities; does the budget make adequate
(or excessive) provision for contingencies? Could any items in the
budget be obtained from other national programs or financed out of
existing, but as yet not earmarked, funding? If the subproject is
undertaken on behalf of a third party, is an overhead to be charged and,
if so, is the proposed overhead reasonable?
(e)   Criteria Related to Expected Outcomes
Are the expected outcomes reasonable in relation to need, action
program, staffing and budget; will the outcomes have direct effects os



- 117 -
ANNEX 1V.5
Page 25 o.' 26
the implementation of other national programs at the grassroots? If the
subproject is related to state-of-the-art innovations, is the subproject
appropriate to Jordanian conditions and domestic capabilities? Have the
implementing agencies for the national program(s) to which the
subproject relates (i) concurred on the expected outcomes and (ii)
endorsed their immediate/direct or potential/indirect
utility/desirability? Do the expected outcomes directly advance the
reform program objective of NCERD, i.e., that it should become a center
of excellence, maintaining the momentum of the reform and promoting the
institutionalization of innovation.
B. Additional Criteria for Key Phase I NCERD Activities
In addition to meeting the criteria listed in section A above, the
following criteria must be used in appraising (a) monitoring and evaluation
subprojects, and (b) data base development subprojects.
(a)  Monitoring and Evaluation Subproiects
=    Does the design adequately specify target groups,
instruments to be used and timing?
--    Are the chosen target groups appropriate in terms of the
program area being covered and of high priority for program
revision and development; do they include adequate
"grassroots" working-level representation?
--    Are the instruments well designed in terms of behavioral
variables to be tested, comprehensibility of content to
administrators and respondents, comprehensiveness of
coverage and ease of administration? To the extent that
some of the above factors are incompatible, do the
instruments represent a reasonable trade-off between them?
--    Is the time frame proposed appropriate in terms of its
"absolute" timing within the overall phasing of the reform
and its "relative" timing in connection with specific events
within the national program(s) and subproject(s) being
evaluated; is the frequency of monitoring/evaluation
appropriate to (i) the activities being evaluated and (ii)
the tolerance of the target group for monitoring/evaluative
interventions?
Are deliverables (formative and summative evaluation
reports, etc.) well specified and useful as specified to
policymakers and "grassroots" staff of the program(s) and
subprojects being monitored/evaluated?



- 118 -
ANNEX 1V.5
Page 26 of 26
Are any monitoring/evaluation systems already being operated
within the program area being monitored/evaluated; if so, are
the proposed subproject and those other efforts suitably
coordinated?
Have monitoring/evaluation personnel been adequately
specified; do they need training? If there are existing
education system personnel, can their monitoring/evaluation
work be conveniently combined with their regular jobs?
Has the proposed subproject been fully explained to, discussed
with, and endorsed by the managers and grassroots staff of the
programs/activities to be monitored; has their input been
explicitly requested and fully taken into account in the
design of target groups and instruments and in the phasing and
timing of monitoring and evaluation?
Does the subproject's design maximize its utility as an agent
of productive revision and improvement of reform program(s)
and subprojects? Is the particular area of study chosen of
higher priority than others for which subproject proposals
have been submitted?
(b)   Data base Development Subprojects
Is the subproject a priority area for database development
work?
-    Has the subproject design been developed jointly with GDRP in
MOE?
-    Has the subproject been coordinated with RSS work on the wider
National Research System;
Are the data to be collected under the subproject directly
policy-oriented, or are they "building blocks" towards a
larger data set that will be policy-oriented?
-    How does the subproject fit in with other data collection
being undertaken by NCERD, GDRP, or SIL executive agencies
(including monitoring/evaluation subprojects?
-    Is the information technology to be used cost-effective for
the task(s) to be undertaken?



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
Summarv of Forelan and Local Specialist Services*
NO. OF MAN-MONTHS
PROGRAM COMPONENT         SPECALTY          ()         AND TIMING        BENLEICIARY                      I A S K S
A. CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT  Science and Math   (1)            24                   MOE       1. Project coordination for all science and
Advisor/ProJect          (Apr '89-Apr '91)                        math inputs (reports to the General
Coordinator*                                                      Director of Curriculum and Education
Technology).
2. Administrative coordination of all OOA-
financed inputs including preparation of al
staff training strategy based on needs & I
allocations; provision of technical
guidance to preparation of detailed TORs
for specialists.
3. Provision of technical support to science
and math curricula panels and authorship
teams.                                  -u
Group of science                27                   MOE       Experts in specialized science fields to help
curriculum and teach-    (intermittent)                        disseminate state-of-the-art knowledge and
ing experts*.              (1989/90)                          practices to science curriculum panels and
science teachers/supervisors.
Specialist in "Treat-             2                  MOE        l. Conduct seminars for textbook editors,
ment of Individual              (1989)               MOHE          selected authors. national curriculum
Differences in                                   Universities      team members, and COCET officials on
Curriculum and          |                                          approaches in catering to individual
Teaching             (M)I                                          differences.
2. Train potential teacher trainers on
instructional methodologies for catering
to individual differences and assist them
develop materials that can be used as a
teacher training module on the topic.
co
'Financed by ODA.
0%
I~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



NO. OF MAN-MONTHS
PROGRAN COMPONENT         SPECIALTY         (#)        AND TINING        BENEFICXARY                      T
Specialist in "Teaching           2                MOE          1. Conduct seminars for textbook editors,
through Inquiry and             (1989)             MOHE            selected authors, national curriculum team
Promotion of Critical                            Universities      members on methods of presenting textbook
Thinking*            (1)                                           materials that will promote inquiry and
critical thinking; assist trainees develop
guidelines on the topic for inclusion in
teachers' guides.
2. Train potential teacher trainers on
different teaching models for promoting
inquiry-based learning and critical
thinking; assist trainees develop
materials that can be used as a teacher
training module on the topic.
8
Consultants          (4)   (intermittent)          MOE          1. Clarify the methodology and approaches for
(1989/91)           (GOCET)           integration of subjects in the first four
grades.
2. Conduct seminars for staff of the Curricu-
lum Directorate about theories, practices
and trends in curriculum development.
3. Conduct seminars for selected members of
national teams on international trends
and developments in the specific subject             0
matters areas.
4. Train key specialists of the Curriculum
Directorate about methods of evaluating
curricula and textbooks through experiment
tation or field trials.
SUB-TOTAL                                            63, of which 26 mm
will be for teacher
training.
B. TEXTBOOK DEVELOPMENT    Textbook Editing                  24                 MOE        1. Help set up editorial unit; provide on-the-
4dvisor*            (1)   (Jan'89-Dec.'90)                       Job training to Jordanian editors.
2. Assist managers in technical matters.
3. Work with curriculum development panels ard
author grouDS.
* Financed by ODA.
I.tI
Go



NO. OF MAN-MONTHS
PROGRAN COMPONENT         SPECIALTY      (Q)          AND TIMING       SEiEEICIARY                      I Y   K 
Textbook Production            24                  MOE       1. Help set up the production unit: Provide
Advisor*            (1)   (Jan'89-Dec'90)                       on-the-job training to production staff.
2. Assist managers in technical matters.
3. Work with printers. distribution staff.
Textbook Publishing            21                  MOE       On behalf of ODA, monitor the technical and
Specialist*        (1)  intermittert visits                  implementation status; review overall pro-
(1989-91)                        gress; make recommendations; assist in text-
book policy development (specifications, cost
recovery. publishina methods).
Textbook Publishing             3                   MOE      Evaluate textbook publishing operation.
Specialist*         (1)     (Oct. 1990)
SUB-TOTAL                                                72
C. TEACHER AND SUPERVI-    Distance Education               2                   MOE      Provide technical guidance in the design and
SORY STAFF UPGRADING"  Consultants"                   (July 1989)                     development of distance education packages
__for in-service trainina of teachers.
Teacher Training                2                   MOE      1. Advise on appropriate patterns of in-
Planner*                    (April 198)             MOHE        service education in the context of the
Universities     Government's education reform objectives.
2. Assist with the planning and costing of
in-service and other teacher training
programs.
3. Provide training, as appropriate. on
concepts and techniques of relevance to
the _lannina of teacher training.
Financed by OOA.
* See also under Curriculum Development.
0 .



NO. OF MAN-MONTHS
PROGRAM COMPONENT         SPECIALTY        (A) .NDII                      ENEFCARY                       I A 2 K a
4. Advise on the development of linkages
between the various teacher training
programs and between these and the
development of curricula & textbooks.
5. Advise on the evaluation of teacher
education ProgramS.
Mathematics Teacher              4                            1. Advise on and assist in the planning of
Educator*           (1)     (Sept. 1989)                         in-service training programs for subject
teachers and the 'training the trainers'
Humanities Teacher               2                               program.
Educator*           (1)     (May 1990)                        2. Provide training for identifying field
trainers, particularly in relation to
methods of in-service teacher education
Vocational Education             2                               which will be relevant and effective
Teacher Educator*  (1)      (April 1990)                         within the context of the educational
reform.
3. Assist in the design of training materials
for both trainers and subiect teachers.
Teacher Training                 3                            1. Advise on and assist in the design,
Materials Developer*        (Nov. 1989)                          development, production, utilization and
evaluation of teacher training materials
(both print and audio-visual).
2. Provide training to members of the
training team with respect (1) he or she
will be assigned to the Directorate of
Certification, Training and Supervision
but will liaise closely with appropriate
members of Directorates of Curricula and
Educational Technoloav.
Visiting Faculty             120 mn                           Visiting professor who will join Jordanian
University for 2-4 semesters to set up
programs and train successor staff.
SUB-TOTAL                                            135, plus 26 mm
covered under
Curriculum Develop-
ment, for a total
of 41 mm.            _ ___  _
*  Financed by ODA.                                                                                                                               '-C
cr4c



1110. OF MAN-MONTHS
PROGRAM COMPONENT         SPECIALTY        ()         AND TIMING        BENEFICIRY                       I A I K I
0. EDUCATION TECHNOLOGY    Library Materials                 3                   MOE      1. Assist design and implementation of library
Procurement                (Sept. 1989)                         development in schools.
Consultant*         (1)                                      2. Work with responsibles for teacher upgra-
ding and with resource centers which train
_  _                   _                _teachers in effective use of libraries.
Librarian Training              3                   MOE       Help design the librarian in-service training
Specialist*                (Sept. 1989)                       program.
Educational TV                  2                             Train staff in techniques of producing video
Specialist          (1)       1990                  MOE       cassettes for in-service training.
TV High-Band                     2                             1. Train relevant MOE staff to operate and
Specialist           (l)       1990                               maintain high-band TV equipment.
2. Train staff in recording programs using
spe.1al effects, lighting systems. etc.
Instructional                    4                             1. Assist with proper equipment layout in the
Materials                      1990-91                            labs, production workshops and other
Specialist           (1)                                          special facilities in learning resource
centers.
2. Train teachers in preparing instructional
materials and in usina them effectively.
Consultan m     (1 & 2)          4                            Assist to evaluate and modify training
1990 and 1991                    programs at the initial stages of Phase I.
SUB-TOTAL                                                    18
E. EDUCATION RESEARCH       Education Economist              12                  MOE     1. Provide on-the-job training and methodolo-
AND DEVELOPMENT                                  I  (intermittent)      Intermediary    gical guidance to the new staff in the
(1989/90)                        recently created Education Finanting
I__________ __________   ___ __ ___ __ ___ _ __    - Division.
* Financed by ODA.
115
U'
04
M@ *
o0C
o%



NO. OF MAN-MONTHS
PROGRAM COMPONENT        SPECIALITY                 AND TIMING       BENEFICIARY                     I A i K s
2. Assist the general economist at the
Intermediary with analysis of education
financina.
Statistical Data              12                  MOE       Provide methodological aivice and on-the-job
Analysis Expert    (1)     (1989/90)                        training to the Education planning staff on
statistical analysis.  _
Evaluation         (1)         6             National      Help set up the evaliation program of the
Specialist                  1989/90          Center for    Center.
Education
Research and
Develo__ent
Research methodology           6             National      Provide support to staff on appropriate
design expert      (1)       1990            Center for    research methodologies.
Education
Research and
Develoomnt
SUB-TOTAL                                               36
f. SUBPROJECT APPRAISAL    Subject Specialists           20              Intermediary  Assist the Intermediary with assessing
(intermittent)                   relevance and technical feasibility of
(1989/91)                      subproject proposals.
Educator/Education            12             Intermediary  Assist with and train the Beneficiary
Planner                  May  89 - May '90                 institution and the Intermediary staff in
. ________________________ ._______________________  ____________________  _____________  suborolect  processing.
TOTAL:    356
Program to be finalized at appraisal.
,.S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ,
0'
"



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JOROAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTHENT LOAN
In-Country Trainina and Overseas Fellowships
PROGRAM COMPDNENT             TRAINEES            TYPE OF TRAINING    NO. OF    DURATION   ORGANIZATION                  FIELO OF TRAINING
TRAINEES
Curriculum Development
Curriculum Specialists   Study Tours*            10       Inm each   MDE (GOCET) &  Visits to leading centers which have
(1989-91)  national        relevant curriculum proJects & study
subject team   their philosophy, methodology and
members        practices
Science Curriculum        Fellowship*             4       3mn each       MOE         Attendance at special course on the
Developers                                               (Sept-Nov       HOME        subject in UK and site visits
1989)    Universities
4      3mm each
(Jan-March
T990)
SUB-TOTAL                   __
Textbook Development
Textbook Publishing      In-country course*      60      4 wks each                  Intermediate publishing course                 a
Unit staff, members of                                   (Nov. '89)                                                                 -
teams, national curri-
culum teams
Textbook Publishing      In-country course'      40    14 wks each                   Advanced publishing course
Unit                                                     (Oct. '90)
Textbook Publishing       "Internship*            4       3mm each                   On-the-job training in UK publishing
(Sept-Dec.                  houses
'90)
Textbook publishing       Fellowship'             I        lOwm
course                                                   (Sept '89-
June '90)
Textbook publishing       Fellowship*             1        3Enwn
course                                                   (Sept '90
June '91)
Graphic Design Course    Fellowship'               1       lOwn
(Sept '89-
June _90_ I  __ _
To be financed by ODA                                                                                                                                    I 
0



PROGRAM COMPONENT              TRAINEES             TYPE OF TRAINING    NO. OF    DURATION   ORGANIZATION                    FIELD OF TRAINING
TRAINEES
Editing course             Fellowship*              3        1Omm
(Sept '89-
June '90)
Design course              Fellowship*              2        lOwm
(Sept '89-
June '90)
SUB-TOTAL                                                                    518
Teacher 6 Supervisory
Staff Training             Science Teaching Course  Fellowsh1p*                5       3rm each        MOE         Attendance at special course on the
(Jan-March       MONE        subject in UK and site visits
1990)    Universities
5      3nhn each
(Sept-Dec.
1990)
Coordinator of In-         Fellowship               1         2nm           MOE         Study program and site visits on: (i)
service Teacher                                              (1989)                     lnnovative teaching methods in schools;
Training Program                                                                        (ii) exemplary teacher training practices
particularly with reference to the intro-
duction of innovative teaching methods in   -
schools; (iii) the use of printed and
audio-visual media in in-service teacher
training.
Coordinator of Princi-   Fellowship                 I         2tmt          MOE         Study program and site visits on: (i) the
pal & Supervisor                                          (1989/90)                     role of school principals as educator
Training Program                                                                        leaders;(0i) processes of e&'cational
supervision; (iii) methods ano materials
for the training of school priricipals &
district education supervisors.
Faculty member             Fellowship              20     36mm each                     Attend Ph.D. programs in subjects for
candidates from the                                       (Sep '89-                     which adequate faculty members are not
Universities of Jordan,                                    June '92)                    available.
Yarmouk and Mutah
SUB-TOTAL                                     7_53_2                                  _ __  _
To be financed by ODA.                                                                                                                                         tg
to



PROGRAM COMPONENT             TRAINEES           TYPE OF TRAINING    NO. OF    OURATION   ORGANIZATION                 FIELD OF TRAINING
TRAINEES
Educational              NCERD Staff               Study Tour              2       2mm each                   Visit with expertise in monitoring and
Research and Deve-                                                                1989/90                     evaluation of education systems.
lopmient                 GORP Staff                 Study Tour              3      2mm each
1989/90
NCERD staff             Seminar Attendance        2      imm each                   Attendance at appropriate international
seminars on innovative interventions In
GORP staff               Seminar Attendance       3      1 mm each                  education.
SUB-TOTAL                                                                 t5
TOTAL                                                                   1.283                                               .                            .
To be financed by ODA.
-J
0fj



- 128 -
ANNEX IV.8
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR NVESTMENT LOAN
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.                       Documents
A. Background Papers
1.       Recommendations of the National Conference in
Educational Development (November 1987)
2.       Highlights of Measures to Implement the
Recommendations of the National Conference
on Educational Development (March 1988)
3.       Linking Training and Employtqent: A Case Study
of Training System in Jordan (1985)
4.       The Nature and Process of Labor Importing:
The Labor Markets of Selected Oil-Exporting
Countries in the Middle East and North Africa
(2 vols.) (December 1987)
5.       Unemployment in Jordan (April 1988)
B. Mission Working Papers
6.       Education in Jordan--Selected Areas (February 1988)
7.       Education Study (Ocrober 1987)
8.       Report on Vocational and Technical Education
in Jordan (December 1988)
9.       Working Papers/Action Plans (December 1988):
(a) Curricula, Textbooks and Instructional Materials
(b) Teacher Training and Certification Plan
(c) Certification and Training Plan of Teaching
Technical and Administrative Cadres
(d) Developing Educational Technology Plan
(e) Comprehensive Plan for School Buildings
(f) Proposed National Center for Educational
Research and Development
(g) Report on Jordan Textbook/Educational
Technology Action Programs (February 1Q89)
(h) Report on Library Development in Jordan
(i) Proposal for MOE Planning, Research and
Development General Directorate



