Page  1
                                                     August 20, 1991
H.E. Ziad Fariz
Minister of Planning
Ministry of Planning
P.O. Box 1220
Amman
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
          Re:  Loan No. 3106 JO
               (Human Resources Development Sector Investment Loan)
               Amendment to the Japanese Grant Agreement
Excellency:
          Please refer to the Japanese Grant Agreement, dated
December 2, 1990 between the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by the
Government of Japan and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (the
"Japanese Grant Agreement").  Pursuant to your letter dated August
18, 1991, we hereby agree to amend the Japanese Grant Agreement as
follows:
1.        Section 2.02 is amended to read as follows:
          "Section 2.02 (a) The amount of the Grant may be
          withdrawn from the Grant Account in accordance with the
          provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
          Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
          between the Recipient and the Administrator, for
          expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so
          agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
          goods and services required for the Project and to be
          financed out of the Grant.
               (b) The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the
          Project, open and maintain in U.S. dollars a special
          deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and
          conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.  Deposits
          into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
          made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to
          this Agreement."
2.        The Schedule on page 6 of the Japanese Grant Agreement
is numbered as Schedule 1.
3.        A new Schedule 2 is appended to the Japanese Grant
Agreement as follows:
                      "SCHEDULE 2
                    Special Account
     1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
          (a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1
          and 2 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
          1 to this Agreement:
          (b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
          in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
          required for the Project and to be financed out of the
          amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the
          eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
          Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
          (c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
          equivalent to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant
Page  2
          Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant
          to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
     2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
     exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
     provisions of this Schedule.
     3.   After the Administrator has received evidence
     satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly
     opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and
     subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
     be made as follows:
          (a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
          Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator a request
          or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not
          exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
          Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests,
          the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient,
          withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the
          Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient
          shall have requested.
          (b)  (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
               Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator
               requests for deposits into the Special Account at
               such intervals as the Administrator shall
               specify.
               (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such
               request, the Recipient shall furnish to the
               Administrator the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
               for the payment or payments in respect of which
               replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each
               such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf
               of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account
               and deposit into the Special Account such amount
               as the Recipient shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown by said documents and other
               evidence to have been paid out of the Special
               Account for eligible expenditures.  All such
               deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator
               from the Grant Account under the respective
               eligible Categories, and in the respective
               equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
               by said documents and other evidence.
     4.   For each payment made by the Recipient out of the
          Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as
          the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to
          the Administrator such documents and other evidence
          showing that such payment was made exclusively for
          eligible expenditures.
     5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
          Schedule, the Administrator shall not be required to
          make further deposits into the Special Account:
          (a) if, at any time, the Administrator shall have
          determined that all further withdrawals should be made
          by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in
          accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
          General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
          this Agreement; or
          (b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
          allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of
          any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
          Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
          Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
          equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Page  3
          Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant
          Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant
          allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
          procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice
          to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be
          made only after and to the extent that the Administrator
          shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
          remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
          date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
          for eligible expenditures.
     6.   (a) If the Administrator shall have determined at any
          time that any payment out of the Special Account:  (i)
          was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
          pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
          not justified by the evidence furnished to the
          Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice
          from the Administrator:  (A) provide such additional
          evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B)
          deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
          Administrator shall so request, refund to the
          Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such
          payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
          justified.  Unless the Administrator shall otherwise
          agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the
          Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has
          provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund,
          as the case may be.
          (b) If the Administrator shall have determined at any
          time that any amount outstanding in the Special Account
          will not be required to cover further payments for
          eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly
          upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the
          Administrator such outstanding amount.
          (c) The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator,
          refund to the Administrator all or any portion of the
          funds on deposit in the Special Account.
          (d) Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to
          paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
          credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal
          or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
          provisions of this Agreement, including the General
          Conditions."
          Please confirm your agreement to the amendment by
signing and dating the form of confirmation on the enclosed copy of
this letter and returning the same to us.
                                         Very truly yours,
                                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                   as Administrator of the Grant
                                           Ram K. Chopra
                                              Director
                                       Country Department III
                             Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/______________________
   Authorized Representative
Date: September 2, 1991
Page  4
