Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3106 JO
                   (Human Resources Development
                      Sector Investment Loan)
                              between
                    HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated August 18, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3106 JO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August  18,  1989,  between  the HASHEMITE
KINGDOM  OF  JORDAN  (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from The Japan Overseas
Economic Cooperation  Fund  (OECF)  and  from  The  United Kingdom
Overseas Development Administration  (ODA)  (OECF  and ODA herein-
after referred to collectively  as  the  Cofinanciers) loans in an
aggregate amount  equivalent  to  about  seventy-four million four
hundred thousand  dollars  ($74,400,000)  (Cofinanciers' Loans) to
assist in financing part  of  the  Project on terms and conditions
set forth  in  agreements  (Cofinanciers'  Loan  Agreements) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Cofinanciers; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)    "Sector  Development  Program"  means  the  Borrower's
program set forth in a letter dated August 18, 1989 to improve the
quality of  basic  and  secondary  education through restructuring
the school  system,  improving  the  quality  of  instruction, and
strengthening the institutional capacity  to sustain reform in the
education sector;
     (b)  "Action  Plan"  means  the  Borrower's  1989-92  plan of
actions and  performance  targets  set  forth  in  a  letter dated
June 22, 1989,  for  the  first  phase  of  its Sector Development
Program,  as  the  same  may  be  revised  from  time  to  time in
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  3.01  (b)  of this
Agreement;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "HCC" means the Higher  College  of Certification, to be
established under Part A (3) of the Project;
     (e)  "HCST"  means  the   Higher   Council  for  Science  and
Technology, established and operating  pursuant  to  Law No. 30 of
1987;
     (f)  "NCERD"  means  the   National  Center  for  Educational
Research and Development, established  by HCST pursuant to Article
7 of Law No. 30 of 1987;
     (g)  "VTC"  means   the   Vocational   Training  Corporation,
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 11 dated January 12,
1985;
     (h)  "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
     (i)  "MOHE" means the  Ministry  of  Higher  Education of the
Borrower;
     (j)  "UJ" means  the  University  of  Jordan, established and
operating pursuant to Law No. 34 dated September 1, 1962;
     (k)  "YU" means Yarmouk University, established and operating
pursuant to Law No. 9 dated January 21, 1976;
     (l)  "MU" means Mu'tah  University, established and operating
pursuant to Law No. 11 dated March 22, 1981;
     (m)  "Policy  Council"  means  the  Council  established  and
operating pursuant  to  Letter  No.  75/1011/3131,  dated March 9,
1988, from the Office of the  Prime Minister, and to be maintained
pursuant to Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
Page  3
     (n)  "Technical Unit" means  the  unit  of the Policy Council
established within HCST, and  referred  to  in  Paragraph 2 (a) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
     (o)  "Sub-project" means a  specific investment project under
the Project  and  included  in  the  following  national programs:
Educational Facility  Improvement,  Textbook  Development, Teacher
and Supervisory  Staff  Training,  Vocational  Training Expansion,
Educational Technology or Educational Research and Development, to
be carried out by MOE, MOHE, UJ, YU, MU, VTC or HCST.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment,  various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate value
equivalent  to  the   amount   of  seventy-three  million  dollars
($73,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued  by  the  Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account in its Central
Bank, on terms and  conditions  satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
Page  4
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this  end:  (i)  shall  carry  out Parts A (1),
A (2), A (3), A (5) and B  (1) of the Project through MOE and Part
A (3) of the Project through MOHE; and (ii) shall cause UJ, YU and
MU to carry out Part A (3) of the Project, VTC to carry out Part A
(4) of the Project,  and  HCST  to  carry  out  Part  B (2) of the
Project, all with due  diligence  and efficiency and in conformity
with  appropriate   educational,   administrative   and  financial
practices.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the  Sector  Development  Program, the Action Plan
and the Implementation Program  set  forth  in  Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a)  The  Borrower  shall enter into agreements
with UJ, YU  and  MU  satisfactory  to  the Bank, providing, inter
alia, for: (i) the  institutional  and operational arrangements to
be undertaken by UJ, YU  and  MU for the preparation, approval and
execution of the Sub-projects; (ii)  their obligation to carry out
the  Sub-projects  with  due   diligence  and  efficiency  and  in
accordance  with   appropriate   educational,  administrative  and
financial practices; and (iii)  the establishment and operation of
separate records and  accounts  adequate  to reflect in accordance
with  sound  accounting  practices  the  operation,  resources and
expenditures in respect of each Sub-project.
     (b) Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall  not  amend  or  fail  to  enforce  the  provisions  of  the
agreements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the Technical
Unit to appraise the  Sub-projects  in accordance with guidelines,
criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) cause the
Policy Council  to  review  each  of  the  Sub-projects,  and upon
approval of said Policy Council,  to refer the Sub-projects to the
Ministry of  Planning,  following  for  such  purposes guidelines,
procedures and criteria acceptable to the Bank.
     (b)  The Borrower shall present to  the Bank for approval not
later than  one  month  prior  to  the  scheduled  start of imple-
mentation: (i) all  Sub-projects  the  implementation  of which is
scheduled to commence during  the one-year period commencing after
the Effective Date of  this  Loan Agreement; (ii) Sub-projects the
implementation of which is  scheduled  to  commence after June 30,
1990 and which the Bank has selected for review.
     (c)  The Borrower shall: (i) when presenting a Sub-project to
the Bank for approval pursuant  to the provisions of paragraph (b)
above, furnish to the Bank an appraisal report concerning the Sub-
project, substantially in  the  form  as  the  Bank shall request,
including the cost and the  benefits  to  be derived from the Sub-
project and other items  of  information  for such purposes as the
Bank shall reasonably request; and (ii) in respect of Sub-projects
not requiring prior Bank  approval  pursuant  to the provisions of
paragraph (b) above,  retain  all  data  presented for purposes of
obtaining the Policy  Council's  approval pursuant to subparagraph
Page  5
(a) (ii) above,  and  shall  enable  the Bank's representatives to
examine such data and provide  the  Bank with all such information
in respect  of  such  Sub-projects  as  the  Bank shall reasonably
request.
     (d)  The Borrower shall not permit a change to be made in the
scope of a  Sub-project  which  has  been  approved  by the Policy
Council or the Bank pursuant  to the provisions of paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) above without the concurrence of the Policy Council or
the Bank, as the case may be.
     Section 3.04.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower  shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year a  certified  copy  of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning such  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
Page  6
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that:
     (a)  The Cofinanciers' Loan  Agreements  shall have failed to
become effective by March 30, 1990, or such later date as the Bank
may  agree;  provided,  however,   that  the  provisions  of  this
paragraph shall  not  apply  if  the  Borrower  establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that  adequate  funds for the Project are
available  to  the  Borrower  from  other  sources  on  terms  and
conditions consistent with the  obligations  of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
     (b)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)  the right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
                    proceeds of  any  of  the  Cofinanciers' Loans
                    shall  have   been   suspended,  cancelled  or
                    terminated in whole  or  in  part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
                    or
               (B)  any  of  the  Cofinanciers'  Loans  shall have
                    become due  and  payable  prior  to the agreed
                    maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Bank that:  (A)  such suspension, cancellation,
               termination or  prematuring  is  not  caused by the
               failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from  other   sources   on   terms  and  conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event  is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph  (b) (i) (B) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph
(b) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that  the  Cofinanciers'  Loan  Agreements  have been duly
signed by the Borrower and the Cofinanciers.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this  Agreement  is   hereby   specified   for   the  purposes  of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  Minister  of  Planning  of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Page  7
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section  7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Minister of Planning
          P.O. Box 555
          Amman
          Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              MINISTRY OF PLANNING               21319 JO
              Amman
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                   By /s/ Hussein Hammami
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ H. E. Kopp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Page  8
(1)  Works and super-       59,600,000         65%
     visory services
     under Part A
     of the Project
(2)  Printing and            3,200,000         50%
     supplies under
     Part A (2)
     of the Project
(3)  Consultants'            4,700,000         100% of foreign
     services and                              expenditures and
     fellowships                               90% of local
                                               expenditures
(4)  Unallocated             5,500,000
                            __________
         TOTAL              73,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than  that of the Borrower for goods
or services supplied from the  territory of any country other than
that of the Borrower; and
     (b) the term "local  expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower for  goods  or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made:  (a)  in  respect  of payments made for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount  not exceeding the equivalent
of $3,000,000,  may  be  made  on  account  of  payments  made for
Categories (1) and (3) before that date but after January 1, 1989;
and (b) in respect of Sub-projects requiring prior approval of the
Bank pursuant to  Section  3.03  (b),  unless  the Bank shall have
notified the Borrower that the Sub-project has been approved.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist the Borrower in
improving the quality  of  basic  and  secondary  education and to
strengthen the institutions and operations of the education sector
through implementation of the first phase in 1989-92 of its Sector
Development Program.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   National Programs Involving Civil Works
(1)  Educational Facility Improvement.  Carrying  out a program of
construction  of  basic  education  and  secondary  level  schools
throughout Jordan.
(2)  Textbook  Development.  Carrying  out  a  program  to improve
development, production  and  utilization  of textbooks, including
establishment of a Textbook  Publishing  Unit  in the MOE; design,
construction  and  equipping   of   a   national  warehousing  and
distribution system; introduction and  testing of textbooks in the
basic education level; and staff development.
(3)  Teacher  and  Supervisory  Staff  Training.  Carrying  out  a
training program, including  upgrading the academic qualifications
of basic and  secondary  education  teachers; providing in-service
training to basic  and  secondary  education teachers, principals,
Page  9
supervisors and other staff through expansion of the capacities of
MOE;  providing  certification  training  of  basic  and secondary
education  teachers,   supervisors   and   administrators  through
establishment  of  HCC  and   expansion   of  the  facilities  and
capacities of UJ,  YU  and  MU;  providing pre-service training of
basic education teachers through  expansion  of the facilities and
capacities of UJ, YU and MU; and staff development.
(4)  Vocational Training Expansion.  Upgrading existing vocational
training centers; carrying out  a  study of prospective demand for
vocational training and  existing  capacity of vocational training
centers; carrying out  a  vocational  training action program; and
staff development.
(5)  Educational   Technology.   Carrying   out   an   educational
technology program through  construction of specialized facilities
in existing schools, including libraries, laboratories, and audio-
visual rooms; training of  teachers  and  specialized staff in the
effective  utilization  of  laboratories,  libraries, audio-visual
facilities, workshops, learning resource centers; developing pilot
educational television programs; and staff development.
Part B:   Other National Programs
(1)  Basic and Secondary  School  Curriculum Development. Carrying
out a program to  revise  basic and secondary curricula, including
development of higher  cognitive  skills  and abilities; increased
emphasis   on   experimentation    and   practical   applications;
modernization  of  curriculum  content;  introduction  of  greater
flexibility and  responsiveness  to  individual learning abilities
and interests; and staff development.
(2)  Educational Research and Development. Establishing the NCERD;
strengthening institutional  capacity  to  sustain  reform  in the
education  sector;  carrying  out  policy-based  sector  research;
developing NCERD's capabilities  for  continuous evaluation of all
aspects of the educational  system  and  reform program; and staff
development.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 1 and August 1
     beginning February 1, 1995
     through February 1, 2006                  3,040,000
On August 1, 2006                              3,080,000
______________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
Page  10
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to the Loan  on the day
                                           of          prepayment,
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable,  contracts  for works under Part A
of the Project shall be grouped  in bid packages each estimated to
cost an amount equivalent to $4,000,000.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
set forth in Sections I and  II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and  IDA  Credits"  published  by the Bank in May
1985 (the Guidelines), goods manufactured in Jordan may be granted
a margin of preference  in  accordance  with,  and subject to, the
provisions of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for works under Part  A of the Project estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $4,000,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to  exceed  the equivalent of $73,500,000 may
be  awarded  on  the  basis  of  competitive  bidding,  advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Contracts for  printing  under  Part  A  (2)  of  the Project
estimated  to  cost  less  than  the  equivalent  of  $500,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equivalent
of $6,000,000 may be awarded  on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
Page  11
     (a)  With respect to the  first contract for the construction
of civil works under Part A of the Project awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding,  advertised  locally,  each  contract for the
construction of civil works under  Part A of the Project estimated
to cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or more and each contract for
the  printing  of  textbooks  under  Part  A  (2)  of  the Project
estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $500,000  or  more,  the
procedures set forth in paragraphs  2  and  4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Bank prior  to the making of the first payment
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  The  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                   Implementation of the Project
1.   (a) For the purpose  of  ensuring the proper coordination and
execution of the Sector  Development  Program and the Project, the
Borrower shall  continue  to  maintain  the  Policy  Council, with
representation from the HCST,  the  Ministry of Planning, the MOE,
the MOHE, and the VTC.
     (b)  The functions  of  said  Policy  Council  shall include,
inter alia, responsibility for investigation and recommendation of
solutions to issues  arising  in  the  course  of carrying out the
Sector Development Program and the execution of the Project.
2.   (a)  For the purpose  of  ensuring  the proper supervision of
the execution of the  Sector  Development Program and the Project,
the  Borrower  shall  continue  to  maintain  the  Technical  Unit
established within HCST with  organization,  staffing and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
     (b)  The   Technical   Unit   shall   be   vested   with  the
responsibility for:
          (i)  appraisal of Sub-projects;
         (ii)  coordination of  the  implementation  of activities
Page  12
               included in the Project;
        (iii)  monitoring of  the  Sector  Development Program and
               Project execution; and
         (iv)  preparation of the  reports  referred to in Section
               9.07 of the General  Conditions, and of the reports
               referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8 of this Schedule.
3.   The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments, by June 30,  1989,  terms  of reference for an education
finance study to  identify,  evaluate  and recommend opportunities
for cost savings and cost recovery  to be carried out under Part B
(2) of the Project, and  shall,  by December 31, 1989, review with
the Bank the findings  and  recommendations  of such study and the
measures proposed by the Borrower to be taken on the basis of such
recommendations. The Borrower shall, by  March 31, 1990, carry out
on the basis  of  such  recommendations  and  exchange of views, a
program to achieve cost savings and cost recovery in the education
sector.
4.   The Borrower shall provide  to  the  Bank  for its review and
comments, by September 30, 1989,  terms of reference for the study
of demand for vocational training referred to in Part A (4) of the
Project, and shall by  April  30,  1990,  review with the Bank the
findings  and  recommendations  of  such  study  and  the measures
proposed by  the  Borrower  to  be  taken  on  the  basis  of such
recommendations.  The Borrower shall,  by July 31, 1990, carry out
a vocational training action program agreed to by the Bank and the
Borrower.
5.   (a) Before  October  31  in  each  of  its  fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower
and satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review  whether  the  budgets in
respect of the current fiscal  year  and the next following fiscal
year include allocations  sufficient  to  meet the requirements of
the Sector Development  Program  for  the respective fiscal years,
and shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  copy  of  such review upon its
completion.
     (b) If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet
the requirements set  forth  in  sub-paragraph  (a)  above for the
Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall
extend  the  implementation   period   of   the  Sub-projects  for
educational facility improvement under Part A (1) of the Project.
6.   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that
all fellowships included in the  Project  are awarded on the basis
of eligibility criteria and procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
7.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause the Technical Unit to
prepare and furnish to the  Bank  not  later  than June 30 of each
year a progress report,  in  form  and substance agreed to between
the Bank and the Borrower,  on the conclusions and recommendations
indicated by the  monitoring  and  evaluation activities performed
pursuant to paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule, including subsequent
years' programs and any  proposed  revisions to be introduced into
the Sector Development Program.  Promptly thereafter, the Borrower
and the Bank shall exchange views thereon.
8.   Without limitation upon  provisions  of  Section  9.07 of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Borrower  and  the   Bank  shall,  not  later  than
January 31,  1991,  hold  a  mid-term  exchange  of  views  on the
progress achieved in the  carrying  out  of the Sector Development
Program and the Project  and  the  actions described in the Action
Plan; and
     (b)  prior to such mid-term  exchange  of views, the Borrower
shall prepare, through the Technical Unit, and furnish to the Bank
Page  13
for its review and comments, a  report on the progress achieved in
the  carrying  out  of  the  Sector  Development  Program  and the
Project, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of  each  such  request,  the  Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
               evidence to  have  been  made  out  of  the Special
               Account  for  eligible   expenditures.    All  such
               deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the
               Loan   Account   under   the   respective  eligible
               Categories,  and   in   the  respective  equivalent
               amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified  by said
               documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
Page  14
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A)  provide  such  additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified.  Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
