Page  1
                                       January 31, 1991
H.E. Khalid A. Abdullah
Minister of Planning
Ministry of Planning
P.O. Box 1220
Amman
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
             Re:Loan No. 3142 JO
                (Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan)
                Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
     Please refer to the Loan Agreement, dated January 5, 1990,
between the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.    Pursuant to your letter,
dated December 31, 1990, we hereby agree to amend the Loan Agreement
as follows:
1.   A new paragraph (j) is inserted in Section 1.02 to read as
follows:
     "(j) 'EXIMBANK Loan Agreement' means the Loan Agreement
     concluded between the Borrower and the Export-Import Bank of
     Japan on December 31, 1990, and 'EXIMBANK Loan' means the Loan
     provided under the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement".
2.   Article IV is amended to read as follows:
                      "ARTICLE IV
                 Remedies of the Bank
     Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a) A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
     (b)   (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
          (A)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
               proceeds of the EXIMBANK Loan shall have been
               suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
               part, pursuant to the terms of the EXIMBANK Loan
               Agreement, or
          (B)  the EXIMBANK Loan shall have become due and
               payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
     (ii)  subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if
     the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that
     such suspension,  cancellation, termination or prematuring is
     not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
     its obligations under the EXIMBANK Loan Agreement.
     Section 4.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b)(i)(B) of Section 4.01
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)(ii) of that
Section.
        Please confirm your agreement to the amendment by signing
and dating the form of confirmation on the enclosed copy of this
letter and returning the same to us.
Page  2
                  Very truly yours,
                INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
            RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   Ram Kumar Chopra
                       Director
                Country Department III
      Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
CONFIRMED:
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By/s/ K. Abdullah
  Authorized Representative
Date: February 10, 1991
