Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16915-IN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
October 7, 1997
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit Rupees (Rs.)
US$1. 00Rs. 34.7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April I to March 31
ABBREVLATIONS
CCF              Chief Conservator of Forests
CF               Conservator of Forests
DCF              Deputy Conservator of Forests
DEA              Department of Economic Affairs
DFO              Divisional Forest Officer
EDSF             Ecodevelopment Support Fund
ERR              Economic Rate of Retum
FMIS             Forest Management Information System
GOI              Government of India
GOUP             Government of Uttar Pradesh
iCB             Interrational Competitive Bidding
IDA              International Development Association
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
.)NTPV           Net Present Value
NTFP             Non-Timber Forest Products
OCC              Opportunity Cost of Capital
PA               Protected Area
PAU              Policy Analysis Unit
PCCF             Principal Chief Conservator of Forests
PDU              Past!re Developmnent Unit
PIP              Project Implemnentation Plan
PME              Planning Monitoring and Evaluation
PRA              Participatory Rural Appraisal
PlJ              Project Unit
SOE              Statement of Expenses
UP               Uttar Pradesh
UPFC             Uttar Pradesh Forest Corporation
UPFD             Uttar Pradesh Forest Department
VFC              Village Forest Conmittee
VFDF             Village Forest Development Fund
[Vice President:          -        Mieko Nishimnizu
Country Director:        -        Edwin Lim
Sector Manager:          -        Michael Baxter and Ridwan Ali
Task Team Leader:        -        Ian Hill



MDIA
UTTAR PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Table of Contents
PROJECT DATA SHEET ...................................................................I
BLOCK 1. PROJECT DESCRIPTION  ..............................    .....................................2
1.  Project Development Objectives                        .2
2. Project Components                                .3
3.  Benefits and Target Population                        .4
4.     Institutional and Implementation Arrangements.                                    4
Project Coordination                      .4
Implementation Responsibilities by Component.                             5
Project Oversight                       .5
Procurement                           .5
Disbursement                                                              5
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements                 6
Monitoring and Evaluation                    .6
BLOCK 2. PROJECT RATIONALE  ...........................      .......................................8
5.   CAS Objectives Supported by the Project                   .8
6.   Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy.                                         8
7.     Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices                8
8. Project Alternatives                             .9
9. Major Related Projects .10
10.    Lessons Learned and Reflected in Project Design .11
II.    Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership.I 1
12. Value Added of Bank Support .11
BLOCK 3. SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS  .........................................................  12
13. Economic Assessment .12
14. Financial Assessment .13
15. Technical Assessment .14
16. Institutional Assessment .14
17 Social Assessment .15
18. Environmental Assessment .17
19. Participatory Approach .18
20. Sustainability .18
21. Critical Risks .19



ii
Table of Contents (Contd)
Page
BLOCK 4. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS  ............................................................................21
22.    Assurances ..................................................................   21
BLOCK 5. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES  ........................................................  22
ANNEXES.
1.    Project Design Summary
2.    Issues and Actions
3.     Detailed Project Description
4.     Estimated Project Costs
5.    Implementation Responsibilities
6.     Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
7.     Economic and Financial Aspects
8.     Financial Summary
9.     Procurement and Disbursement
10.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
H1.    Documents in the Project File
12.    Statement of Loans and Credits
13.    Country at a Glance



l
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
South Asia Regional Office
Project Appraisal Document
India
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project
Date:                   October 3, 1997                                                       []Draft             [X ]Final
Task Manager:           Ian Hill                                      Country Manager:    Mr.. Edwin Lim
Project ED:             INPA 35169                                    Sector:                 Rural Development
Lending Instrument: Credit                                            PTI:            [] Yes                   ]No
Project Financing Data                                 Loan         []   Credit   [ X]    Guarantee  [           Other
[Specify]
Credit Amount:           SDR 39.0 million  (US$52.94 million equivalent):
........................................................................................ ...............................................................................................................................................
Proposed Terms:                                        []  Multicurrency    []  Single currency
Grace period (years): 10                      [   Standard           []  Fixed                  []      LIBOR-based
Variable
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: Not exceeding .5%
Service charge: 0.75%
T i................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ............
Financing Plan (US$m):
Source                                    Local               Foreign                  Total
Government                                               7.87                 0.00Q                   7.87
IDA                                                     43.75                 9.19                   52.94
Beneficiaries                                            4.20                 0.00                    4.20
Total                                   55.82                 9.19                   65.01
1/ Includes duties and taxes of US$1.58 million
Borrower:                   India
Beneficiary:                Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP)
Responsible Agency:        Uttar Pradesh Forest Department (UPFD)
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                   1998       1999         2000         2001         2002
Annual    4.34         10.20     13.08          16.34         8.98
Cumulative      4.34       14.54    27.62           43.96        52.94
Expected effectiveness date: February 1, 1998         Completion date: January 31, 2002          Closing date: July 31, 2002



2
BLOC]K 1: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.    Project Development Objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators and
Annex 2 for issues and actions affecting these development objectives):
1.1   The main objective of the project would be to assist with the implementation of the GOUP
strategy for development of the forestry sector in Uttar Pradesh. This aims to improve public sector
management of the sector, in order to increase forest cover, productivity and biodiversity in an
environmentally and socially sustainable manner. It is recognized that the project is planned as the first
phase of long-term support to the sector. More specifically the development objectives are:
(i)  To improve public sector management through: (a) introduction of the necessary changes
to ensure that policies, management processes and the structure and resources of UPFD are
appropriate to its role as the nodal public sector agency in the forestry sector; (b)
development of human resources for the planning, implementation and monitoring of the
strategy; (c) development of information systems to assist with all aspects of the planning
and management of the forest resource.
(ii) To increase both forest cover and productivity through: (a) development of participatory
processes for management and use of forest resources, taking special account of the
interests of disadvantaged groups; (b) development and adoption of improved technologies
for management of forest resources; (c) privatization of the production of forest products
through improving incentives for forest management and the cultivation of trees on non-
forest land, and the provision of technical and management advice.
(iii) To conserve biodiversity through (a) improved strategic planning; (b) improved
management of Protected Areas (PAs); (c) ecodevelopment programs to involve
communities in PA management
1.2   Central to achieving these objectives is process change as without such change the physical
project outputs cannot be achieved. There are three main elements: (i) Change in the role of UPFD,
from a predominantly regulatory role to one in which communities are treated as equal partners in the
management of forest resources. Stakeholders would be enabled to make decisions and manage and
protect the forest, ensuring both the appropriateness and effectiveness of the microplan, whilst UPFD
would remain the custodian of national interest, the concept of joint management; (ii) Change in
management systems, that would be client oriented and adaptable, based on decentralization of decision
making, and improved planning, monitoring and evaluation; (iii) .Human Resource Development linked
to role definition, skill-gap analysis and appropriate manpower planning and management.



3
2. Project Components (see Annex 3 for a detailed description and Annex 4 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                         Category       Cost Incl    % of Total
Contingencies
_ _ _ _    _      _      _     _                      II1~~~~~~~~~~(S$M)
Institutional Development. Development of the management  Training,    12.57            19
of the sector through: changing the approach of UPFD,  consultants,
improving the management process, and developing human    civil works,
resources through improved manpower planning, and process   equipment
and skill-gap analysis, combined with competency-based
training. Improved planning, monitoring and evaluation, and
environmental analysis procedures would be introduced,
together with the necessary management information system.
Policy analysis capabilities would also be strengthened.
Forest Development. The project would finance a variety of   Forest    39.75           61
interventions in the development of forest resources in Uttar    operations,
Pradesh, including management of both undegraded and  civil works,
degraded natural forests, plantation development, and farm,    training,
community and urban forestry. Priority would be given to  consultants
community participation in natural forest management, that is
Joint Forest Management (JFM), though certain less degraded
areas and plantations would continue to be managed by UPFD.
Farm forestry would be a purely private sector matter,
involving nursery entrepreneurs and individual farmers. The
project would also support the development and
implementation of fire and grazing management strategies.
Research and Technology. Development of a more effective  Operational   3.88            6
research organization working to a prioritized research  costs, civil
program, that would include improvements in reproductive  works,
technologies and research into NTFPs. Provision of necessary  equipment
equipment and training to develop linkages with research
databases. A planting material improvement program to
ensure better quality seeds and seedlings are utilized in the
sector, through maintenance of selected seed sources and
development of seed handling facilities and research nurseries.
Biodiversity Conservation. Long-term strategic planning for  Forest     8.81           14
biodiversity conservation in the state, both within and outside   operations,
Protected Areas (PAs). Improved management of 9 clusters of  civil works,
priority PAs made up of 18 individual PAs, linked to  training,
ecodevelopment programs to provide alternative incomes or    consultants
resources for communities in areas peripheral to the PAs.
Associated programs for research, the monitoring of indicators
of biodiversity conservation, pilot habitat restoration and
public awareness.
I_____  Total     65.01           100



4
3.    Benefits and Target Population:
3.1    About 1,000 forest fringe village communities, and another 230 communities in the plains of Uttar
Pradesh participating in the management of about 250,000 ha of forest would receive direct benefits from
the project. The benefits include not only the improved access for communities to forest products and
grazing, but also the benefits resulting from the use of village funds generated through the program, for
improved agriculture and alternative income generating activities. The project would have important
benefits in terms of empowerment and equity as about five million person-days of employment would be
generated, a benefit which would be almost wholly captured by the poorest and landless households.
Women are the predominant collectors of fodder, fuelwood and Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFPs)
and would benefit considerably from the project. The proposed JFM arrangements would significantly
enhance the availability of many forest products that are collected to provide for household needs and
secondary income. Effective participation of women in JFM arrangements would be critical to ensure
sustained management of the resource. The project, therefore, includes a number of mechanisms
ensuring the participation of women and the representation of their interests. The population in and
around the forests of Uttar Pradesh includes large numbers of tribal people and scheduled castes. These
groups would, therefore, be the main participants and beneficiaries in the JFM and Ecodevelopment
Programs. The development concerns of these groups are thus central to the project, and are addressed in
an integral fashion under the rubric of social impact, participation, and equity, rather than as a subsidiary
tribal or social development plan or component. Processors and marketers of wood and NTFPs would
also benefit through increased supply of raw material.
4.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
Implementation period:      The project would be implemented over a four year period.
Executing agency:          Uttar Pradesh Forest Department and Government of Uttar Pradesh
Project Implementation Plan: The UPFD Project Implementation Plan and its accompanying annexes
records the agreed time-bound action plan, procedures and criteria to be used by UPFD for project
implementation and the indicators to be used in project monitoring and evaluation
Project Coordination:
4.1    Project Unit. A Project Unit (PU) has been established, headed by a Chief Conservator of
Forests (CCF) Process Change (Project Director), reporting to the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests
(PCCF) UP. Three Conservators would take responsibility for Process Change, Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluatilon, and Extension, and a qualified accountant would be appointed as Finance Officer for Project
Budget. An officer of CF or DCF rank, reporting directly to the Project Director, would be responsible
for procurement matters and supported by a procurement agent. Each responsible officer would be
assisted where necessary by one or more DCFs. No additional posts would be created as the posts would
be filled by transfer of staff from existing posts for these activities, presently distributed in various parts
of the UPFD structure. The PU would be responsible for coordination of all project-financed activities, in
accordance with the time-bound action plan presented in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) Annex
16. The project is, however, designed to ensure that project activities are integrated into the normal
operations of the UPFD, and that the PU does not become a parallel operational structure. The Project
Unit would cease to be designated as a separate entity at the end of the project period and responsibilities
for activities initiated under the project would continue as part of the line structure of the Department.
The structure of the PU and linkages with other functional units of UPFD are illustrated in the PIP.



5
These linkages would be reinforced by the creation of Departmental Technical Working Groups to
ensure the technical quality of project-financed programs. Further details of the responsibilities and
composition of these Working Groups are presented in PIP Annex 13.
4.2   The PU would be responsible for the preparation of annual Implementation Programs. That for
the first year of the project was prepared prior to negotiations and for subsequent years, would be
prepared by December 31, starting December 31, 1998. The PU would coordinate the recruitment of
consultants and the commissioning of special studies. The PU would also be responsible for project-
related procurement and accounting and would be the main contact for project supervision by the World
Bank.
Implementation Responsibilities by Component:
4.3    Details of implementation responsibilities by component are presented in Annex 5, together with
the main assurances obtained to ensure effective implementation.
Project Oversight:
4.4   Project Steering Committee. A Project Steering Committee has been established under the
Chairmanship of the Secretary of Forests. The Project Director/CCF Process Change would be Member
Secretary, and members would include the PCCFs UP, Hills, and Management, CCF Planning, East,
Center, West, Hills, and Wildlife, Managing Director UPFC, and representatives of the Departments of
Planning, Finance, Hill Development, Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, and Rural
Development. The committee would meet bi-annually. Arrangements for coordination with other
agencies at the district or other levels would be integrated with existing inter-sectoral coordination
committees. Details of the membership and functions of this and other project committees and working
groups are presented in PIPAnnex 13.
Procurement (Annex 9):
4.5   Procurement would be in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA as summarized in
Annex 9. Although the Department has some experience of IDA procurement procedures a DCF in the
PU in charge of procurement, would be appointed with responsibility for coordinating procurement
requirements and the preparation of equipment specifications, procurement schedules, and bidding
documents. Funds for the recruitment of a procurement agent would be available. Procurement would be
in accordance with the Procurement Schedule presented in PIPAnnex 13. Standard procurement
documents as already agreed with GOI would be used. Design and actual tender documents for works
and. goods to be procured would be approved by IDA. Progress with procurement would be reported in
the six-monthly project report, in the format presented in PIPAnnex 12.
Disbursement:
4.6    Disbursements against civil works and equipment, seeds, fertilizer, construction materials and
supplies, on contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent and consultant contracts exceeding US$100,000
equivalent for firms, and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals, would be fully documented.
Disbursements for other expenditures would be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by GOI and GOUP and be made available to
Association staff during supervision. Forest development costs eligible for reimbursement include costs
of nurseries, land preparation, including labor inputs for tree planting, maintenance and protection.



6
Expenditures for project activities incurred after March 31, 1997, including works, goods, training and
consultancies, would be eligible for retroactive financing, up to a maximum of SDR 3.7 million (US$5.0
million equivalent). All contracts and items to be financed retroactively will have been procured in a
manner acceptable to the Association. Disbursements are projected over a period of five IDA fiscal
years, from 1998 to 2002. The closing date of the Credit is July 31, 2002.
4.7   To facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of withdrawal applications, a Special
Account in US dollars would be established in the Reserve Bank of India, with an authorized allocation of
US$4.0 million. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that GOI and GOUP would implement a system
satisfactory to IDA for channeling funds required for carrying out the project. An understanding was reached at
negotiattons that GOI would release anticipated project expenditure in the form of advance assistance to GOUP,
and that on receipt of funds from GOI, GOUP will immediately transfer such funds, together with quarterly
counterpart contributions to project accounts of UPFD as the implementing agency.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements:
4.8  iAccounting and Financial Reporting. Responsibility for project accounting and processing of
reimbursement claims would lie with the Finance Officer in the Project Unit. UPFD would establish a
separate Project Account. which, together with supporting documentation, including contributions from
GOI and the Credit, would provide a comprehensive record of project financing and expenditures. The
Finance Officer would be responsible for ensuring that the accounting system provides information on
expenditures by component and category, and that financial reports in the format agreed with IDA show
actual versus budgeted expenditures for the current period and to-date. Information regarding the method
of procurement, would be required so that limits of procurement laid down in the Procurement Schedule
are monitored. The Finance Officer would also be responsible for ensuring that documents for
transactions, including Statement of Expense disbursements are made available to IDA for review. The
Project Account and the Special Account would be subject to normal GOI and GOUP accounting
procedures and controls. UPFD would establish a Project Financial Management System for project
accounting by June 30, 1998, with specifications and outputs agreed with IDA. This system would be
integrated into the proposed FMIS and would therefore be designed to be fully compatible with the
future system. A proportion of the remaining Japanese Grant Funds, provided for project preparation,
would be used to design and install the financial management system.
4.9    Auditing. Project accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor in accordance
with standards acceptable to IDA.
Monitoring and Evaluation:
4.10   Direct operational responsibility for monitoring and evaluation activities would rest with the PU
officer in charge of Monitoring and Evaluation. At headquarters, the PME Unit would fonm a nodal point
for system development, the provision of technical advice, quality control and coordination of training.
The Information Systems Officer in the PU would be responsible for ensuring that the Forest
management Information System serves the needs of monitoring and evaluation. Changes in
management of the sector for implementation of the agreed strategy would require changes in the
approach to monitoring and evaluation to ensure that these functions become an integral part of the
planning and implementation of the work of UPFD. Key development objective indicators are presented
in Annex 1. More detailed indicators required to monitor project implementation are presented in PIP
Annex 10 and these would be finalized and if necessary further developed by UPFD in the course of the



7
design and implementation of the monitoring system. These, together with monitoring and evaluation
procedures, and the development of improved procedures where necessary, would be reviewed as an
integral part of the overall management review referred to above. The design of Planning Monitoring
and Evaluation (PME) systems and the choice of hardware and appropriate software would be dependent
on the PME procedures developed and no new systems would be introduced until the completion of the
review.
4.11   Reporting, Mid-Term and Completion Reviews. The PU would be responsible for preparing
six-monthly progress reports to be submitted not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year for the
preceding six months, in the format presented in PIPAnnex 15. It was agreed at negotiations that no
later than January 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities of
project progress would be prepared and reviewed and discussed with IDA no later than February 29,
2000 and the recommendations of the review would be thereafter implemented. The review would
involve UPFD and IDA and would establish progress towards the main project objectives and not merely
an inventory of disbursements. To this end, the review would focus on the key indicators presented in
Annex 1, though the more detailed monitoring and evaluation data (See PIPAnnex 10) would also be
utilized. The review would pay particular attention to policy reforms, changes in the approach of UPFD
to the management of the sector and to the success of human resource development programs. Another
important aspect would be the impact of JFM and Ecodevelopment programs on the condition of forest
lands and PAs and the socio-economic conditions of participating communities. The operation and
management of supporting NGO and ecodevelopment funds would be closely examined by the review
team. The development and introduction of improved planting material and improved silvicultural
practices would also be examined. Successful operation of the monitoring and evaluation system would
be an important input to the review. To facilitate the review, the PU would take the lead in the
preparation of project status reports. The reports would be distributed to all participants four weeks prior
to the start of the reviews.
4.12   The project completion report would focus on the achievements of the project and its impact in
relation to its objectives as reflected by the key indicators presented in Anne-x 1. In the light of the
findings, recommendations would be made for future development of the forestry sector in Uttar
Pradesh. The report would also examine the successes and shortcomings of the JFM and
ecodevelopment programs and make recommendations as to how they could be improved. Terms of
reference for the review team and its composition would be agreed with IDA, and the report submitted to
IDA no later than six months after completion of the project.
4.13   Project Supervision. Project Supervision would be closely linked to the implementation
schedule discussed above and would involve monitoring a number of key development objective
indicators. There would be two missions during each year of the project, and the first mission would
correspond with a project launching workshop, to provide assistance during the critical start-up period.
Subsequently, the main supervision mission would coincide with the review of annual plans for the
various project activities, taking place early in the fourth quarter of each year. In the second year of the
project this main mission would coincide with a project review. There would be one additional
supervision mission in the second quarter of each year. In addition to the usual indicators of physical
and financial progress, which are related to the implementation and disbursement schedules and to the
detailed cost tables, supervision would monitor key indicators of development impact in relation to the
primary management objectives for the sector. UPFD staff, in particular, PU staff responsible for
monitoring and evaluation, would play a key role in these supervision activities. Supervision missions
would also monitor the planning and implementation of ecodevelopment programs and PA management.



8
BLOC'K 2: PROJECT RATIONALE
5.    CAS Objectives Supported by the Project:
5.1   India Country Assistance Strategy. Report No. 14509-IN dated May 19, 1995. Discussed at
Board on June 20, 1995. CAS Progress Report of May, 1996.
5.2    The proposed project would be consistent with the overall country assistance strategy, including
the strategy for Bank assistance to the agricultural sector in India, which seeks to promote increased
productivity and improve rural incomes through better selection of investments, product diversification,
and more efficient public sector management. It is also consistent with the objectives of the Bank's
forestry policy and the Asia Region's strategy for lending for forestry, which links policy dialogue with
major investments in the forest sector.
6.    Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
6.1    The main issues affecting the sector relate to legislation and policy, poor public sector
management and associated human resource development, poor forest management and protection
resulting in low productivity due to limited introduction of participatory forest management and the slow
adoption of improved technology, poor incentives for private sector development, and adverse impacts of
rapidly increasing human population on conservation of biodiversity. Many of these issues have been
identified in the India Forest Sector Review (Report No. 10965 - IN 1992). The National Forest Policy
of 1988 is: to ensure environmental stability and maintain ecological balance; to conserve the national
biological heritage; to increase substantially the forest and tree cover in forest and farm lands; to
increase the productivity of forests; and to ensure the participation of the people in the management of
forests and trees to achieve these objectives. These objectives represent a major change from the
traditional objectives for the forest sector so the State Forestry Action Plan (1996) sets out a new strategy
for the development of the sector. This addresses the main issues identified above as it involves: changes
in the policy framework; institutional development based on a changed management approach and, if
necessary, structure in UPFD, linked to human resource development and improved planning and
monitoring procedures; increased privatization through identification of the various stakeholders in the
sector and transferring responsibilities from public to private agencies as appropriate, whilst at the same
time strengthening linkages between the stakeholders; and changes in forest development programs that
emphasize the participation of people in the management of forest resources.
7.    Sector Issues to be Addressed by The Project and Strategic Choices:
7.1    The project specifically addresses the key issues related to: public sector management;
improving forest protection, management, and productivity of forest resources through introduction of
Joint Forest Management and improved technology; improving incentives and technical support to
private sector growers; and improving biodiversity conservation and environmental management through
involvement of communities and improved management of Protected Areas. The issues are summarized
in matrix form in Annex 2, which identifies the issues, notes the effects, the proposed changes and the
necessary actions.
7.2    GOUP has endorsed the State Forestry Action Plan, subject to any modifications required by the
Nationail Forestry Action Plan, and have provided an associated statement of policies and actions that
constitute the framework for improving the management of forests in Uttar Pradesh, including policy,
institutional and technical reforms, summarized in Annex 2. Additionally, GOUP has issued orders to:



9
(i) Constitute Village Forest Committees with functional and financial autonomy under the Panchayat
Raj Act and Rules; (ii) Notify the Village Forest Joint Management Rules and; (iii) Modify the Tree
Protection Act and the Timber and Transit Rules to facilitate the development of farm forestry.
Modifications to the rules governing forest Van Panchayats to give them similar status to Village Forest
Committees with greater authority and control of funds would be drafted. The draft of a Government
Order on ecodevelopment has been prepared.
7.3   Future development of the forestry sector in Uttar Pradesh will involve long-term programs, so a
strategic plan is needed for the provision of IDA support to the sector over a period of about ten years.
Given the area of forest in Uttar Pradesh and its economic and environmental importance to both the
state and the nation, investments over a ten-year period could total more than US$300 million. However,
the GOUP strategy for the sector, involves substantial change in the way the sector is managed and the
introduction of innovative new programs for participatory management of forests. Lessons from
previous Bank lending show that these changes take time and may slow implementation. Consequently,
strategic planning for the provision of IDA support to the sector, is based on a two-stage approach. The
first stage would be a project of four years duration, which is described below. This is designed to allow
UPFD to develop the new processes, systems and skills required for implementation of the new GOUP
strategy and to provide for necessary investments in the sector. Project support for improved
management would have an impact on the sector as a whole. Investments in forest development and
management would be initiated throughout the state, but in a small proportion of the 6.6 million ha of
forest land and in a representative number of the villages located in forest fringe areas. These would
form the basis of larger scale investments that could be provided in a second-stage project, that would
build on experience gained, and incorporate any necessary modifications to programs and processes
initiated during the first stage project. Approval for such a second stage project could be sought during
the fourth year of implementation of the first stage. It is not possible to be precise about its magnitude as
it would depend on implementation experience. However, it can be assumed that successful forest
development programs would grow exponentially, so investments would be correspondingly greater.
8.    Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection:
8.1   Possible alternatives to the project would be a project of longer duration, or one that is more
narrowly focused on a specific aspect of forest management. Experience with past forestry projects
(Para 10) suggests that these alternatives would not be effective mechanisms for providing support to the
sector. Alternatives for individual components are discussed below.
8.2   Institutional Development. UPFD is the main public sector agency responsible for
management of the forest estate and as such, the project provides support for its development. The Uttar
Pradesh Forest Corporation (UPFC) plays an important role in marketing of forest produce, enjoying a
monopoly position, without having any production responsibilities. A change in the role of the
Corporation that would impact on the future role of UPFD has been considered, but no agreements have
been reached, prior to the completion of a project-financed study to examine options.
8.3   Forest Development. Alternatives for management of forest reserve land are constrained by the
fact that UPFD is the legal custodian. JFM arrangements permit communities to participate in forest
management but title to the land remains with UPFD. Cost sharing arrangements are still under
consideration. Private sector involvement in existing commercial plantations in forest reserve land was
considered, but GOI legislation does not perrnit the leasing of reserve forests to the private sector.
Another altemative would be some form of joint venture between UPFC and the private sector, but this
would depend on future decisions about the role of the Corporation. The extent of private sector



10
provision of extension services for farm forestry was considered, together with the level of charges to be
levied. The operational difficulties experienced by existing wood-processing industries mean that they
would not at present adopt outreach programs. However, pilot operation of private nurseries and
associated extension services is being promoted in five districts.
8.4    Research and Technology. Forestry research has had a low priority for some years in Uttar
Pradesh. Alternatives include contracting out research and this option remains, as disbursement of
research funds is dependent on the development of a strategic research plan and the appointment of staff.
8.5    Conservation of Biodiversity. Alternatives for this component include provision of support for
selected species such as the tiger, and a focus only on existing Protected Areas (PAs). These were
rejected because of the importance of establishing PAs for the conservation of the full range of species
and ecological conditions in Uttar Pradesh. Differing levels of support for selected PAs were also
considered, but disregarded either because they were inadequate or could not be implemented.
9.    Major Related Projects:
9.1    Financed by the Bank. The World Bank has supported ten projects in the field of forestry and
resource conservation in India with lending amounting to about US$500 million. The most recent are
listed below.
Project                    Effectiveness Date        Last Form 590 Ratings
IP       DO
State Forestry Projects
Maharashtra                             5/19/92                 S         S
West Bengal                             6/23/92                  S        S
Andhra Pradesh                          7/29/94                  S        S
Madhya Pradesh                          9/29/95                  S        S
National Projects
Forestry Research Education and Extension    9/30/94             S         S
E,codevelopment                         1/1/97                  na        na
9.2    Financed by Other Development Agencies
Development Agency                     Project                        Cost
Rs.(Millions)
OECF                Gujarat. Integrated Forestry Development Project  6,080
Rajasthan Afforestation and Pasture Development  1,075
Rajasthan Afforestation Project Aravalli Hill    1,669
Rajasthan Forestry Development Project           1,400
Tamil Nadu Forestry and Ecorestoration Project    4,500
Karnataka Forestry and Environment Project        5,600
United Kingdom      Western Ghats Forestry Project                     830
Himachal Pradesh Forestry Project                  150
EU                  Haryana Rehabilitation of Common Lands             480
FRG                 Himachal Pradesh Ecodevelopment for Changar Valley    100



11
10.   Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design:
10.1   Experiences gained through supervision, project completion reports and reviews of the sector in
India and the Asia region have been assessed. In the past, forestry projects in India mainly providing
support for social forestry and watershed protection activities have had mixed success. The involvement
of local people in some of these projects was inadequate. Many of the projects encountered
implementation problems due to slow project start-up, institutional weaknesses and insufficient local
funding. The major lessons from the early projects was that the programs were inadequate to address the
complex issues affecting the forest sector. Other important lessons have been learnt from more recent
projects. These include: the need to ensure Government commitment to and action on policy and
institutional reforms; an emphasis on the introduction of improved environment and biodiversity friendly
technology, particularly improved planting material; better extension services; better processes to
involve local communities in the planning and management of forest resources and; the need to maintain
staff continuity of project management and to build procurement skills. These lessons have been taken
into account in the design of the proposed project.
11.   Indications of UPFD Commitment and Ownership:
11.1   UPFD is conscious of the need for change in the management of the forest sector and this is
reflected in the State Forestry Action Plan, which presents a radical agenda for change. GOUP requested
GOI to seek Bank finance to assist with the introduction of the necessary changes and the
implementation of the action plan. UPFD staff participated with the consultants in the preparation of the
project and were involved in intensive dialogue during Bank pre-appraisal and appraisal missions.
UPFD have also initiated agreed actions with PPF funding, most significantly, reorientation and training
of staff, as well as additional studies. Government commitment is also reflected by action taken to meet
the conditions of negotiation which include policy reforms and institutional arrangements for
implementation.
12.   Value Added of Bank Support:
12.1  Future development of the forestry sector in Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the National
Forestry Policy will require long-term commitments. The Bank is one of the few institutions that could
provide the necessary continuity of support. In addition, the Bank's involvement in similar state forestry
projects provides a mechanism for transferring up-to-date practical experience with project
implementation. This experience enables the Bank to engage in a constructive dialogue on sector
management issues with both state and central governments. The Bank is also in a position to ensure
that improved technology will be made available to UPFD in a timely manner, both through its support
for the national Forestry Research, Education and Extension Project, and through linkages with
international forestry research organizations. The proposed project would be consistent with the overall
country assistance strategy, including the strategy for Bank assistance to the agricultural sector in India,
which seeks to promote increased productivity through better selection of investments, product
diversification, and more efficient public sector management. It is also consistent with the objectives of
the Bank's forestry policy and the Asia Region's strategy for lending, which links policy dialogue with
major investments in the forest sector.



12
BLOCK 3: SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS (Detailed assessments are in the project file.
See Annex 10)
13.   Economic Assessment (see Annex 6):
Cost-Benefit Analysis Project:                Project excluding ANR-sal:
NPV (12%, 35 years): US$29 million             NPV (12%, 35 years): US$5 million
ERR (35 years):     Not Appropriate            ERR (35 years):     13%
13.1   Benefits. The project would increase, directly or indirectly, the production of wood, NTFP, and
animal products which would benefit the rural poor and improve the supply of wood to forest-based
industries. About 1,000 forest fringe village communities and a further 230 communities on the plains of
Uttar Pradesh, participating in the management of about 250,000 ha of forest would receive direct benefits
from the project. The benefits include not only the improved access for communities to forest products, but
also the benefits resulting from the use of village funds generated through the program, for improved
agriculture and alternative income generating activities. The project would have important benefits in terms
of empowerment and equity as about 5 million person-days of employment would be generated, a benefit
which 'would be almost wholly captured by the poorest and landless households. Processors and marketers
of wood and NTFPs would also benefit through increased supply of raw material, resulting from the
improved management by UPFD of less degraded and often high value forests, from improved productivity
of commercial plantations, and from the development of commercial plantings on farmers' land. There
would be significant institutional benefits including empowerment of communities and the transfer of
responsibility for future funding of forestry conservation from the state to the community. There are
major environmental benefits resulting from the project - of particular importance in the hills of Uttar
Pradesh.
13.2  Economic Analysis. The direct and quantifiable benefits of the project are mainly due to
investments in the management and development of forests by: (a) dependent communities under JFM
arrangements for local use; (b) farners for on-farm commercial plantings; and (c) by UPFD for (i)
commercial plantations and (ii) Assisted Natural Regeneration (ANR) of Sal. The economic analysis is,
therefore, in three parts focusing on Joint Forest Management, private farm forestry, UPFD management
of forests, mainly sal forest in the terai. These analyses are discussed briefly below and summarized in
Annex S and PIPAnnex 16. Details of the calculations are presented in Working Paper 7. A time
horizon of 35 years was assumed. Cashflows were discounted to the base year, using the Opportunity
Cost of'Capital (OCC) for projects in India, currently estimated to be 12%. Overhead costs directly
related to forest development were apportioned to sub-components on the number of divisions involved.
The benefits of the conservation of biodiversity, and research and technology components have not been
quantified.
13.3  Economic Rates of Return (ERR) calculated for the JFM sub-components, show significant
regional variations, though it is dominated by JFM in the hills. The overall (private) ERR to JFM is
estimated at 10%, but excludes the non-quantified externality or environmental benefits stemming from
JFM project interventions. An additional 18% of discounted production benefits are needed to obtain an
OCC of 12%. This break-even environmentalpremium amounts to Rs 340 per hectare per year over 20
years of'protected land under JFM and can be compared to society's willingness to pay for downstream
environmental benefits. Rs 340 per hectare is equivalent to about 50kg of rice or less than 2% of mean
rice yiellds in the Gangetic Plain. This suggests that the project could just be justified on the basis of the
private and externality benefits associated with JFM component alone. Further, in areas where existing
rootstock creates scope for replacing expensive planting with less expensive rehabilitation through



13
protection, the incentives provided under JFM, if effective, should lead to significantly reduced costs per
ha thereby allowing greater coverage and, therefore, more benefits to be associated with project costs.
13.4   However, there are additional benefits arising from other sub-components. Modest assumptions
about the uptake of farm forestry (ERR of 16%) and about incremental yields on UPFD commercial
plantations (ERR of 15%) increase the overall ERR to 13%. The economic benefits of UPFD
management of ANR-sal, which were calculated on the basis of an assumed delay of 5 years in
harvesting sal in the terai, provide substantial net incremental benefits. These dominate the overall
project economic returns since they are strongly positive from the first year. The overall NPV(12%, 35
years) was Rs 1,007 million (a meaningful overall ERR was impossible to calculate).
14.   Financial Assessment (see Annex 6):    NPV=US$29 million (12%, 35 years) FRR= NA
14.1  Income Analysis - Joint Forest Management. The incentives for communities to participate in
JFM depends in part, at least, on the arrangements for the sharing of benefits and costs between
communities and FD and on any benefits from direct employment. It has been assumed that the
communities would provide general 'ward' over the entire micro-plan area, and would contribute about
20% of planting costs, roughly equal to 'watch'. The income analysis relates to the benefits and costs as
experienced by the community under these arrangements and shows positive returns (an FRR was not
possible to calculate). These were especially significant in areas where there is growing stock and scope
for coppicing. Under the JFM arrangements, communities have a choice between rehabilitation of the
forest through planting or protecting. The analysis showed that although the value of the production
benefits were similar, the employment benefits were slightly higher for planting, but under protection the
community could use the money for other income-generating activities. The impact of these procedures
will need to be monitored during the project.
14.2  Farm Forestry. The costs and returns to a private farmer of agro-forestry investrnent were
estimated on the basis of the following assumptions: (a) on each plot of 1 hectare, the area under
agriculture would decline over time depending on the species planted (b) agricultural land is valued at its
approximate rental value; (c) approximately 400 seedlings are planted per hectare; (d) a range of species
would be planted in different regions. On the basis of these assumptions, the financial return per hectare
to a mix of species was estimated to be 26%. The model is not more widely adopted at present due to
marketing constraints and regulations governing felling and transport of trees on private land, which
have been modified prior to negotiations.
14.3   Revenue Flows to Typical Village Forest Committees (VFC). The Village Forest
Development Fund (VFDF) brings together the cash transactions of the VFC, including input costs and
eventually, revenue shares. The flow of funds through the VFDF was analyzed for each region using the
micro-plan model to simulate the flows in and out of this account. Flows are either positive but slow to
accumulate or show a large initial inflow (from an initial coppice) and lower subsequent flows. Overall,
they provide a highly satisfactory revenue stream.
14.4   Revenue Flows to GOUP. The main source of revenue for the state is from the sal areas which
require selection felling to enable regeneration. Under the project a total of 16,000 ha of these forests
would be managed realizing an estimated total revenue of Rs 2,349 million (approx US$ 67 million) over
the 4 years of the project. The revenue is not presently realized.



14
14.5  Fiscal Impact. The IDA Credit would cover about 82% total project costs. GOUP would
contribute US$7.2 million over the four year period as shown in Annex 7. This compares with the total
GOUP allocation for forestry of US$127 million for the 1993-97 plan period, which was less than 1% of
state expenditures, and the Plan Budget of US$21.6 million for 1995-96. The substantial revenue flows
from mlanagement of the sal forests in the terai would more than compensate for any GOUP outlays on
the project, but it is important that mechanisms be established to ensure that adequate budgetary
provision is made for management of these areas in a sustainable manner.
15.   Technical Assessment:
15.1  Project proposals for improvement of sector management are linked to a management consultant
study of the existing management practices and structure of UPFD. The project-financed human
resource development program is based on the foremost thinking in India on manpower planning, skill
gap analysis and competency-based training. Forest management planning involves the development of
Forest Idanagement Plans (FMPs, formerly known as Forest Working Plans) and project-financed
improvements through increased use of spatial and remote sensing data, supported by a new FMIS that
would include GIS, introduces state-of-the-art technology. Forest management technologies would be
suited tD particular resource and socio-economic contexts with varying roles and responsibilities for
UPFD, forest user groups and farmers. In JFM areas forestry practices include protection, enrichment
planting and coppice management. Management of less degraded forests by UPFD forests has in the past
been based on four established silvicultural concepts set out in FMPs: (i) Coppice with reserves: mainly
in the dry mixed deciduous forests in the Vindhyan region; (ii) Conversion by clear felling:
miscellaneous mixed forest in the Terai, converted into industrial plantations; (iii) Shelterwood systems:
sal forests in the Terai and chir pine forests in the hills; and (iv) Selection systems: sal forests on broken
lands and hill slopes. Since the late 1970s FMP prescriptions have not been fully implemented in many
areas, due to a lack of budgetary resources and concerns about uncontrolled illegal exploitation and
adverse environmental impacts. This has resulted in forests with over-mature trees and a reduction in
natural regeneration. The project would support UPFD to re-introduce these technically sound
management concepts, with the exception of conversion by clear felling and the constraints imposed by
the GOI ban on felling above 1,000m which prevents prescribed felling and overwood removal in pine
forests. Management of natural forests would be further improved through project support for a more
systematic approach to fire and grazing hazards, based on management rather than control, and the
involvement of communities. Improvements would be introduced through the use of detailed site-
specific plans (PIPAnnex 10) which would include an environmental analysis (PIPAnnex 18), for
undegraded forests, and of site-specific micro-plans for areas to be managed under JFM arrangements.
Improvement of the quality of planting material through seed selection and the introduction of modem
nursery technology financed through the project, would provide the basis for significant technical
advances in the management of public and private forests. Thus, project support for plantation forestry is
dependent on the use of improved planting material and silvicultural practices, whilst the focus of the
farm forestry program is the development of modem nurseries producing high quality seedlings, using
selected seed. Similarly, iimproved management planning for Protected Areas and the development of
strategic plans, leading to the eventual establishment of an Integrated Protected Area System for the state
would mrake important technical contributions to successful biodiversity conservation programs.
16.   i[nstitutional Assessment:
16.1  ]Executing agency: UPFD is a long established department with a well-defined structure.
Officers are members of the Indian Forest Service, an all-India senrice, with rigorous selection and
training procedures. Other staff constitute the State Forest Service. The Department has a long tradition



15
of forest management and a presence in all parts of the state, with a total staff of about 21,400. However,
the traditional role of UPFD has been the protection and exploitation of forest resources for the state and
industry. The new role required by the National Forest Policy requires a fundamental change in
approach, from regulation and control, to participation and cooperation with local communities, and the
provision of advice. The project would foster this major change in approach to which UPFD management
is committed. As the rate of change is likely to be slow, the phasing of the project takes this into account
and is explicitly linked to the capacity to train staff. Management changes based on greater
decentralization and delegation of decision making to the field level also represents a significant change
from the present system, which tends to be centralized and hierarchical, and the readiness of UPFD to
implement such changes will require careful monitoring. Policy changes associated with the strategy for
the sector would provide greater incentives for private sector participation and project support for a
Policy Analysis Unit, would assist UPFD to encourage the contribution of private entrepreneurs to
improved productivity in the forest sector. Arrangements for project coordination would also serve to
create stronger linkages with other government agencies.
16.2  Project Management: The Project Unit would play a key role in the management of the project,
providing support to the PCCF and senior staff of the Department. UPFD have already appointed a Chief
Conservator of Forests as Project Director, and all other staff of the Unit. The development of a project-
finance Forest Management Information System based on an assessment of information needs at
different levels of UPFD, will provide an invaluable tool for improving management of the Department
as a whole, and not just of the project.
16.3  Institutional Development Costs: The total cost of the institutional development component
would be US$12.37 million, of which about 40 percent would be devoted to the training and staff
development. Of the remainder, about 35 percent would be used for development of the FMIS. The total
area of forest in Uttar Pradesh is about 6.7 million ha of which about 60 percent is in the hills. These
forests are important from an environmental perspective, and because of their essential contribution to
the livelihood of much of the rural population in providing fuelwood and non-timber forest products.
Projections indicate a fuelwood deficit of about 15 million m 3 by the Year 2000, whilst deficits of
3
industrial wood supply are estimated at over 10 million m  . Expenditure of US$12.37 million on
developing the institutional capacity of UPFD amounts to about 8 cents per 100 people or less than $2
per ha of forest land over 25 years.
17.   Social Assessment:
17.1  Social Variations and Complexity. Socio-economic conditions vary considerably from region
to region of Uttar Pradesh. In many areas, social entities like family, caste and political factions are more
significant than any collective sense of village community. This setting is not always conducive to joint
management of natural resources. Thus a critical aspect of developing JFM in a forest area is good
social targeting that will identify the most dependent forest users. The target group would most often be
the poorest families in a village who depend on forests for their livelihood or for meeting basic needs.
The procedures for stakeholder identification and social targeting in each village will use gender,
poverty, class, caste, and tribal group as criteria for ensuring access of all vulnerable and disadvantaged
groups to forest products, as well as their participation in forest management committees. The project's
major target groups would include poorer general and scheduled caste villagers, and tribal groups. Their
concerns are, therefore, central to the project and are addressed in an integral fashion under the rubric of
social impact, participation and equity, rather than as a subsidiary tribal development plan or poverty
alleviation program. There would be no involuntary resettlement associated with the project and the



16
social targeting process criteria would exclude groups and families who only have a rent seeking interest
in forest management.
17.2  In contrast to other UP regions where caste and class cause social fragmentation, villages in the
Hills are fairly homogeneous, consisting mostly of Thakurs and Brahmins. There are fewer Scheduled
castes and tribes in the Hills than in UP in general. The prospects for JFM in the Hills are good for the
following reasons: (i) villagers in the hills are highly dependent on forests for their livelihood; (ii) there
is considerable social cohesion and community based leadership; and (iii) villagers have a strong
tradition for cooperation in forest management in the framework of Van Panchayats. In the Terai, JFM
is likely to face considerable challenges. The socio-economic conditions here are very different from
any othier region in the state. The villages in the Terai are socially heterogeneous and consist of
immigrant groups like Punjabis, Bengalis, and tribals who were brought in from the Hills as laborers to
fell the forest. There is also a sizable Gujjar population who depend strongly on the forest for animal
grazing which is part of their traditional nomadic lifestyle. All these groups have settled in the area over
the last 50 years. Punjabis and other recently settled big farmers play a significant role in the rural
economy and the local power structure and as active rural entrepreneurs they are likely to have strong
vested interests in JFM arrangements. In the Terai area, a cautious approach would be adopted under the
project, whereby more time would be allowed for participatory planning processes, stakeholder analysis,
and social targeting. The arrangements for JFM and eco-development acknowledge the diversity of the
current access and use of forests by various groups.
17.3   Poverty. The faces of poverty vary from a more equal distribution in the Hills to more rigid
inequality between rich and poor in the East and the Bundelkhand. The Hills are the poorest with a per
capita income half that of the state average. Poverty in the Hills stems from a disruption in the way the
Hill peoples used to control and manage their natural resources through close integration of crop
cultivation, animal husbandry and forestry. The diminishing forest cover and loss of traditional
community ownership of reserve forests have eroded the self-sufficiency of the farming system and
over-exploitation of community forests close to villages. As a response to poverty men have migrated
out for jobs leaving women and children with heavy workloads including difficult and time-consuming
collection of fuel-wood, fodder, and NTFP. There is a harsh daily life for the poor trying to make ends
meet as tenant small-holders and seasonal laborers. Seasonal unemployment is endemic. The response
is migration for work and subsistence loans from moneylenders or patron landlords. For JFM to also
address poverty, and create assets and income for the poor, careful social targeting becomes crucial. The
project's strong emphasis on giving NGOs a direct role in JFM planning and implementation would be a
crucial factor for ensuring a poverty alleviation focus. The project's emphasis on training FD staff and
NGOs (as Spearhead Teams)in a basic version of stakeholder analysis, social targeting and formation of
user groups would include sensitivity to poverty aspects. The fundamental incentive for the FD in
targeting poor families for the forest user groups is that: if the poor, who rely on the forest for their
livelihood, are not included they will go on using the forest anyway, and in a way that could create
conflict and undermine sustainable forest management in the long run. By targeting the poor not only
will JFMA help to alleviate poverty, it will also create a socially sustainable basis for forest management.
The JFM rules and guidelines ensure that there will be representation from "backward classes, scheduled
castes and/or scheduled tribes". Since these communities usually belong to the poorest strata, there is a
good possibility that the poor will get an active voice on the VFC.
17.4   Gender. JFM, community forestry and eco-development will involve both men and women
according to the existing gender division of labor in the management of natural resources. It is common
for all social groups who will benefit from the project that men tend to control decision making on access
to forests and existing types of forest management. It is also the men who play the broker role with local



17
government, the Forest Department, and the influential individuals or groups in the local or neighboring
villages. Women (and children) constitute the work-force. They are the predominant collectors of
fodder, fuel-wood and NTFP. In the Hills, where sometimes more than half the male population are
migrant workers, women as de facto head of households play an even a stronger role in household
affairs. They also have to work extremely hard. A study from Almora district shows that at certain
times of the year women work 12-16 hours a day collecting and fetching fuel, fodder and NTFP from the
forest. As with the poorer families and groups, the project will address the situation of women and their
and problems as part of the social targeting efforts under JFM. NGO participation is equally important
here. The capacity building inputs from NGOs would include supporting women in decision making
functions, and in their efforts to enhance the availability of forest products for basic household needs and
secondary incomes. The involvement of women would be institutionalized as follows: (i) women, as a
special stakeholder group, will be represented in the VFC; and (ii) women will fortn special working
groups during the process of micro-planning in order to single out activities that would benefit women.
The criteria for women-friendly activities in micro-plans would be (i) activities in support of basic
livelihood needs; (ii) activities that generates additional income for women and which remains under
their control; and (iii) activities that that lessen their workload and saves time.
17.5  Indigenous Peoples and Scheduled Castes. Only about 2% of the population in Uttar Pradesh
are classified as Scheduled Tribes. They are concentrated in the Hills, the Terai, and the Bundelkhand.
Scheduled Castes are found in the Plains and the Bundelkhand, similar in numbers and social setting to
the rest of Northern India. There are few scheduled castes in the Hills. In the Terai and the Hills, the
Tharu, Gujjar, and various Pahari groups predominate. Tribals live in or around the forests, and their
economy has always been dependent on the forests. These groups would therefore be the main
participants in the JFM and eco-development programs. The development concerns of tribals are central
to the project, as experienced in other forestry projects in India. Their concerns will be addressed
through a sequence of participatory arrangements, social targeting and formation of forest user groups in
particular. The project would therefore benefit the tribals population in targeting them as sub-groups and
stakeholders, according to their specific needs and development potentials, rather than through subsidiary
indigenous peoples development plan. Although there is a disappointing record of by-passing or
misunderstanding the needs of tribals in development efforts, experience with JFM in tribal areas
elsewhere in India shows good results. Tribal forest groups seem to function more effectively than
groups consisting of non-tribals, probably because of the social and economic homogeneity of tribal
villages. The project will draw upon lessons learned in Bank supported projects on AP and MP, as well
as securing the involvement of local NGOs who have a long record in working with tribal groups.
18.   Environmental Assessment:         Environmental Category B
18.1   An environmental review was undertaken during project appraisal. It was concluded that project
actions would have beneficial environmental impacts, consistent with many of the priorities in the India
Environmental Action Program, 1993. Specifically, these include conservation and sustainable
utilization of biodiversity in selected ecosystems, including conservation of endangered plant and animal
species and critical habitats; afforestation, based on community participation in forest protection and
management in watershed and other areas; wasteland development involving private and community tree
planting; participatory fire and grazing management and; soil and water conservation. Estimates of the
value of some externalities have been discussed in Para.13.3. There would be no major negative
impacts arising from project actions. Environmental considerations would be mainstreamed in almost
every component of this project, and integrated in planning, design, implementing, and monitoring
activities both at the local and regional scales. PIPAnnex 18. Thus, the project would support the
completion of environmental analyses associated with site specific management plans in sal forests. The



18
project would also ensure that these analyses are extended to the management of other forest types and
forest management activities in the near future. In addition, environmental criteria would be included in
the selection of priority sites for UPFD forest management and JFM, and environmental analysis and
forest ecology training courses would be provided for UPFD staff. The project would also finance a
Strategic Environmental Study to assess the social and ecological impacts, at the State level, of
reintroducing the silvicultural activities that have been suspended since about 1980.    The project is
consistent with the National Forest Policy, the State Forestry Action Plan and the World Bank
Operational Policies and Directives for forestry activities and environmental assessment (OD/OP 4.01;
4.36 and 4.04), Indigenous People (OD 4.20), and Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)
19.   Participatory Approach:
Identification/  Implementation      Operation
Preparation
Beneficiaries/community groups        CON                COL               COL
Intermediary NGOs                     CON                COL               COL
Academic institutions                 CON                CON               NA
Local government                      CON                COL               NA
Other donors                          CON                NA                NA
CON = Consultation   COL = Collaboration NA = Not Applicable
20.   Sustainability:
20.1  Institutionally, the significant commitment by UPFD to the process of change underlying the
project, discussed in Section 11, is an important indicator of the sustainability of the project. From a
technical point of view, the mainstreaming of environmental concerns into the planning and
implermentation of UPFD activities contributes to long-term sustainability, while the very considerable
revenues generated from management of high value sal forests in the terai ensure the overall financial
sustainability of the project (See Para. 14.4) Elsewhere, successful introduction of JFM involving active
participation of communities is essential to achieve project objectives in a sustainable manner.
Community contributions to forest management would be not less than 20% of costs over the first five
years, at which point the benefits would be such that communities could manage these areas in a
sustainable manner.



19
21.   Critical Risks (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                   Risk Rating              Risk Minimization Measure
Improved Sector Management
Political support for policy and institutional    Low  Agreement on sectoral strategy with associated policy
reforms is not maintained so that new policies      changes formalized through the issue of Government
can not have an impact                              Orders. In addition, as this four-year project is the first
stage of a planned phased approach to sector development,
it provides a means for GOUP to demonstrate commitment
to change.
Process change and staff training and    Low        Institutional development lying at the heart of the project
reorientation are not undertaken, or do not         addresses this risk. A major focus would be on human
equip UPFD to fulfill its role as the nodal         resource development to reorient staff and equip them with
public sector agency for implementation of the      the required competencies and change the current
new strategy                                        hierarchical supervision relationships, to support
relationships. In addition, the project supports the
introduction of new management practices to ensure that
planning is decentralized and site-specific, rather than
centralized, target driven and based on pre-determined
models
Increased Forest Cover
Political support for community institutions is  Low  Political support for increased local government and
not maintained.                                     community participation in decision making is enshrined in
the Panchayati Raj Act
Participatory arrangements for management of Low    Development of guidelines and criteria to promote and
forests does not prove effective                    measure participation in decision-making by local
communities. Analysis of cost and benefit sharing
arrangements, indicate that there are strong incentives for
participation, and these will be monitored. Staff training in
participatory techniques will support the development of
sustainable and empowered local forest institutions.
Improved Forest Productvity
Budgetary and staffing commitments to    Medium     Project funding for research is dependent on development of
research not maintained                             a prioritized research program and adequate staffing
UPFD is not able to provide appropriate  Medium     The introduction of private sector nurseries and associated
advice to the private sector to ensure that new     extension services will reduce this risk
technology is adopted on a widespread basis.
Improved Conservation of Biodiversity
Political will for biodiversity conservation not Low  GOI legislation and the active conservation lobby will
maintained                                          ensure that biodiversity conservation remains an integral
part of GOUP programs.



20
Critical Riisks (Contd.)
Project comnponents to outputs
Risk                  RiskBRating                Risk Minimization Measure
1. InstiNttional Development
Funds for management consultancy not    Low        Process change forms the core of project design, strongly
utilized                                            endorsed by UPFD. Activities undertaken prior to project
Training plan not complied with                    effectiveness which include measures to change policies,
Completion of system design consultancy and         completion of an initial management study, and initiation of an
procurement of equipment delayed.                   appropriate reorientation and training program, indicate UPFD
commitment to change and ability to mobilize consultancy
advice. Approval of the second phase of the project will be
dependent on continuing commitment.
Project Unit does not remain fully staffed  Medium  Assurances that key staff would be maintained in position
would be sought
2. Forest Development
UPFD do not adopt participatory approach to  Low    The agreed strategy and State Forestry Action Plan emphasize
forest management                                  the necessity of adopting participatory forest management. In
addition, project-supported reorientation and training programs
ensure that staff will understand and promote the concept.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that budgetary flows
Budgetary flows for UPFD management of    Medium to  will be maintained, but continuing state-wide budgetary
forests is not maintained.              high       shortages may put compliance with the assurances at risk.
Agreed policy changes will inprove the environment for
private growers, and long-term demand for timber in India will
Incentives for private sector growers do not   Low to    increase. However, local market failures may adversely affect
remain attractive                       medium    incentives
3. ResearchA and Technology
UPFD do not recruit appropriate research staff Medium  Project funding for research is dependent on development of a
and do not maintain adequate budgetary             prioritized research program and adequate staffing
support for research
4. Conservation of Biodiversity
UPFD do not maintain staffing strength of  Low     Project funding for this component is dependent on maintaining
Wildlife Whig                                      adequate staffing.
Overall project risk rating
Support for ILUPFD does not result in improved  Low  The provision of IDA support to the forest sector in Uttar
conservation and increased productivity of         Pradesh is based on a two-phase approach. This four-year
natural forests, nor an increase in production     project is the first phase, designed to allow UPFD to develop
of forest products from non-forest land, and no    the new processes, systems and skills required for the
improvement in biodiversity conservation.          implementation of the new GOUP strategy for the development
of the sector. The second phase project would be dependent of
successful implementation of the first phase and building on
experience gained and incorporating any necessary
modifications to programs and processes.



21
BLOCK 4: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
22.   Assurances:
Accounting
a)    UPFD would establish a separate Project Account, which together with the Special
Account to be established by GOI would be subject to annual audit (Para. 4.7 and 4.8);
b)    A Financial Management System for project accounting would be established by June
3o, 1998, with specifications and outputs agreed with IDA (Para. 4.7);
Implementation
c)    An annual Implementation Program satisfactory to IDA would be prepared by December
31 of each year for the following financial year, starting December 31, 1998. (Para. 4.2);
d)    The review of management processes in UPFD would be completed by December 3 1,
1998, findings discussed with IDA and agreed modifications to management procedures
introduced not later than December 31, 1999 (Annex 5. Para. 1);
e)    A Human Resources Development Plan for UPFD, setting out staffing policy linked to
proposed changes in the management system, would be prepared and reviewed with IDA
by March 31, 1999 and an agreed action plan implemented in a phased manner by
February 29, 2000 (Annex 5. Para. 2);
f)    An annual training plan would be prepared and discussed with IDA not later than June
30 of each year, starting in 1999 (Annex 5.Para.2). In addition, by June 30, 1998: (i)
Contracts for the provision of training during the first year of the project would be
finalized; (ii) the Center for Forest and Natural Resource Management Development
would be established and four course coordinators recruited on a contract basis; (iii) a
contract for provision of technical support to the Center by an established training
institute would also be finalized; (iv) a contract for placement and support of overseas
trainees, with an institution acceptable to IDA, would be agreed (Annex 5. Para. 3);
g)    The first three JFM and Ecodevelopment microplans(Annex 5. Paras. 6 and 18), the first
three Site Specific Plans and associated environmental analyses for the management of
identified areas of forest to be financed with project funds(Annex 5. Para. 10) , and the
first three fire and grazing management plans (Annex 5. Para. 12)would be agreed with
IDA prior to implementation;
h)    A strategic analysis of the impact of different management systems for sal forest in the
terai, on markets, revenue, forest sector expenditure, the environment and conservation
of biodiversity would be completed by December 31, 1998 (Annex 5. Para. 10);
i)    Plantation sites would be identified in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA and
plantations developed using improved planting material and silvicultural practices
(Annex 5. Para. I 1);
j)    UPFD would phase out seedling production in at least four forest divisions and provide
buy-back guarantees to private nursery entrepreneurs for a fixed number of seedlings
meeting publicized quality criteria (Annex 5. Para. 14);



22
k)   The implementation of the prioritized research program would be based on the strategic
research plan agreed with IDA, and suitably qualified and experienced staff toundertake
the research would be appointed by June 30, 1998 (Annex 5. Para. 15);
1)    No later than January 31, 2000 prepare a report integrating the results of the monitoring
and evaluation activities of project progress, which would be reviewed and discussed
with IDA no later than February 29, 2000 and the recommendations of the review would
be thereafter implemented (Para. 4.10).
Management
m)    All staff of the PU and PAU (Annex 5. Para. 1) and the Wildlife Wing (Annex 5. Para.
16) would be appointed and in post by June 30, 1998.
n)    Responsibility for all PAs would be transferred to the Wildlife Wing by March 31, 1998;
Involunta,y Resettlement
o)    There would be no involuntary relocation of any of the communities or individuals
resident within PAs. Any proposals for voluntary relocation would be preceded by an
independent study to assess the impact of such communities on the conservation of
biodiversity within the PAs. All proposals would be consistent with GOI provisions and
the Bank's OD 4.20 and OD 4.30 and would requjire the prior approval of IDA. In
addition, a monitoring program by an independent agency acceptable to IDA would be
established(Annex 5. Para. 17).
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES.
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: Ian Hill                      Country Director: Edwin Lim



Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
Annex 1
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions and Risks
Supervision
CAS Objective
Better selection of investments and  Allocation and utilization of   Public sector
more efficient management in the    public sector budgetary    expenditure reviews.
forestry sector                     resources
Project Development Objectives
To:
1. Improve public sector management   Changed management       UPFD and IDA          Continued GOUP commitment to
of the forest sector in Uttar Pradesh;  approaches.            progress and          the objectives of the National
2. Increase forest cover and        Increased community        supervision reports.   Forest Policy and the State Forestry
productivity;                      involvement in forest       Evaluation at mid-term    Action Plan.
3. Conserve biodiversity;          management.                 and closing
in an environmentally and socially  Improving trends in area of
sustainable manner, recognizing the  forest cover, productivity and
project is planned as the first phase of    biodiversity.
long-term support to the sector.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators     Monitoring and Supervision  Critical Assumptions and Risks
Project Outputs
I. Strong UPFD with improved   1. I Appropriate sector policies   1. 1 Issue of GOUP Government  Political support for reforms is
administrative and forest     adopted                       Orders                        maintained so that new policies
management processes and                                                                  can have an impact
structure, working within a
framework of appropriate sector
policies
1.2 Recommended institutional   1.2 UPFD progress reports   Process change, and staff
reforms implemented           showing implementation as %   training and reorientation will
of planned physical and       equip UPFD to fulfill its role as
financial targets            the nodal public sector agency
for implementation of the new
strategy for forest sector
1.3 Strengthened human        1.3 UPFD progress reports,
resources in UPFD with new    surveys of VFC opinion and
approaches and skills required    qualitative assessment
for implementation of SFAP.
1.4 Management processes for   1.4 UPFD and IDA progress
(a) forest management; (b)    and supervision reports
administration based on timely,
site-specific planning that
includes monitoring feed-back
linked to reliable data available
from FMIS
1.5 Sustainable funding       1.5 UPFD and IDA progress
mechanisms established        and supervision reports
2. Mechanismrs to Increase    2.1 Upward trend in area of   2.1 FSI surveys               Political support for community
Forest Cover E,stablished     forest cover                                                institutions is maintained in the
2.2 No. of VFCs formed        2.2 Process documentation     medium term
UPFD M&E, consultants and
NGOs                          Participatory arrangements are
an effective means of managing
forests
3. Technologies to Improve    3.1] Development of improved    3. UPFD Research progress   Budgetary and staffing
Forest Produclivity in Place  planting material technologies at  reports, UPFD M&E annual  commitments to research
10 demonstration sites       reports, project evaluation at  maintained
3.2 Growth parameters,        mid-term and closing
survival, coppice count,                                    UPFD is able to provide advice
site/species matching in                                   to communities and private
managed forest areas                                        sector entrepreneurs so that new
3. 3 50 % of all seed used is                              technology is adopted on a
selected                                                    widespread basis
3.4 35% of all seedlings
distributed are grade A
3.5 Reduced fire incidence
3.6 Area of controlled grazing
3.7 Area of private plantations
4. Processes to Improve       4. 1] Strategic plan for      4.1 Adoption of strategy by   Political will for biodiversity
Conservation of Biodiversity  biodiversity conservation     GOUP                           conservation is maintained
Introduced                    developed
4.2 Completion of 18 PA       4.2 UPFD Wildlife progress
management plans              reports
4.3 Management of PAs         4.3 Ecological surveys and
improved                      UPFD Wildlife and IDA
progress and supervision reports
4.4 Mobilization of community   4.4 Socio-economic surveys
support for PA conservation   and qualitative assessments
through ecodevelopment
programs initiated around PAs                               _



Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Narrative Summary           Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and Risks
Expenditure ($ millions)
Project Components
1. Institutional Development
*   Sector Management                                         UPFD and IDA progress and   Management consultancy leads
supervision reports        to improved management system
*   Human Resource                                            UPFD and training
Development                                               institutions progress reports
*   Forest Management                                         UPFD Planning and M&E       FMIS is actively used as input to
Information Systems                                       progress reports            PM&E
*   Project Unit                                              UPFD and IDA progress and   Project Unit remains fully staffed
supervision reports
2. Forest Development
*   Joint Forest Management                                   UPFD M&E progress           UPFD adopt participatory
reports.                   approach to forest management
VFCs representative of users of
forest resources
*   UPFD Management                                           UPFD and UPFC progress      Budgetary flows for UPFD
*   ANR                                               reports                    management of forests
*   Plantations                                                                  maintained.
*   Forest Protection
*   Strip Plantations
*   Urban Forestry
*   Farm Forestry                                             UPFD progress reports       Incentives for private sector
growers remain attractive
*   Operational Support                                       UPFD and IDA progress and
supervision reports
3. Research and Technology
*   Research                                                  UPFD Research and IDA       UPFD recruit appropriate
progress and supervision   research staff and maintain
reports                    budgetary support for research
*    Planting Material                                        UPFD progress reports
Improvement
4. Conservation of Biodiversity
*   Strategic Planning                                        UPFD Wildlife progress      UPFD maintain staffing strength
*   Management of PA System                                   reports and IDA supervision   for Wildlife Wing and
*   Ecodevelopment                                            reports.                    responsibility for PAs transferred
*   Research Training, Public                                                             to Wildlife Wing
Awareness



UTTAR PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSUE                            EFFECT                      PROPOSED CHANGE                         ACTION
''    '   '.':'.. . . .'  ''','"':'"''''.  :',"   . .'    '';'     .'',-,'. '.. '"    ' "'.'' ''.   ''.,   .S'  .'
Indian Forest Act (1927). Does not   National Forest Policy is not legally    Recast the Indian Forest Act to meet   GOUP to discuss with GOI the
provide a comprehensive legal basis   binding                      the requirements of the National   ongoing review of draft legislation
for the National Forest Policy (1988)                               Forest Policy (1988)
Jurisdiction. Control of RF, civil and  Different regulations and approaches   Adopt consistent approach to  Modify VP rules to give more
soyam land and VP lands by UPFD,   to community participation in forest   communities by progressively giving   authority and control of funds to VPs
RD and VPs, respectively         management.                        control of civil and soyam land and
funds to VPs or GPs. UPFD to
provide technical support.
Panchayat Forest Rules (1976) give    VPs cannot manage and control all    Give VPs responsibility for civil and
VPs responsibility for forest    lands close to their village      soyam lands close to the village,
management, but give authority to                                  irrespective of previous jurisdiction
RD and UPFD
Joint Forest Management. Legal   JFM notifications give VFCs rights to  Ensure consistency between JFM  Constitute VFCs with functional and
framework for JFM is uncertain in    distribute benefits and control forest   rules and requirements of the new  financial autonomy under the
the light of the new Panchayat Raj    funds, but rights and control of all  Panchayat Raj Act         Panchayat Raj Act and Rules
Act                              community funds are accorded to the
Panchayat under the new Act



UTTAR PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSUE                            EFFECT                       PROPOSED CHANGE                           ACTION
~~~~~~~~~~..     ...     .   . .                                                                  ..     . .    ... , ..   .,.,            ..,.. .  ..'"""""''"'
Industrial Supply. Large quantities of  May lead to loss of revenue and  Increase market competition     Calculated allotment price to be
forest produce provided to industry    royalty as selling price calculated,                             linked directly to market price
on annual contract basis          rather than determined by open sale
Introduce regular auctions for
industrial supply of Acacia catechu
NTFP. Monopoly collection and sale   Disincentive to private sector   Permit private sector involvement in   Study alternative mechanisms for
of some NTFPs                      participation and collectors do not  NTFP marketing                   NTFP collection and sale that will
receive market prices                                                 provide protection for collectors and
ensure revenue is collected for the
state and collectors. Discuss options
with GOI.
Undertake NTFP market study in
different ecological zones
UP Rural Areas Tree Protection Act   Disincentive to planting of trees on  Remove restrictions           Modify Tree Protection Act and
and UP Timber and Transit Rules.  private land                                                           modify Timber and Transit Rules.
Restrictions on felling of trees and                                                                     Publicize changed regulations
transit of wood.
Seedling Prices. High quality tree  Low pricing discourages private   Seedling prices to cover full      Publicize criteria for quality seedlings
seedlings not readily available   seedling product ion. Encourages    production costs and profit.       for each species. Permit increase in
planting of sub-standard seedlings  Encourage private sector seedling  seedling prices. Announce closure of
production by stopping all FD      FD nurseries. Contract supply of
seedling production in selected areas.  seedlings required by FD in following    W
year, at pre-determined prices for   
quality seedlings
Control and funding of UPFD          Go W
nurseries to be separated from
Territorial Wing



UTTAR PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
j _ ~~~~~~I                                ,                                  ,                  _ 
ISSUE                             EFFECT                       PROPOSED CHANGE                          ACTION
..   ..   .   ...                                 .......   ...
Management Approach, Regulatory,   Reluctance of communities to       Develop new vision of the role of  Orientation of staff at all levels to the
rather than participatory client-  collaborate in participatory forest  UPFD                             new role of UPFD
oriented approach to management of   management programs
the sector
Management Procedures.             Local initiatives required for     Decision making authority to be    Review management procedures to
Centralized, top-down decision     successful participatory forest    brought closer to client interface, that  empower staff to make area and
making                             management and to ensure programs   is to users of forest resources   situation-specific decisions
are linked to site-specific conditions
and priorities are restricted
Intra-Sectoral Linkages. Plans of  Implementation not well coordinated   Ensure all FD plans are coordinated at  Introduce improved planning
various wings of FD are poorly inter-                                 various levels                     procedures
linked
Planning and Monitoring. Lack of  Decisions are based on limited     Improve management information      Review planning, monitoring
site specific and strategic plans and    information, little input from  systems. Modifv planning procedures  procedures and introduce necessary
inadequate information systems    systematic monitoring of on-going   to include the requirements of the  improvements
programs and inadequate analysis,  new forest policy, site specific needs,
particularly of economic           economic factors and feed-back from
consequences of programs           monitoring programs
ylaLuatim. No external evaluation    No independent evaluation        Introduce external evaluation by   Recruit external evaluation agency
agency                                                               independent agency. Increase client
accountability.
Management Structure. Organization   Overlapping management          Modify management structures to     Review management structure and      e
of UPFD is not fully adjusted to the   responsibilities and inefficient use of   meet the requirements of revised  responsibilities in the light of the
needs of the new strategy for the  scarce resources                  management procedures               recent sector management study and
sector                                                  _                                                make necessary modifications
Qoo 



UTTAR PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSUE                           EFFECT                      PROPOSED CHANGE                         ACTION
StaflingPlanning. Ineffective    Inefficient use of human resources  Staffing to be related to functional  Formnulate staffmng plan for UPFD
manpower planning                                                  units of the modified management
structure
CaerDvlpet Limited               Stagnation and poor motivation    Link career development to        Assess manpower levels in relation to
opportunities for advancement                                      manpower planning                 manpower plans and in consultation
with GOI examine options to achieve
desired manpower levels
Promo~tion. Promotion not linked to   Promotion of poorly trained staff  Confirmation of promotion to be  UPFD to introduce policy so that
competency development                                            linked to achieving appropriate    confirmation of promotion is
competencies                      dependent on staff obtaining
appropriate competencies
SaffSpeiaization. No incentives or  Lack of staff.with specialized skills    Specialized care development to be    Identify incentives to encourage
career structure for specialization                                encouraged                        specialization. Initiate discussions
with GOI for promoting
specialization within IFS
Selection of Trainees. Procedures for  Training program delayed or  Annual training plan, prepared by  GOUP to accept new clearance
GOUP clearance of trainees selected   otherwise adversely affected  UPFD that would include nominated   procedures
by UPFD, particularly for foreign                                 trainees to be cleared in advance (by
training                                                           June 31 of each year) by GOUP
Staff Posting. Trained staff not  Ineffective use of trained staff.  Post trained staffdto appropriate  GOUP to ensure that only
posted appropriately and frequently   Inefficient implementation   positions for significant periods of  appropriately trained staff appointed
transferred                                                        time                              to identified positions     t h
HRD Coordination. UPFD have      Poorly coordinated HRD program    Develop capacity to manage and    Appoint full-time officer, trained in
limited capacity for systematic HRD                                coordinate a RD program           IIRD, within the Project Uniton
oo t



UTTAR PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSUE                           EFFECT                      PROPOSED CHANGE                         ACTION
Population and Relocation.       Adverse impact on conservation of    Determine extent of adverse impact    Wherever possible, redefine PA
Communities resident within PAs,    biodiversity                   and explore possibility of redefining    boundaries to exclude villages where
close to peripheries.                                              PA boundaries                     legal processes have not been
completed
Framework for Biodiversity       Ecological considerations not     Integrate biodiversity considerations   Prepare state-wide biodiversity
Conseration. Lack of overall     integrated into state development  into sectoral development plans.  strategy and action plan and initiate
strategy for the state.          planning.                                                           its implementation.
PA Mangeent ln. Incomplete   PAs not managed to the best           Use PA management plans and       Complete PA management plans,
or inadequate management plans for   advantage of wildlife or adequately    associated ecodevelopment programs   initiate the planning and
PAs with inadequate funding      protected from outside interference    as a basis for provision of funding  implementation of ecodevelopment
programs
Order for development and operation   PA authorities not defined   guidelines for implementation of
of Village Ecodevelopment        i                                 ecodevelopment program
Committeesstrategy(forthEDC)ate.planning.its implementa
PA  a
or naequtemaageen pansfo    avanag ofwidlfe r deuatly asocite eodeelpmet roram    iitateth pannngan
PAswit indeqat fudin  prtetedfro  ousid itererece  s   bais or roisin o fudin  ipleenttio o ecdevlopen



UTTAR PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSUE                             EFFECT                      PROPOSED CHANGE             |             ACTION
....................~~~~~~.      . . .. . . . . . . . .. ...... . .............. ........... ,.............!.
.. -e... ... 'e''o"'''--nt. ''' ''''--''';"      :"' Ma"agement  '.'''-'''''-  '.'  ''."'" :- ''''': ' "':':: " '' - .............  ''''',  '''' '': ''''
Budiget. Inadequate budget for    Resource base not utilized and     Direct reinvestment of a proportion of  Introduce mechanisms to ensure
implementation of working plans in    declining in value due to over-  proceeds from harvest, on the basis of  UPFD obtain funds for reinvestment
high value sal forest             maturity                            up-to-date Site Specific Plans     in forests from which revenue is
obtained
Delays in release of approved budget  Forest management controlled by  Timely release of approved budget,    GOUP to release funds to UPFD
budget release, rather than by     particularly for critical silvicultural
optimum silvicultural practices, in  operations
particular, planting and fire
management. Delays in payment to
labor.
Environmental Assessment (EA). No   EAs do not form part of sectoral  EA guidelines for forest areas to be    UPFD to formulate guidelines on EA
GOI guidelines on EIA for forests  planning                          defined                            for forests
Joint Forest Mnagfmet
Working Plan Prescriptions. These    Less incentive for communities to  Ensure forest management         Approve deviations from working
may differ from community         participate in JFM                 prescriptions meet community        plans in JFM areas
requirements                                                          priorities
Harvesting by UPFC. UPFC have     UPFC overheads mean that           Regulations or procedures to be     Develop mechanisms to permit
sole right to felling of timber in JFM    communities do not receive full  altered to ensure communities receive  communities to harvest produce from
areas within reserved forests     market prices for forest produce   the full value of forest produce    JFM areas, or to ensure they receive
derived from JFM areas             the full market price
Sustainabili . Sustainable expansion  Increase in UPFD budget required to   Provision for increased expenditures   Provide nexessary budgetary  gq
of the JFM program requires long-  meet community expectations       to be included in long-term planning   resources to meet community          Cs
term commitment by GOUP                                                                                  expectations
oo N



UTTAR PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSUE                            EFFECT                       PROPOSED CHANGE                           ACTION
Sld. Poor seed selection and      Use of inferior genetic material and    Seed harvesting and handling   Appoint officer with specific
handling                           low germination rates              responsibilities to be redefined   responsibility for seed programs
Design and implement programs for
seed procurement and processing with
specialist consultant assistance
Planting Material. Lack of effective    Poor quality seedlings resulting in  Nursery practices and planting  Improve nursery and planting
tree improvement programs and poor  poor establishment and growth, with    methods to be improved        practices based on interaction with
nursery practices                 long-term loss of financial and                                        other state FDs. Appoint program
economic benefits                                                     coordinator
Research. Lack of prioritized     Contribution of research to         Research to be linked to key       Develop prioritized research program
research program complementing    management of forest resources, to    development problems and         based on recommendations of
national research programs.       the identification of the most     adequately funded                   Research Advisory Committee
inadequate staff and funds.       productive material, and to problem
solving is not focused.
Recruitment of specialized research    Lack of suitably qualified researchers  Incentives for staff to undertake  Appoint qualified staff who volunteer
staff in UPFD is difficult                                           research to be provided             for research posts, for a minimum
period of five years, with satisfactory
housing, salary increments and
benefits
Exotic Species. Introduction of   Loss of economic benefits as many   Introduction of exotic species to be    ICFRE in consultation with UPFD
exotic species is restricted      exotic species are highly productive    decided on economic as well as  and other states to draft operational  I
environmental grounds              guidelines for introduction of selected
exotic species for discussion with  .  X
GOI



UTTAR PRADESH FORESTRY PROJECT
Issues and Actions
ISSU'E                           EFFECT                       PROPOSED CHANGE                           ACTION
0~.rst Crportionand Indusitre 
Role of FC. FC is not fully integrated  Market activities by FC impact on  Sectoral policies to be fully respected   GOUP to ensure that FC complies
into sector                       sector as a whole                   by FC                              with all sectoral policies, in particular,
those affecting JFM
Wood-Based Industries. Regulations   Disincentive for planting trees on  Encourage development of wood-  Review controls on development of
restrict the development of wood-  private land                       based industries                   wood-based industries for selected
based industries                                                                                         species
Industrial Plantations. Private sector   Private sector investment in forest  Permit industries to participate in the   Analyze options for private sector
excluded from industrial plantations   sector not fully realized      management and development of      investment in industrial plantations on
on forest land                                                        existing industrial plantations on  forest land and discuss with GOI
forest land
oo0 



Annex 3
Page 1 of 8
Annex 3
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project
Detailed Project Description
Institutional Development (US$12.57 million)
1.    Sector Management. The project would suppoirt the improvement of the
management of the sector through development of: (i) Management Process. PIP
Annex 8. The project would finance measures for the continued analysis and
improvement of management processes in the forestry sector. Consultancy funds would
be provided to further develop the recommendations of a management study completed in
1996. The consultants would assist the Department with detailed process analysis and
re'view of management procedures, staffing levels and skills, determining whether any
modifications are required to increase efficiency and assist UPFD to fulfill its role in the
imrLplementation of the new state strategy for the sector. (ii) Planning. PIPAnnex 10.
The project would provide funds for consultancies to assist with improving the
formulation of UPFD Forest Management Plans, previously known as Working Plans,
and the introduction of Site Specific Plans (SSP). This would lead to the gradual
introduction of plans related to management of specific blocks of forest, that would relate
actual field conditions with silvicultural practice, forest protection, budget and
environmental considerations. The project would also finance the preparation of a Code
of Forest Practice and a strategic environmental overview of the sal forests in Uttar
Pradesh; (iii) Monitoring and Evaluation. PIP Annex 10. The project would support
the introduction of monitoring and evaluation (M&E) procedures based on three data sets:
(a), monitoring of key performance indicators (PIPAnnex 10); (b) program management
information, such as procurement and disbursement and; (c) independent evaluation
studies, including beneficiary assessments in the second and fourth year of the project;
(iv) EnvironmentalAnalysis PIPAnnex 18. Funds would be made available for
undertaking enviromnental analyses for various management practices in different forest
types, initially in SSPs, and in the longer-term as an integral part of UPFD planning
procedures. The project would finance consultants to assist with the development of
guidelines and procedures, the formulation of plans for representative areas, and an
inclependent review of the initial environmental analyses. The project would also provide
for a consultancy to develop a strategic environmental analysis for the silvicultural
management in the sal forests of Uttar Pradesh; (v) Policy Analysis Unit. A small Policy
Analysis Unit, responsible directly to the PCCF (UP), would be established to
commission and supervise specific policy analysis studies, for which the project would
provide consultancy funds. Policy analysis studies of particular importance include: the
role and future involvement of UPFC in the sector; the efficiency of allocation of public
sector expenditures in the sector, the economic and environmental effects of the
restrictions on felling above 1,OOOm; the leasing of forest land to industrial concerns and
the management of existing industrial plantations, possibly as a case study for a wider



Annex 3
Page 2 of 8
GOI study of the issue; forest grazing policies and; the development of a policy for urban
forestry.
2.    Human Resource Development (HRD). PIP Annex 9. This important
component underpins the implementation of the whole project. The project would
provide funds for training, as described below, but this is only one aspect of HRD, so the
project would also support the development of improved systems for manpower planning,
performance assessment, and counseling. The main objective of the HRD component
would be to develop: the individual for his or her present and future role; supervisor -
subordinate relationships; teams; and inter-group linkages. The HRD process would be
based on process analysis to identify skill needs or competencies and performance levels.
It would be cyclic and interactive, rather than pedagogical, and would involve several
layers of the hierarchy simultaneously. The role of the trainer would be to: collaborate in
the process analysis and the identification of competencies and training needs; develop
appropriate courses with UPFD staff; provide the training; and identify criteria for
performance assessment. Under the project this HRD approach would be focused on
those aspects of the project that involve process change, that is, on sector management,
joint forest management, and ecodevelopment.
3.    Trainingfor Process Change. Project funds would be available for training and
workshops required to bring about change in management processes. Four types of
training would be included: (i) Training of Trainers (TOT) for both training institute
faculty members and field staff; (ii) HRD covering HRD concepts and processes,
leadership, career development and management skills, including project planning,
monitoring and evaluation; (iii) Participatory management skills for JFM and
ecodevelopment. Topics would include orientation, participatory principles and
processes, Participatory Rural Appraisal, and village microplanning; (iv) Technology
including silvicultural practices and information technology. In addition to courses and
workshops, the project would finance a distance learning program for staff of UPFD at
various levels. Special courses in management skills and technology would be provided
for members of communities participating in community management of resources.
4.    Specialist Training. Project support for development of competencies for
specialist activities would be based on a judgment of the skills needed, for example
training in: information science, forest technology, research, planting material
improvement, extension, fire protection, soil conservation and park management. The
costs of such specialist training have been included in the respective components. The
project would also provide for training in office management and skill development for
administrative support staff.
5.    Support to Training Centers. The project would support the improvement of
training capabilities for both regular induction training and the training financed under the
project. The Forest Training Institute (FTI) at Haldwani would be the nodal point for
training of UPFD staff, though induction training would continue at Kanpur and the
Forest Schools. Training capabilities would be increased through TOT programs for
faculty members. The capacity of FTI would be strengthened through the establishment



Annex 3
Page 3 of 8
of the Center for Forest and Natural Resource Management Development, which would
be an autonomous Society, linked to FTI, similar to the Center for Development Studies,
associated with the UP Academy of Administration. The project would provide funds for
contract recruitment of four course coordinators for the duration of the project, to manage
the four groups of training activities identified in Para. 3 above. Finance would also be
provided for short-term contract recruitment of more specialized resource persons, and
for technical back-stopping from a more established training institution. The project
would provide funds for infrastructural improvements at FTI, Haldwani, the center at
Kanpur, and to seven Forest Schools. Construction of additional facilities, including staff
housing, rehabilitation of existing structures, and provision of training equipment, books
and vehicles would be provided for.
6.    Forest Management Information System (FMIS). PIPAnnex 11. The project
would finance measures to develop and implement a FMIS throughout UPFD. As part of
FMIS development, consultancies would be provided to review and streamline existing
reporting and information management procedures, including the preparation of Forest
Management Plans. The review would serve to implement the conclusions of the
management process review and to establish an overall FMIS design, with the objective
of mainstreaming the use of information technology (IT) into UPFD activities, in
particular by using database management, Internet connectivity and Geographic
lninormation Systems (GIS). Six process-focused information management modules
would be developed: (i) Finance and Administration Module (FAM); (ii) Forestry
O)perations Module i(FOM); (iii) Forest Management Plan Preparation Module (FMPPM);
(iv) Biodiversity Information Module (BIM); (v) Planning Information Module (PIM)
and; (vi) Monitoring and Evaluation Module (MEM). Project funds would be available
to equip middle and higher level management units with appropriate computer
equipment. Local Area Networks (LANs) would be installed in Lucknow, Nainital and
IIaldwani, as well as a communication link between Lucknow and Nainital. The use of
GIS would be gradually introduced in support of forest resource assessments and
planning at the micro and macro levels, and the project would finance training in map
production and use at the field level. Provision would also be made for the acquisition of
digital data sets. A wide range of UPFD staff would undertake computer literacy
training, training in basic office software packages, and training in the use of the six
information management modules. Specialized training in the use of GIS would be
provided for selected staff. Five UPFD staff would receive long-term training in
information system management and data analysis. Project funds would be provided for
purchase of necessary supporting infrastructure, such as aeir conditioners for computer
rooms.
7.    Project Unit. Project funds would be available for the operation of a Project Unit
(PU). The PU would be responsible for coordination and administration of all project-
funded activities. The project is designed to ensure that the PU does not become a parallel
operational structure. The staffing and structure of the Unit is illustrated in Figure 1,
together with the linkages to operational units of UPFD. The project would provide
necessary computers, equipment and vehicles for the PU. Provision would also be made
for preparation of a possible second-phase follow-up project.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 8
Forest Development (US$39.75 million)
8.    The project would finance a variety of interventions in the development of forest
resources in UP. These include activities in previously managed forests, plantations, and
farm forestry, reflecting two important objectives of the National Forest Policy and the
GOUP strategy for development of the sector: sustainable management of forests to meet
local community needs, and increase in area and productivity of forests and trees. The
initiatives would vary with management arrangements and priority would be given to
community participation in natural forest management, that is Joint Forest Management,
though certain areas would continue to be managed by UPFD. Key technical practices for
the restoration of overmature forests and protection of biodiversity, for conservation of
soil and water resources, and to enhance sustainable production from forests are
summarized in PIPAnnex 2. Project-financed plantation development would be
conditional on the use of improved planting materials and silvicultural practices.
Supporting programs for management of fire and grazing pressures in a substantial area
of forests in the state would be included. Farm forestry is a purely private sector
enterprise, mainly involving individual farmers. By providing technical support and
demonstrations of nursery technology, the project would stimulate the development of
private sector nurseries and associated extension services. The project would also
support small but innovative urban forestry programs and strip plantations.
9.    Joint Forest Management. PIPAnnex 5. Project support for JFM would be
focused in the hills, and parts of the terai and the Vindhyan region. Project finance for
forest development and management activities, such as fencing, soil working, planting
and protection would be linked with activities to promote sustainable use of forest
resources and meet other community priorities. The program would be based on site-
specific village area microplans, developed through a participatory process, leading to the
formation of a Village Forest Committee (VFC), or the strengthening of existing Forest
Van Panchayats. The microplans would form the basis of formal agreements that would
set out the rights and obligations of both the local community and UPFD. The microplans
would include reserve forests, civil and soyam lands, and in the hills, Van Panchayat
forests. The JFM rules specify that the community would receive 75% or 100% of the
benefits from management of the forest area, depending on ownership of land, and that
50% of revenue would be re-invested in forest management. In order to ensure
sustainability, local ownership and replicability, communities would contribute not less
than 20% of development costs. The communities would decide any higher level of their
contribution to the schemes. Communities opting to contribute their labor for forest
development would receive an equivalent lump sum cash payment deposited in a Village
Development Fund, established by the VFC. Consideration would be given to the
provision of funds in advance, as a means of establishing UPFD credibility with
communities. Success with the progress of JFM would be dependent on the availability
of trained staff, with a comnmitment to the participatory process, as well as on NGO
involvement. Orientation workshops and other measures to identify and develop
appropriate staff competencies form an important part of the HRD component. The
project would finance the formation and operations of Spearhead teams in each Division,
that would include a Ranger, one Forester or Forest Guard, and male and female social



Annex 3
Page 5 of 8
motivators, recruited under contract from institutions or NGOs. The phasing of project-
financed works would be explicitly linked to the availability of trained staff. It is
estimated that a total of just over 1,000 communities would be involved over the four-
year project period, managing and protecting about 250,000 ha of forest land, for which
detailed village microplans would have been completed. The project would also provide
funds that NGOs, already active in selected areas, could draw on to assist UPFD with
microplanning, to build capacity amongst VFCs, and to implement JFM programs,
designed to complement UPFD activities PIPAnnex 5.
1 0.   Community Forestry. There are few areas of unused community land in the
plains of Uttar Pradesh for the development of new community forests, so the project
would finance the participatory management of existing forests on community lands in
the plains in about 230 villages. The same principles of rnicroplanning and community
pa;rticipation would be applied as to other participatory forest management programs.
This would represent a significant departure from community plantations developed
undier earlier social forestry programs, where community forests were developed and
managed by UPFD.
11.   UPFD Management. Assisted Natural Regeneration. The project would
support a program of management of different forest ecotypes, rather than oriented to
particular species. Based on site specific planning, that would include an environmental
analysis, the program would assist natural regeneration through control of fire and
grazing, improved soil and moisture conservation, and improved cultural operations.
Project finance would be provided for the phased introduction of management of natural
regeneration of forests in various ecological zones as follows: (i) 16,000 ha of
overmature sal forests in the terai with potential for regerneration; (ii) about 1,000 ha of
oak. and rhododendron forests in the hills and; (iii) 4,000 ha of mixed deciduous forests in
the Vindhyan region. Site Specific Plans would be prepared for each forest area to be
managed under the project, that would define the silvicultural practices, derived from
existing Forest Management Plans, fire and livestock malnagement measures, a detailed
budget and implementation schedule, and an environmental analysis, including measures
for forest preservation. The program would be supported by staff training and the
provision of staff housing, vehicles and equipment, and consultancies to assist with the
preparation of model Site Specific Plans.
12.   Plantation Forestry. The project would finance the development of 12,500 ha of
plantations, to be established after felling of areas of existing mature plantations. Project
funding would be conditional on the use of improved planting materials and plantation
management practices. Thus, there would be 6,000 ha of eucalyptus planted with
selected highly productive clonal material and 500 ha plainted with Dalbergia sissoo.
There would be 2,000 ha of teak planted with material from clonal seed orchards and a
further 4,000 ha planted with seedlings developed from seed gathered from identified
Candidate Plus Trees.



Annex 3
Page 6 of 8
13.   Forest Protection. Fire and damage from uncontrolled grazing by livestock are
significant hazards in the forests of Uttar Pradesh. Fire Management. A consultancy to
develop a fire management strategy for the state, financed from the PPF advance has
been completed. Involvement of local communities through contractual arrangements
would be integral to the strategy, wherever possible. The project would finance
implementation of the strategy over 750,000 ha of forest, including 100,000 ha of sal,
500,000 ha of chir and blue pine, 100,000 ha of oak forests, and 50,000 ha of mixed
deciduous forests. Livestock Management. The project would provide funding for the
development of a silivpasture program, based on consultant recommendations, and a
series of demonstration and seed production plots in different ecological zones. This
would form the basis for a more comprehensive strategy to deal with livestock
management in the forests of UP. In the short-term, the project would provide funds for
managed grazing of livestock by communities, through similar contractual arrangements
as envisioned for fire management. Project funds would be used to develop a Fire and
Livestock Management Unit as a focus for fire and livestock management in the state,
and to provide training to UPFD staff. Consultancies to evaluate the success of fire
protection programs would also be financed.
14.   Strip Plantations. About 2,000 row km of strip plantations along roads, canals
and railways in the plains would be financed under the project. The establishment and
management of these plantations would be based on agreements reached with
stakeholders, and UPFD have proposed benefit sharing arrangements appropriate to the
nature of these plantations.
15.   Urban Forestry. The project would provide funds to support a program of urban
forestry in seven cities; Lucknow, Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi, Allahabad, Jhansi and
Bareilly. UPFD would develop site-specific urban forest plans with interested
individuals or agencies, including municipal authorities, local businesses and NGOs. The
project would finance publicity and awareness programs and match funds raised from the
private sector for maintenance and protection of trees in urban areas.
16.   Farm Forestry. The project would support the development of farm forestry,
mainly through policy reforms (PIPAnnex 4), and the introduction of improved nursery
technology to produce better quality planting materials for interested farmers and
improvement of farm forestry extension services. In the first two years the project would
finance the establishment by UPFD of ten demonstration nurseries using root trainers.
The technology would be introduced to private sector entrepreneurs through awareness
campaigns, market information, study tours and training, and the project would provide
incentives to these entrepreneurs for the introduction of root trainers. Buy-back
guarantees by UPFD and a phased reduction in seedling production by UPFD in selected
Divisions would further stimulate private sector establishment of nurseries. Project funds
would be available for the improvement of farm forestry extension services, provided by
UPFD in six Divisions and in four other Divisions, private sector agencies and NGOs
would be contracted to provide extension services. Farm forestry extension would
concentrate on providing information and advice to farmers on the most profitable
planting options based on detailed market analysis. The project would finance the



Annex 3
Page 7 of 8
production and dissemination of extension materials, vehicles and equipment for UPFD
staff, and the establishment of demonstration plots using high quality planting material.
17.   Operational Support. The project would provide funds for improvement of
housing and facilities and for purchase of vehicles, elephants and draft animals, and
equipment to support operations in Divisions throughout the state.
Research and Technology (US$3.88 million)
18.   Research. Project funds would be available to develop linkages with research
databases, so that up-to-date research findings are available to UPFD research staff, of
which the most relevant would be distributed to UPFD staff in the Divisions. The project
would fund a consultancy to assist with the formulation of a prioritized research program
to implement the strategic research plan, already developed from the recommendations of
the Research Advisory Committee (RAC), and any agreed amendments considered
necessary by the RAC. Funds would be made available for the further development of
technologies for production of potting media, and the use of containers. The project
would also finance the development of protocols for mass clonal propagation of selected
species, initially eucalyptus, Dalbergia sissoo, and Acacia nilotica, and the supply of
clonal stock for establishment of clonal multiplication areas in a number of divisional
nurseries. The project would also support research and extension at established research
centers, into the production and utilization of Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFPs).
Funding for research activities would be made available, provided that UPFD
deimonstrates a sustainable commitment to forestry research, through the completion of
the prioritized research program, and the recruitment of additional suitably qualified and
experienced researchers to fill vacant posts.
19.   Planting Material Improvement Program. Seed. The project would provide
funds to improve the quality of seed used in all forestry activities in Uttar Pradesh, based
on the 14 Seed Zones demarcated by the Indo-Danish Seeds Project. Funds would be
available to recruit a consultant seed specialist to formulate a detailed program for seed
harvest, treatment and handling. In addition, the project would finance the refurbishment
of existing seed handling and treatment equipment and facilities, and the construction of
six seed sub-centers, with appropriate equipment for harvest, treatment and storage of
seed. Staff training in seed technology would be an integral part of the program. Planting
Material Improvement. The project would finance the development of three research
nurseries, at Kanpur, Bareilly and Ranikhet to provide support for planting material
improvement programs undertaken by the Research Wing. The project would also make
funds available for necessary consultancies, and maintenance of selected Candidate Plus
Trees.
Biodiversity Conservation (US$8.81 million) PIP Annex 6
20.   Strategic Planning. The project would finance the preparation of a long-term
strategy and action plan for conservation of biodiversity in the state, both within and
outside Protected Areas (PAs). The action plan would outline the priority institutional,



Annex 3
Page 8 of 8
legal, policy, financial and technical actions needed for effective conservation of
biodiversity in Uttar Pradesh: identify the priority areas for conservation; define
approaches for conserving wetlands and other important landscape units; and define
needs for long-term monitoring of biodiversity. This would form the basis for
implementation of biodiversity programs for the state.
21.   Management and Consolidation of PA System. The project would support
improved planning, management and monitoring in nine clusters of priority PAs, made
up of 18 individual PAs. Funds would be provided for preparation of landscape
management plans for three priority clusters, and the preparation of improved PA
management plans, through consultancies, field surveys and planning workshops. The
project would finance boundary survey and demarcation, development of infrastructure,
and provision of vehicles, boats, communication and field equipment. The project would
also provide funds for surveys to monitor agreed indicators of biodiversity conservation,
to test new approaches to habitat restoration, including a pilot fire management program
for Corbett Tiger Reserve, and for protection activities. The project would also support
programs for the consolidation and completion of the PA network in the state. Limited
support would be provided for activities in the non-priority PAs.
22.   Ecodevelopment. Support for an ecodevelopment program for sustainable forest
management and the development of alternative resources or income generating
opportunities in village areas peripheral to the nine clusters of priority PAs. As with the
JFM program, ecodevelopment would be based on site-specific village area microplans,
developed through a participatory process, leading to the formation of a village
Ecodevelopment Committee (EDC) and agreements that would set out the rights and
obligations of both the local community and the PA authorities. The level of funding
available for ecodevelopment would be linked to the number of participating households.
The program would be supported through financing the training and operation of 9
Ecodevelopment Planning Teams who would, in turn, provide on-the-job training and
assistance to Wildlife Rangers, Foresters and Forest Guards planning and implementing
village ecodevelopment programs.
23.   Research, Training and Public Awareness. Research. The project would
support a program of research to resolve problems identified as constraints to PA
management, through contract research arrangements, fellowships and research
undertaken by staff of the Wildlife Wing. Funds would be available to develop and equip
six small research centers in selected PAs. Training. Facilities at Kalagarh in Corbett
National Park would be further developed for training of Forest Guards in the Wildlife
Wing, and provision made for vehicles and training equipment. Curriculum development
and the costs of the training courses would be funded. Specialized training in
conservation of biodiversity would be provided for staff of various levels in institutions in
India and abroad. Public Awareness. The project would also finance public awareness
and extension campaigns, and the development of nature interpretation centers in selected
PAs and zoological gardens.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
Annex 4
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project
Estimated Project Costs
Prject CompDnent                                    Local         Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Institutional Development
Sector Management                                1.63           0.63         2.26
Human Resource Development                       3.99           0.85         4.84
Forest Management Information Systems            3.14            1.14        4.28
Project Unit                                     1.18           0.06          1.24
Forest Development
Joint Forest Management                         19.51            1.03       20.54
UPFD Management                                  0.03           0.00          0.03
ANR                                            3.72           0.20         3.92
Plantations                                    4.1            0.21         4.31
Forest Protection                              1.37           0.49          1.86
Urban Forestry and Strip Plantations           1.07           0.06          1.13
Farm Forestry                                    1.62           0.16          1.78
Operational Support                              7.44           1.31         8.75
Research and Technology
Research                                         1.11]          0.85          1.96
Planting Material Improvement                    1.50           0.37          1.87
Biodiversity Conservation
Strategic Planning                                0.07           0.00         0.07
Management and Consolidation of PA System         4.07           0.56         4.63
Ecodevelopment                                    2.61           0.12         2.73
Research Training and Public Awareness            1.21           0.26         1.47
Capture Breeding Program                          0.18           0.05         0.23
Total Baseline Cost                                 59.55           8.35        67.90
Physical Contingencies                             5.95           0.84         6.79
Price Contingencies                               -9.68           0.00        -9.68
Totall Project Cost                                 55.82           9.19        65.01



Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
Annex 5
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project
Implementation Responsibilities
Institutional Development
1.    Sector Management. (i) ManagementProcess (PIPAnnex 8). The CCF
Process Change would have direct responsibility for management of the consultancy to
assist UPFD with the analysis and improvement of management processes. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the study would be completed by December 31, 1998,
the findings discussed with IDA, and agreed modifications to management procedures
and structures introduced not later than December 31, 1999; (ii) Planning PIP. Annex
10. Responsibility for budgetary planning would continue to lie with the heads of the
various sections of UPFD, coordinated through the CCF Planning, Hills and CCF
Planning, Plains. Development of Forest Management Plans (Working Plans) is the
responsibility of the PCCF Management and he would be responsible for coordinating the
process of development and implementation of the SSPs for project-funded initiatives in
sal and other forests, and their integration into Forest Management Plans. The strategic
environmental study and the development of a new code of forest practice would be the
responsibility of the PU CF PM&E; (iii) Monitoring and Evaluation. PIPAnnex 10.
T he PU CF PM&E would have direct operational responsibility for monitoring and
evaluation activities. Changes in management of the sector for implementation of the
agreed strategy would require changes in the approach to monitoring and evaluation to
ensure that these functions become an integral part of the planning and implementation of
the work of UPFD. The flow of information is discussed in PIPAnnex 10, in which a
list of indicators to be monitored is presented. The PU CF PM&E would have
responsibility for development of improved monitoring and evaluation procedures; (iv)
Environmental Analysis PIP Annex 18. Environmental analyses in areas selected under
the Forest Development component of the project would be undertaken by Territorial
staff, specifically Range Officers under the responsibility of the DFOs, as part of SSP
preparation. Coordination would be the responsibility of the PCCF Management, with
close liaison with the PU CF M&E; (v) Policy Analysis Unit (PAU). The PAU,
reporting directly to the PCCF UP would be responsible for commissioning studies.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the PAU would be established by June 30,
1998, headed by a Conservator of Forests (CF) with a staff of at least one Deputy
Conservator of Forests (DCF). Project Unit (PU). Assurances were also obtained at
negotiations that all staff of the PU would be in post by June 30, 1998.
2.    Human Resource Development (PIPAnnex 9). A senior officer in the Project
Unit would have overall responsibility for HRD. He would coordinate the development
of HRD policy and ensure that the Forest Management Information System (FMIS)
includes provision for manpower information. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that a HRD Plan, setting out staffing policy linked to proposed changes in the



Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
management system would be completed and reviewed with IDA by March 31, 1999 and
initiate the implementation of an agreed action plan in a phased manner not later than
February 29, 2000. The HRD officer in the PU would also coordinate training needs
analysis, and prepare annual training plans, that is, he would formulate the UPFD demand
for training. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that annual training plans
acceptable to IDA would be prepared not later than June 30 of each year, starting in 1999,
in order to ensure placement of trainees in academic institutions in the following October.
Thte PU CF HRD would be responsible for contractual and other arrangements with
training institutions responsible for provision of training. He would be responsible for
ensuring that courses identified in the annual training plans are technically appropriate
and delivered to the agreed timetable. Skill-gap analysis and the development of
appropriate competency based courses would also be coordinated by the PU CF HRD.
3.    Training would be provided by a variety of training institutions, both UPFD
colleges and other institutions in India and abroad. The Forest Training Institute (FTI)
Haldwani, would become the nodal point for the provision of all training in UPFD
colleges. The CF in charge of FTI would be responsible for coordination of all training
provided by these colleges, and would be responsible for infrastructural improvements in
the UPFD forest colleges, financed through the project. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that by June 30, 1998: (i) Contracts for the provision of training during the
first year of the project would be finalized; (ii) the Center for Forest and Natural Resource
MEnagement Development would be established and four course coordinators recruited
on a contract basis; (iii) a contract for technical backstopping of the Center by an
est,ablished training institute would be finalized and; (iv) a contract for placement and
support of overseas trainees, with an institution acceptable to IDA, would be agreed.
4.    Forest Management Information System. PIP,Annex 11. At headquarters, the
PME officer in the PU would form a nodal point for system development. He would be
responsible for coordination of consultants recruited to design and develop the system.
He would also provide linkages with all parts of UPFD, to ensure that the FMIS serves
the needs of staff in an effective manner. In the short-term, consultant system managers
would be based in the PU, but in the longer term, one or more members of the PM&E
Unit would undertake specialized training to provide in-house system management
capabilities. The PU would also be responsible for coordination of training in computer
literacy, information technology and use of system modulLes.
Forest Development
5.   Joint Forest Management (See PIP Annex 5for details of areas, numbers of
communities and implementation procedures and criteria). In the PU the CF Process
Change, assisted by a DCF with specific responsibility for the JFM program would
coordinate program development. Implementation of this component would be through
the Territorial Wing of UPFD. In each Circle, the CF would have overall responsibility
for the program. At the Divisional level, the Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) would take
a lead role in developing the participatory approach, by building divisional teams across



Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
the hierarchical structure of the UPFD. He would also be responsible for the
prioritization and selection of sites, and through the operation of the District Project
Implementation Committee, ensure coordination with other government agencies. The
Spearhead team, that would include NGO social organizers, would assist communities in
the preparation of village micro-plans. The Spearhead teams would also provide practical
on-the-job training in the principles and practice of participatory village planning and
program implementation to Rangers, Foresters and Forest Guards in four ranges within
the Division each year. Once trained, these staff would also assist in preparing village
micro-plans and play a continuing advisory role to VFCs, with a major responsibility for
timely and appropriate implementation and monitoring of the agreed plan. Assumptions
about progress with microplanning and the phasing of the program is summarized in PIP
Annex 5. At the community level, responsibility would lie with the Village Forest
Committee (VFC) or Van Panchayat, chaired by the Gram Pradhan with the local Forest
Guard as Secretary, and consisting of elected representatives from the village. The nature
of the micro-plans, their financial implications and the management of funds are
described in PIP Annex S. Funds will be transferred from UPFD directly to Bank
accounts operated by the VFCs, with expenditures authorized against the signature of the
Chairman and Secretary. The JFM Departmental Working Group would have a key role
in ensuring consistency of approach in various parts of the state. The PU, specifically the
CF Planning Monitoring and Evaluation would monitor micro-plans and expenditures.
6.    Assurances were obtained at negotiations that implementation of the program
under the project would be in accordance with procedures agreed with IDA and proposals
for funding would be selected in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA. Agreed
procedures and criteria are summarized in PIPAnnex S. In particular:
*  An integrated microplan for both the village area and the surrounding forest
used by the community would be prepared by the community with the
assistance of trained staff, using Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA)
techniques. It would be targeted to meet the needs of the principal users of
the forest resource. The first three of these microplans would be agreed with
IDA prior to implementation;
*  A formal agreement, between the VFC and UPFD endorsing the agreed
micro-plan plan would be finalized, prior to the start of implementation of the
program;
*  An independent review of the program would be undertaken in Project Year
2, against the criteria presented in PIP Annex 5. If the criteria are not met,
project funds would be reallocated to other forestry activities within the state.
7.    UPFD would seek the release of funds already accumulated by the Van
Panchayats and presently held by the Revenue Department, for implementation of agreed
microplans. As this would make a major contribution to developing good relationships
with communities, the objective would be to ensure fund release by October 31, 1998.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
8.    Community Forestry. Responsibilities for developing community-based
management arrangements of existing community forests in the western part of the state
would rest with the Territorial staff. The same principles of participatory planning would
be applied as in the JFM program. In the eastern part of the state, there are few areas of
existing community forests, so the program would be minimal.
9.    The Role of NGOs in JFM and Community Forestry. Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs) would make a major contribution to the implementation of the
JFM and Ecodevelopment Programs, as many NGOs have experience of participatory
processes and rural development. The project would provide for an NGO Fund to finance
the participation of NGOs in both planning and implementation of JFM programs, and for
training and VFC capacity building. Suitably experienced NGOs would be sought to
assist with the orientation and training of UPFD staff and with the implementation of
village level programs. With the agreement of IDA, suitable institutions or NGOs would
be identified to: assist with workshops for the orientation of senior UPFD staff; wherever
possible, to provide women staff to work in Spearhead Village Micro-Planning Teams;
and to provide training in Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) and other necessary skills,
to members of the Divisional Spearhead Teams during the project. Criteria for the use of
the NGO Fund provided through the project, agreed withi IDA, together with mechanisms
for its disbursement and management are presented in PIIPAnnex 5.
10.   UPFD Management (PIP Annex 2). Responsibility for implementation of this
component would lie with the Territorial Wing of UPFD. Assisted Natural Regeneration.
The DFO would be responsible for the preparation of detailed Site Specific Plans for each
area treated under the project and associated environmental analysis. He would also be
responsible for the prioritization and selection of sites within his jurisdiction. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the first three SSPs would be agreed with IDA., prior to
implementation. Criteria for selection of sites and draft guidelines for preparation of the
SSIP and associated Environmental Analysis are presented in PIPAnnex 10. The PU
would be responsible for recruiting consultants to prepare model SSPs for representative
areas and finalization of the Guidelines in consultation with IDA. The agreed annual
implementation plans would include SSPs and associated environmental analyses for the
management of identified blocks of forest, to ensure that the forests are protected, the
management is sustainable, and ecological values are maintained in accordance with the
requirements for environmental conservation included in the National Forest Policy 1988,
the SFAP 1996, and World Bank OD 4.01 and OP 4.36 and 4.04. The project would
provide funds for implementation during the first year of implementation in each block,
and GOUP would make adequate budgetary provision, specifically for implementation of
the SSPs during subsequent years, through reinvestment of a proportion of the proceeds
of sales. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a strategic analysis of the impact
of alternative management systems for sal forest in the terai, on markets, revenue, forest
sector expenditure, and the environment would be completed by December 31, 1998.



Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
11.   Plantation Forestry. The Territorial Wing of UPFD would be responsible for
implementation of this component. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
plantation sites would be identified according to criteria agreed with IDA and plantations
developed using improved planting material and silvicultural practices. Clonal planting
material for eucalyptus plantations would be purchased in accordance with IDA
procedures, and such procurement would be arranged through the PU. Supply of other
improved planting material would be arranged in collaboration with the Seed and
Research Wing of UPFD.
12.   Forest Protection. This component includes both fire and livestock management.
Coordination of these programs would be done by the head of the Fire and Livestock
Management Unit (FLMU). He would ensure that fire management plans are prepared in
a consistent manner and be responsible for developing contractual arrangements to
involve communities in fire management. He would also coordinate the formulation of a
strategy for silvipasture and the establishment of demonstration plots. He would develop
grazing plans and contractual arrangements with communities for livestock management,
that would parallel the fire management contracts. The programs would be implemented
by the Territorial Wing of UPFD. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that fire and
grazing management plans would be developed prior to implementation of fire and
grazing management programs financed under the project and the first three of each
agreed with IDA.
13.   Roadside Plantation and Urban Forestry. Responsibility for implementation of
these components would lie with the Territorial Wing of UPFD.
14.   Farm Forestry. PIP Annex 4. This component would be implemented through
the Territorial Wing of UPFD, with PU CF Extension taking a lead role in coordination of
project-funded activities. Ten Divisions have been selected for development of nurseries
demonstrating the value of modem technology in improving the quality of seedlings. In
each, a Range Officer assisted by a Deputy Range Officer and Forest Guards, all with
appropriate training in nursery technology, would be assigned the responsibility of
developing the demonstration nurseries. These staff would also be responsible for
publicizing opportunities for private sector nursery development and providing training in
nursery technology to entrepreneurs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
UPFD would phase out seedling production in at least four divisions and provide buy-
back guarantees to private nursery entrepreneurs for a fixed number of seedlings meeting
publicized quality criteria. Arrangements for provision of project incentives to
entrepreneurs wishing to establish nurseries would be coordinated by the PU CF
Extension. In the third and fourth year of the project, UPFD would provide farm forestry
extension services to farmers. Private sector agencies would also be encouraged to
establish extension services, and the contract arrangements would be the responsibility of
the PU CF Extension.



Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
Research and Technology
15.   Research and Planting Material Improvement. Implementation of these
components would be coordinated by the CF Seeds and Research, who would have
responsibility for developing the linkages with other research databases, funded by the
project, and for ensuring that the on-going long-term trials are appropriately managed.
He would also be responsible for the development of a prioritized research program.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this prioritized research program would be
based on the strategic research plan agreed with IDA, and that appropriately qualified and
experienced staff to undertake the research would be appointed by June 30, 1998. The CF
Seeds and Research would also be responsible for the planting material improvement
program, funded under the project.
Biodiversity Conservation (PIP Annex 6)
16.   Overall responsibility for this component would lie with the Chief Wildlife
Warden, who has the rank of CCF. In order to ensure that Protected Areas (PAs) are
m,anaged in the best interests of biodiversity conservation, all PAs and their staff would
be brought under the jurisdiction of the Wildlife Wing of UPFD. Some restructuring of
the Wildlife Wing would also be undertaken, which would require re-deployment of some
staff from within UPFD as detailed in PIP Annex 6. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that responsibility for all PAs would be transferred to the Wildlife Wing by
March 31, 1998 and agreed staffing of the Wildlife Wing in post by June 30, 1998.
17.   Assurances were obtained at negotiations that there would be no involuntary
relocation of communities resident within PAs. In addition assurances were obtained
that: (a) any proposals for voluntary relocation would be in accordance with the criteria
presented in PIPAnnex 6, Appendix 6 and would be preceded by a study of the impact
of the resident communities on the conservation of biodiversity; (b) all proposals would
be consistent with GOI provisions for relocation and would include participatory
operational plans for relocation to be agreed with IDA prior to implementation; (c)
proposals would be consistent with the Bank's Operational Directives 4.20 (Indigenous
People) and 4.30 (Involuntary Settlement); (d) a programn to monitor voluntary relocation
would be undertaken by an independent agency acceptable to IDA and; (e) all steps
would be documented with transparent, credible and verifiable information.
18.   Ecodevelopment. Activities financed under this component in areas peripheral to
PAs would be the responsibility of the PA manager. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that implementation of the ecodevelopment program under the project would
be in accordance with procedures agreed with IDA and summarized in PIP Annex 6, that
presents details of the approach to ecodevelopment, participatory village level planning,
and the management of funds for the ecodevelopment program, which are consistent with
arramgements in other Bank-supported projects. Assurances were also obtained that the
first three Ecodevelopment plans would be agreed with IDA prior to implementation.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
Annex 6
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Present Value of Flows
Rs. million. 1997
JFM and Plantations
Benefits                           2,002
Costs                              2,081
Net Benefits                         -79
IRR (35 years)                      12%
Environmental Benefits
Benefits                           +278
Net Benefits                       +199
IRR (35 years)                     13%
Sal ANR
Benefits                           +808
Net Benefits                      +1007
IRR (35 years)            _
Main Assumptions
* Assumptions on inputs and yields of forest product are built into each model
and are presented in PIPAnnex 2
* Without project assumptions are critical to overall ERR
* Future prices are assumed to be equal to current prices and are projected over
a relatively long period
Switching Values
*  Productivity in Hills       65% of maximum estimated production
*  Environmental Benefits      340 Rs per ha for 20 years, delayed by 5
years
*  Adoption rate for farm forestry 35 farmers per nursery (30% of capacity)



Annex 7
Page 1 of 15
Annex 7
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project
Economic and Financial Aspects I
A.   Introduction
1.    The project would reposition the Forest Departrment in line with the new Forest
policy and strategy and develop the Forest Department's capacity to implement the new
policies, through staff development, increased accountability both within the Forest
Sector and between the Forest Department and users of forest products. There would an
increased role for the private sector in provision of inputs to the sector through private
nturseries, and also through support to on-farm forestry extension and marketing. The
project would have important benefits in terms of increasing the control rural
communities have over the assets on which they depend for their livelihoods. This
includes decisions over the amount and timing of harvesting. Further, through the use of
the VFDF, communities have an incentive to save part of the value of their labor inputs,
wlhich can subsequently be realized for activities, including income-generation activities
otier than forestry. Conceptually and, hopefully, in practice this will be a more important
benefit than the provision of employment opportunities. Over the life of the project, 1,243
communities would be involved in micro-planning with just over 250,000 ha of forest
area being brought under joint management and benefit-sharing arrangements.
2.    The project would increase the production of wood, NTFP and animal products
which would benefit both the rural poor and artisans. The project would improve the
management of environmentally sensitive areas especially in the Middle Hills, resulting
in improved and more secure water availability as well as reduced soil erosion and
environmental degradation. The project would also improve the supply of commercial
wood to forest-based industries from the management of'plantations both in the Reserve
Forest and on private land. The project would initiate the process of regenerating the over
maLture areas of Sal in the Terai/Bhabar.
B.   Economic analysis
3.    The direct and quantifiable economic costs and benefits of the project are mainly
due to investments in the management and development of forests for: (a) the use of local
people under Joint Forest Management (JFM); (b) agro-forestry plantations under private
fanner management; (c) the development of (i) commercial plantations and (ii) the
assisted natural regeneration (ANR) of sal under UPFD management. For the analysis of
the first sub-component, a number of JFM models, describing 'typical' situations and
making assumptions about expected mean outcomes, were developed and used to
t Details of costs, benefits and calculations are presented in Working Paper 7.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 15
determine the ERR for the sub-component. The analysis of the farm forestry focused on
the incentives for farmers and breakeven levels of adoption required to cover the costs of
nurseries and other project costs. The third sub-component was a more traditional
analysis of returns to using superior planting material on commercial plantations, while
the analysis for the conservation and regeneration of mature sal forest is based on the
economic cost of 'delayed' harvesting. (The assumptions used in the models are
presented in Annex 2.)
4.    The analysis excludes the costs and benefits of components for which it was not
possible to quantify benefits (i.e. biodiversity, research, fire and grazing protection, and
community, amenity and urban plantations) but for which benefits are expected to at least
cover costs.
5.    The analysis assumed a time horizon of 3 5 years. Cashflows were discounted to
the base year using the Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC) for projects in India, currently
estimated to be 12%. Economic prices were derived from financial prices using the
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF), currently 0.9 for projects in India and a Shadow
Wage Ratio (SWR) of 1 was used throughout. (Details of the calculations are presented in
Working Paper 7.)
6.    Project Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The overall ERR to the project was
built up from the analysis of the sub-components set out above, excluding the sal
regeneration sub-component which would have dominated all the other sub-components.
This gives an ERR of 12 % (NPV(12%,35 years) of Rs -7 million) relating to about 70 %
of project costs. If the conservative estimate of environmental benefits required to achieve
breakeven returns in the Middle Hills is included, the ERR rises to 13% (NPV(12%,35
years) of Rs +177 million). These marginal returns are substantially improved by
inclusion of the ANR sal regeneration component, which provides positive benefit flows
from the first year and raise the overall NPV(12%, 35 years) to Rs +1,007 million. The
sensitivity of the ERR to different parameters is discussed below in the context of each
sub-component.
7.    JFM. The overall ERR to JFM based on estimated production benefits alone is
10%, less than the 12% OCC used in India. However, with reasonable assumptions about
environmental benefits, especially in the Middle Hills, the overall ERR is likely to exceed
12%. There are significant regional variations discussed below.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 15
Costs    Incremental       Net Incremental Benefits
Benefits
PV(12%)   PV(12%)        Excluding Share  Including Share
of Overheads    of Overheads
NPV    ERR    NPV    ERR
_  (12%)    %      (12%)    %
Overhead costs                  274             -   - 274                -
Direct costs and benefits_
Hills     1,303         1,248    - 55    11%      -218    10 %
Terai        18            89    + 71      -2    + 18   15 %
Vindhayan         56           65      + 9    14%      - 50    7 %
Sub-total
1,377        1,402    + 25            -249
Total                          1,651        1,402    -249    10%      -249    10%
Environmental benefits
(Threshold required to                      + 249   + 249            + 249
achieve 12%ERR)
Total                          1,651        1,651       0    12%         0    12 %
8.     JFM  - Sensitivity. For the basic calculations, productivity was assumed to be an
average of high and low productivity - estimated to be 65% of the potential productivity.
Estimated ERR for various assumed productivity levels is shown in the table below. A
12% overall rate of return would require an assumption that productivity would rise to
about 73% of the maximum potential. This excludes significant environmental benefits.
Level of          NPV             ERR
Productivity    (12%,35 years)   (35 years)
(Rs million)
30%                      -1,356            0%
50%                       -723             5%
65 %                      -248            10%
80%                       + 226           14 %
100%                      + 859           21%
9.     JFM - Externalities. Environmental benefits equivalent to an additional 18% of
production benefits are required to obtain an ERR of 12%. Assuming a flow of
environmental benefits starting after a lag of 5 years and lasting for 20 years, the per ha
environmental premium required to breakeven at 12% is approximately Rs 340 (US$10)
per ha per year. This is equivalent to 50 kg of rice per year i.e. less than 2% of mean
amnual yields in the Terai. Environmental benefits, especially in the Middle Hills, are
expected to exceed these thresholds comfortably.
2No ERR is possible since cashflows are all positive from year 1



Annex 7
Page 4 of 15
10.   JFM- Middle Hills. Most of the project-supported JFM activity is in the Hills and
this dominates the overall returns; the ERR for the Middle Hills alone is 10%. This
excludes the environmental benefits discussed above, which are significant in the hills, as
reflected in government policy with heavy subsidies for LPG in the hills to reduce
demand for fuelwood.
11.   JFM-Terai Region. The economic benefits, especially in the less degraded areas
where coppicing is possible, are very high, although the social and institutional
difficulties of introducing JFM in these areas increases the risk of not realizing estimated
returns in practice. The estimated ERR per micro-plan was 15% well above the 12%
OCC. This reflects the benefits of the initial cut in both models, but especially in the
coppice mcdel, where it was not possible to obtain an ERR since flows are positive
throughout. (Even if the initial cut is excluded, the ERR of incremental benefits alone is
high at 31%.) The rate of return to incremental benefits in the mixed miscellaneous model
is also high at 27%.
12.   JFM- Vindhayan Region. Although the interventions in this region relate to
mixed deciduous forests, the economic benefits analysis focused on incremental returns
to two main commodities: bamboo and tendu. The ERR for a predominately bamboo
microplan is 21%, while for a predominately tendu microplan, the ERR is slightly lower
at 19%.
13.   Protection versus planting The procedures for JFM offer communities the
choice between forest rehabilitation through protection from fire, excessive grazing and
over harvesting and rehabilitation through planting subject to a budgetary ceiling per
microplan and per ha which prevents the whole area from being planted3. In the case of
the Middle Hills, the expected incremental benefits are very similar: the PV(12%) of
incremental benefits to planting are Rs 3,930 per ha compared to Rs 4,110 per ha for
protection. This assumes that with protection, productivity is 80% of that with planting,
but benefits are realised 5 years earlier. When the costs of interventions are included, the
economic returns to protection are considerably higher than the returns to planting (ERR
of 20% compared to 4%). The critical issue relates, therefore, to costs and to the
incentives to community decision-makers. This is discussed in the financial analysis (para
xx below).
Community Plantations
14.   The new institutional arrangements and planning processes being developed in
other sub-components of the project will also be introduced into the community forestry
sub-component. Only notional funds have been allocated, since many of these plantations
are now ready for harvesting and funds are also available through other channels. No
analysis of the returns was attempted although, given the low cost of the programme, the
The decision between various options and technologies will be decided on a case by case basis, but it is
recognized that planting is only necessary in highly degraded areas with little or no rootstock.



Annex 7
Page 5 of 15
returns to this sub-component are expected to be high.
Private sector management
15.   Farm forestry. The economic returns to the farm forestry sub-component were
analyzed using the cost of seedlings derived from the model for private sector nurseries.
Economic costs, including a share of project overheads, were derived in the usual manner
and benefits estimated from a farm model, based on a veighted average of the different
species likely to be grown by farmers. It is assumed that on average each participating
firmer will allocate 1 ha of agricultural land to agro-forestry. Since the number of
farmers who will avail of project services cannot easily be estimated in advance, the
analysis calculated that break-even level of uptake required to achieve a 12% ERR was
ajpproximately 35 farmers per nursery per year. Since this threshold (equal to 30 % of
nursery capacity) should be achieved easily, the econornic returns were based on a
conservative estimate of double the breakeven number of farmers. This gave an ERR of
16% and 18 % with and without a share of project overheads.
IJPFD management
15.   UPFD Managed Commercial Plantations. The economic analysis was based in
a comparison between planting clonal or superior seedlings of teak, shisham or
eucalyptus and current yields of eucalyptus. The overall ERR of 15% reflects, therefore,
the incremental returns to the superior plant material only and includes a share of project
overheads.
17.   UPFD Managed Sal Forests. Much of Terai/Bhabar zone consists of good
quality mature sal forest which, over a long period, has been managed and developed
with the objective of maximizing growth and revenue and minimizing operational costs
under a regular harvesting cycle. The system was sustainable in the sense that selective
logging created the space and light necessary for regeneration. The objective of the
system was to maximize the growth of the forest and its revenue-earning capability.
Recently, 50% of the area has been brought under conservation and is no longer being
worked. A large proportion of the remaining area has not been logged according to plan
and, more recently, plans prescribe very low levels of logging (i.e. very long rotations).
Various reasons have been put forward for this situation. However, as the analysis shows
the delay in selective logging not only has biological implications but huge economic
costs.
18.   Under the project it is assumed that 16,000 ha will be brought under UPFD
management, 1,500 ha in Project Year 1, followed by 3,400 ha in Project Year 2, 5,100
ha in Project Year 3 and 6,000 ha in Project Year 4. The incremental benefits depend on
assumptions about the without- project policy and funding. Three without-project
scenarios are possible:
(i)   continuation of existing practice under which only dead and diseased trees
are periodically removed from areas allocated for production;



Annex 7
Page 6 of 15
(ii)   delayed implementation of project proposals;
(iii)       deliberate policy in favor of conservation, whereby the economic
value of the forest is foregone and recognized as the cost of non-
interventionist conservation - as has already happened in the other 50% of
the area. This has been ruled out on ecological grounds (See PIP Annex
18). The revenue foregone would represent the value of conservation in
that area.
19.   It has been assumed that the second scenario represents the without-project
situation, with harvesting and regeneration would not take place for another five years.
With-project, the harvesting would not be delayed, so the incremental benefit is,
therefore, due to advancing the benefit flow, rather than to any increase in yield. The
benefits can thus be represented by the net worth saved at 12% discount rate. For 16,000
ha this amounts to Rs.808 million (US$ 23 million). The benefit flow is entirely positive,
so it is not possible to calculate a rate of return. The table below shows the net worth
saved, assuming different periods of delay in harvesting.
Delay     Net Worth
(Years)    Saved (12%)
(Rs million)
0                0
1              200
2               379
3               538
4               681
5               808
10            1,266
C.   Financial Analysis: Joint Forest Management
20.   Background. The incentives for communities to participate in JFM depends in
part, at least, on the arrangements for the sharing of benefits and costs between
communities and FD and on any benefits from direct employment. The income analysis
relates to the benefits and costs as experienced by the community. The sources of benefit
are (a) share of benefits; (b) payment for protection/environmental services from the FD;
and (c) any employment generated within the village as a result of the program. The
village contribution is for (i) 'watch' for plantations (roughly 20% of cost) and (ii) 'ward'
or general stewardship and management over the whole area.
21.   The returns were calculated using physical quantities determined by the biological
growth model as well as the cost and benefit sharing arrangements defined by the
Government Regulation on JFM. (See Annex 5.) Values, which depend on local



Annex 7
Page 7 of 15
perceptions and priorities, include net benefits in both cash and kind, but exclude the
costs of project overheads. Financial (market) prices were used to reflect 'income returns'
rather than the 'site returns' used for the economic analysis.
22.    The income returns are highly positive, especially where there is initial growth for
harvesting. Although in some instances, communities would have to accept a negative
income flow in some subsequent years, these years are offset by higher positive incomes
in preceding years. (In practice, site-specific phasing should ensure that negative flow in
ainy particular year is avoided.) The table below sets out the flows, in the first 5 years and
at selected subsequent years.
Area                 Income Flows Into Village (Rs.000)
Region        (ha)                   Excluding Imputed Value of Ward
Short Term                   Medium Term
1     2      3      4      5     10    15    20    30
Middle Hills         300      187   214   191   100  1,105  1,318  1,358  1,379  1,398
Terai  rCoppice  25       1,124     9    -27   -29   -29            462           650
Mixed  t50       192    18   -27   -31   -31   376  7,536    26  5,576
Vindhayan   Bambo   50       226   241    38    32    46   165   184      1,762
jTendu   25         94    53    20    33    28   219 _             219   356
23.    If the imputed value of time spend on general management of the community
forest area ('ward') is included, the benefit flows remain. positive in aggregate except in
the terai, where the negative flows after the first year are due to the fact that the model
refers only to periodic benefits.
Region                         Income Flows Into Village (Rs. 000)
_________  Including Imputed Value of Ward
1         2          3         4         5
Middle Hills            157        34         11        -80      924
Terai      Coppice    1,121        -6        -42        -44       -44
Mixed       187        -12        -57       -61       -61
Vindhayan  Bamboo       221        211         8         216
Tendu        92         38         5         18       13
24.    Middle Hills. Despite the very high overall discounted net worth of the micro
plan to the community, the analysis shows positive net benefits from the share in
production only from year 5 onwards. If income from protection services and from
employment in planting is included as a benefit and the labor contributed both to watch
and to general ward is treated as a cost, then only the fourth year has a negative cashflow.
This is well offset by the flows in the years before and after and, in practice can be
avoided by site-specific phasing of activities.



Annex 7
Page 8 of 15
Benefits       Income Retums (Cash and Kind) to a Typical Community in the Middle Hills
(Rs.000)
Area = 300ha                                     Project Year
I_     1 2      3        4       5       10      20       25
Benefits
Without Project       167     179      190     190      190     181      141     112
With Project         137      144     151      135   1,200   1,499   1,520   1,510
Incremental Benefits     -30      -35     -39      -56   1,010   1,318   1,379   1,398
Other benefits
Protection           168      168     168      168     168        0       0        0
Employment            48       98     106       58       8        0       0        0
Total benefits           187     231      234      170   1,186   1,318   1,379   1,398
Costs
Watch                  0       16      44       71      81        0       0        0
Net Income
Before ward        187      214     190      100   1,105   1,318   1,379   1,398
Imputed costs
Ward                  30  180         180     180      180     180      180     180
Net Income               157      34       11      -80     925   1,138    1,199    1,218
After ward
Cumulative Net
Income                   157      191     202     122   1,046    1,394   3,015    3,996
25.    The procedures set out in Annex 5, Appendix 7 give the VFC the opportunity to
choose between rehabilitation through planting or through protection, within an overall
budget constraint. The objective is to set a ceiling on expenditure yet permit choices
within the overall limit. The two alternative approaches, planting and protection, applied
to the 300 ha model, were compared by converting the alternative arrangements into
workdays:
(a) community decides to protect 100% of the area. The total cost to the FD would
be Rs 195,000 per year (i.e. 300 ha at Rs 650 per ha for 5 years). The VFC would
receive this amount, all of which, if effective institutional arrangements are put in
place, could accrue to the community. At current market wage rates, this is
equivalent to 13 days of employment per ha per year for 5 years.
(b) community decides to spend the total allocation on planting. The total cost to
the FD, based on the maximum mean expenditure per ha of Rs 7,000 per ha, is Rs
2,100,000. Roughly 50% of the cost of planting is labor; the rest being either
material paid for by the FD or watch provided by the VFC. This means that the
employment from planting would be about Rs 1,050,000 over 5 years - Rs
210,000 per year equivalent tol4 days of employment per ha per year. This money
must be spent as wages.



Annex 7
Page 9 of 15
Costs and Benefits         Rehabilitation Through  Rehabilitation Through
Protection               Planting
Total cost to FD
for each 300 ha microplan     Rs 975,000             Rs 2,100,000
for each ha per year            Rs 650                 Rs 1,400
Cash/employment benefits   Focus on services      Focus on employment
To VFC:
Inflows:  13 days per ha,        14 days per ha
transferable to fund    paid as wages
Outflows: No watch required       36 days per ha
'watch' paid/provided by
VFC
Production benefits      Faster, but lower retums    Standard yield
To VFC                   than standard yield      assumptions
assumptions
Productivity: 80% of expected yield  Basic yield assumptions
from planting,          (Annex 2)
advanced 5 years
Expected retums: Similar returns to those  Assumed returns from
from planting model     planting (Annex 2)
261.   Each VFC will make their own choice as to the mix of planting and protection
subject to technical feasibility and site conditions and to an overall per ha limit of Rs
8,000. The community will need to be fully informed about the implications of specific
choices. The effect of these arrangements will need to be monitored and the arrangements
modified to ensure that the choice between rehabilitation through planting or protection is
not primarily related to employment benefits. The implications for the Forest Department
are discussed below.
27.    Terai Region. Two models, with a similar structure to the Middle Hills model
discussed above, represent contrasting situations and highlight the different impact of the
same benefit and cost sharing arrangements applied in areas with different initial resource
bases (Working Paper No 7):
(a)    Coppice model. The analysis for a 25 ha micro-plan shows a large
positive income to the community in the first year followed by small negative
flows (of imputed labor) in subsequent years - even after income from protection
and employment is considered. This relates to the management system - periodic
coppicing resulting in 'upfront' benefits which will act as incentive for
community participation and cover the imputed costs during the period to the next
coppice. This suggests a transfer from the state to the community as a preventive
measure before degradation takes place. The urgency of introducing JFM in these
areas depends on the immediacy of the threat to the forest.



Annex 7
Page 10 of 15
(b) Degraded mixed miscellaneous forest model.  This model, similar to the
coppice model but for a 50 ha area, shows less marked periodicity since it
includes a mix of planting and coppicing. The incentives are less substantial,
however, since there is less initial coppice and longer to wait for benefits.
28.   Vindhayan Region. The estimated income returns are better for the bamboo
compared to tendu model (Working Paper No 7):
(a) Bamboo model. The analysis of the 50 ha micro-plan shows positive income
flows to the community in each year, even before the income from employment is
considered. There is a positive revenue flow into the VFC in the first year as a
result of cutting over mature, but poor quality, bamboo.
(b) Tendu model. The analysis of the 25 ha microplan shows lower, but still
significant, positive income flows to the community from the first year. This is
because there is less initial income from cleaning of the area.
29.   Revenue Flows to Typical Village Forest Committees (VFC). The Village
Forest Development Fund (VFDF) brings together the cash transactions of the VFC,
including input costs and eventually, revenue shares. The flow of funds through the
VFDF was analyzed for each region using the micro-plan model to simulate the flows in
and out of this account. Inflows are due to (a) share of revenue; (b) payment for
protection services; (c) planting costs for labor and materials all of which is routed
through the VFC. Outflows are for (d) planting and (e) watch. Half of the share of
revenue is set aside for forestry reinvestment and management. The residual accumulates
to the VFC. Details of the calculations for the Middle Hills and a summary for the other
zones are presented below.
30.   Middle Hills. The following table shows that in the Middle Hills there are
positive net flows in each year, after allowing for labor costs. The fund should
accumulate about Rs 4.5 lakhs after 3 years, over Rs 6 lakhs by 5 years, assuming no
withdrawals. The scope for revenue sharing in the Hills is limited by the felling ban.



Annex 7
Page 11 of 15
300 ha model                   Revenue Inflows and Outflows (Rs.000) to VFDF
in Middle Hills
I__ _ _ _ _  1  2  3     4        5       6        7        8
Iniflows
Revenue            0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0
Protection       168     168      168     168      168       0        0        0
Planting          55     300      347     293       47       0        0        0
Total Inflows        223      468     516      461     215        0        0       0
Ofatflows
Planting          55     300      347     293       47       0        0        0
Watch              0      17       44      70       81       54      27        0
Total Outflows        55      317     391      363      128      54       27       0
Net Flows
Annual           168     152      125      98       87     -54      -27        0
Cumulative       168     320      445     543      630     576      549      549
Reinvestment_
Funds                 0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0
3 1.   Control over the fund and representation in its rmanagement is critical. Potentially
large surpluses tend to attract the interest of the village elite and, therefore, to ensure the
effectiveness of the protection. However, this may be at the expense of marginal groups
whose immediate livelihoods, often more dependent on the forest, may not be fully
(onsidered. Further, the experience with the existing Van Panchayat system, shows that
although many Van Panchayats already have large cash funds, these are not at their
disposal. Funds are held by the District Magistrates in the name of Van Panchayat, but
there is rarely any expenditure from them. As a result, these funds have little effect as an
incentive for protection and management. Release of these funds to the panchayats would
have a major demonstration effect. Since under JFM similar arrangements are proposed,
this would be an important step in building up public trist and ensuring confidence in the
VFDF system.
32.   Similar models were prepared for the Terai and 'Vindhayan region (Working Paper
NO 7).
Terai Region. Revenue flows depend to a large extent on the existing level of
forest degradation.
(a) Coppice model. Revenue, depending of the standing stock and age,
flows into the VFDF from the start as a riesult of the initial coppice. Every
15 years there is a further 5 year phase ol revenue flows from thinning.
Without any withdrawals, this will accumulate to over Rs 12 lakh in 5



Annex 7
Page 12 of 15
years, of which Rs 5 lakh is set aside for forestry management and
investment. providing smaller inflows over the next 55 years, reaching to
nearly Rs 4,800 lakhs at the end of the coppice cycle (year 65).
(b) Degraded mixed miscellaneous. The VFDF does not accumulate any
revenue in the early stages since the area is assumed to be already
degraded. Subsequently, revenue is accumulated in a similar manner to the
coppice with standards model. In the situation where all the land is
degraded and planting is the only option, the VFDF is less likely to play a
major role around which the VFC will organize. Further, because of the
inherent delay in receiving benefits, there is an increased danger that the
program will be seen as a government welfare program rather than as joint
management.
Revenue Flow to VFDF (Rs.000)
Terai/Bhabar
1    2    3   4    5    15    30        45      60
Coppice  Annual       1,147  115    8  -12  -12   463   650   3,450  43,088
Net flows
(SO ha)   Total         612  727  735  723  711   942  1,267   2,992  24,536
Cumulative
Reinvestment    534  534  534  534  534   766  1,091   2,816  24,359
Fund
Mixed    Annual         156  230   15  -24  -24  7,250  5,250   7,020  42,000
Net flows
(25ha)   Total          156  386  402  377  354  4,104  6,729  10.229  31,288
Cumulative
Reinvestment    0       0            0  3,750  6,375   9,875  30,875
Fund        I    __                              _   _
Vindhyan Region. The revenue flows appear to be better for the bamboo
compared to tendu model.
(a) Bamboo model. Revenue is accumulated in the VFDF form the start
of the micro plan. This builds up to Rs 68,000 with 5 years and to nearly
Rs 500,000 within 1O years, provided no revenue is withdrawn. At the end
of the cycle (year 35), the fund would have grown to over Rs 6 million,
again provided there are no withdrawals.
(b) Tendu model. In the early years there is no revenue flow into the
VFDF as a result of the project, and even after 30 years the revenue
accumulated is small compared to the bamboo model. This is because
Tendu is marketed individually, outside the VFDF.



Annex 7
Page 13 of 15
Revenue Flow to VFDF (Rs.000)
Vindhayan
1    2     3     4    5     10    15    20    30
Bamboo  Annual          46   33    45   52   71   100   119   100  1,685
Net flows
(50 ha)   Total         40   72   112  154  206   369   628  1,127  2,240
Cumulative
Reinvestnent   7    7    13   22   41   203   463    962  2,075
Funds
Tendu    Annual         17   20      5    5    5    113   113             275
Net flows
(25 ha)   Total         17   37    42   47   51   103   159               297
Cumulative
Reinvestment                                 56   113           250
__ _ _ _ Funds           ._ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _ _
D. Financial analysis: farm forestry
33.   The costs and returns to a private farmer of agro-forestry investment were
estimated on the basis of the following assumptions: (a) on each plot of 1 ha., the area
under agriculture would decline depending on the tree species being planted; (b)
agricultural land is valued at its approximate rental value; (c) a weighted average of about
400 seedlings would be planted per ha.; (d) for calculation purposes, a range of different
species would be planted, although any one farmer is likely to specialize. Based on these
assumptions, the financial returns per ha were estimated to be 26%. This confirms the
impression, gained directly from farmers, that there is demand for farm forestry extension
and promotion.
E. Financial analysis: Revenue implications for GoUP
34.   Background Government revenues are affected by flows to and from JFM, the
UPFD managed commercial plantations and, most significantly, the UPFD managed
ANR-sal sub-components.
35.   JFM   From the FD's point of view protection is considerably cheaper that
planting. This will enable a greater number of communities to be included in the
programme and enhance the replicability of the programme.
36.   UPFD managed Commercial plantations. The incremental revenue flows from
the commercial plantations are positive after 7 years and over a period of 30 years
provide a stream of revenue, the NPV(12%, 30 years) of Rs 371 million.
37.   UPFD managed ANR -SaL The silvicultural practices established over 100
years ago have resu]lted in a forest which requires periodic canopy openings to permit
natural regeneration. As a result, these over-mature stands are becoming increasingly
moribund. A significant proportion of this area is already preserved for conservation.
However, in the remaining portion, there are large areas of mature sal forest which is not



Annex 7
Page 14 of 15
been harvested/regenerated. Apart from the need to regenerate these forests, the lack of
selective opening of the forest has resulted in significant revenue not being realized. As
well as enabling regeneration, selective opening would provide additional revenue for the
state. Several reasons have been put forward for discontinuing the system over the past 15
years. Apart from the biological reasons (Annex 2), these include
(a) a shortage of funds for replanting these areas. This may be due to the high
proportion of UPFD budget allocated to establishment and the need to allocate
non-establishment costs on the basis of the existing structure and distribution of
staff;
(b) the lack of an appropriate plan which projects potential revenue flows, and
relates this to the cost of realizing the revenue.
38.    Under the project 16,000 ha of these forests would be managed for regeneration
realizing an estimated total revenue of Rs 2,349 million (approx. US$ 67 million) over
the 4 years of the project.
Project Year
1     2      3     4
Area (ha)
PBla                                1,500  2,500  3,000  3,000
PBlb                                   0   900  2,100  3,000
Total area
1,500  3,400  5,100  6,000
Net incremental revenue (Rs '000 per ha)
PBla                                 158            0
PBlb                                 103          164
Revenue (Rs million)
PBla                                 237   395   474   474
PBlb                                   0    93   217   458
Total revenue (Rs million)
Annual                               237   488   692   932
Cumulative       '                   237   725  1,417  2,349
Total revenue (US$ million)
Annual                                 7    14    20    27
Cumulative                             7    21    40    67
Overall effect on government revenue
39.    The project has a negative effect on government revenue if the revenue flows
from the ANR-sal are not included. This is typical of forestry projects -since many of the
benefits are either used in kind or external to the beneficiaries. Further, the areas in which
the project is being implemented are relatively remote and, therefore, tend to have fewer
alternative opportunities for development. If the revenue from ANR-sal is included, the
present value of revenue flows is highly positive.



Annex 7
Page 15 of 15
PV                         Project Year
(12%, 30 yrs)                  (Rs million)
___________     1      2      3       4        5       10
Costs
JFM           1,627    15    76    210       430    588        160
Plantations          151     9     31     45       68      58         0
Total outflows             1,778   24    107    255       507    646        160
Revenue
JFM             95     6      10     14       19       1         5
Plantations          206     0      0       0        0      0       181
Total inflows               301      6     10      14      19       1       187
Net incremental
:revenue                 - 1,476   -17    - 97   -241    -478   -645       + 28
(excluding Sal)
Sal
Costs                   166    4       15     33       56     65          0
Revenues               1,881  237    488    692       932    344          0
Net revenue            1,714  233    473    659       876    279          0
Net incremental
revenue                     239  215    376    418        397   -366       + 28
('including Sal)                                _
40.    The result of the phasing of project activities and the phasing of planting activities
within a micro-plan, means that there is a post-project cojmmitment by the GOUP. This
refers to agreements entered into with communities before the end of the project, but
before implementation is completed.



Annex 8
Page lof 1
Annex 8
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$million)
1998   1999 1 2000 T 2001 1 2002   Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs  5.25   11.88   14.71  18.01   9.94   59.79
Recurrent Costs   0.18    0.91    1.58   1.70   0.85    5.22
Total         5.43   12.79   16.29  19.71   10.79  65.01
Financing Sources T
IDA             4.34   10.20  13.08  16.34   8.98   52.94
Government       1.02    2.28   2.34   1.65   0.58   7.87
Beneficiaries   0.07    0.31    0.87   1.72    1.23   4.20
Total         5.43   12.79  16.29  19.71   10.79  65.01



Annex 9
Page 1 of 6
Annex 9
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A. Procurement
1.    Civil Works (US$ 6.68 million). Works would be procured following National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) or Force Account procedures as follows:
*  NCB. Works estimated to cost up to an aggregate value of US$2.34 million
equivalent would be procured under contracts avvarded on the basis of NCB
procedures acceptable to IDA. The justification for the proposed NCB for civil
works is that they consist of buildings in widely scattered locations. The works
would be grouped together into convenient packages for bidding, but the largest
contract is likely to be less than US$800,000 so it is unlikely that foreign firms
would find such contracts attractive. Nonetheless, bids from foreign contractors
would not be precluded
*  Force Account estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per contract, up to
an aggregate amount not exceeding US$4.34 million may be undertaken by (i) under
lumpsum admeasurement contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from
at least three qualified domestic contractors in response to written invitation. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to
IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable; (ii) through direct contracting to the
qualified contractors, NGOs or community organizations (or other beneficiary
associations); or (iii) through force account in a manner satisfactory to the
Association. These works are not suitable for competitive bidding due to the small
amounts and remoteness of location. Materials :for works carried out under Force
Account, valued in aggregate at US$2.00 million, would be procured following
national shopping procedures acceptable to IDA. Monitoring of these small works
would be done using procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.    Forest Operations (US$29.43 million). Force account would be used for most forest
operations, including the cost of establishing identified seed production areas, clonal seed
orchards, seedling seed production areas, and multiplication gardens. This is due to the
operations being located in remote areas and UPFD having the necessary personnel and skills in
place.
3.    Goods, Equipment, Furniture and Supplies (US$6.5 million). Goods, in particular,
laboratory and communications equipment and computers would be procured using International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. However, equipment estimated to cost more than



Annex 9
Page 2 of 6
$20,000 but less than US$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of US$0.30 million would be
procured using NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Small items of equipment, and some field
and laboratory supplies, would be procured in small lots over the five-year period. Individual
contracts are not expected to exceed US$20,000 and as such will be procured using national
shopping procedures satisfactory to IDA, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.29 million. Rate
contracts of only Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal (DGS&D), New Delhi, would be
acceptable.as a substitute for shopping. Satellite imagery, aerial photography and maps, valued
at about US$1,00 million, would be procured directly from GOI agencies such as the National
Remote Sensing Agency or the Survey of India. Similarly, books and periodicals, extension and
publicity materials, software and proprietary equipment and spares, valued at about US$0.58
million, would be obtained under direct contracting procedures. Draft animals and elephants of
aggregate value of US$0.06 million and clonal plants of aggregate value of US$0.55 million
would be procured under direct contracting procedures satisfactory to IDA.
4.    Vehicles (US$3.60 million). Vehicles for the project consist of four-wheel drive
vehicles, cars, motorcycles, light trucks and minibuses. These vehicles are small in number and
are required to be procured at different times, depending on the requirements of various officers
of the project, spread over the whole state, and hence their purchase is not suited to ICB
procedures. Most of the vehicles are covered by DGS&D rate contracts and NCBs would not
produce competitive bids. However, DGS & D rate contracts would be acceptable as national
shopping.
5.    Consultancies, Studies and Training (US$11.41 million). Consultancy services,
including the procurement agency services, estimated at US$6.87 million would be contracted on
terms and conditions in accordance with Bank guidelines dated January, 1997, for the use of
consultants, including NGOs. Training, including a service contract for placement and support
of trainees, to a total of US$4.56 million would be procured using procedures acceptable to IDA.
6.    Ecodevelopment Program  (US$1.61 million) is designed to provide support for
ecodevelopment activities. The funds would finance small works and income generating
activities in about 225 widely scattered village locations over the four-year project period.
Procedures for management of the funds, acceptable to IDA, would be utilized (PIP Annex 6).
7.    Operating Costs (US$5.22 million) include incremental operating and maintenance costs
of buildings, vehicles and equipment, and the purchase of office and computer supplies.
8.    Procurement Packages. Works have been grouped into convenient packages for bidding
purposes, with all new construction at a particular location made into one package, as far as
possible. There are 15 packages, valued at US$2.34 million, of which three packages of value
US$1.59 million for prior revue and the remaining 12 packages of value US$0.75 million for
post-review. For goods, there are 9 ICB prior review packages and 6 post-review packages and 6
NCB post-review packages.
9.    Design and Specifications. The design, specifications, bills of quantities and estimates of
costs for standard designs of the various types of buildings to be constructed under the project
would be prepared by UPFD and reviewed by IDA before negotiations.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 6
10.   Procurement Schedule. A detailed procurement schedule is presented in PIP Annex 12.
11.   Bidding Documents. Standard bidding documents acceptable to IDA and already agreed
with GOI, would be used and contracts would be concluded following procedures acceptable to
IDA
12.   Contract Review. All civil works, goods and equipment contracts valued at US$200,000
and above, and the first five contracts regardless of value would be subject to prior review by
IDA. For consultancies, model documents for inviting proposals, terms of reference for
consultants irrespective of value, all single source contracts regardless of value, all contracts for
assignments of a critical nature, and all contracts valued at US$100,000 or more awarded to
firms, or US$50,000 or more awarded to individuals would be subject to prior review by IDA.
This would result in prior review of about 40 percent of all contracts procured under ICB or LCB
procedures. Contracts below the threshold levels would be subject to selective post-review by
visitinig missions. Although this would result in only about ten percent of project procurement
expernditures being subject to prior review, the nature of the project, with its emphasis on forest
operations, is such that a higher level of IDA review would not have a significant impact on
procurement quality.
13.   Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:
(i)   Contract award information will be promptly reported by the borrower;
(ii)    Comprehensive half-yearly reports will be prepared by the borrower in the
format   presented in PIPAnnex 15 indicating
* Revised cost estimates for individual cointracts and the total project;
* revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding,
contract award, and completion time for individual contracts;
* comtnpliance with aggregate limits on the specified methods of procurement.
(iii)  Preparation of a completion report by the boirower within three months of the
loan closing date.



Annex 9
Page 4 of 6
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Project Element                                 Procurement Method                Total Cost
ICB           I NCB          I Others
.................................... US$ million.
Works
Buildings                                             2.34            4.34            6.68
(1.99)         (3.69)          (5.68)
Forest Operations                                                    29.43           29.43
(22.49)         (22.49)
Goods
Equipment/supplies                    2.78            0.30            1.29            4.37
(2.50)         (0.27)          (1.16)          (3.93)
Clonal plants                                                         0.55            0.55
(0.52)          (0.52)
Maps, Aerial photographs                                              1.00            1.00
(0.90)          (0.90)
Books, periodicals, extension and                                     0.58            0.58
publicity materials, software and                                      (0.50)          (0.50)
proprietary equipment
Vehicles                                                              3.60            3.60
(3.04)         (3.04)
Elephants, draft animals etc                                          0.06            0.06
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___   (0.05)  (0.05)
Consultancies, Studies, Training,
Technical Assistance
Studies and Consultancies                                             6.47            6.47
(6.47)         (6.47)
Training                                                              4.94            4.94
(4.94)          (4.94)
Miscellaneous
Ecodevelopment Support Fund                                           1.61            1.61
(1.31)          (1.31)
Operating Costs                                                      5.22            5.22
(2.61)         (2.61)
Project Preparation Facility                                          0.50            0.50
(0.50)          (0.50)
TOTAL                      2.78            2.64           59.59           65.01
(2.50)         (2.26)         (48.18)         (52.94)
Note:  1.       Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit
2.      Other methods include force account, shopping, engagement of consultants and training.
3.     IDA financing reduced by beneficiary contributions



Annex 9
Page 5 of 6
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and[ Prior Review
Expendliture Category           Type of Procurement   Contratct Value (US$)   Value (US$ million)
(Thresihold)            of Contracts Subject
to Prior Review. 1/
Works
Buildings                     NCB                   > 200,000                        1.59
Force Account
Forest Operations             Force Account
Goods
Equipment/supplies            ICB                   > 200,000                        2.60
NCB
National Shopping
Maps, Aerial photographs      Direct Contracting
Books, periodicals, extension  Direct Contracting
and publicity materials
Vehicles                     National Shopping
Consultancies, Studies, Training,
Technical Assistance
Studies and Consultancies     Consultant Recruitment  All Critical                   0.25
>100,000 firms               0.20
> 50,000 individuals         0.10
Training                      Direct Selection
Miscellaneous
Ecodevelopment Support Fund    Force Account
National Shopping
Operating Costs              GOUP Guidelines
Project Preparation Facility  According to Category
TOTAL                                                                      4.74
1/ First five contracts for civil works, goods and equiprnent regardless of value subject
to prior review



Annex 9
Page 6 of 6
B. Disbursement
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                  Amount          Financing Percentage
(US$ millions)
1. Civil Works - buildings including       5.68       85%
construction of nurseries and provision
of water supplies
2. Forest operations                      22.49        90%
3. Equipment and supplies, vehicles,       8.94        100 % foreign expenditures
construction materials                              100% local ex-factory costs or 80% of other local costs
4. Consultant services, including NGO     11.41        100%
services, training and studies
5. Civil works and equipment for the       1.31       85% of local costs of equipment and construction materials
ecodevelopment program                             financed through the ecodevelopment program
6. Incremental recurrent costs, other than  2.61      80% of incremental recurrent costs, other than staff salaries
staff salaries and allowances                      and allowances, until March 31, 2000, 55% until March 31,
2001, and 35% thereafter, representing a phased increase in
Govermment's contribution to incremental recurrent costs.
The IDA contribution to incremental recurrent costs would
amount to an average of about 50% of expenditures on
operating costs. These would include the incremental
recurrent costs of operation and maintenance of buildings,
vehicles and equipment of programs supported through the
project.
7. Refund of Project Preparation Advance   0.50       Amount due
TOTAL            52.94



Annex 10
Page 1 of 1
Annex 10
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget                         (US$000)
Development                    5
Pre-Appraisal                310
Appraisal                    183
Total                        498
B. Project Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       8
First Bank mission (identification)         2/1996
Appraisal mission departure               2/15/1997
Negotiations                              9/29/1997
Planned Date of Effectiveness             2/1/1998
Prepared by:         Uttar Pradesh Forest Department with consultancy assistance
from Jaako Poyry/Chemprojects
Preparation assistance:  PHRD Grant Agreement (TF022586)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
I. Hill (Task Manager)
M. Jansen (Environemntal Specialist)
E. Sennhauser (Environmental Specialist)
K. Jansen (Social Scientist)
J. Falconer (Social Forestry Specialist)
I. Khan (Forestry Specialist)
P. Kishor (Information Scientist)
K. N. Venkataraman (Procurement Engineer)
C. Perera (Disbursement Officer)
S. Salman (Lawyer)
Bank consultant staff included:
D. Shields (Economist)
N. Jones (Forestry Specialist)
R. Kemp (Forestry Specialist)
S. Ghosh (Forestry Specialist)
P. Montgomery (Commercial Forestry Specialist)
Y. Prevost (Information Specialist)



Annex 11
Page 1 of 1
Annex 11
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan prepared by UPFD, 1997
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Working Papers
1.   Forest Management, Research and Technology
2.   Farmn Forestry
3.   Forest Management Information System
4.   Conservation of Biodiversity
5.   Participatory Forest Management
6.   Human Resource Development
7.   Economic and Finanacial Aspects
8.   Overview of the Uttar Pradesh Forest Corporation
9.   Environrmental Review
10.   Project Costs
C. Other
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project Preparation Report. Jaako
Poyry/Chemprojects 1995
Main report and fifteen working papers
Sectoral Management Systems Study. Anzdec
Fire Protection Strrategy Study. Fortech
Nursery Establishment Study. Fortech
Productivity of Existing Plantations in Uttar Pradesh. Econofor
Study of Community Institutions in the Plains of Uttar Pradesh. ORG



Annex 12
Status of Bank Group Operations in India                                    Page  1 of 4
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(As of September 30, 1997)
Difference
Between
Original Amount in US$ Millions      expected
1loan or   Fiscal                                                                          and actual
Disbursements
a/
Project ID    Credit No.  Year                Purpose                                                   Origi-  Form.
IBRD    IDA    Cancel-  Undis-    nal    Rev'd
lations   bursed
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 367
Active Loans
lN-PE-10473  IDA29360    1997  TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                     0.00   142.40     0.00   130.08    137.86   0.00
IN-PE-10511  IDA29640    1997  MALARIA CONTROL                          0.00   164.80     0.00  163.13    165.44   0.00
IN-PE-10531  IDAN0180    1997  REPRODUCTIVE HEALTHI                     0.00  248.30      0.00  245.66   249.20   0.00
IN-PE-35158  IBRW41660   1997  AP IRRIGATION III                      175.00    0.00      0.00  175.00   325.00   0.00
IN-PE-35158  IDA29520    1997  AP IRRIGATION III                        0.00   150.00     0.00   97.67   275.28   0.00
IN-PE-36062  IDA29160    1997  ECODEVELOPMENT                           0.00   28.00      0.00   25.11     26.17   0.00
IN-PE-43728  IDA29300    1997  ENV CAPACITY BLDG TA                     0.00   50.00      0.00   44.53    47.17   0.00
IN-PE-44449  IDA29420    1997  RURAL WOMEN'S DEV                        0.00    19.50     0.00    18.48    19.53   0.00
IN-PE-45600  IBRD41140   1997  TA ST'S RD INFRADEV                     51.50    0.00      0.00   47.68    47.68   0.00
IN-PE-49301  IBR.D41560   1997  A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                    50.00    0.00      0.00   50.00    150.00   0.00
IN-PE-49301  IDA.29500    1997  A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                     0.00   100.00     0.00   90.66    142.03   0.00
IN-PE-9995   IBRD41920   1997  STATE HIGHWAYS I(AP)                   350.00    0.00      0.00  350.00   350.00   0.00
IN-PE-10480  IBRD39230   1996  B SEWAGE DISPOSAL                      167.00    0.00      0.00  147.90    172.90   0.00
IN-PE-10484  IBRD40560   1996  UP RURAL WATER                          59.60    0.00      0.00   56.74    56.74   0.00
IN-PE-10485  IDA27740    1996  HYDROLOGY PROJECT                        0.00  142.00      0.00  116.86   135.31   0.00
IN-PE-10529  IDA28010    1996  ORISSA WRCP                              0.00  290.90      0.00  219.14   241.98   0.00
IN-PE-35170  IBRD40140   1996  ORISSA POWER SECTOR                    350.00    0.00      0.00  334.57   334.57   0.00
IN-PE-35821  IDA28760    1996  DISTRICT PRIM EDUC 2                     0.00  425.20      0.00  390.12   323.04   0.00
IN-PE-35825  IDA28330    1996  STATE HEALTH SYS II                      0.00  350.00      0.00  308.90   337.29   0.00
IN-PE-39935  IBRD39920   1996  ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                    200.00    0.00      0.00  175.00    180.00   0.00
IN-PE-39935  IDA28380    1996  ILFS-INFRAS FINANCE                      0.00    5.00      0.00    4.65   205.00   0.00
IN-PE-43310  IDA28620    1996  COAL ENV&SOCIAL MIT.                     0.00   63.00      0.00   56.42    60.00   0.00
IN-PE-10461  IBR.D39076   1995  MADRAS WATER SUP II                   269.80    0.00   189.30   75.79   271.09  75.79
IN-PE-10463  IBRD37790   1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREV                    93.00    0.00      0.00   85.93    160.93   0.00
IN-PE-10463  IBRD37806   1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREV                    50.00    0.00      0.00   45.23    163.23   0.00
IN-PE-10463  IDA26450    1995  INDUS POLLUTION PREV                     0.00   25.00      0.00   24.22    168.00   0.00
IN-PE-10464  IDA26610    1995  DISTRICT PRIMARY ED                      0.00  260.30      0.00  181.81    192.92   0.00
IN-PE-10476  IDA27450    1995  TAMIL NADU WRCP                          0.00  282.90      0.00  235.16   268.27   0.00
IN-PE-10489  IDA26630    1995  AP 1ST REF. HEALTHS                      0.00  133.00      0.00  111.40   120.11   0.00
IN-PE-10503  IDA26990    1995  AGRIC HUMAN RES DEVT                     0.00   59.50      0.00   48.37    52.17   0.00
IN-PE-10506  IDA27000    1995  MP FORESTRY                              0.00   58.00      0.00   42.56    46.09   0.00
IN-PE-10522  IDA27330    1995  ASSAM RURAL INFRA                        0.00   126.00     0.00  106.64   121.59   0.00
IN-PE-10563  IBRD38560   1995  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                   350.00    0.00      0.00  200.00   550.00 340.8
IN-PE-10563  IBRD38576   1995  FINANCIAL SECTOR DEV                   144.00    0.00      0.00  140.82   696.82 340.8
IN-PE-10448  IDA25720    1994  FORESTRY RESEARCH                        0.00    47.00     0.00   33.63    33.44   0.00
IN-PE-10449  IDA25730    1994  ANDHRA PRADESH FORESTRY                  0.00    77.40     0.00   52.36    52.69   0.00
IN-PE-10455  IDA261 10    1994  BLINDNESS CONTROL                       0.00   117.80     0.00   99.49    99.50   0.00
IN-PE-10457  IDA26300    1994  POPULATION IX                            0.00   88.60      0.00   71.95    74.21   0.00
IN-PE-34162  IDA25940    1994  MAHARASHTRA EARTHQUAKE                   0.00  246.00    29.19   40.37    65.34  35.99
IN-PE-9870   IBRD37530   1994  CONTAINER TRANSPORT                     94.00    0.00      0.00   82.46    82.46   0.00
IN-PE-9964   IDA25920    1994  WATER RES CONSOLID H                     0.00  258.00      0.00  183.27    181.17   0.00
IN-PE-10407  IDA24330    1993  ADP - RAJASTHAN                          0.00   106.00     0.00   44.19    46.67   0.00
IN-PE-10408  IDA24390    1993  BIHAR PLATEAU                            0.00   117.00     0.00   82.83    88.33   0.00
IN-PE-10410  IDA24490    1993  RENEWABLE RESOURCES                      0.00   115.00     0.00   86.20   189.33   0.00
IN-PE-10416  IBRD35770   1993  PGC POWER SYSTEM                       350.00    0.00      0.00  176.54   176.54   0.00
IN-PE-10418  IDAi24830    1993  KARNATAKA WS & ENV. SAN.                0.00   92.00      0.00   66.51    66.84   0.00
IN-PE-10423  IBRD36320   1993  NTPC POWER GENERATIO                   400.00    0.00      0.00  231.67   231.67   0.00



Annex 12
Page 2 of 4
Difference
- Between
Original Amount in US$ Millions     expected
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                          and actual
Disbursements
al
Project ID    Credit No.  Year               Purpose                                                   Origi-  Form.
IBRD    IDA    Cancel-  Undis-    nal    Rev'd
lations  bursed
IN-PE-10424  IDA25280    1993  NATL LEPROSY ELIMINA                    0.00   85.00      0.00   49.51     50.36   0.00
IN-PE-9955   IDA25090    1993  UTTAR PRADESH BASIC                     0.00  165.00      0.00   66.46    66.66 -98.21
IN-PE-9959   IDA24090    1993  RUBBER                                  0.00   92.00    36.58   36.87    73.34  36.80
IN-PE-9961   IDA25100    1993  UP SODIC LANDS RECLA                    0.00   54.70      0.00   31.13    30.66   0.00
IN-PE-9977   IDA24700    1993  ICDS II (BIHAR & MP)                    0.00  194.00      0.00  160.56   159.80  159.8
IN-PE-10390  IDA23280    1992  MAHARASHTRA FORESTRY                    0.00  124.00    16.18   55.49    70.99  54.31
IN-PE-10391  IDA23410    1992  WEST BENGAL FORESTRY                    0.00   34.00      0.00    4.58      3.62   0.00
IN-PE-10393  IDA23500    1992  AIDS PREVENTION AND                     0.00   84.00      0.00   31.54    31.48   0.00
IN-PE-10400  IBRD34980   1992  MAHARASHTRA POWER II                  350.00    0.00      0.00  237.75   237.75   0.00
IN-PE-9888   IBRD34360   1992  POWER UTIL EFFIC IMP                  265.00    0.00    25.00   68.91      93.91  68.92
IN-PE-9921   IDA23290    1992  SHRIMP & FISH CULTUR                    0.00   85.00    48.51   24.36    71.83  23.20
IN-PE-9946   IBRD34700   1992  NAT. HIGHWAYS 11                      153.00    0.00      0.00  153.00   306.00   0.00
IN-PE-9946   IDA23650    1992  NAT. HIGHWAYS 11                        0.00  153.00      0.00   66.44   208.00   0.00
IN-PE-9963   IDA23940    1992  POPULATION VIII                         0.00   79.00      0.00   69.87    69.54   0.00
IN-PE-10361  IDA21730    1991  ICDSI(ORIS&ANDHR                        0.00   96.00    21.65    19.13    44.31   12.70
IN-PE-10369  IDA22340    1991  MAHARASHTRA RURAL WS                    0.00  109.90      0.00   37.98    40.89   0.00
IN-PE-10381  IBRD33640   1991  GAS FLARING REDUCTIO                  450.00    0.00      0.00   20.49    20.49   0.00
IN-PE-9877   IDA22410    1991  DAM SAFETY                              0.00  130.00      0.00   94.28    114.72  91.74
IN-PE-9885   IBRD32590   1991  PETROCHEMICALS                        233.00    0.00    70.30   29.91    112.21  31.81
IN-PE-9906   IBRD33340   1991  IND POLLUTION CONTRO                  124.00    0.00      0.00   20.29    51.89   0.00
IN-PE-9906   IDA22520    1991  IND POLLUTION CONTRO                    0.00   31.60      0.00   16.89   140.13   0.00
IN-PE-9958   IBRD33000   1991  AGR.DEV.I (TN)                         20.00    0.00      0.00   20.00   112.80   0.00
IN-PE-9958  IDA22150    1991  AGR.DEV.I (TN)                           0.00   92.80     0.00   15.35    37.06   0.00
IN-PE-9988   IDA22230    1991  TECH EDUC II                            0.00  307.10    51.37  122.69   180.08  127.6
IN-PE-9860   IDA21310    1990  WTRSH PLAINS                            0.00   55.00      0.00   16.52     18.18  11.18
IN-PE-9882   IDA21000    1990  WTRSH HILLS                             0.00   75.00      0.00   29.42    37.50  24.51
IN-PE-9890   IDA21150    1990  HYDERABAD W/S                           0.00   79.90      0.00   19.88    20.65  10.63
IN-PE-9895   IBRD31190   1990  TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                  145.00    0.00    20.00   16.41    91.41  42.73
IN-PE-9895   IDA20640    1990  TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                    0.00   55.00     0.00   22.84   161.32  42.73
IN-PE-9932   IDA21580    1990  SECOND TN NUTRITION                     0.00   95.80    29.81     .92    23.78  -6.08
IN-PE-9940   IDA21330    1990  POP. TRG (VII)                          0.00   86.70    22.74    5.07    32.16   -.61
IN-PE-9965   IDA20760    1990  PUNJAB IRR & DRAINAG                    0.00  150.00     4.72   32.65    36.33  16.62
IN-PE-9982   IBRD32370   1990  NOR REG TRANSM                        485.00    0.00     0.00  244.84   244.84   0.00
IN-PE-9989   IDA21300    1990  TECH EDUC I                             0.00  235.00    24.26   51.61    85.95  36.70
IN-PE-9869   IBRD30240   1989  NATHPA JHAKRI HYDRO                   485.00    0.00     0.00  227.21   227.21   0.00
IN-PE-9941   IBRD30960   1989  MAHARASHTRA POWER                     400.00    0.00    62.67   72.27   134.94  72.28
IN-PE-9973   IBRD29940   1989  STATE ROADS I                         170.00    0.00    61.41     6.99   148.40   1.70
IN-PE-9990   IDA20080    1989  VOCATIONAL TRAINING                     0.00  250.00   103.33   36.48   163.97  30.67
Total                                                               6,433.9  7,388.1    817.0  8,034.3  11,936.8 1,585.
2
Active Loans      Closed Loans          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):          4,858.25         29,825.96         34,684.21
of which has been repaid:               204.36 -        8,886.86          9,091.22
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:         12,800.58         20,329.64         33,130.22
Amount sold                                  0.00            133.77           133.77
Of which repaid                            0.00            133.77            133.77
Total Undisbursed                        8,034.29             34.69          8,068.98
a. Intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal minus actual disbursements to date or, if disbursement estimates have been formally
revised, then formally revised disbursement estimates minus actual disbursements to date.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio
performance (ARPP), a letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly
unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



Annex 12
Page 3 of 4
India
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of September 30, 1997
(In US Dollar Millions')
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval          Company           Loan    Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1964/75/79/90     MUSCO                    0.00     1.08    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.08   0.00    0.00
1978/87/91/93     HDFC                    40.00     2.29    0.00    0.00  40.00    2.29   0.00    0.00
1981              Nagarjuna Steel          0.00      .07    0.00    0.00   0.00     .07   0.00    0.00
1981/86/81/91/93/96  ITW Signode           0.00     1.55    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.55   0.00    0.00
1981/86/89/94/92  TISCO                    6.65    15.37    0.00    0.00   6.65   15.37   0.00    0.00
1981/90/93        M&M                       .83     6.49    0.00    3.33    .83    6.49   0.00    3.33
1982              Modi Cement             16.56     0.00    0.00    0.00  16.56    0.00   0.00    0.00
1984/90/94        India Lease              1.09      .86    0.00    0.00   1.09      .86   0.00    0.00
1984/91           Bihar Sponge            12.84      .68    0.00    0.00  12.84     .68   0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-City Mills            .48     0.00    0.0.0   0.00    .48    0.00   0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-CECL                  .01     0.00    0.00    0.00    .01    0.00   0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-NB Footwear           .19     0.00    0.00    0.00    .19    0.00   0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-Paharpur              .15     0.00    0.00    0.00    .15    0.00   0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-STG                   .43     0.00    0.00    0.00    .43    0.00   0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-TAN                   .03     0.00    0.00    0.00    .03    0.00   0.00    0.00
1986              EXB-Wires & Fab.          .07     0.00    0.00    0.00    .07    0.00   0.00    0.00
1986/92/93/94     GESCO                    0.00    13.05    0.00    0.00   0.00   13.05   0.00    0.00
1986/93/94/95     India Equipment           .54      .77    0.00    1.33    .54     .77   0.00    1.33
1987              Hindustan                7.38     0.00    0.00    0.00   7.38    0.00   0.00    0.00
1987/88/90/93     Titan Watches            1.69     1.03    0.00    0.00   1.69    1.03   0.00    0.00
1988/90/92        Tata Telecom             0.00      .10    0.00    0.00   0.00     .10   0.00    0.00
1988/94           GKN Invel                0.00     1.40    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.40   0.00    0.00
1989              AEC                     13.68     0.00    0.00    0.00  13.68    0.00   0.00    0.00
1989              UCAL                     0.00      .63    0.00    0.00   0.00     .63   0.00    0.00
1989/90/94        Tata Electric           60.96     0.00    0.00    0.00  60.96    0.00   0.00    0.00
1989/91           Gujarat State           11.23     0.00    0.00    0.00  11.23    0.00   0.00    0.00
1989/95           JSB India                0.00     1.21    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.21   0.00    0.00
1990              HOEL                     0.00      .28    0.00    0.00   0.00     .28   0.00    0.00
1990              TDICI-VECAUS II          0.00     1.59    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.59   0.00    0.00
1990/92           CESC                    48.27     0.00    0.00   67.00  48.27    0.00   0.00   67.00
1990/93/94        IL & FS                 25.50     3.11    1.81    9.00  25.50    3.11   1.81    9.00
1990/94           ICICI-IFGL               0.00      .30    0.00    0.00   0.00     .30   0.00    0.00
1990/95           ICICI-SPIC Fine          0.00     1.88    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.88   0.00    0.00
1991              BSES                    42.50     0.00    0.00    0.00  42.50    0.00   0.00    0.00
1991/93           Triveni                  0.00     1.11    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.11   0.00    0.00
1991/96           VARUN                   10.10     1.35    0.00    5.33  10.10    1.35   0.00    5.33
1992              Indus VC Mgt Co          0.00      .01    0.00    0.00   0.00     .01   0.00    0.00
1992              Indus VCF'               0.00     1.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.00   0.00    0.00
1992              Info Tech Fund           0.00      .64    0.00    0.00   0.00     .64   0.00    0.00
1992              SKF Bearings             5.74     0.00    0.00    0.00   5.74    0.00   0.00    0.00
1992/93           Arvind Mills             0.00    17.10    0.00    0.00   0.00   17.10   0.00    0.00
1992/94/97        Ispat Industries        82.58     5.77    0.00   85.00  42.72    5.77   0.00    0.00
1992/95           Creditcapital VF         0.00     1.05    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.05   0.00    0.00
1992/96/97        NICCO-UCO                1.88      .50    0.00    0.00   1.88     .50   0.00    0.00
1993/94/96        IndoRama                20.31    11.98    0.00    8.13  20.31   11.98   0.00    8.13



Annex 12
Page 4 of 4
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval           Company           Loan    Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1993/97            20TH Century             15.78      .80    0.00    4.62   5.78       .80   0.00    4.62
1994               Centurion Growth          0.00     2.39    0.00    0.00   0.00    2.39   0.00    0.00
1994               Chowgule                 15.00     4.58    0.00   27.00  14.65    4.58   0.00   26.36
1994               Crdcap Asset Mgt          0.00      .32    0.00    0.00   0.00       .32   0.00    0.00
1994               DLF Cement                9.90     4.94    0.00   14.88   9.90    4.94   0.00   14.88
1994               Global Trust              0.00     3.19    0.00    0.00   0.00    3.19   0.00    0.00
1994               Gujarat Ambuja            0.00     8.23    0.00    0.00   0.00    8.23   0.00    0.00
1994               Taurus Starshare          0.00     7.17    0.00    0.00   0.00    7.17   0.00    0.00
1994               TCAMC                     0.00       .16    0.00    0.00   0.00      .16   0.00    0.00
1994/97            GVK                      40.00     8.30    0.00   37.05  30.00    8.30   0.00   37.05
1995               Centurion Bank            0.00     3.87    0.00    0.00   0.00    3.87   0.00    0.00
1995               EXIMBANK                 25.00     0.00    0.00    0.00  25.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1995               ISIC                      0.00      .32    0.00    0.00   0.00       .32   0.00    0.00
1995               Prism Cement             15.00     5.02    0.00   15.00  15.00    5.02   0.00   15.00
1995               Rain Calcining           19.25     5.40    0.00    0.00  10.50    4.72   0.00    0.00
1995               RPG Communicatns          0.00     8.30    0.00    0.00   0.00    8.30   0.00    0.00
1995               Sara Fund                 0.00     6.96    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.10   0.00    0.00
1995               SRF Finance              13.75     5.00    0.00    0.00  13.75    4.39   0.00    0.00
1996               CVF Oil Gas-AL            8.00     8.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1996               India Direct Fnd          0.00     7.50    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.76   0.00    0.00
1996               Indus II                  0.00     5.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    3.00   0.00    0.00
1996               Indus Mauritius           0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1996               Moser Baer                5.70      .60    0.00    0.00   5.70    0.00   0.00    0.00
1996               United Riceland          10.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1997               Asian Electronic         16.86     5.50    0.00    0.00   0.00    5.50   0.00    0.00
1997               CEAT                     20.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1997               Owens Coming             25.00     0.00    0.00    0.00  20.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1997               SREI                     15.00     3.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    3.00   0.00    0.00
1997               WIPRO                    10.00     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1998               TCW/ICICI                 0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.50   0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                 675.9    208.8    1.81   277.7  522.1   176.8    1.8   192.0
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan    Equity   Quasi  Partic
1996               CESC 11 -BLINC            0.00     0.00    0.00   37.00
1996               DEV CREDIT BANK           0.00     1.89    0.00    0.00
1997               DUNCAN HOSPITAL           7.00     1.00    0.00    0.00
1997               EEPL                      0.00      .03    0.00    0.00
1995               IB VALLEY POWER          50.00    20.00    0.00    0.00
1998               IDFC                      0.00    20.00    0.00    0.00
1997               ITC CLASSIC              20.00     0.00    10.00    0.00
1994               NEYVELI POWER            30.00    18.00    0.00  150.00
1997               NUFSL                   - 5.00     0.00    0.00    5.00
1997               SAPL                      0.00      .07    0.00    0.00
1995               SPIC-RGHTS ISSUE          0.00      .86    0.00    0.00
1996               TARUN SHIPPING            0.00      .80    0.00    0.00
1997               WALDEN - MGMT             0.00      .08    0.00    0.00
1997               WIV                       0.00     6.00    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       112.00    68.73    10.00  192.00



Annex 13
Page 1 of 2
India at a glance                                                                816197
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               South  Low-.
Inrdia     Asia  income        Development dlamond
Population mid-1996 (millions)                         943.2      1,264    3.229    i
iNP per capita 1996 (US$)                               380         380      500                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS                                358.4        481   1t601
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                           1.7        1.9       1.7      NP 
L.abor force (J2.0                                                  2.1       1.7     peg|                   >        pGosy
Laoor force (%)                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~per  primary
MAost recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                              capita           .           enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)               35
Urban population (% oftotalpopulation)                   27          26       29
Life expectancy at birth (yeals)                         62          61       63
finfant mortality (per 1.000 live birMts)                68          75       69               A
Child malnutriton (V. of children under 5)               63                                     Access to safe water
A ccess to safe water (% of population)                   63         63       53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     48          50       34          -
Gross primary enroilment (% of school-age population)   102          98      105
Male                                                  t13        110       112                Low-incomeegroup
Female                                                 91         87        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       199S      1996
iEconomic ratioa'
GOPmp (billions US3)                          91.0    214.3       325.3    3S5.8
Gross domestic investmenUGOP                  20.8      24.2       26.2     26.5                        
E:xports of goods and serviceslGOP             6.2       6.0       12.2      12.3             Openness of economy
GrossdomesticsavingslGOP                      20.4      21.1       23.5     23.9
Gross national savings/GOP                    20.6      21.6       24.0     25.1
Current account balancerGOP                    0.0      .2.8       -1.8     -1.1
Interest paymentsvGOP                          0.3       0.6        1.2             iSavings                      Investment
Total debtuGDP                                15.1      19.1       28.6                              IV
Total debt servicelexports                    13.1      22.7       28.2
Present value of debVGOP                         ..       ..       22.8
Present value of debt/exports                                     161. 
..   ..               ,             ~~~~~~~~~Indebtedness
197546  1986-96      1995       1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                  -     India
CGPmp                                 4.2      5.6       7.3        7.5       ..                          gru
CGNP per capita                       1.9      3.5       5.4        5.2         .Lowincomegroup
Exports of gcods and services         3.9     11.5     31.6         7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985s      1995      1 996 :
(I% of GOP) tf                                1                                       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                   40.5      33.0       27.9     27.8   !   -
Industry                                      23.7     28.1        30.1     29.2
Manufacturing                               16.7      17.9       19.7      20.1      s
Services                                      35.8      38.8       42.1     43.0
92    9 t    94   95   96
Private consumption                           70.2      67.8       65.8     65.6    .rs -
General gcvemment^^nsumption                   9.4      11.1       10.6     105
Iniports of gccs and services                 6.6       9.1       14.9     149
1 97545S  1 986.96     1 995     1 996
(average annual gmwrh) 1/                                                             Growtn rates of exports *nd Imports 1%)
Agnculture                                     2.5       3.6       -0.1       5.7     c0
Inoustry                                       5.3       6.6       11.6      7.0
Manufacaunng                                 5.5       6.7       13.6      El.1     20 
Services                                       5.1       6.7        8.8      7.4
Private consumotion                            4.5       4.8        2.5      7. 1
General govemment consumption                  6.5       3.9        5.1      6.4   .               92   92   94 95   94
Gross domestic investment                      4.1       7.1       17.9      8l.5    .2-.
Imiports of goods and services                 9.1       6.0       17.3     7T0
Gross national product                         4.1       5.4        7.2      6.7                   Exps  ---Im pots
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
T he diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
te incomplete.
Value added sector ratios and growth rates are derved from factor cost data.



Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
India
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                        1985       1995     19S6      Inlation (%)
(% change)                                                                             -
Consumer prices                                          5.6      10.2
Implicit GOP deflator                         -1.5       7.5        7,3     7?0
Government finance
(% of GOP) 
Current revenue                                        23.8       24.3                       01   92   93   94   95   96
Current budget balance                                   2.2        1 0       .              -     GOP def. -C-CPI
Overall surplusideficit                         ..        ..
TRADE
(millions US$)                                1975     1985       1995     1996      Export and Import tevels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                    8,793    31,783         ..    40,0 
Tea                                                   512        350
Iron                                          ..      473        518               39000.
Manufactures                                   ..   5,640      24,483
Total imports (ci?f)                                 15,957     36354          .         000
Food                                          ..     1,321      1,243         
Fuel and energy                                ..    4,054      7,201
Capital goods                                  ..    3,502      6,577 
Export pnce index (1987=100)                     .       94         99                      90  9n  92  93  94  95  f6
Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       90        121         -                   Exports   ia lmpor
Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..      104         81         .    _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(millions US3)                                                                     | Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                5,850   12,773    40,181   43,855        _                         _
It                      'I
Imports of goods and services                5,990   19.422    48.788   53,087    !          1      92  1    194 |s! 1 9   I
Resource balance                              -340   -68649      -8,607   -9 232                                     I ||
Net income                                    -150   -1,552     -4,157   4,429       I     j       U
Net current transfers                         470    2,207       7.000    9,780
Current account balance,                                                           |  
before officiai capital transfers            -20   -5,994      -5,764   -3,881     . .3
Financing items (net)                           20    6,542      2,040    9,803          -
Changes in net reserves                          0     -548      3,724   -5,922    -' -
Memo:                                                                               _ _=_=_ _ _=
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)          2,065    9,493    22.843   24,919
Conversion rate (localUUSS)                    8.7      12.2      33.5      35.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1995     1996
(miliions USS)                                                                       CompositIon of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        13,708   40,960    93,766
1BRO                                        436    2.396       9,849    8,768                      G      A
IDA                                        2,809    9,750     17,499   17,616                     %049  9849
Total debt service                             822    3,532     13,123        ..                /
IBRO                                         89       313      1,714    1,514                       T \           B
IDA                                          24       124       357       364                                   17499
Composition of net resource flows                                                       29260
Official grants                             511       450       556         --
Official creditors                         1,260    1,424       -867                                            2374
Prvate creditors                             83    2,277         775       ..                         .        0
Foreign direct investment                    85       106      1300638
Portfolio equity                               0        0      1.517             I                    27097
World Bank program
Commitments                                 917    2,882       1.697    1.725      A-IBRO                      E -Bilateral
Disbursements                               531    1,375       1,318    1,592   | B-IDA      O-Other multilateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                         63       157      1,170    1,074      C C-IMF                     G-SShort-term
Net flows                                   467    1,218         149      518    1
Interest payments                            50       280       901       804
Net transfers                               417       938       -752     -287
Development Economics                                                                                                  816J97



