Report No. PIC4707
Project Name                   India-Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project
Region                         South Asia
Sector                         Agriculture, Forestry
Project ID                     INPA35169
Borrower                       Government of India
Date this PID Prepared         January, 1997
Implementing Agency            Uttar Pradesh Forest Department
Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh
Telephone: 91 522 283871   (Project Office)
Facsimile: 91 522 283322   (Project Office)
Appraisal Date                 February, 1997
Projected Board Date           September, 1997
Objectives:
1.   The main objective of the project would be to assist with the
implementation of the government strategy for development of the
forestry sector in the state. More specifically the objectives are: to
introduce the necessary changes in process and to develop human
resources for the planning, implementation and monitoring of the
strategy; to ensure that management processes and the structure and
resources of both forest departments are appropriate to their role as
nodal public sector agencies in the forestry sector; to assist with the
prioritization of various types of land through improved planning at a
macro-scale; to increase both forest cover and productivity through
development of participatory processes for management and use of forest
resources, taking special account of the interests of disadvantaged
groups; to adapt and improve existing technologies and to provide
technical and management advice; to assist with the privatization of the
production of forest products through improving incentives for forest
management and the cultivation of trees; and to promote the conservation
of biodiversity.
Description:
2.   The project would cover the entire area of the state.    The project
is designed to be of four years duration, forming the first phase of
planned long-term support to the sector. The project components would
be as follows: (i) Institutional Development. Development of the
management of the sector through: changing the approach of UPFD,
improving the management process, and developing human resources through
improved manpower planning, and process and skill-gap analysis, combined
with competency-based training. Improved planning, monitoring and
evaluation procedures would be introduced, together with the necessary
management information systems; (ii) Forest Development. The project
would finance a variety of interventions in the development of forest
resources in Uttar Pradesh, including management of both undegraded and
degraded natural forests, and farm and community forestry. Priority



would be given to community participation in natural forest management,
that is Joint Forest Management, though certain less degraded areas
would continue to be managed by UPFD. Farm forestry would be a purely
private sector matter, mainly individual farmers. The project would
also support programs of silvipasture development and urban forestry;
(iii) Research and Technology. Continuation of selected long-term
trials and observation plots, and provision of necessary equipment and
training to develop linkages with research databases. A planting
material improvement program to ensure better quality seeds and
seedlings are utilized in the sector. Establishment of a Pasture
Development Unit and demonstration and fodder seed production plots, and
the development of a fire protection strategy for the state; (iv)
Biodiversity Conservation. Long-term strategic planning for
biodiversity conservation in the state, both within and outside
Protected Areas (PAs). Improved management of 15 priority PAs linked to
ecodevelopment programs to provide alternative incomes or resources for
communities in areas peripheral to the PAs, and associated research and
public awareness programs.
Implementation:
3.   The implementation of the project would be fully integrated with
the coordination and management of the regular program of UPFD, which
would be the main implementing agency.
Cost and Financing:
4.   Total project costs are tentatively estimated at US$50.86 million,
of which IDA would finance about 859.
Environmental Aspects:
5.   Project activities would have very low environmental impact
potentials and that the project would have beneficial effects on the
environment. The project addresses many of the priorities in the India
Environmental Action Programme, 1993. Specifically: conservation and
sustainable utilization of biodiversity in selected ecosystems,
including conservation of endangered plant and animal species and
critical habitats; afforestation, based on community participation in
forest protection and management in watershed and other areas; wasteland
development involving private and community tree planting; and soil and
water conservation. Other environmental benefits may include C02
absorption, river flow regulation, and meso-climatic and other effects.
Contact Point:       Ian Hill, Task Manager SA2AW
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-0295
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 14, 1997.
-2 -



