                      Document of
                   The World Bank




                                                Report No: 27595

        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                       (IDA-30180)

                          ON A

                         CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 52.94 MILLION

                  TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                         INDIA

                          FOR

THE UTTAR PRADESH AND UTTARANCHAL FORESTRY PROJECT




                     January 22, 2004

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                Currency Unit = INR
                                     Rs. 34.7 = US$ 1 (Effective 1998)
                                       US$ 1 = Rs. 45.51 (Effective 2003)

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                    April 1-March 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANR  Assisted Natural Regeneration             NTFP       Non Timber Forest Products
APL  Adjustable Program Loan                   OCC        Opportunity Cost of Capital
CAS  Country Assitance Strategy                PA         Protected Areas
EDC  Ecodevelopment Committees                 PAD        Project Appraisal Document
ERR  Economic Rate of Return                   PDO        Project Development Objective
FD   Forest Department                         PFM        Participatory Forest Management
FF   Farm Forestry                             PMU        Project Management Unit
FMAS Financial Management & Accounting SystemRF           Reserved Forest
FMIS Forest Management Information             SFAP       State Forestry Action Plan
GO   Government Order                          SHG        Self Help Group
GOI  Government of India                       SSP        Site Specific Plan
GOUA Government of Uttaranchal                 UA         Uttaranchal
GOUP Government of Uttar Pradesh               UP         Uttar Pradesh
HRD  Human Resource Development                UPFD       Uttar Pradesh Forest Department
JFM  Joint Forest Management                   VDF        Village Development Fund
MTR  Mid Term Review                           VFC        Village Forest Committees
NPV  Net Present Value                         VP         Van (Forest) Panchayats (Council)



                              Vice President:   Praful C. Patel
                            Country Director    Michael F. Carter
                              Sector Director   Constance A. Bernard
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Madhavi M. Pillai

                                            INDIA
                 UTTAR PRADESH AND UTTARANCHAL FORESTRY


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8 Borrower Evaluation (unedited)                                           30

Project ID: P035169                                                  Project Name: UTTAR PRADESH FORESTRY
Team Leader: Madhavi M. Pillai                                       TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: UTTAR PRADESH FORESTRY                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-30180
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Forestry (61%); Sub-national government administration (29%);
                            Agricultural extension and research (10%)
                  Theme: Land management (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P);
                            Biodiversity (P); Technology diffusion (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/14/1994                                     Effective: 03/30/1998                03/19/1998
     Appraisal: 02/10/1997                                         MTR: 11/08/2000                  11/08/2000
      Approval: 12/09/1997                                      Closing: 07/31/2002                 07/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF INDIA/U.P FOREST DEPARTMENT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Edwin R. Lim
Sector Director:                Constance A. Bernard                           Michael Baxter and Ridwan Ali
Team Leader at ICR:             Madhavi M. Pillai                              Ian Hill
ICR Primary Author:             Ajay Markanday (FAO/CP) &
                                Madhavi M. Pillai


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The main objective of the project was: to assist the Government of Uttar Pradesh's (GOUP) (later
expanded to cover Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Uttaranchal (UA) after bifurcation of the state of UP in
November 2000) strategy for development of the forestry sector, which aims to improve public sector
management of the sector in order to increase forest cover, productivity and biodiversity in an
environmentally and socially sustainable manner. It is recognized that the project is planned as the first
phase of long-term support to the sector. More specifically the development objectives are:

(i) To improve public sector management through: (a) introduction of necessary changes to ensure that
policies, management processes and the structure and resources of the Forestry Departments were
appropriate to its role as the nodal public sector agency in the forestry sector; (b) development of human
resources for the planning, implementation and monitoring of the strategy; and (c) development of
information systems to assist with all aspects of the planning and management of the forest resource.

(ii) To increase both forest cover and productivity through: (a) development of participatory processes for
management and use of forest resources, taking special account of the interests of disadvantaged groups;
(b) development and adoption of improved technologies for management of forest resources; and (c)
privatization of the production of forest products through improving incentives for forest management and
the cultivation of trees on non-forest land and the provision of technical and management advice.

(iii) To conserve biodiversity through (a) improved strategic planning; (b) improved management of
Protected Areas (PAs) and (c) ecodevelopment programs to involve communities in PA management.

The original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) and with the National and State priorities in the sector. The Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) rightly recognized that introduction of new systems, technologies and process changes would be
essential to address key gaps in public sector management, and that this required long term support. The
PDO though clearly articulated, was ambitious in scope.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The PDO was not revised. It was, however, reworded to reflect the addition of the new state of Uttaranchal
(after bifurcation of Uttar Pradesh). This re-wording also included an explicit reference to a 'livelihoods'
outcome, which though acknowledged in the PAD as one of the benefits of participatory forest
management, was not an intended outcome of the project. In retrospect, this reference was unnecessary as
it did not reflect a change in the PDO or components and was not backed up with appropriate monitoring
indicators.

3.3 Original Components:
(a) Institutional Development: (US $12.57M 19%): Improved sector management through: (i) changing the
approach of the Forestry Department from being regulatory to participatory; (ii) improving management
processes and procedures; (iii) developing human resources through improved manpower planning,
performance assessment and skill-gap analysis, combined with competency-based training; (iv) introduction
of improved forest management planning, monitoring and evaluation and environmental analysis
procedures together with necessary forest management information systems; and (v) strengthening policy
analysis capabilities.

(b) Forest Development: (US $39.75M 61%): To increase forest cover and productivity through: (i)



                                                      - 2 -

promotion of natural forest regeneration through enrichment planting, improved silvicultural practices and
forest floor management in dense forest areas; (ii) introduction of participatory processes through Joint
Forest Management (JFM) and Village Forest Committees (VFCs), with focus on disadvantaged groups;
(iii) improved community, urban and farm forestry, through involvement of the private sector, involving
nursery entrepreneurs and individual farmers; (iv) support to the development and implementation of fire
and grazing management strategies; (v) development of industrial plantations using improved planting
materials and plantation management practices; and (vi) developing strip plantations along roads on a
participatory basis with local communities.

(c) Research and Technology (US $3.88M 6%): Development of a more effective research organization
working to a prioritized research program that would include improvements in (i) plant reproductive
technologies and NTFPs; (ii) provision of necessary equipment and training to develop linkages with
research databases; (iii) the introduction of a planting material improvement program to ensure that better
quality seeds and seedlings are utilized in the sector, through improvement and maintenance of seed
production sources; and (iv) development of seed handling facilities and research nurseries.

(d) Biodiversity Conservation (US $8.81M 14%): To conserve biodiversity through improved protected
area (PA) management and introduction of village level ecodevelopment through ecodevelopment
committees (EDCs). Specifically to: (i) institute long-term strategic planning for forest biodiversity
conservation both within and outside PAs; (ii) improve management of clusters of priority PAs made up of
individual PAs, linked to ecodevelopment programs to provide alternative incomes or resources for
communities in areas peripheral to the PAs; and (iii) undertake associated programs for research,
monitoring indicators for biodiversity conservation, pilot habitat restoration and public awareness.

The components were closely linked to the objectives. The design took into account the weaknesses of past
social forestry projects that focused mainly on plantations, and incorporated lessons emerging from other
forestry projects in India - Forestry Research Education and Extension, Ecodevelopment, Maharashtra and
Madhya Pradesh Forestry Projects. Key lessons incorporated include: flexibility in design to encourage
prioritization and innovation during implementation, increased focus on participatory forest management,
enhancing productivity through adoption of better technologies and site-specific planning and enlisting
government commitment and ownership to policy reform at the start of the process.

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory because: (i) The project objectives were consistent with
India's National Forest Policy (1988), the State's forest policy and action plan, the Bank's CAS, and
sector strategy for India; (ii) the design was comprehensive, based on lessons from past operations in the
sector; (iii) the focus on institutional and human resource development and participatory management was
relevant and addressed the critical need of the sector; (iv) the PDO recognized the need for a long term
approach to achieve the changes envisaged and proposed a two-phase approach, with initiation of
institutional, technological and attitudinal changes in the first and a scaled-up operation in the second; (v)
adequate resources were available for the preparatory phase, with close involvement of the implementing
agency; and (vi) there was adequate government ownership and commitment, demonstrated through key
studies undertaken during preparation and the articulation of the state forest policy and action plan prior to
effectiveness. This project preceded the introduction of Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI) guidelines on financial management and reporting and no formal financial management assessment
was conducted at appraisal. The main weaknesses at entry were: (i) an unrealistic expectation of long term



                                                      - 3 -

Bank support to the state, and insufficient attention to alternative strategies to support the reform program
in the absence of further Bank support. In retrospect, a longer duration project (rejected at appraisal) could
have ensured continuity; (ii) an expectation that the implementing agency would manage large
consultancies (such as the Forest Management Information Systems (FMIS)) when its capacity in this area
was limited; and, (iii) not providing specific provisions in the design (although the PAD makes brief
references) to strengthen Van Panchayats in the hills (now Uttaranchal), to develop them exclusively as
more autonomous, self governing institutions. Despite these weaknesses the quality at entry is rated
satisfactory as the design was sufficiently open and flexible to allow evolution of the components and
priorities during implementation.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. This project was designed as the first in a two-phase, long term assistance to UP (and later
UA) and the current phase sought to develop new processes, systems and skills to improve public sector
forest management. Key outcome indicators are summarized in Annex 1. The basis for this rating is:

    l a clear change in the attitude of the forest department from a predominantly regulatory role to a
         more client oriented one, accepting greater involvement of people in forest management;

    l introduction and mainstreaming of a systematic focus on human resource management in the sector
         including regular skill upgradation, specialization in selected sub-sectors, introduction of
         performance appraisals and incentives;

    l internalization of the need for productivity enhancement and systematic planning and management
         in the sector and mainstreaming of new technologies and management techniques;

    l strengthened capacity for biodiversity conservation: by consolidating all biodiversity conservation
         activities in the Wildlife Wing of the forest department; greater stakeholder involvement through
         ecodevelopment committees around protected areas, better management planning for protected
         areas;

    l introduction of policy changes in key areas: forest policy for UP, policy for enhanced participation
         by communities in forest management (JFM rules, government order on benefit sharing from
         roadside strip plantations), establishment of a decentralized revolving fund Sal (Shorea robusta)
         forest management; strengthening private sector involvement in farm forestry by relaxing the Tree
         Protection and Transit regulations; changes in management policy such as delegation of authority
         for transfer of field staff to the Circle level;

Substantial achievements were made in two of the three objectives - Biodiversity Conservation and Forest
Development. Significant achievements were also made in Institutional Development although the pace of
change slowed down after the bifurcation of Uttar Pradesh into two states in November 2000, due to
reasons explained in section 5. The project was successful in developing new systems, processes and skills
to improve public sector management of forests. Significant achievements in Institutional Development
were a) the introduction of policy reforms to increase private sector participation, improve management
efficiency and increase participation of communities in forest management and, b) changes in management
procedures that introduced site specific planning for treatment (SSPs) of forest areas, provided greater
decentralization and financial autonomy at the field level for planning and the establishment of a revolving
fund for Sal(Shorea robusta) forests which significantly increased funds with at the field level for
management of these high value forests.

The project also established a human resource planning and management system which focused on skill


                                                         - 4 -

development and regular performance appraisals for field staff. State capacity for Human Resource
Development (HRD) has been strengthened with the strengthening of forestry training institutions in UP
and UA with software and infrastructure; these institutions have now widened their client base to other
states and departments. There has been an appreciable increase in the number of Forest Department (FD)
staff recognizing the importance of participatory and improved management practices. Implementation of
the staffing recommendations of the HRD consultancy study could not, however be completed due to the
changed circumstances caused by the bifurcation of the state and re-allocation of staff between UA and UP.
However, both states have established committees to act on the recommendations of the study and several
other actions on enhancing staff morale and grievance redressal have been initiated. The UP Forest
Department (UPFD) also initiated civil service reforms using the opportunity and guidance of the Bank
adjustment operation (UP Fiscal Reform and Public Sector Restructuring IDA-33410) that was concurrent.
Under this, UPFD initiated a process of improving its external relations and issued a vision and mission
statement, reviewed obsolete acts and rules, drafted an anti-corruption strategy and issued a citizen's
charter of rights and responsibilities.

The second objective was achieved substantially with investments in new technologies, research and
improved planting material and introduction of community participation, making a very positive impact in
increasing institutional capacity in these areas. Many of these technologies and techniques are now
mainstreamed. The project successfully introduced improved and sustainable management practices in Sal,
Oak and mixed deciduous forest areas through Assisted Natural Regeneration (ANR), and made significant
improvement in the way high productivity plantations are established and managed, achieving key project
objectives related to forest cover and productivity. In Oak and mixed deciduous forest ANR areas,
innovative strategies promoting medicinal plants, beyond the scope of the project, were introduced to
sustain long term community interest. The project was very successful in evoking an important attitude
change in the FD, with staff at all levels beginning to recognize the importance of participation of
communities in forest management. This has been particularly positive in UP, where no previous systems
of Participatory Forest Management (PFM) existed and community rights in Reserved Forests (RFs) were
limited. The impact of participatory management was significant in a) reducing mutual mistrust, enabling
communities to have regulated and open access to forest produce from RFs where no such access existed
earlier; and, b) providing wage labor, subsistence and in some cases increased incomes from Non Timber
Forests Products (NTFP) processing. The project also generated some VDF (village development fund)
with savings from works undertaken during the project; At project closure UP had about Rs.8.5 million
while in UA the communities had about Rs.59million. These funds are being used primarily for
inter-lending in the village and small community development works; The project has been particularly
successful in making forestry research relevant to management needs and in strengthening the hitherto
neglected area of research through sustained skill development and infrastructure.

The third objective related to improved bio-diversity planning and management were successfully achieved
through finalization of strategic state plans and the development and implementation of management plans
for PAs, as well as larger landscape plans. Constitution of ecodevelopment committees around PAs to
involve communities in PA management and also provide alternative livelihood options to those dependent
on the PA resources was implemented successfully, with both project funds as well as leveraging other
government funds, on the basis of the village level development plans prepared.

There were some shortcomings in the achievement of the PDO too, which are to be expected, given that this
was the first time that the FD tried participatory management and extension. The effort to have an FD that
is more participatory in outlook, including an endorsement of its commitment through legislations was
notable. The impact, however, has been reduced by a) adopting the institutional model for JFM in areas
that were under Van Panchayats, for the duration of the project, rather than strengthening these community
institutions which already enjoyed clear tenurial rights and autonomy; b) including provisions in the revised



                                                      - 5 -

rules that reduced the autonomy of Van Panchayats in financial management; and c) inadequate efforts at
communication, participation and agreement with major stakeholders in framing the JFM and Van
Panchayat rules. These are seen as important lessons for further refinement of PFM in the states. Other
shortcomings were in the development of the FMIS which was rudimentary and not a full-fledged planning
tool at project closure; The overall impact in farm forestry was also limited due to insufficient uptake by
the private sector and poor extension by the department.


4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall rating is satisfactory, based on the ratings for components below:

(i) Institutional Development. Satisfactory. In policy reforms, the UP forest Policy has been adopted and
Government Orders (GOs) for modified Van Panchayats and JFM rules issued. However, the rules need to
be consulted with stakeholders and revised to avoid future controversies and confusion. Other key policy
outputs include timber allocation prices more closely linked to market prices, phasing out of departmental
nurseries to encourage the private sector, relaxation of timber and transit rules and a GO establishing a
revolving fund for Sal forest management. Several initiatives have been introduced to improve staff
management and morale, though actions in manpower planning, including rightsizing, and promotion based
on competency still need to be completed. State forestry training institutes have been strengthened, and a
comprehensive staff training program completed. In planning, a number of SSPs enabling a more
decentralized approach in forest management have been developed. Output related to Monitoring and
Evaluation (M & E) was unsatisfactory.

(ii) Forest Development. Satisfactory. A total of 8,670 ha of industrial plantations were established using
improved (high productivity) clonal material, with significantly improved survival rates (between 75-95%)
compared to pre-project. It is anticipated that clonal yields will exceed PAD estimates by at least 50% if
plantation management is maintained. The target of 2,342 row km of strip plantations was met under a GO
promoting community participation, whilst 16,650 ha were brought under Sal ANR forests, compared to an
Mid Term Review (MTR) target of 14,957 ha. In these areas, the introduction of a revolving fund using
revenues from felling, provides strong potential for continued and expanded management with community
involvement. The project was also successful in rehabilitating 1,732 ha of degraded oak forests (MTR
target 1,572 ha) and 6,180 ha of degraded mixed deciduous forests (MTR target 6,057ha) with the
participation of local communities. Participatory fire management plans covering 321,930 ha were
implemented. The output under Farm forestry was less satisfactory as there was limited uptake of improved
planting material by the private sector. Only 7 out of 10 high technology demonstration nurseries were
established, with low operational capacity and off take. Under JFM micro-plans were implemented in 1,727
communities (PAD 1000) covering approximately 256,000 ha. The majority of the micro-plans were in UA
(1,217 ). However, the output under JFM was only marginally satisfactory as almost 50% of the JFM
groups in UA were drawn from existing Van Panchayats and no specific activities were implemented to
strengthen Van Panchayats within the framework of the Van Panchayat rules.

(iii) Research and Technology. Satisfactory. Project output from research contributed significantly to
project objectives in resource development, through improved seed and planting material. The project
established 36 seed production areas covering 413 ha, 80 ha of seedling seed production and 32 clonal seed
orchards. A number of seed processing centers and seed testing laboratories were also established. As a
result, a 100 percent of seed used in FD plantations at the end of the project was of certified genetic
quality. The project also introduced improved technology through root trainers and supported a
comprehensive research program in clonal propagation of several species, including Eucalyptus, Shisham
(Dalbergia sissoo) and Yew (Taxus baccata). The clonal propagation of teak, which is more difficult,



                                                      - 6 -

was also initiated. Selections for Cloning techniques for each species were developed and FD staff trained.
In total, 154 ha of clonal Shisham and 142 ha of clonal Eucalyptus plantations were raised in UA, and 303
ha of Shisham, 431 ha of Eucalyptus and 100 ha of teak plantations in UP.

(iv) Biodiversity Conservation. Satisfactory. Management plans have been prepared for 36 Protected Areas
based on Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plans for each state. Annual plans, based on these have been
developed and implemented for each PA. Landscape Management Plans have also been developed for
several PAs, though have not been implemented. A total of 257 Ecodevelopment Committees (EDCs) were
established for fringe PA communities. Relevant research has also been conducted and completed in
biodiversity and wildlife management and protection. Public awareness campaigns in biodiversity
conservation were undertaken through outreach activities and the establishment of Nature Interpretation
Centers in both states.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The framework for financial and economic analysis at ICR follows the methodology and key assumptions
used at appraisal, which are considered to be appropriate and sound. The relevant models were updated
using current (2003) prices, actual project costs (in 2003 prices), actual areas and micro-plans
implemented and latest estimates (projections) of future timber and non timber benefits. For the project as a
whole the revised Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was derived from net incremental benefit streams from
individual sub-components. Including environmental benefits the ERR is estimated at 14% Net Present
Value (NPV Rs. +671 million) and without environmental benefits 13% (NPV + Rs 234 million). By
sub-component, the rates of return were slightly higher for JFM, though lower in Farm Forestry and
Plantations than estimated at appraisal and MTR. The re-estimated ERRs for JFM are 15% and 13% with
and without environmental benefits and is attributed to larger number of micro-plans and area brought
under joint management than assumed at appraisal. In farm forestry, the NPV is negative (- Rs 20 million)
and the ERR 6%. This is appreciably lower than estimated at appraisal and is due to significantly lower
prices for popular farm forestry species, restricted uptake of higher value species and a lower level of
adoption (from department nurseries) than assumed in the PAD. Similarly in plantations the NPV is
negative (­ Rs 35 million) and the ERR 11%, compared to 15% at appraisal. This is due to much lower
aggregate area planted overall, especially that under high productivity (clonal) species than anticipated at
appraisal. In Sal ANR, through regeneration and management practices and advanced felling (compared to
five year delay without project) the NPV is estimated at + Rs 754 million.

Sub-Componenet                        Appraisal                     MTR                       ICR
                                 NPV        ERR (%)      NPV (12%)     ERR (%)      NPV (12%)      ERR (%)
                                (12%)                     Rs. million               Rs. million
                               Rs. million
JFM                Hills          -218          10           -666                      +319           13
                   Terai          +18           15          +519           23           +32           15
                   Vindhayan       -50          7            +90           17            -4           12
Total JFM                         -249          10            -57          12          +351           13
                                                                                      (+787)         (15)
Plantations                      +166           15          +123           16           -43           10
                                                                                       (-35)         (11)
Farm Forestry                     +11           16           +11           16           -20            6
Total Project                      -7           12           +86           12          +234           13
                                (+177)         (13)                                   (+671)         (14)
1 Excluding environmental Benefits (For the ICR with environmental benefits indicated in brackets)




                                                      - 7 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial analysis was only undertaken for components of the project where the costs, benefits and
stakeholders were clearly identifiable and was not possible for the project as a whole. These included JFM,
Farm Forestry (FF) and commercial plantations where the relevant stakeholders are communities, farmers
and the FD. At project completion, financial rate of return analysis was done for farm forestry and
department plantations. In JFM the NPV was used as net benefits were positive from year one. For FF, at
ICR the financial return to farmers is less attractive than assessed at appraisal due again to appreciably
lower timber prices for main species grown, of which there has been a glut in the market in recent years,
poor extension by the FD to farmers regarding different FF species and low uptake of different (higher
value) species, particularly Teak, Sisham and Eucalyptus. Restriction on felling and movement of Teak and
Sisham, which are still not exempted under the Timber Felling and Transit Rules in UP and UA, also
remains an important disincentive to private investors. Based on a weighted average of Poplar, Kadam and
Bamboo the financial returns per hectare (FIRR) in farm forestry is re-estimated at 15% (NPV 12% +
6,500) compared to 26% at appraisal. In plantations, the financial analysis indicates that the area actually
planted under the project would only be marginally viable (FIRR of 11.3%). Again this is lower than
assumed at appraisal due to the shortfall in aggregate area planted, particularly under higher productivity
species.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial. The project was expected to have significant institutional impact, in making the FD more
technically efficient, responsive to the changing environment and participatory in approach. This was not
an easy task given an institution that is mandated with regulatory and law enforcement functions, is one of
the older and more conservative departments within the government and one that has been quite insulated
from the technology and business processes changes taking place elsewhere, even within the government.
A significant shift in institutional approach and thinking was needed, which initially met resistance in some
quarters. However, by the time the project closed there was a discernible impetus for modernizing and a
remarkable shift in the perceptions of the forest departments in both states. This is evident in some of the
recent policies in UA - to form a Van Panchayat in every village of the state, and preparation of business
plans to make the forest training institutes independent profit centers. In UP a second, more fundamental,
revision of the Tree Protection Act and transit regulations has been moved, and is pending approval of the
government. Although project impact has been significant, the process still needs considerable support, to
ensure that the changes are fully internalized and the process is sustained.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The bifurcation of Uttar Pradesh into UP and Uttaranchal in November 2000 affected the forest sector
more than others because a substantial portion of the forest area was in the districts allocated to UA and no
longer in UP. Movement of staff to their allocated positions in the two states took a long time which
disrupted project activities to a great extent. In the new state of UA little was achieved in the first year after
the division. Although a one year extension was provided to tide over the delays caused due to the
bifurcation, which helped in smoothening the transition, it would have been unrealistic to expect major
institutional reforms, particularly on staffing issues, at this juncture.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government commitment to the project was demonstrated from the start by establishing a well-staffed
project management unit, (with a very senior officer as Project Director throughout the project, in UP),
initiating key studies on sector management and manpower planning and acting on key sector policies as



                                                       - 8 -

agreed in the PAD. Despite the complexities thrown up by the bifurcation, the state governments of UP and
UA ensured that project related issues were resolved with little delay, except finalization of project
agreements for both states, which was delayed for several months. Frequent changes in senior project staff,
due to political changes in Government, reduced momentum and valuable historic and institutional project
memory, particularly in UP. Delays in notifying the revised JFM rules in UP and UA caused confusion in
implementation of this sub-component. Financial Management was initially affected as the government of
UP could not appoint competent staff. The gravity of the issue was appreciated and competent staff were
posted after the mid-term review. Counterpart funds were adequate throughout the project, though the
releases from the Treasury were delayed occasionally.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Management effectiveness was under implementing agency control and overall, project implementation
received high priority in the FD agenda. The PMU in UP provided detailed inputs for the MTR and both
states followed up on all critical actions agreed at the MTR. In addition to prompt compliance with most
supervision agreements with the Bank, the project units were able to move difficult issues to the respective
state governments (GO on Sal forest revolving fund, JFM rules) quite effectively. The bifurcation of UP
also necessitated that large procurements were to be carried out by UP for both states, due to better
institutional capacity in the former. Both project units needed to coordinate very closely which was a
tedious task. Although this led to delays on several fronts (such as procurement of computers, FMIS
software, etc) both project units cooperated well to take the project forward.

Delays on specific project components affected implementation. Delayed compliance with the covenant to
reduce departmental seedling production and subsidized seedling price hampered uptake by the private
sector. Delays in establishment of the Project Management Unit (PMU) in UA, coupled with inadequate
staffing of the unit reduced guidance for project implementation, particularly on policies and process
changes. Despite these delays UA did well in carrying out several project activities as envisaged.

Implementation of the participatory forest management sub-component was also affected, for two
reasons: (i) The JFM rules (1997 and 2001) extended JFM to all forest lands irrespective of ownership and
tenure, and the conversion of Van Panchayats to JFM committees under the project in UA, led to
apprehensions and criticism regarding the project. (ii) During implementation nearly 50% of the JFM
committees established under the project in UA were in reality Van Panchayats that reportedly opted for
the JFM framework, by suspending the Van Panchayat rules, to access project funds. Both actions
undermined the Van Panchayats, a unique community forest management model, that needed to be
strengthened further as independent community institutions, as recognized in the PAD and the SFAP.

Efforts to clear the confusion and bring convergence between both institutional frameworks were made
towards the end of the project. This nevertheless reduced the impact of participatory forest management
under the project.

Compliance with fiduciary and safeguard policies of the Bank and all legal covenants was complete and
satisfactory at project closure. However, in the initial stages there were issues related to the recording,
reporting and monitoring of project expenditure. The computerized Financial Management & Accounting
System (FMAS) could not be developed and qualified staff for Financial Management of the Project in UP
were not provided till after the mid-term. Due to the weak internal controls of the project, records
maintained in the PMU on project expenditure up to the midterm review were unavailable. The financial
management arrangements have been considered unsatisfactory in the early part of the project, but during
the later half of the project dramatic improvements were made in staffing, recording, reporting, monitoring
and submission of eligible claims. The lessons learned from UP helped UA to maintain satisfactory


                                                      - 9 -

financial management through the project period.

Flow of funds and timeliness of submission of audit reports remained satisfactory except for the year of
the bifurcation of the state. Submission of audit reports have generally been regular and without any
substantial delay. Qualification in the audit reports were mostly in terms of disallowance of certain
expenditures. However, expenditure disallowed by the auditor in most cases has been recertified at a later
date. Out of a total audit disallowance of Rs.35.13 million over the project period, Rs.32.65 million was
recertified by the auditor and expenditure finally disallowed from the start of the project till March 31,
2003 was only Rs.2.48 million which has been adjusted in the applications received from the Borrower.
The implementing agencies in UP and UA did not have a fully operational Internal Audit team in the
project to monitor the internal controls and management of the project. The final audit by the Accountant
General is in process and reports are awaited from the Government for the fiscal years 2002-03 and
2003-04.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original project was for US $ 65.01 million, including US $52.94 million (IDA) and US $12.07 million
from Government and beneficiaries. Actual project cost is estimated at US $ 53.03 million (82% of PAD),
of which IDA financed US $ 43.73 million (83 % of PAD) and Government and beneficiaries US $9.29
million (77 % of PAD). The budget was re-allocated at MTR due to the bifurcation of the state and slight
adjustments in component costs. Activities were separated between the two new states according to
agreements with the Governments and the respective levels of forest area and staffing. The revised project
costs, for the remaining project years, were shared between Uttaranchal and UP in the ratio of 53:47. The
overall cost of the Forest Development component was reduced by 10%, whilst costs for Bio-diversity were
increased by 5%.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project has positively changed the direction of the FD and introduced crucial momentum for change
and modernizing, which together with an assessment of project components below underpin a rating of
likely for sustainability.

Institutional Development. Government commitment, particularly in UA, to process change in line with
National and State Forest Policy and the impetus gained from the project ensure sustainability in key areas
of policy, reforms and aspects of improved planning and management. Awareness in forestry staff of the
importance of participatory approaches has been successfully created and will be long lasting, whilst
interest has also been generated amongst communities of working collectively. Changes brought under civil
service and HRD policy reforms have introduced a new vision for the sector and strategies for introducing
efficiencies through right sizing, competency based training and promotions, which have been integrated
institutionally.

Forest Development. State or Government of India (GOI) programs will continue to provide support for
most resource development activities, using improved planting technologies and techniques. In Sal ANR
forests, the establishment of an innovative revolving fund ensures high likelihood of sustainability, which is
also likely in Oak and mixed ANR forests, through attractive market incentives for medicinal plants. The
phasing out of department nurseries and subsidies will continue to encourage private sector investment in
seedling production. However, to sustain this impact, will require further relaxation in the timber protection
and transit rules to include key recommendations by the FD, such as state(s) wide coverage and the
inclusion of currently exempted species (i.e. teak and Shisham). In JFM, in the post project phase



                                                      - 10 -

sustainability will depend on the FD continuing the momentum of engagement through sustained
collaboration, extension and advice and ensuring that future revisions in JFM and VP rules are consistent
with the needs of all stakeholders. To ensure this, the FD will also need to address the issue of shortage in
frontline staff, who provide a critical link to communities. Overall, funds from GOI programs for JFM will
provide an essential mechanism to continue the process.

Research and Technology Transfer. Project investment in capacity building and skills development
underpin sustainability. To enable continuity, proposals for selected research programs, developed under
the project, have been approved by the Forest Corporation in Uttaranchal.

Bio-Diversity Conservation.. The finalization of strategic plans for bio-diversity and for management of
PAs and the priority and funding from GOI programs for EDCs underpin sustainability of project
uninitiated changes in this sub-sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Both the Governments of UA and UP are committed to continuing key process changes introduced under
the project, while a number of important civil service and HRD reforms have already been institutionalized
and will be developed further. Capacity building and training have provided a new outlook toward
management and participatory approaches which is now ingrained in the institution and will underpin
future strategy. Key technologies developed under the project have been mainstreamed, particularly in UA.
With support from GOI programs, there is strong state commitment for continuing the JFM process and
developing EDCs. The establishment of revolving funds under the project will reduce pressure on public
expenditure for future management of Sal ANR forests and strip plantations, ensuring smooth transition of
operations in participation with communities. In bio-diversity conservation, the finalization of state
strategies and plans and the integration of these in National Biodiversity Strategy and Action plan, provide
a sound long term institutional framework.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in preparation and appraisal of the project is rated satisfactory. Frequent and
detailed consultations were held with the borrower and implementing agency, and the design was wholly
consistent with national and state priorities. Relevant lessons were incorporated from previous and ongoing
Bank funded forestry projects in the state and in India. Unfortunately at the time of preparation a more
appropriate lending instrument for a phased program, such as an Adjustable Program Loan (APL), was not
available. Consequently, although the appraisal team had adequate basis to assume long term Bank
commitment to its phased approach, in practice this did not materialize, which has interrupted and brought
considerable uncertainty in continuity of the process.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during implementation is rated satisfactory. Being one of the oldest departments
of the government, there was considerable resistance to change within the FD at project start-up, which
meant that Bank together with senior visionaries in the FD, had to provide sustained impetus to project
objectives from the beginning. Bank supervision played a key role in providing this together with sound
advice in technical areas. Supervision missions emphasized on flexibility in implementation and encouraged
innovation from the field level. After the mid­term Bank supervision on FMIS helped in resolving the
stalemate vis a vis development of the FMIS and guided the delivery of the FMIS. Bank's assistance in
financial management too was a very constructive throughout implementation, especially after the
mid-term. In JFM, however, supervision could have played a more pro-active role in ensuring that the



                                                     - 11 -

project strictly adhered to strengthening Van Panchayats in the hills (in Van Panchayat areas) and also that
the revised JFM and Van Panchyat rules were consistent with the needs of all stakeholders.

The project was reviewed in detail during the MTR and non-performing sub-components (urban forestry
and community land forestry) were dropped. Costs and physical targets were also reviewed and
re-allocated, as the state was divided into two. Actions taken during the MTR helped in establishment of
the Sal ANR revolving fund, amendment of the Tree Protection Act and Transit Rules and in approval of
the revised JFM rules.

However, Bank supervision could have been more pro-active in the initial stages and particularly at
mid-term to work with the implementing agency and set out the priorities for the first (current) phase
project more clearly to facilitate monitoring and learning, which was a weak point in the project. The
opportunity presented at the mid-term could have also been used to restructure the project in line with the
new context for UP and UA after the bifurcation of the state. The mid-term review could have been delayed
till both states completed the bifurcation process and staff could pay more attention to the project,
particularly in the newly created state of Uttaranchal.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory. Project objectives still remain highly relevant to sector development and the Government(s)
remains firmly committed to continuing and developing processes introduced under the project. The Bank
maintained close contact with the PMU and provided necessary direction and sustained support in
supervision.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory. The Borrower was conscious of the need for improving management in the forestry sector in
line with the State Forestry Action Plan (SFAP). UPFD interacted closely with the consultants during
preparation and were involved in intensive dialogue with the Bank appraisal missions. However, the
effectiveness of such interaction in providing a client-driven design was limited in some areas by the
existing technical capacity of UPFD in aspects such as context specific approaches in PFM, strategic forest
management planning and management information systems.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory. The GOUA has been particularly supportive of the project, providing the necessary funding,
not just for the project but to mainstream project achievements. The GOUP has also been generally
supportive of the project. It has been proactive in following up with GOs to assist with the implementation
of the policy. Although turnover of project directors was high in UP due to promotions and retirement,
GOUP ensured continuity in a few key positions so that institutional memory was not lost and the project
management unit remained well staffed during the project period.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory. Despite difficulties in financial management and development of the FMIS, the PMUs in both
states made exceptional efforts to ensure smooth implementation through the project period.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the borrower is rated satisfactory, in spite of project management difficulties in
the early stages and problems encountered at bifurcation.




                                                      - 12 -

8. Lessons Learned

Programs involving complex institutional change need assured long term support or simpler design.
The PAD rightly recognized that complex process change was required to address state and national
development priorities in the sector, which needed time. A reasoned case was made for long term Bank
support for a phased approach, which the appraisal team had sound basis to infer. However, the
uncertainty of Bank funding for phase 2, has severely interrupted the process, leaving a number of key
changes and initiatives incomplete, (e.g. future development and refinement in JFM based on lessons learnt
under the current project), whilst others remain at risk (e.g. effectively institutionalizing sound planning, M
& E and changes in management processes.)

Effective communication is critical to ensure success of community led processes. A well designed
communication strategy in the project could have vastly improved the impact of the participatory
management activities, avoided controversy over modifications of rules for Van Panchayats and JFM,
provided feedback on implementation of these sub-components and could have benefited both the forest
departments and the communities with the opportunity to learn from each other.

Project activities and Bank supervision need to reflect and follow-through key aspects of design. In
view of the significance and importance of Van Panchayats in the hills, the PAD rightly acknowledged the
need to strengthen these institutions as distinct from JFM. However, the importance of this was not
followed through by including specific activities and clearly adopting a separate approach from that of JFM
in the project. As a result, in implementation only parallel institutions under JFM (VFCs) were established
(in Van Panchayat areas). This led to confusion due to differences in provision and the requirement for VPs
to suspend their rules to participate in the project.

Monitoring, evaluation and management information systems need to be consistent with technical
capacity. The FMIS was overambitious given the existing (low) level of technical expertise in the FD and
awareness amongst senior decision makers of its benefits. A more appropriate approach could have
included, building computer and data management skills through training initially, which would have
underpinned more meaningful interaction between users and developers of systems.

III Performance in Selected Thematic Areas

Poverty and Gender
Although the PDO was not targeted at poverty alleviation or gender disparities specifically, the interest of
disadvantaged groups in participatory management was given special focus. The project succeeded in
getting women to attend village meetings, though studies indicate that their participation in project related
decisions remained limited. Although women generally reported improved availability of fodder grasses
there are indications that they have to spend more time and walk longer distances due to forest closure.
Social targeting of the poorest in villages and analysis of their livelihood dependence on local forest
resources, was limited. According to the mid term JFM evaluation, the VFCs sampled were neither aware
nor interested in gender and equity concerns. The most significant benefit of the project for both women and
the poor was short term wage employment. However, the 20% community contribution required by the
project was largely obtained by deductions from wages which was later reviewed and corrected.

Environment
The overall environmental impact of the project has been positive. Some 280,000 ha were brought under
JFM or FD ANR management during the life of the project, providing protection against illegal and



                                                     - 13 -

unmanaged grazing, removal of forest products and fire. A further 322,000 ha were brought under fire
management reducing fire losses. About 8,000 ha of badly degraded oak and mixed deciduous forests were
included in ANR operations, enhancing both soil and water conservation. Environmental analysis within
the Sal ANR areas gave a generally positive assessment with some recommendations for improved
silvicultural operations. The introduction of scientific management planning in 36 PAs provides the
potential for improved biodiversity conservation and habitat improvement.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Government of Uttar Pradesh

1.Despite the fact that the project development objective was ambitious in scope, the changes brought about
through the project are expected to help the department to move ahead with a clear vision, renewed vigor
and modern approach. We agree that a longer duration project could have ensured better continuity.

2. During the project period, the department developed its capabilities in information technology and
consultancy management. The FMIS though was only rudimentary at the project closure stage, has
gradually become an important output of the project and the department is moving in the right direction in
the field of information technology. Over the project period the department developed the competence in
consultancy management despite the fact that it's capability at the start of the project was limited.

3.The department has initiated a large number of policy changes and civil services reforms to shift
management process from regulatory to participatory. The project has introduced crucial momentum for
change and modernization.

4. The project was designed as the first phase of the long term support to the sector. We strongly feel that
the Bank funding for phase -2 is urgently required to maintain the process of change and future
development of forestry sector in the state. I am confident that the World would like to finance the second
phase of UP Forestry Project.

Government of Uttaranchal

1. Performance ratings as given in the draft report are agreed to as those reflect the performance of various
sectors adequately.

2. However, draft report makes certain observations in respect of Van Panchayats rules and Joint Forest
Management with which we disagree. For example, the draft report mentions on page 5 & 6:

         The impact, however, has been reduced by a) adopting the institutional model for JFM in areas
         that were under Van Panchayats, for the duration of the project, rather than strengthening these
         community institutions (VPs) which already enjoyed clear tenurial rights and autonomy; b)
         including provisions in revised VP rules that reduced the autonomy of Van Panchayats in
         financial management; and c) inadequate efforts at communication, participation and agreement
         with major stakeholders in framing JFM and VP rules.

Similarly, on page 13, the report mentions:

         In view of the significance and importance of Van Panchayats in the hills, the PAD correctly



                                                     - 14 -

        acknowledged the need to strengthen these institutions as distinct from JFM. However, the
        importance of this was not followed through by including specific activities and clearly adopting
        a separate approach from that of JFM in the project. As a result, in implementation only
        parallel institutions under JFM (VFCs) were established (in VP areas).

It may be clarified at the outset that no parallel institution was established in VP areas. In these areas
already established VPs functioned as JFM committees (VFCs) and no new JFM committees were formed.
Existing VPs accessed and utilized project funds enabling them to take up forest management operations in
their Panchayati forests. This also led to creation of Village Development Fund that would sustain them
financially in coming years. As pointed out by various studies and evaluations, lack of funds is a major
handicap or constraint of VPs reducing their capacity to function effectively and sustainably. In fact, Joint
Forest Management was seen and rightly so as a strategy to involve local communities in forest
management and not create parallel and mutually exclusive institutions at the village level. Therefore, in
areas where VPs existed and were keen to work within the ambit of Uttaranchal forestry project, they were
given the option of doing so. Their involvement in Uttaranchal forestry project under JFM framework,
therefore, strengthened and not weakened VPs.

3. Similarly, the revised Van Panchayat Rules increase and not reduce the financial autonomy of the VPs as
the draft ICR would like us to believe. All the funds accruing to VPs, according to revised rules, would be
deposited in Panchayati Forest Account to be managed by VP (section 28 & 29 of the Uttaranchal
Panchayati Forest Rules, 2001). Proposals for expenditure would be passed in annual general meeting of
Forest Panchayat by making annual plan (section 30). The autonomy of VPs in financial management,
thus, has been increased by the revised rules.

4. As far as consultations with various stakeholders is concerned, there were wide consultations through
meetings, workshops & seminars at various levels. It may be appreciated that rules such as Van
Panchayats and Joint Forest Management have diverse ramifications for different sections of society as
well as for environment and, therefore, raise passionate debates and very often polarize positions.
Howsoever, wide and intense the consultation and debates may be, it may not be possible to reach total
consensus on provisions of such rules. However, lack of absolute consensus of all sections of stakeholders
does not mean that adequate consultations were not held.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                       - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Project Output               Key Indicator                PAD Target                 Actual
Strong UPFD with             Appropriate sector policies Sector policies adopted     UP State Forest Policy
improved administrative & adopted                                                    adopted. In UP 17 GOs
forest management process                                 Institutional reforms      issued GO on strip
and structure working        Recommended institutional implemented                   plantation modified and
within a frame work of       reforms implemented                                     issued. Revised JFM and
appropriate sector policies.                                                         Van Panchayat Rules
                                                                                     issued . Tree Protection Act
                                                                                     modified Single sanctioning
                                                                                     of budget implemented.
                                                                                     Performance appraisal
                                                                                     System introduced. HRD
                                                                                     action teams operational
                             HRD recommendations          New HRD Plan designed      HRD plan completed.
                             implemented.                 and implemented            GOI issued GO for
                                                                                     restructuring of IFS cadre.
                                                                                     Single sanctioning of budget
                                                                                     implemented. Performance
                                                                                     appraisal system introduced
                                                                                     HRD action teams
                                                                                     operational Training at the
                                                                                     induction and promotion
                                                                                     stages introduced. Role set
                                                                                     directory prepared and used
                                                                                     for capacity building.
                                                                                     Confidence building of staff
                                                                                     achieved with the
                                                                                     monitoring of HRD action
                                                                                     team recommendations
                             Technical capacity of staff  New training plan          In UP 31748 people trained
                             in FD and local              developed and implementedand under decentralized
                             communities in forest                                   capacity building 81038
                             management improved                                     participants trained. In UA
                                                                                     7,907 staff trained
                             Information systems to       FMIS/FMAS systems          FMIS implemented on a
                             effectively mange finances operational by the end of thepilot bases, hardware
                             and operations designed and project                     installed and training on
                             implemented                                             software initiated. FMAS
                                                                                     not implemented
                             Sustainable funding          Sustainable funding        GO issued on establishment
                             mechanisms established       mechanisms established     of revolving funds for Sal
                                                                                     ANR forests
Mechanisms to increase       Upward trend in area of                                 NA. Forest area increase
Forest Cover Established     forest cover                                            also attributed to other
                                                                                     factors i.e. climate
                             No. of VFCs formed           1 000 VFCs (250,000 ha)    1,727 (256,000 ha)
Technologies to Improve      Development of improved      10 Demonstration Nurseries 7 Demonstration Nurseries
Forest Productivity in Place planting material



                                                       - 16 -

                            technologies at 10
                            demonstration sites
                            Area of plantations          5,000 ha clonal Eucalyptus 572 ha
                            established with improved    1,000 ha SSPA Eucalyptus 1,403 ha
                            material and improved        2,000 ha clonal Teak       100 ha
                            plantation silvi-culture     4,000 ha seedling Teak     5,712 ha
                                                         500 ha Dalbergia Sissoo    457 ha
                            % seed selected certified    50% seed selected          100% selected
                            % grade A seedlings          35% seedling grade A       na
                            Reduced fire incidence       2.478 million ha           2.58 million ha
                            Area of controlled grazing                              na
                            Area of private plantations                             na
Processes to Improve        Strategic plan for           Strategic state plans      Strategic plans for UA and
Conservation in Biodiversitybid-diversity conservation   developed                  UP Finalized
Introduced                  developed
                            Completion of PA             18 PA management plans     36 PA management plans
                            management plans             completed                  completed
                            Management of PAs                                       Landscape plans covering
                            improved                                                all PAs prepared
                            Mobilization of community Eco-development               257 EDCs established
                            support for PA conservation committees (EDCs)
                            through ecodevelopment       developed in villages
                            programs initiated around    around PAs
                            PAs.




                                                      - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Institutional Development                                   12.57            8.63              69
Forest Development                                          39.75          32.08               81
Research and Technology                                      3.88            3.40              88
Biodiversity Conservation                                    8.81            8.91             101

Total Baseline Cost                                         65.01          53.02
                         Total Project Costs                65.01          53.02
                   Total Financing Required                 65.01          53.02


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             2.34        33.77         0.00         36.11
                                  (0.00)           (1.99)      (26.18)        (0.00)      (28.17)
2. Goods                           2.78             0.30         7.08         0.00         10.16
                                  (2.50)           (0.27)      (6.17)         (0.00)       (8.94)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        11.41         0.00         11.41
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (11.41)        (0.00)      (11.41)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         7.33         0.00          7.33
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.42)         (0.00)       (4.42)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           2.78             2.64        59.59         0.00         65.01
                                  (2.50)           (2.26)      (48.18)        (0.00)      (52.94)




                                                - 18 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               2.10             29.86                              31.96
                                           (0.00)             (1.78)           (25.01)              ()             (26.79)
   2. Goods                                 2.81               0.10              4.59             0.00              7.50
                                           (2.52)             (0.09)            (3.03)            (0.00)           (5.64)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              8.72             0.00              8.72
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.88)            (0.00)           (6.88)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              4.85             0.00              4.85
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.42)            (0.00)           (4.42)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                2.81               2.20             48.02             0.00             53.03
                                           (2.52)             (1.87)           (39.34)            (0.00)           (43.73)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Institutional Development      10.24         2.33                     6.85         1.78                  66.9      76.4
Forest Development             32.39         7.36                    26.79         5.29                  82.7      71.9
Research and Technology         3.13         0.75                     2.82         0.58                  90.1      77.3
Biodiversity Conservation       7.18         1.63                     7.27         1.63                  101.3    100.0
Total                          52.94        12.07                    43.73         9.29                  82.6      77.0




                                                           - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

This annex re-assesses financial and economic aspects of the project using updated prices, actual project
costs , areas and micro-plans and latest estimates (projections) of forest production and other benefits
envisaged at appraisal. The project costs and physical areas covered are derived from PMU data and are
considered accurate. However as the project is fairly young (5-years) and most of the plantations and forest
benefits are not fully developed, productivity estimates are based on current technical assessment. The
approach is based on key assumptions and models used in the PAD and changes have only been made
where better, more current, estimates were available.

For economic analysis, the project used quantifiable costs and benefits associated with the following
investments (a) JFM in the Hill, Terai and Vindhayan zones; (b) Private Farm Forestry plantations; and (c)
commercial plantations and ANR of Sal forests by the Forestry Department. For analysis under JFM,
models used at appraisal (outlining 'typical' without project scenarios with assumed outcomes Updated
assumptions were used as no data was available from the PMU on incremental with project benefits, were
again used and updated. The ICR estimates of NPV and Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of the
sub-components were also re-estimated For the sub-component the same share of project overheads (costs)
as used in the PAD was assumed, where appropriate, and compared to PAD and MTR estimates. Under
farm forestry the analysis was based on re-examining the actual level of adoption, compared to break-even
assumptions made at appraisal. For commercial plantations updated cost benefit analysis using improved
planting material was undertaken, whilst the analysis for the conservation and regeneration of Sal forest
was based on the economic cost (returns forgone) of delayed harvesting.

The economic analysis excludes the costs and benefits of components for which it is not possible to quantify
benefits (e.g. biodiversity and research). For the project as a whole, an economic life of 30 years was
assumed and an (OCC) of 12%. Economic prices (including labor) were derived from financial prices using
the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF), for India, of 0.9. The spreadsheet files and models (tables) used in
financial and economic analysis are outlined in Annex Table 1 in supporting documents.

For the project as a whole the revised ERR was derived from net incremental benefit streams from
individual sub-components Excluding ANR Sal, the benefits of which were not directly attributable to
project investments and where there is positive cash-flow from year 1. Including environmental benefits,
through carbon sequestration, the re-estimated ERR is 14%, compared to 13% at appraisal. However, if
environmental benefits are excluded the ERR drops to 13% (12% at appraisal). By sub-component, the
rates of return were higher for JFM, though lower in Plantations and Farm Forestry than appraisal. See
discussion below.

A key project objective was the development of JFM in participation with communities. At appraisal the
overall ERR for JFM was estimated at 10% excluding environmental benefits. The re-estimated ERRs for
the sub-component are 15% and 13% with and without environmental benefits respectively. The higher
returns are attributed to the larger number (36%) of JFM micro plans actually brought under the project
compared to the level originally assumed in analysis. The increase in number of micro-plans was most
appreciable (66%) in the Hill areas. The re-estimated economic rates of return in the Hill, Vindhayan and
Terai JFM areas were 13%, 12% and 15%. The ERRs were higher in the Hill and Vindhayan areas than
appraisal though similar in the Terai.

The economic returns to the farm forestry sub-component were re-analyzed using updated costs of seedlings
from private nurseries, share of project overhead costs, benefits from a typical farm forestry model (using
weighted average of adopted tree species most grown At appraisal a wide variety of species were included



                                                     - 20 -

in the farm model. A number of these species, Teak, Sisham and Eucalyptus are not being adopted. Also
see section 10. The ICR analysis only includes species that are being widely grown including Poplar,
Kadam and Bamboo), current prices and estimates of the number of adopters. The current price of popular
farm forestry species is considerably lower than assumed at appraisal as are the number of adopters. The
PAD estimated that the total number of adopters from 10 high tech nurseries at 1,390, phased over four
years (equivalent to two times the economic breakeven number). The project, however, only established 7
nurseries, which are operating significantly below capacity, whilst the level of adoption, even at the price of
seedlings below operating cost, has remained very low. Optimistically it is unlikely that the total number of
adopters has exceeded 1,000. Even if this number is assumed, the ERR for the sub-component, including
overhead costs, is re-estimated at 6%, considerably below the 16% at appraisal.

The PAD assumed 12,500 ha of commercial plantations in analysis, including 4,000 ha of seedling Teak,
2,000 ha of clonal Teak, 500 ha of Sisham, 1,000 ha of Seedling Seed Production Area Eucalyptus and
5,000 ha of clonal Eucalyptus. Only 8,674 were actually planted with notable shortfalls in clonal teak (100
ha) and eucalyptus (572 ha) which potentially have the highest rates of economic return. The ERR for
clonal Eucalyptus is around 32% considerably above the other species. In view of the shortfall, the
re-estimated ERR for the sub-component, excluding environmental benefits, is below the OCC at 10 %
compared to 15% at appraisal.
Project and Sub-Component NPV and ERR at Appraisal, MTR and ICR                   1




      Sub-Component                  Appraisal                      MTR                        ICR
                             NPV (12%)      ERR (%)      NPV (12%)        ERR (%)    NPV (12%)      ERR (%)
                             Rps million                 Rps million                 Rps million

JFM           Hills             -218           10            -666                       +319           13
              Terai             +18            15            +519            23         +32            15
              Vindhayan          -50            7             +90            17          -4            12
Total JFM                       -249           10             -57            12         +351           13
                                                                                       (+787)         (15)
Plantations                     +166           15            +123            16          -43           10
                                                                                        (-35)         (11)
Farm Forestry                   +11            16             +11            16          -20           6
Total Project                     -7           12             +86            12         +234           13
                               (+177)         (13)                                     (+671)         (14)
1Excluding environmental Benefits (For the ICR with environmental benefits indicated in brackets)

Under the Forest Development Component, another important aspect of the project was improved
management of Sal forests through Assisted Natural Regeneration. Before the project, it was estimated that
50% of the Sal area was under conservation and no longer managed, whilst most of the remaining area was
either logged at low levels (very long rotations) or not at all. This policy had two major adverse effects (i)
biological and (ii) economic, with significant revenues forgone through appropriate management and
selective logging. Based on an assumption that without the project there would be a five year delay in future
benefits compared to with project management, the PAD estimated that the net worth saved (by advancing
the benefit flow by five years) would amount to Rs.808 million at 12% for 16,000 ha. Updated analysis
has been undertaken for the ICR using the actual area under Sal Management (16,650 ha) but using current
(more conservative) estimates of productivity and output. As the benefit flows are entirely positive the rate
of return could not be calculated, though an indication of net worth saved, assuming different periods of
delay in harvesting are indicated below and compared to appraisal estimates. The opportunity cost of




                                                     - 21 -

delayed harvesting for five years is re-estimated at Rs. 754 million (US $ 16.3 million).

Net worth Saved due to improved management and advanced selective logging

             Delay in Years            Net worth saved (12%) (Rupees Million)
                                       Appraisal ICR
            1                          200187
            2                          379353
            3                          538502
            4                          681635
            5                          808754



The main incentives for community participation in JFM were wage employment and a share of net
benefits. The main sources of income to the communities anticipated under the project were (i) the share of
revenues from timber and non timber products; (ii) direct cash payment by the FD; and (iii) possible future
employment in the village as a result of investments from the VDF. The communities'contribution to JFM
costs was for plantation 'watch' (20% of cost) and 'ward' or general oversight of the area under JFM.
Based on anticipated returns and share arrangements the financial analysis (below) for the different JFM
models indicates entirely positive income flows to the communities compared to those assessed at appraisal,
which in some project years had negative flows. However, the financial analysis is based on the assumption
that the timber felling ban over 1000 m will be removed, with out which future timber benefits would not
accrue in JFM areas in the Hills. The returns are particularly attractive in zones with good initial cuts
such as coppice systems in the Terai.

Income Flows into Village Excluding Ward (Rs. 000)

 Zone/Year       1           2              3              4              5             10            15

             PAD ICR PAD        ICR    PAD      ICR  PAD     ICR    PAD     ICR    PAD    ICR    PAD      ICR
Hills        187 79      214    140    191      149   100    95     1105    1414   1318   1753   1358    1799
Terai
Coppice      1124 1130    9     33      -27      7    -29     6      -29      6                   462     462
Mixed        192 204      18    69      -27     41    -31    38      -31     38     376   376    7536    7536
Vindhayan
Bamboo       226 267     241    205     38      124    32    101     46     114     165   165     184     184
Tendu         94 113      53    89      20      68     33    73      28      73     219   253     219     51


At project completion, in UP the aggregate amount in VDFs was approximately Rs.8 million. However,
only 245 of the 511 VFCs had funds, ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 400,000 (US $8,600), with an average
(of those with funds) of Rs 32,600 (US $707). The total VDF in Uttaranchal was about Rs 60 million,
with approximately 50 out of the 1,217 VFCs without funds. The JFM, Van Panchayat evaluation study in
17 sample villages in the hills estimated an average fund of around Rs. 69,000, ranging from zero to Rs
220,000. A limited number of VFCs in UP were also able to generate income from the sale of NTFPs.

Under farm forestry (FF), the financial returns to farmers is less attractive than assessed at appraisal due to
(i) significantly lower timber prices of commonly grown FF species particularly Poplar of which there has
been a glut in the market in recent years; (ii) poor extension by the FD to farmers regarding different FF



                                                     - 22 -

species; and (iii) low uptake of different species, particularly Teak, Sisham and Eucalyptus. Restriction on
timber felling and movement of Teak and Sisham, which have not so far been exempted under the Timber
Felling and Transit Rules and limitations of the rules to only 42 districts in UP and UA also act as a
disincentive to private investors. Based on a weighted model of Poplar, Kadam and Bamboo the financial
returns per hectare are re-estimated at 15% (NPV 12% 6,500) compared to 26% at appraisal.

The financial analysis indicates that plantations established under the project, using improved planting
material, would only be marginally viable at an FIRR of around 11.3%. Again, as with the economic
analysis, this is lower than assumed at appraisal and is attributed to the shortfall in aggregate area planted,
particularly under higher productivity species.




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              2/10/1996               18     Soil Scientist (1) Forestry
                                             Specialist (4); Commercial
                                             Forestry Specialist (1);
                                             Economist (1); Environmental
                                             Specialist (1); Information
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Social Scientist (2); Social
                                             Forester (1); Ecologist (1);
                                             Procurment Engineer (1);
                                             Financial Analyst (1); Staff
                                             Assistant (1); Human Resource
                                             Development Specialist (2)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/15/1997              18      Soil Scientist (1) Forestry
                                             Specialist (4); Commercial
                                             Forestry Specialist (1);
                                             Economist (1);
                                             Environmental Specialist
                                             (1); Information
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Social Scientist (2); Social
                                             Forester (1); Ecologist (1);
                                             Procurment Engineer (1);
                                             Financial Analyst (1); Staff
                                             Assistant (1); Human
                                             Resource Development
                                             Specialist (2)


 Supervision

              06/29/1998                7    MISSION LEADER (1); ENV.             S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); ENV
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             FORESTER (1); SOCIAL
                                             SCIENTIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FORESTER (1)
              11/17/1998                7    Forestry Specialist (3); MISSION     S               S
                                             LEADER (1); SOCIAL
                                             FORESTER (1); Environment
                                             Special (1); Procurement
                                             Engineer (1)
              05/30/1999                2    NRM SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL           S               S



                                              - 24 -

                      FORESTER (1)
      11/22/1999    9 MISSION LEADER (1);             S    S
                      SOCIAL FORESTER (1); ENV.
                      SPECIALIST (1); NRM
                      SPECIALIST (1); FOREST
                      MGMNT SPECIALIS (1);
                      TECHN. & RESEARCH SP. (1);
                      SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                      PROCUREMENT ENGINEER
                      (1); FINANCIAL MGMNT SP.
                      (1)
      05/07/2000    4 TEAM LEADER - ENV SPEC          S    S
                      (1); NRM SPECIALIST (1);
                      ECONOMIST (1); FORESTER
                      (1)
      05/30/2001    4 MISSION LEADER (1); NRM         S    S
                      SPECIALIST (1); FOREST
                      MGMT SPECIALIST (1);
                      PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1)
      11/23/2001    3 NRM SPECIALIST (1);             S    S
                      FORESTER (2)
      08/08/2002    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);           S    S
                      PROCUREMENT (1);
                      INFORMATION
                      MANAGEMENT (1);
                      CONSULTANT (1); SOCIAL
                      DEVELOPMENT (1);
                      BIODIVERSITY (1)
      03/06/2003    7 TASK LEADER (1);                S    S
                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                      (2); INFORMATION OFFICER
                      (1); SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                      SPL (1); CONSULTANT (1);
                      FAO CONSULTANT (1)
      07/15/2003    4 TASK LEADER (1);                S    S
                      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                      (1); INFORMATION
                      TECHNOLOGY (1); SOCIAL
                      DEVELOPMENT (1)


ICR
                    4 Natural Resources Specialist    S    S
                      (1); Economist (1) Forestry
                      Specialist (1); Community
                      Forestry (1)




                      - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           156.4                         310.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 32.4                           80.3
  Supervision                        149.07                         276.93
  ICR                                  10.63                           8.90
  Total                              348.50                         676.83




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Detailed Economic and Financial Analysis
Working Paper on Forestry
Working Paper on Participatory Forest Management




                                             - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower Evaluation of the Project (Unedited)

Uttar Pradesh
1. Background: Uttar Pradesh has a total geo-graphical area of 24.09 million ha. The area under forest is
7% of state's geographical area. The forest and tree cover is 8.7% of state's geographical area. The state of
Uttaranchal (UA), comprising the northernmost hill district, was carved out of Uttar Pradesh on 9
November 2000.

In order to achieve the goal of sustainable forest management, the UP Forestry Project was launched in
1998 with financial assistance from the World Bank. With the creation of Uttaranchal in 2000, the credit
was bifurcated between Uttaranchal and Uttar Pradesh.

This Project Completion Report is the synthesis of analytical review of a series of generated reports by the
Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project (UPFP), related data, and information available in the Project Unit.

2. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design, and Quality at Entry

2.1     Original Objectives: The main objective of the project was to assist with the implementation of
the GOUP strategy for development of the forestry sector in Uttar Pradesh. This aimed to improve public
sector management of the sector, in order to increase forest cover, productivity and biodiversity in an
environmentally and socially sustainable manner. It was recognized that the project is planned as the first
phase of long-term support to the sector. More specifically the development objectives were:

        a.        Improve public sector management of the forest sector;
        b.        Increase forest cover and productivity; and
        c.        Conserve biodiversity in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner.

Three main elements of the project were to:
(i) Change in the role of UPFD from a predominantly regulatory to one in which communities are treated as
equal partners in the management of forest resources. Stakeholders would be enabled to make decisions and
manage and protect the forests, ensuring both the appropriateness and effectiveness of the micro plan,
whilst UPFD would remain the custodian of national interest, the concept of joint management; (ii) Change
in management systems, that would be client oriented and adaptable, based on decentralization of decision
making, and improved planning, monitoring and evaluation; (iii) Human Resource Development linked to
role definition, skill-gap analysis and a appropriate manpower planning and management.

2.2     Revised Objectives: The Mid Term Review, carried out in November 2000 (two and a half years
after project implementation), re-phrased the project development objectives '' To assist Uttar Pradesh in
developing and testing new processes, systems and skills to improve sector management of the Forest
Department, increase forest cover and productivity, improve bio-diversity conservation, and sustain and
improve the livelihood of rural poor through sustainable forest management''.

2.3     Components: The project had the following four main components:

Institutional Development: Development of the management of the sector through: changing the approach
of UPFD, improving the management process and developing human resources through improved
manpower planning, and process and skill-gap analysis, combined with competency-based training.
Improved planning, monitoring and evaluation, and environmental analysis procedures to be introduced,



                                                     - 30 -

together with the necessary management information system. Policy analysis capabilities also to be
strengthened.

Forest Development: The project financed a variety of interventions in the development of forest resources
in Uttar Pradesh, including management of both well stocked and degraded natural forests, plantation
development, and farm, community and urban forestry. Priority was given to community participation in
natural forest management that is Joint Forest Management (JFM), though certain less degraded areas and
plantations would continue to be managed by UPFD. Farm Forestry was thought to be a purely private
sector matter, involving nursery entrepreneurs and individual farmers. The project also supported the
development and implementation of fire and grazing management strategies.

Research and Technology: Development of a more effective research organization working to a prioritized
research program, that would include improvements in reproductive technologies and research into NTFPs
Provision of necessary equipment and training to develop linkages with research databases. A planting
material improvement program to ensure better quality seeds and seedlings are utilized in the sector,
through maintenance of selected seed sources and development of seed handling facilities and research
nurseries.

Biodiversity Conservation: Long term strategic planning for biodiversity conservation in the state, both
within and outside Protected Areas (PAs). Improved management of 9 clusters of priority PAs made up of
18 individual PAs, linked to eco-development programs to provide alternative incomes or resources for
communities in areas peripheral to the PAs. Associated programs for research, the monitoring of indicators
of biodiversity conservation, pilot habitat restoration and public awareness.

To fulfill the objectives these components, the project commissioned 44 studies comprising 19 reports on
institutional development, 9 on forest development, 1 on research and training and 15 on biodiversity
conservation.

2.4       Quality at Entry: The project design was well conceived and objectives were not only achievable
but were also in line with client's needs. The project design recognized the basic need to bring bout
attitudinal change and approach of UPFD to forest protection, and management, as also the need to
restructure the UPFD to carry out it new functions. In addition, it recognized the need for improvement of
planting materials to increase forest productivity and massive training program in light of the changed
approach to forest management and protection. Not withstanding that JFM was central to the `Process
Change', the targets were rather ambitious when one takes into account the need for training and
orientation of community as well as forest staff, extensive NGO support and logistics required for JFM.
This is being felt more acutely now that no plan seems to be there for long-term financial support from the
Bank beyond the current phase.

The reports of World bank periodic supervision mission and the project progress reports reveal that after an
initial slow start the project has made satisfactory progress. However, there was again a glitch because of
the bifurcation of state and consequent bifurcation of the project. The performance, however, again picked
up. Since then, the PU made significant achievement thereby facilitating effective implementation of the
project by Implementing Units (IUs). This fact has also been brought out by subsequent Aide Memoirs.

3.        Achievement of Objectives Outputs: The project has made noteworthy institutional, economic,
social and environmental impacts. The project, to a larger extent, has been able to achieve its objectives.
The project also undertook one mid-term evaluation to assess the impact of JFM, as this was the core
component of the Project. The project also undertook Environmental Performance Audit of Sal ANR areas.
In addition the Department undertook an Environment impact assessment in Nov. 2000. These evaluations,



                                                     - 31 -

together with reports from field, provided a sound basis for assessing project impact achievement.

3.1      Poverty alleviation and other social impact: Although, the project was not explicitly designed for
poverty reduction, it has been able to improve the lives and livelihoods of people through employment
generation as also by increasing productivity of biomass, through the program of the forest development
and soil and moisture conservation with community participation.

3.2      Livelihood benefits: The project introduced a number of processes, particularly Participatory
Rural Appraisal (PRA)- based micro planning and village Development Funds (VDFs), which have
resulted in new livelihood opportunities benefiting the poor and deprived sections of village communities.
Micro credit from VDFs and EDC's funds have provided opportunities for self-employment and thereby
livelihood.

3.3      Increase forest production on forestlands: An area of 4,351 ha. of plantations has been raised
using clonal planting material, which are expected to result in higher yields. 2,341 row-km. strips were
planted. Using assisted natural regeneration (ANR) technique the regeneration program of Shorea robusta
(7099.7 ha.) and Dry mixed Deciduous forest (6182 ha.) has been successfully completed, which is
economical compared to plantation technology.

3.4      Empowerment: The project has created congenial conditions for empowering poor communities of
forests fringe dwellers by creating Eco-development Committees (EDCs) on periphery of PAs. The funds
were directly released to these committees for works. Similarly, in the case of JFM and fire protection,
VFCs and FPCs respectively have been created and funds have been transferred to their accounts. Self-Helf
Groups (SHGs), which could make use of the micro credit system, were created. These small groups can
take up employment generation activities to supplement their income. These arrangements have created a
sense of empowerment and social cohesion, which has come from the collective decision-making required in
the committees' account management. Furthermore, the shift in power relationship from dominance of
UPFD staff to a more supportive role has significantly contributed to this process of empowerment.

3.5      Environment Impact: The over all environmental impact of the project has been positive. Studies
carried out on impact of JFM and ANR of Shorea robusta (Sal) reveal that the natural regeneration in Sal
forests has increased and incidence of fire and encroachment in forest under JFM regime has been
substantially reduced. Further, soil and water conservation measures have provided palpable decrease in
soil erosion and increase in duration of spring flows. Evaluation of Eco-development program has revealed
trends such as reduced dependence on biomass, reduction in major and petty forest offenses. This would
have positive impact on flora and fauna in Protected Areas (Pas).

3.6      Performance Audit: Performance Audit has lot of merits. The audit formats include numbers of
parameters ranging from technical to social and provide critical feedback to the FD for mid-course
correction. This has significantly improved monitoring and evaluation of project activities.

3.7      Site-specific are plans: From a general to site-specific planning has helped in better
understanding of the site requirement and consequently achieving better results. As almost all the forestry
activities are based on SSPs, the working of the FD has become more focused resulting in better utilization
of available resources.

3.8      Forest Development: Creation of revolving fund for ANR of Shorea robusta (Sal) forests has
ensured the availability of much-needed funds for cultural operations to assist its natural regeneration. Use



                                                     - 32 -

of clonal seeding and quality seeds have now become the norm, which would help increasing the
productivity. Similarly, high-tech nurseries have internalised production of high quality seedlings resulting
in easy availability of clonal seedlings for plantation.

3.9     Sector Management: Emphasis was given to improve the service conditions by resolving disputes
and grievance. Concept of Project Unit and project management was promoted by the project going beyond
the existing hierarchical system. Financial powers have been delegated to lower levels of administration.
Abrogation of obsolete rules and relaxation in procedure for felling and transit of timber reduced the
regulatory role of FD and thereby encourage communities to take up private plantations.

4.      Output by component

4.1     Institutional Development : This component has four sub-component viz., Sector management,
Human Resource Development, Forest Management Information System and Project Unit.

Sector Management: Good progress has been made on the front of Sector Management. Many Important
government orders having wider implications have been issued by different Departments. It is seen that
most of the objectives of sector management have since achieved leading to the deregularisation in certain
spheres, increase in transparency, significant skill up-graduation of the staff, and improved monitoring and
management system. Some major achievements are as follows:

   l             Mission, Vision and Value statement published and widely circulated.
   l             Manpower planning study completed.
   l             Classification of group A and B posts completed.
   l             Tree Protection Act and Transit Rules amended.
   l             Revised Citizen Charter published and widely circulated.
   l             Induction courses for forest guards, foresters and Deputy Rangers introduced.
   l             Anti corruption strategy finalized.
   l             Declaration of Sate Forest Policy, 1998.
   l             Major amendments in Indian Forest Act, 1927.
   l             Constituting HRD Action Teams for addressing employees grievances.
   l             Amendments in Forest Manual.
   l             Ban on fresh induction of seasonal workers and daily wagers in order to right size the
                 sector
   l             Devised new performance appraisal system based on objectivity, transparency, feed back
                 mechanism and two-way communication.
   l             Simplified process of financial sanctions introduced in project activities.
   l             Concept of micro plans in JFM & eco-development introduced.
   l             Site specific planning for ANR, strip plantations and industrial plantations.
   l             Performance audit carried out for all activities on developed performance monitoring
                 indicators.
   l             HAT is operational.
   l             Honorary wild life wardens and honorary tree wardens appointed.
   l             U.P. Village Forest Joint Management Rules, 2002notified.
   l             Any citizen can obtain official information required by him except the prohibited ones.
   l             Websites for U.P. Forest Department and U.P. Forest Corporation developed and
                 launched.




                                                      - 33 -

Human Resource Development: The Project design recognized the need for a massive training program in
view of the altered approach to forest management and production. However, in the initial years, training
was slow to start but as the project progressed, training program significantly picked up. In the project 67
officers have undergone overseas training/study tours. 1145 local training programs were organized in
which 32348 participants participated. One new features of the project is decentralized capacity building
program. All these training programs enhanced the managerial and technical capabilities of forestry
personnel's and concerned community members.

Human Resource Development (HRD) is central to the project. Based on Man Power Planning
Consultancy report, HRD Action Plan has been formulated. Points raised in the consultancy report have
incorporated into the Action Plan, which is being implemented.

Forest Management Information System: The Project has developed a Forest Management Information
System (FMIS) comprising seven modules. The software has been installed at all the sites. Each forest
Divisions has been provided two computer systems. Other offices have been given one-one computers
systems. Though the development and use of FMIS was inordinately delayed, the procurement of hardware
and subsequent trainings under this component increased the use of computers in all the IUs. At an
appropriate stage the project should consider linking the FMIS with GIS. Though data on project activities
from field has been substantial, yet the data required to access the project impact has been hindered for
want of clearly defined key indicators at the initial stage of project implementation.

Project Unit: The continuity of the project unit was instrumental in the successful implementation and
completion of the project. Within the framework of the governmental setup, every effort was made to
maintain the continuity of the officer in the project unit. A major task which was also to be accomplished
by the project unit was to prepare a possible second phase follow up project for the state of UP has already
been sent to the Government of India to forward it to the World Bank.

4.2.1    Forest Development : This component have seven sub-component viz., Joint Forest Management,
Assisted Natural Regeneration, Industrial Plantation, Forest Protection, Strip Plantation, urban Forestry,
Farm Forestry.

Joint Forest Management: JFM is central to achieving the goals of "Process Change''. The JFM program
has been implemented under an arrangement between the village communities (beneficiaries) and UPFD
with voluntary agencies/NGOs facilitating the process. Initial achievement in JFM was slow to come by, as
it required considerable change in attitude of UPFD staff. Initially the Center of Development Studies
(CDS) at Nainital provided NGO support. Later on PSU foundation performed this task. However,
considerable time was required by UPFD staff to win the confidence of the people and, as a result, the
program picked up in later years. The concept of Forest User Groups (FUGs) has been introduced in
revised JFM Rules 2002. Flexibility and site-specific planning are the distinguishing features of this
program. Micro plans have been prepared for management and protection of individual forest areas being
managed by Village Forest Committees (VFCs). The project financially supported the implementation of
micro plans in 511 villages. One of the Constraints in sustaining this program was timely release of funds
to VFCs/VPs. Each VFC has a Bank Account in which funds for implementation of various works, as per
micro plan are transferred. The chairperson and secretary of the VFC operate the account jointly. Each
VFC maintains a cashbook to keep track of its expenditure.In order to develop a corpus within the village
for the further needs, the concept of VDF has been introduced. At present, the fund has about Rs. 5.8
million.One issues is at the center stage of institutional arrangement viz., post-project sustainability of
VFCs to sustain on their own steam. Although, VDF can provide some financial support to these VFCs


                                                      - 34 -

post-project, the funds accumulated therein are not large and, therefore, VFCs require additional financial
support for a few more years.

Assisted Natural Regeneration: Assisted Natural Regeneration program is carried out in Sal areas and
Dry mixed forest areas. The objective of the program is to facilitate regeneration through control of fire and
grazing, improved soil and moisture conservation and improved cultural operation based on site specific
planning. The program is aimed to make it technically, financially, socially and environmentally
sustainable. The landmark in Sal ANR is issuance of G.O. 343/14-P.Bhu.Vi. /2001 dated 19th Feb. 2001
to make the program self sustaining. The work in Mixed Deciduous Forest Areas is on Joint Forest
Management pattern on the basis of 10 years microplans. In all 7099.7 ha. of Sal ANR and 6182 ha. of
Mixed Deciduous Forest Areas were treated.

Industrial Plantation: The objective of program is to carry out quality plantation after felling areas of
successful existing mature plantations. 5868 Ha. of Teak, Sisham, Eucalyptus species plantation was done
from clonal seedlings and seedlings of quality seed origin.

Forest Protection: This component comprises (a) fire management and (b) livestock management. Forest
management and grazing have critical bearings on conservation and protection of the state forests.
Management of these issues revolves around working with communities inhabiting in and around forests,
creating demonstration models. These are being replicated by local population and thereby sensitizing the
local communities about these issues.

Live Stock Management: The project envisages to develop a forest livestock management policy. The
strategy is to involve local forest users in livestock management by establishing scientific grazing practices
combined with sustained fodder supply from forest through the introduction of new silvi-pastoral
techniques. The main idea is to develop new approaches in association with local herders and identify the
best approaches for fodder production, grazing techniques and integrating the same into existing forest
management practices Silvipasture demonstration plots of 10 Ha. each have been developed in Jhansi,
Pilibhit and Obra divisions. Poplar, Bamboo and grasses are being planted. These demonstration plots will
also work as extension and training tools.

Fire Management: Fire management is an important component of the project. The project envisaged fire
protection with emphasis on the people's participation and cooperation. Local people are being involved in
preparation and implementation of fire management plan. The program has been carrying out three Forest
divisions viz., Lalitpur, Obra and pilibhit. . Fire protection work have been carried out with the
participation of village communities who have actively assisting UPFD staff. Annual target to protect an
area of 70, 000 ha. was envisaged, which was fulfilled.

Strip Plantation : Strip Plantation is a program of replanting after harvesting of old mature crops
involving local people in planning, plantation, protection and management of strip. The main achievement
in the project was issuance of G.O. No. 186/14-P.Bhu.Vi. -2001 and amended G.O. No. 807/14- P.Bhu.Vi.
/2001-4798 dated 19-07-2001 issued for people participation in Strip Plantation completed in 2341.09 R
km. Site Specific Planning approach has been adopted.

Urban Forestry: The program was meant to encourage tree planting in urban areas through innovative
financial arrangements that could sustain beyond the project. The component discouraged the emphasis on
achieving plantations targets either through free distribution of saplings or departmental plantations.
However the program was suspended after 1999-2000.



                                                       - 35 -

Farm Forestry: The project introduced improved nursery technology for providing better quality planting
material and improved Farm Forestry extension services. Seven Hi-Tech Nurseries were established. Six
divisions viz. Saharanpur, Moradabad, Bareilly, Badayun, Shahjahnpur, Bijnore SF have been taken up for
phasing out of FD seedling production. Strategies for the 6 divisions earmarked for phasing out have been
prepared and approved by the World Bank. Implementation of the strategic for phasing out is in the
progress. Farm Forestry Extension activity is carried out in 10 divisions.

4.3     Biodiversity Conservation: The bio-diversity sector under the project focuses on planning the
improvement of bio-diversity conservation on a long-term basis. The landmarks of the biodiversity sector
during world bank forestry project are as follows:

   l Formulation of comprehensive biodiversity conservation strategy and action plan for UP.
   l Formulation of 4 biodiversity landscape conservation plans.
   l Formulation of 24 pa management plans.
   l Building of infrastructure communication network and consolidation of pa boundaries.
   l Implementation of ecodevelopment programs in 196 pa 'ecozone' villages and generation of
        revolving fund for sustainability of the program.
   l Comprehensive research on 11 vital issues of the state's biodiversity.
   l Quantum efforts to raise biodiversity awareness among the general public of the state with the
        development of eight nature interpretation centers.
   l Multi level training and competence building for biodiversity staff as well as other people involved
        with biodiversity conservation.

4.2.2   Research & Technology: This component includes developing the linkages with other research
database management of on going long term trials, development of prioritized research program, improved
seed technologies and planting materials. The major achievements are as follows:

   l Nurseries for NTFP established in Jhansi and Kanpur. Training is provided at these centers.
   l Quality improvement in planting material (Clonal Seedlings, Improved Seed, Seed Production
        areas)
   l 10 study areas identified and research work completed.
   l Under lab to land program 4 bulletins and 13 leaf lets published.
   l Procedure for seed certification developed.
   l Clonal plants of popular, eucalyptus and teak raised.


5.      Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome: The influence of outside factors has
been mixed. Bank performance, through regular supervision, had a major positive effect on the project. In
general, procurement procedure have been smooth and purchase of equipments and hiring of consultants
has been as per the procurement plan. However, purchase of computers and installation of Forest
Management information System has been delayed.

At the beginning of the year the budget is not fully released to the implementing units.The procedure causes
avoidable delays in releasing funds to the Implementing Units (IU) hampering their implementing schedule
of works.

In the case of procurement and consultancies, the final clearance has to be sought from the Empowered
Committee (EC), which is headed by the Chief Secretary, Convening meetings of EC frequently and at
short notice is, therefore, not possible. Broad administrative reforms beyond the scope of the project


                                                     - 36 -

delayed the organizational proposals.

6.       Sustainability

6.1      Rationale for Sustainability Rating: The extent of institutional transformation, coupled with
attitudinal change in staff, improved capacity and the willingness, and ability to adopt JFM approach has
paved the way for attaining sustainability. Sustainability of components is assured subject to provision of
budgetary support, whether from internal or external sources, because these components have been put in
the UPFD mainstream.

6.2      Transition Arrangement to Regular Operations: Many of the project activates have been
integrated into the regular programs of UPFD. However, immediate post-project period will be particularly
critical for the VFCs as many of them are not financially self-sustaining except for small amounts in their
Village Development Funds. Research achievements under the project will also need to continue. UPFD has
to either provide the required budgetary support or explore the potential for alternative sources of funding
for maintenance of these activities.

7.       Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank: The mission members conducted their evaluations in a cordial manner. The Bank officers provided
necessary guidance and help in implementation of project.The attitude of world bank mission members was
very cordial. Bank supervision missions were adequately staffed in terms of expertise required.The
supervision frequency was satisfactory. The project has benefited from the technical advice given and
flexibility applied by these missions. However, it appears that in clearing the TOR for FMIS the IT unit of
the Bank was not consulted. Any member before joining the mission must be given Orientation for the
project as well as the political and cultural ethos of the borrower. Bank members must restrain themselves
in undue criticism of the borrower state.

Government Implementation Performance: The project implementation has been fairly smooth. GoUP
undertook the essential policy and legislative reforms, provided adequate counterpart funds and remained
committed to the project objectives. There is no exit policy in place. However, funds for post project
maintenances are anticipated.

Implementing Agency: UPFD complies with all covenants. The procurement and disbursement procedures
were under stood and followed. The accounting and audit requirements were met with. The reimbursement
claims have been prepared and sent to Bank regularly.

8.       Lessons Learnt: Project implementation has been a learning process. Several lessons have been
learnt for improving the forestry sector management. The important ones are summarized below:

    l The project was a beneficial measure and has had a positive impact on village communities and
         village forests.
    l A preparatory phase of at lest one year is necessary so that prior to project implementation
         adequate preparation in terms of policy, institutional and technological aspects are ensured.
    l The tedious and time-consuming procurement process affects project implementation. Procurement
         should, therefore, start from the first year of implementation itself.
    l Village Development Funds (VFDs) have been created in the project villages as a result of the
         project activities. The VDFs would be useful in sustaining VFCs in future. However, the villagers



                                                      - 37 -

         would need sustained motivational and operational guidance for increasing the corpus and its
         judicious and sustainable use.
    l Withdrawal of financial support to community institutions should be planned and phased based on
         their institutional capacity and the establishment of sufficient return from forests and other assets
         to sustain the system.
    l Sufficiently intensive training inputs are still required to adequately contribute to developing the
         managerial capacity of VFCs and villagers.
    l Biodiversity conservation should also be extended to forest areas outside the Protected Areas.
    l Incentives should be given to the persons working in research wing and project unit.
    l Forestry being a long gestation activity, a period of 4-5 years is not adequate for making forestry
         project sustainable.There is urgent need for the second phase of the World Bank.

Uttaranchal

1.       Background: The state of Uttaranchal (UA), comprising the northernmost hill districts, was
carved out of Uttar Pradesh on 9 November 2000. Four broad categories of forests exist viz., Reserved
Forests, Civil and Soyam Forests, Panchayat Forests, and others. Forests are managed under the three
well-recognized administrative systems viz., (i) Reserved Forests managed by the Forest Department, (ii)
Van Panchayat Forests managed by the Van Panchyats and (iii) Civil/Soyam Forests managed by the
district authorities for and on behalf of the Revenue Department.

2.       Quality at Entry: The project design was well conceived and objectives were not only achievable
but were also in line with client's needs. The project design recognized the basic need to bring about
attitudinal change and approach of UAFD to forest protection, and management, as also the need to
restructure the UAFD to carry out its new functions. In addition, it recognized the need for improvement of
planting material to increase forest productivity and massive training programme in light of the changed
approach to forest management and protection.

3.       Outcome/Achievement of Objectives: The project, to a large extent, has been able to achieve its
objectives.

3.1.1    Poverty alleviation and other social impact: Although, the project was not explicitly designed for
poverty reduction, it has been able to improve the lives and livelihoods of people through employment
generation (7.774 million person days) as also by increasing productivity of biomass.

3.1.2    Livelihood benefits: The project introduced a number of processes, particularly Participatory
Rural Appraisal (PRA) - based micro planning and Village Development Funds (VDFs), which have
resulted in new livelihood opportunities benefiting the poor and deprived sections of village communities.

3.1.3    Increase forest production on forestlands: An area of 4,162.85 ha of plantations has been raised
as against a target of 4,254 ha fixed by MTR. Plantations were established using clonal planting material,
which are expected to result in higher yields.

3.1.4    Empowerment: The project has created conducive conditions for empowering poor communities
of forest fringe dwellers by creating Ecodevelopment Committees (EDCs) on the periphery of PAs.

3.1.5    Environmental impact: The over all environmental impact of the project has been positive.
Studies carried out on impact of JFM and ANR of Shorea robusta (Sal) reveal that the natural



                                                      - 38 -

regeneration in Sal forests has increased and the incidence of fire and encroachment in forests under JFM
regime has been substantially reduced. Evaluation of Ecodevelopment program has revealed trends such as
reduced dependence on biomass, reduction in major and petty forest offences. This would have positive
impact on flora and fauna in Protected Areas (PAs).

3.1.6    Forest development: Creation of revolving fund for ANR of Shorea robusta (Sal) forests has
ensured the availability of much-needed funds in future for cultural operations to assist its natural
regeneration. High-tech nurseries have internalized production of high quality seedlings resulting in easy
availability of clonal seedlings for plantations.

3.1.7    Sector management: Emphasis was given to improve the service conditions by resolving disputes
and grievances. For the first time, GoUA relaxed physical standards for entry of women in UAFD.
Financial powers have been delegated to lower levels of administration. Abrogation of obsolete rulers and
relaxation in procedures for felling and transit of timber reduced the regulatory role of FD.

3.2      Output by Component
3.2.1 Institutional Development and Sector Management
Most of the objectives of sector management have been achieved leading to the deregularisation in certain
spheres, increase in transparency, significant skill up-gradation of the staff, and improved monitoring and
management system.

3.2.2    Forest Development: JFM is central to achieving the goals of "Process change". The project
financially supported the implementation of micro plans in 1217 villages. Of these, about 50% are newly
formed VFCs and the rest are VPs who opted for JFM arrangement. VFCs are now managing 2,06,968 ha
of forest areas, which comprises 34.5% Reserved Forests, 34.4% Van Panchayats, 21.4% Protected
Forests and others 9.7%. Under JFM framework, for the first time, the project has taken the initiative of
getting the accounts of VFCs audited. The available audit reports reveal adoption of different procedures of
maintenance of account. The audit has, however, revealed no major financial irregularity. In order to
develop a corpus within the village for the future needs, the concept of VDF has been introduced. At
present, the fund has about Rs.59 million.

Assisted Natural Regeneration
a)       Shorea robusta (Sal): Assisted Natural Regeneration (ANR) operations (viz., fencing, canopy
opening, cultural operations, and creation of fire-lines) have been carried out in 5,677 ha of S. robusta
forests spread over 117 sites in eight forest divisions. So far Rs. 50 million have been deposited in the
revolving fund. Environmental impact assessment of ANR operations has concluded that these operations
have promoted regeneration of Sal and associate species.

b)       Quercus leocotrichophora (Oak): ANR operations in Oak forests have been carried out in 1,732
ha spread over 45 selected sites of 12 IUs exceeding the target by 160 ha. Expenditure on the
implementation of SSPs is being done through FPCs. Performance audit of 15 sites revealed the following:
two sites as `outstanding', six sites as `very good', four as `fair' and only three sites were considered
`poor'.

l High Productivity Plantations
Under the project, plantations of Eucalyptus spp., Dalbergia sissoo and Tectona grandis have been raised
using improved planting material and management practices. From 1998-99 to 2001-02, an area of
4,162.85 ha, spread over 217 sites, has been covered under these plantations. During the current year
(2002-03), 135 ha of mechanized T. grandis plantations in the Terai Region and winter plantation of


                                                      - 39 -

Eucalyptus spp were raised over 25 ha in Haridwar Forest Division. One of the major impacts of this
activity has been extension of the technology of clonal seedlings propagation of D. sissoo beyond the realm
of research

l Forest Protection
This component comprises (a) fire management and (b) livestock management.

(a) Fire Management: Upon the recommendation made by the Mid-Term Review Mission this activity has
been confined to 53,163 ha of Shorea robusta and 1,95,771 ha of Pinus roxburghii forests in two and four
forest divisions respectively. Forest fires incidences during the last five years have come down from a high
of 4,031 (destroying 53,907.5 ha) in 1999 to a low of 68 (damaging 382 ha) in 2002. A fire management
strategy has also been finalized.

(b) Livestock Management: The objective is to sensitizing the VFCs about pasture improvement and
management. Two silvi-pasture demonstration plots, each of 5 ha, have been developed in Mussoorie
DivisionIn 1999, a pasture demonstration plot was also raised in Nainital to demonstrate the potential of
grass production in the area.

3.2.3 Research and Technology

Research Projects: To achieve the objectives, the project supported eight research projects

Seed and Planting Material Improvement: It established 4 seed production areas, identified 12 seed
stands, eight seedling seed production area, 8 clonal seed orchards, 7 sed stores, 4 testing units and 14 mist
chambers have been established As a result of seed improvement programme, 48,093 kg-improved seeds of
nine selected tree species were produced and supplied to Forest Divisions. During 1999 to 2002-03,
5,23,979 clonal plants of D. sissoo, Eucalyptus spp.and T. baccata were raised. Out of these, 1,61,308
plants were utilized by UAFD.

3.2.4 Biodiversity Conservation: The project has supported 12 protected areas (PAs), covering 6,478
ha, and their management plans have been prepared, each focusing on specific problems of Pas. A
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan has been put in place, which has also provided an input to the
formulation of NBSAP.

In all, 161 Eco-development Committees (EDCs) have been established in villages and in periphery of PAs.
The impact evaluation of EDCs has been completed.

In addition, the project has upgraded the skills for ecodevelopment through training programmes. The
guidelines and criteria for participatory monitoring of works of EDCs have been developed. For
establishing federation of EDCs, broad guidelines have been prepared and communicated to all PAs. As a
result, a federation of EDCs has been formed in BWS under the Society Registration Act, 1860.

4.       Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

4.1      Factors Outside the Control of Implementing Agency: The influence of outside factors has been
mixed. Bank performance, through regular supervision, had a major positive effect on the project. In
general, procurement procedures have been smooth and purchase of equipment and hiring of consultants
has been as per the procurement plan. However, purchase of computers and installation of Forest
Management Information System have been significantly delayed.


                                                     - 40 -

4.2     Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
At the beginning of the year the budget is not fully released to the Project Unit (PU); each quarter the PU
has to approach GoUA through UAFD for the release of funds.

4.3     Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
In the context of adverse publicity from NGOs against introduction of JFM and revised Van Panchayat
Rules 2001, there was inadequate communication with civil societies including the NGOs and press, State
Government and general public.

5.      Sustainability
5.1     Rationale for Sustainability Rating: The extent of institutional transformation, coupled with
attitudinal change in staff, improved capacity and the willingness, and ability to adopt JFM approach has
paved the way for attaining sustainability.

By notifying the amended Van Panchayat Rule 2001 and JFM Rules 2001, UAFD has put in place an
enabling environment for implementing various provisions of both these Rules. However, one should not
loose sight of the fact that the project was initially envisaged as the first phase of a long-term
investment programme, and the relatively abrupt and unanticipated withdrawal by July 2003 would
no doubt adversely affect the momentum. In order to consolidate the gains of JFM and for bringing
long-term forestry experiment to conclusions financial support is still required.

5.2     Transition Arrangement to Regular Operations: Many of the project activities have been
integrated into the regular programmes of UAFD. However, immediate post-project period will be
particularly critical for the VFCs, as many of them are not financially self-sustaining except for small
amounts in their Village Development Funds.

6.      Bank and Borrower Performance
         l Bank


6.1     Lending
         l Bank Identification and Preparation: Bank staff facilitated formulation of the project
concept that did address the borrowers' goals and had their full ownership and commitment.




                                                     - 41 -

6.2      Bank Appraisal & Supervision: The appraisal appropriately assessed commitment, capability,
phasing incentives, and complexity of all major relevant aspects of the project design with the exception of
procurement procedures. Bank provided quality advice through 10 supervisory missions and a mid-term
evaluation.

6.4      Government Implementation Performance: As there was no provision for project preparatory
phase and due to problems emanating from the bifurcation of the state, the project implementation made a
rather slow start. However, subsequently the project implementation has been fairly smooth.

6.5      Implementing Agency: UAFD complied with all covenants. The procurement and disbursement
procedures were understood and followed. The accounting and audit requirements were met with. The
reimbursement claims have been prepared and sent to Bank regularly.

7.       Lessons Learnt: Project implementation has been a learning process. Several lessons have been
learnt for improving the forestry sector management. The important ones are summarized below:

        l The project was a beneficial measure and has had a positive impact on village communities
            and village forests.
        l A preparatory phase of at least one year is necessary so that prior to project implementation
            adequate preparation in terms of policy, institutional and technological aspects are ensured.
        l The tedious and time-consuming procurement process affects project implementation.
            Procurement should, therefore, start from the first year of implementation itself.
        l Women's presence in the village institutions has increased due to the reservation of seats (both
            VFC and Van Panchayat). However, they are yet to become active decision-makers at the
            village institution.
        l The initially developed microplans reflected the local problem and their local solutions as per
            the views of the village communitiesTo ensure people's participation in preparation of
            microplans, number of villages should be consistent with the available manpower including
            NGOs.
        l Village Development Funds (VDFs) have been created in the project villages as a result of the
            project activities. These VDFs would be useful in sustaining VFCs in future. However, the
            villagers would need sustained motivational and operational guidance for increasing the corpus
            and its judicious and sustainable use.
        l There is increased convergence between Van Panchayat and JFM rules 2001 and as a result
            the anomalies and inequities between these rules are getting removed and paving the way for
            uniform institutional structure for participatory forestry.
        l Familiarity of Van Panchayats with the concept of managing the local forests helped them to
            carry out the managerial tasks with less effort. However, they inherited the problems and
            difficulties in their respective villages, which served as encumbrances. On the other hand, the
            new VFCs were inexperienced and had initial management troubles but they were imbued with
            new spirit and hence were more enthusiastic. The progressive framework of JFM also
            supported them.
        l Owing to the peculiar historical situation in Uttaranchal, both the institutions of Van
            Panchayat and VFC could amicably survive and function. The plurality of the institutions is a
            positive feature in participatory process. The institutions need not be considered as substitutes
            to each other. In fact, they are complimentary to each other as they could be applied to
            different social and ecological settings.
        l Sufficiently intensive training inputs are still required to adequately contribute to developing
            the managerial capacity of VFCs and villagers.


                                                       - 42 -

l Improved seed and planting stock is one of the pre-requisites for improving forest productivity.
  Clonal testing of important tree species need to continue along with widening the clone base.
  Greater thrust is required on transferring technology from lab to land to improve the
  productivity of forests.
l Biodiversity conservation should also be extended to forest areas outside the Protected Areas.




                                          - 43 -

- 44 -

