Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3018 IN
Project Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated December 30, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3018 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH (Uttar Pradesh), acting by 
its Governor.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between India 
(the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-nine million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 39,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Uttar Pradesh agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement and in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project through UPFD, with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, forestry and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Uttar Pradesh shall otherwise agree, Uttar Pradesh 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, and 
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Uttar Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Uttar Pradesh of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, Uttar Pradesh  shall: (a) prepare, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later 
than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between Uttar Pradesh and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and (b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with Uttar Pradesh on such plan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of Uttar 
Pradesh responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Uttar Pradesh shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section audited for each fiscal year in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. Uttar Pradesh shall establish not later than June 30, 1998, a 
financial management system for Project accounting, with specifications and output 
Page  3
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Uttar Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify Uttar Pradesh of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex, fax or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given 
or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
              248423 (MCI)
Washington, DC  
         64145 (MCI)
For Uttar Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Uttar Pradesh
Lucknow
Uttar Pradesh, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Uttar Pradesh 
may be taken or executed by the Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh or such other person 
or persons as Uttar Pradesh shall designate in writing, and Uttar Pradesh shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
Page  4
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/  Mieko Nishimizu 
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
By  /s/  Sudhakar Rao 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
Uttar Pradesh shall prepare not later than December 31 of each year, starting 
1998, an annual implementation program, satisfactory to the Association, for the 
Project activities.
2.
Uttar Pradesh shall (i) not later than December 31, 1998, complete and discuss 
with the Association the review of the management processes under Part A.1 (a) of the 
Project, and (ii) not later than December 31, 1999, introduce the agreed modifications 
to the management processes.
3.
Uttar Pradesh shall, not later than March 31, 1999, prepare and review with the 
Association the human resources development plan under Part A.2 (a) of the Project, 
and shall, not later than February 29, 2000, initiate implementation of the agreed 
plan.
4.
(a)
Uttar Pradesh shall prepare and discuss with the Association not later 
than June 30 of each year, starting 1999, an annual training plan under the Project.
(b)
Uttar Pradesh shall, by June 30, 1998 (i) finalize and review with the 
Association the contracts for provision of training during the first year of the 
implementation of the Project, (ii) establish the Center for Forest and Natural 
Resource Management Development (the Center) and recruit four course coordinators for 
the Center, (iii) finalize a contract with an established training institute for 
technical support to the Center, and (iv) conclude a contract with an institute 
acceptable to the Association for placement and support of overseas trainees under the 
Project.
5.
Uttar Pradesh shall submit to the Association, for the Association’s review and 
comments, prior to implementation, the first three (i) village microplans for joint 
forest management under Part B.1 (a) of the Project, (ii) ecodevelopment village 
microplans under Part D.3 of the Project, (iii) fire and grazing management plans 
under Part B.2 (c) (i) and (ii) of the Project, and (iv) site specific plans and 
associated environmental analysis for the management of identified areas of forests 
under Part B.2(a) of the Project.
6.
Uttar Pradesh shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association on or about January 31, 2000 a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
Page  5
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objective thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by February 29, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
7.
Uttar Pradesh shall, not later than December 31, 1998, complete the strategic 
analysis of the impact of different management systems for sal forests under Part A.1 
(b) (iii) of the Project.  
8.
Uttar Pradesh shall (i) identify the plantation sites under Part B.2 (b) of the 
Project in accordance with criteria agreed with the Association, and (ii) develop such 
plantations using improved planting materials and silvicultural practices.
9.
Uttar Pradesh shall phase out seedling production in at least four forest 
divisions within Uttar Pradesh, and provide buy-back guarantees to private nursery 
entrepreneurs for a fixed number of seedlings, meeting quality criteria publicized by 
UPFD.
10.
Uttar Pradesh shall (i) implement the prioritized research program under Part 
C.1 of the Project based on a strategic research plan agreed with the Association, and 
(ii) appoint not later than June 30, 1998, qualified and experienced staff to carry 
out such research.
11.
Uttar Pradesh shall appoint not later than June 30, 1998, the necessary staff 
for the Project Unit, the Policy Analysis Unit and the Wildlife Wing of UPFD.
12.
Uttar Pradesh shall take all necessary measures to transfer, not later than 
March 31, 1998, responsibilities for operation and supervision for all PAs in Uttar 
Pradesh to the Wildlife Wing of UPFD.
13.
(a)
Uttar Pradesh shall not carry out any involuntary relocation for any of 
the communities or individuals resident within the PAs under Part D of the Project.
(b)
Any proposals for voluntary relocation of such communities or individuals 
shall be:
(i)
preceded by an independent study to assess the impact of such 
communities on the conservation of biodiversity in such PAs;
(ii)
prepared and implemented, in accordance with criteria agreed with 
the Association, and after prior approval of the Association; and 
(iii)
monitored by an independent agency acceptable to the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
Page  6
To the extent practicable, contracts for the purchase of goods shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,340,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,290,000 equivalent, and vehicles 
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,600,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 
of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Maps, aerial photography, satellite imagery, books and periodicals, extension 
and publicity materials, software and proprietary equipment, costing $1,580,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, (b) elephants and draft animals costing $60,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, and (c) clonal plants costing $550,000 or less in 
the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,340,000 equivalent, may be procured either (i) under 
lump sum, admeasurement contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to 
the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who 
has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully, or (ii) 
through direct contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines, and with the Association’s prior agreement, or (iii) with prior approval 
of the Association through force account in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the Association.   
5.
Force Account 
Forest operations works under Parts B, C and D of the Project which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $29,430,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by 
force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  7
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods or works, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to (i) the first five contracts for goods and works in any 
amount other than those falling under (a) above; and (ii) any contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the following procedures shall 
apply: (A) prior to the selection of any supplier under national shopping procedures, 
UPFD shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; (B) prior to the execution of any such contract procured under 
direct contracting or shopping procedures, UPFD shall provide to the Association a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (C) the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance or training under 
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Consultants’ or NGOs services for technical assistance or training which are 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  8
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, 
but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
