Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3018 IN
Uttaranchal Project Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal Forestry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF UTTARANCHAL
Dated December 11, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3018 IN
UTTARANCHAL PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 11, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF UTTARANCHAL 
(Uttaranchal), acting by its Governor.
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith as amended to 
Page  2
date, between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-nine million 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 39,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Uttaranchal and Uttar Pradesh agree 
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Project Agreement and in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Uttaranchal, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Uttaranchal declares its commitment to the objective of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through UCHFD, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, forestry and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and Uttaranchal shall otherwise agree, Uttaranchal shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, and the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Uttaranchal shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Uttaranchal Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttaranchal shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
Page  3
(b)
Uttaranchal shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Uttaranchal of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
Section 2.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Uttaranchal shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between Uttaranchal and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Uttaranchal on such plan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Uttaranchal shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in 
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of Uttaranchal responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Uttaranchal shall:
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
audited for each fiscal year in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Uttaranchal thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify Uttaranchal of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI)
Washington, DC  
64145 (MCI)
For Uttaranchal:
Chief Secretary
Government of Uttaranchal
Dehradun
Uttaranchal, India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Uttaranchal may be taken or 
Page  5
executed by the Chief Secretary of Uttaranchal or such other person or persons as Uttaranchal 
shall designate in writing, and Uttaranchal shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in New Delhi, 
India, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edwin R. Lim
Country Director, India
STATE OF UTTARANCHAL
By /s/ R.S. Tolia
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
Uttaranchal shall prepare not later than December 31 of each year, starting 2001, an 
annual implementation program, satisfactory to the Association, for the Project activities.
2.
Uttaranchal shall continue to implement the human resources development plan under 
Part A.2 (a) of the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Uttaranchal shall prepare and discuss with the Association not later than June 30 of each 
year, starting 2001, an annual training plan under the Project.
4.
Uttaranchal shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; and 
Page  6
(b)
ensure that all measures agreed upon with the Association during mid term 
review for the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, 
are implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
5.
Uttaranchal shall continue to implement the results of  the strategic analysis of the 
impact of different management systems for sal forests under Part A.1 (b) (iii) of the Project.  
6.
Uttaranchal shall: (i) identify the plantation sites under Part B.2 (b) of the Project in 
accordance with criteria agreed with the Association; and (ii) develop such plantations using 
improved planting materials and silvicultural practices.
7.
Uttaranchal shall: (i) implement the prioritized research program under Part C.1 of the 
Project based on the strategic research plan agreed with the Association; and 
(ii) maintain the  qualified and experienced staff appointed to carry out such research throughout 
the Project.
8.
Uttaranchal shall complete the appointment of necessary staff for the Project Unit, the 
Policy Analysis Unit and the Wildlife Wing of UCHFD, not later than December 31, 2001.
9.
Uttaranchal shall ensure that the responsibilities for the operation and supervision for all 
PAs in Uttaranchal transferred to the Wildlife Wing of UCHFD are implemented.
10.
(a)
Uttaranchal shall not carry out any involuntary relocation for any of the 
communities or individuals resident within the PAs under Part D of the Project.
(b)
Any proposals for voluntary relocation of such communities or individuals shall 
be:
(i)
preceded by an independent study to assess the impact of such 
communities on the conservation of biodiversity in such PAs;
(ii)
prepared and implemented, in accordance with criteria agreed with the 
Association, and after prior approval of the Association; and 
(iii)
monitored by an independent agency acceptable to the Association.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Page  7
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for the purchase of goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,340,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,290,000 equivalent, and vehicles estimated to cost up to 
an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Maps, aerial photography, satellite imagery, books and periodicals, extension 
and publicity materials, software and proprietary equipment, costing $1,580,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate; (b) elephants and draft animals costing $60,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate; and (c) clonal plants costing $550,000 or less in the aggregate, may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $4,340,000 equivalent, may be procured either (i) under lump sum, and 
Page  8
measurement contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic 
form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully; or (ii) 
through direct contracting in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines, 
and with the Association’s prior agreement, or (iii) with prior approval of the Association 
through force account in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
5.
Force Account 
Forest operations works under Parts B, C and D of the Project which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $29,430,000 equivalent or less in 
the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be carried out by force account in 
accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods or works, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first five contracts for goods and works in any amount 
other than those falling under (a) above; and (ii) any contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $20,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: (A) prior to the selection of 
any supplier under national shopping procedures, UCHFD shall provide to the Association a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; (B) prior to the execution of any 
such contract procured under direct contracting or shopping procedures, UCHFD shall provide to 
the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (C) the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  9
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.13 through 2.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. The short list of 
consultants for services for technical assistance or training under the Project estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Consultants’ or NGOs services for technical assistance or training which are estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  10
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 
5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
technical assistance or training estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than 
the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
