Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3018 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Forestry Project)
between
INDIA
and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 30, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3018 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1997, between INDIA, acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association):
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the State of Uttar Pradesh (Uttar 
Pradesh) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to Uttar Pradesh the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and the Project Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by  a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of 
the Charter 
of the United Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect to 
any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, 
the Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect 
to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit 
shall 
be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and Uttar 
Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the implementation plan for the 
Project prepared by Uttar Pradesh, dated August 1997, and, including time-bound action 
plans, procedures and criteria agreed with the Association;
(c)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
June 20, 1996 and July 24, 1996, between the Borrower and the Association;
(d)
"Project Unit" means the unit established within UPFD (as hereinafter 
defined) for assisting in the implementation of the Project;
(e)
"Protected Area or PA" means any sanctuary or national park declared as a 
protected area by Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the provisions of the Borrower’s 
Wildlife Act, 1972, as amended to date;
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"UPFD" means the Uttar Pradesh Forest Department and any successor 
thereto;
(h)
"NGOs" means non-governmental organizations; and
Page  3
(i)
"Uttar Pradesh" means the State of Uttar Pradesh, a State of the 
Borrower, and any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty-nine million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 39,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall be utilized 
for financing expenditures for preparation of a forestry project in the Indian State 
of Kerala.
(c)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2002 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15, commencing May 15, 2008 and ending November 15, 2032. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2017 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
Page  4
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause Uttar Pradesh to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Uttar Pradesh therein set 
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Uttar 
Pradesh to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 3.01 
(a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall provide, or cause to be provided, to Uttar 
Pradesh in a prompt and efficient manner all clearances and approvals required for the 
purpose of enabling Uttar Pradesh to carry out the activities included in the Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to Uttar 
Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental 
assistance to the states of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by Uttar Pradesh pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
Page  5
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures be 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account audited for each 
fiscal year in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that Uttar Pradesh will be able to perform its obligations under 
the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by Uttar Pradesh and is legally binding upon Uttar 
Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  6
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary, and Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower are each designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, PIN 110001
India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
953-3166175
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, DC
        82987 (FTCC),
        64145 (WUI) or
       197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INDIA
By /s/ Sudhakar Rao 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu 
Regional Vice President
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
Page  7
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
4,200,000
85%
(except for
Part D.3 of 
the Project)
(2)
Forest operations
     16,500,000
90%
(3)
Equipment, materials
6,600,000
100% of foreign 
and vehicles 
expenditures, 
(except for Part 
100% of local 
D.3 of the Project)
expenditures 
 (ex-factory 
 
cost) and 80% 
of local expen-
ditures for other
items purchased
locally
(4)
Incremental 8,400,000
80% 
through 
operating costs
March 31, 2000,
55% through
March 31, 2001,
and 35% thereafter
(5)
Consultants’ 1,000,000
100%
services (including
NGOs’ services) and
training 
(6)
Civil works and 
1,900,000
85%
equipment for
the ecodevelopment
program under
Part D.3 of the
Project
(7)
Refunding of
  400,000
Amount due 
Project Preparation
pursuant to
Advance
Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement
TOTAL
     39,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the costs of operation and 
maintenance of additional buildings, equipment and vehicles incurred by Uttar Pradesh 
for the purposes of carrying out the Project; and
(d)
the term "forest operations" means expenditures for land preparation, 
(excluding land purchase) including labor, inputs for tree plantations, maintenance 
and protection, and development of nurseries, seed production areas, clonal seed 
orchards, and multiplication gardens.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 3,700,000 may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
March 31, 1997.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
Page  8
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods or works under 
contracts not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (b) services under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and $50,000 
equivalent for employment of individual consultants, respectively; (c) training and 
fellowships; (d) works procured under force account; and (e) incremental operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist Uttar Pradesh in the implementation of 
its strategy for the development of its forestry sector through improvement of sector 
management, increasing forest cover and productivity, and conservation of 
biodiversity, in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner, as a first phase 
of long-term support to the forest sector in Uttar Pradesh.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Institutional Development
1.
Sector Management
(a)
Management Process:  Improvement of management processes of the forest 
sector in Uttar Pradesh through provision of consultants’ services to assist with 
analysis of management processes and procedures, staffing levels and skills, and staff 
training.
(b)
Planning:  Provision of consultants’ services and staff training to 
assist in (i) improvement of forest management plans and the introduction of site 
specific plans, (ii) preparation of a code of forest practice, and (iii) preparation 
of a strategic analysis of the impact of different management systems for sal (Shorea 
robusta) forests in the Terai Region of Uttar Pradesh on markets, revenue, forest 
sector expenditures, environment and conservation of biodiversity.
(c)
Monitoring and Evaluation:  Introduction of monitoring and evaluation 
procedures for the forest sector, based on (i) monitoring of key performance 
indicators, and (ii) program information and independent evaluation studies, including 
assessment of beneficiary participation in forest management programs.
(d)
Environmental Analysis:  Carrying out, with the assistance of 
consultants’ services, of an environmental analysis as part of site specific forest 
management plans.
(e)
Policy Analysis:  Carrying out, with the assistance of consultants’ 
services, of policy analysis studies in the forest sector in Uttar Pradesh. 
2.
Human Resources Development
(a)
Development, with the assistance of consultants’ services, of a human 
resources development plan for UPFD.
(b)
Training of selected UPFD’s staff, including training of trainers, human 
resource development, participatory management skills for joint forest management and 
ecodevelopment, and forest technology and other specialized training.
(c)
Improvement of the training facilities at the Forest Training Institutes 
and Forest Schools in Uttar Pradesh through infrastructure improvements, provision of 
equipment and consultants’ services for course coordinators, resource persons and 
technical support for the establishment and operation of the Center for Forest and 
Natural Resource Management Development.
3.
Forest Management Information System
Design and development of a forest management information system to integrate 
information technology into all UPFD’s activities, through provision of consultants’ 
services, computers, software, digital data sets and staff training.
4.
Project Unit
Page  9
(a)
Strengthening the Project Unit within UPFD, through the provision of 
necessary office equipment, vehicles and buildings.
(b)
Preparation, with the assistance of consultants’ services, of a follow-up 
forestry project in Uttar Pradesh.
Part B:
Forest Development
1.
Joint Forest Management
(a)
Implementation of a joint forest management program between UPFD and the 
village forest committees, with the assistance of NGOs, involving about 1,000 
committees for management and protection of about 250,000 hectares (ha) of forest 
land, based on village microplans developed through community participatory planning.
(b)
Implementation of a community forestry program between UPFD and the 
village forest committees, with the assistance of NGOs, for management and protection 
of about 7,000 ha on community land, based on village microplans developed through 
community participatory planning.
2.
UPFD Management
(a)
Assisted Natural Regeneration: Promotion of assisted natural forest 
regeneration by UPFD over an area of about 21,000 ha, through control of fire and 
grazing, improved soil and  moisture conservation and improved forest cultural 
operations, based on site specific plans and associated environmental analysis.
(b)
Plantation Forestry:  Development of about 12,500 ha of plantations using 
improved planting materials and plantation management practices.
(c)
Forest Protection: (i) Implementation of the forest fire management 
strategy in Uttar Pradesh through contractual arrangements between UPFD and the local 
communities, (ii) development, with the assistance of consultants’ services, of a 
silvipasture program and a strategy for grazing management in the forests of Uttar 
Pradesh, and implementation of such strategy, and (iii) establishment of a fire and 
grazing management unit within UPFD, and provision of necessary equipment and 
training.
(d)
Strip Plantations:  Establishment and management of about 2,000 row km of 
strip plantations along selected roads, canals and railways in the plains of Uttar 
Pradesh.
(e)
Urban Forestry:  Carrying out of a program of planting, protection and 
maintenance of trees in selected urban areas in Uttar Pradesh.
3.
Farm Forestry
(a)
Nursery Technology: Introduction of improved nursery technology through 
the establishment of 10 demonstration nurseries with the necessary infrastructure and 
equipment, and associated training for private sector entrepreneurs.
(b)
Extension Services:  Improvement of farm forestry extension services 
(i) by UPFD in six forest divisions in Uttar Pradesh through provision of extension 
materials, vehicles, equipment and demonstration plots, and (ii) by private sector 
agencies and NGOs in four other forest divisions on the basis of contractual 
arrangements with UPFD. 
4.
Operational Support
Improvement of housing and office facilities for UPFD, and provision of 
vehicles, equipment, elephants and draft animals to support forest operations 
throughout Uttar Pradesh.
Part C:
Research and Technology
1.
Research  
(a)
Development of linkages between UPFD research wing and other forestry 
research databases through provision of computers and software.
(b)
Formulation, with the assistance of consultants’ services, of a 
Page  10
prioritized research program for the forest sector in Uttar Pradesh.
(c)
Carrying out of research programs for production of improved planting 
material, and the production and utilization of non-timber forest products.
2.
Planting Material
(a)
Improvement of existing tree seed selection handling and treatment 
equipment and facilities through provision of new equipment and repair of existing 
equipment, construction of six seed sub-centers and staff training.
(b)
Development of three research nurseries through provision of consultants’ 
services for nursery design, infrastructure and equipment, and staff training.
Part D:
Biodiversity Conservation 
1.
Strategic Planning
Preparation, with the assistance of consultants’ services, of a long-term 
strategy and action plan for conservation of biodiversity in Uttar Pradesh. 
2.
Management and Consolidation of PA System
Improving the planning, management and monitoring in nine clusters of priority 
PAs made up of 18 individual PAs through survey and demarcation, development of 
infrastructure and provision of vehicles, communication and field equipment and 
consultants’ services. 
3.
Ecodevelopment
(a)
Support for an ecodevelopment program, based on village microplans, 
consisting of the development, with the involvement of NGOs, of alternative resources, 
or income generating opportunities for communities resident in village areas 
peripheral to the PAs, including provision of works and equipment.
(b) 
Provision of training and field operation for ecodevelopment planning 
teams. 
4.
Research, Training and Public Awareness
(a)
Carrying out of research on aspects of biodiversity and PA management.
(b)
Provision of staff training in biodiversity conservation and 
ecodevelopment, and development of the training facilities for the wildlife wing of 
UPFD through provision of infrastructure and equipment.
(c)
Carrying out of public awareness and extension campaigns for biodiversity 
conservation and construction of nature interpretation centers in selected PAs and 
zoological gardens.
**
*
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) 
and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
Page  11
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Association 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if at any time the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if at any time the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
Page  12
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
