Documcnt of
The World Bank
FORI OFFICIAL US1E ONLY
Report No. 10698
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
KINDA (NYAUNGGYAT) DAM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1031-BA)
JUNE 8, 1992
lture Operations Division
*y Department I
.sia & Pacific Regional Office
sent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Kyats per US$)
GOM Fis-al Year                       Exchange Rate
1979 - 80                                6.60
1980 - 81                                6.70
1981 - 82                                7.15
1982 - 83                                7.70
1983 - 84                                7.95
1984 - 85                                8.25
1985 - 86                                8.45
1986 - 87                                7.48
1987 - 88                                6.78
1988 - 89                                6.35
1989 - 90                                6.60
1990 - 91                                6.45
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
FPS System
ac.  =    acres
cyd  =    cubic yards
ton  =    long ton = 2240 pounds
ft.  =    feet
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Oirectn_.'.raI
Opetatmns tvaliuatkm
June 8, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDEN.
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Myanmar
Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project
(Credit 1031-BA)
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report
entitled "Project Completion Report on Myanmar - Kinda
(Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project (Credit 1031-BA)", prepared
by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AMD     -    Agriculture MechanizLtion Department
ERR     -    Economic Rate of Return
FAO/Cl'  -    Food  and  Agriculture  Organization/Cooperative
Program
C.OM    -    Government of Myanmar
GWH     -    Gegawatt - hours = 109 Watt--hours
HYV     -    High Yielding Variety
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
ID      -    Irrigation Department
IDA     -    International Development Association
KfW     -    Kreditanstalt fur Weider aufbau
KWH     -    Kilowatt - hours - 103 Watt-hours
M       -    Million
MAB     -    Myanma Agricultural Bank
MAF     -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forest
MAS     -    Myanma Agriculture Service
MEPE    -    Myanma Electric Power Enterprise
MW      -    Megawatt
MUV     -    Manufacturing Unit Value
NORAD   -    Norweoian Agency for Development Cooperation
O&M     -    Operation and Maintenance
OECF    -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
PCR     -    Project Completion Report
PH      -    Negative  Logarithm  of  Effective  Hydrogen  ion
Concentration
PIC     -    Project Implementation Committee
POE     -    Panel of Experts
PU      -    Project Unit
RC      -    Resettlement Committee
SAR     -    Staff Appraisal Report
SLORC   -    State Law and Order Restoration Council
SLRD    -    Settlement and Land Records Department
T&V     -    Training and Visit Extension System
TC      -    Township Committee
TOR     -    Terms of Reference
TSP     -    Triple Super Phosphate
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program
VO      -    Variation Order
Dcument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
r official duties. Its conteuts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLFE'ION REPORT
KINDA (NYAUNGGYATI DAM MULTIPURPQ- PROJECT lCREDIT 1031-BA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface             . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Evaluation Summary .....-. . .-.... ..iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . . .           1
1.         Project Identity .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  . . . .1
2.         Background ....... .  . .. .  .  .                                 1
3.         Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . .           2
4.         Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .           4
5.         Project Implementation       .   .-. -.-.              .           6
6.         Project Results ..... .........                 . . . .-.  13
7.         Project Sustainability . . ......... .  .    .    .     .         17
8.         Bank Performance ..................                               18
9.    Borrower Performance                  .       .....   19
10.         Project Relationship .....  ...              . .   ... .          20
11.         Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . ...... ...                 20
12.         Project Documentation and Data ... .  .  .  .    ......           21
Annexes   1 - Project Implementation .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
2 - PCR Crop Areas and Yields. . . . . . .26
3 - Project Consultancies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         29
Figure 1 Agriculture Benefits. . . . . . . . . . . . .                      32
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . .          40
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .          41
Table 1:   Related Bank Credits . . .  .    . . . . . .                      41
Table 2:   Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          42
Table 3:   Credit Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          43
Table 4:   Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          45
Table 5:   Project Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          48
A. Project Costs .  ..          . ....        .  . . ...          48
B. Project Financing...                    .   . . ..  50
Table 6:   Project Benefits . .. -..         -..   ....... .                 51
A. Direct Benefits .  .... .  .  . . .......           .          51
B. Economic Impact .....                     .                   53
C. Financial Impact  .. . .   .   . . . . . . . . . . .          55
D. Studies . ....... .-.-.-.- . .-  . .. .    56
Table 7:   Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          57
Table 8:   Use of Bank Resources  . ..... ... .60
A. Staff Inputs              .  .  .  .  . . . . .              60
B. Missions  . . . . . . .  ...   . .  . . . . . . . .          61
MAPS       IBRD 14544R1
IBRD 14545R1



PROJECT COMPSjTION REPORT
MYANA
KINDA INYAUNGGYAT) DAM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT (CR!EDIT 1031-BA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Kinda
(Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project in Myanmar, for which Credit 1031-BA in the
amount of US$90.00 million was approved on May 29, 1980. The Credit was closed
on March 31, 1991, three years and nine months behind schedule. The undisbursed
balance of USS3,041,326.82 remaining after the last disbursement on April 3,
1991, was cancelled.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Bank and incorporate
information obtained from the Staff Appraisal Report (2767-BA) dated May 1, 1980;
the Development Credit Agreement dated November 4, 1980; the Bank's Supervision
Reports; the Borrower's Quarterly Reports; available project files; and
interviews with the World Bank staff associated with the project as well as the
data supplied by the Government of Myanmar implementing agencies. The Borrower
has not made any additional inputs for Part II.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANM
KINDA (NYAUNGGYATI DAM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT (CREDIT 1031-BA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          The main objective of the project was to exploit the land and water
resources potential of the Panlaung river basin in Central Myanmar to:  (a)
promote the cultivation of non-paddy crops by extending irrigation and drainage
to 113,000 acres of rainfed crop lands; (b) increase paddy yields, improve the
cropping pattern, and stabilize production from the existing 88,000 acres of
irrigated lands by controlled and assured deliveries; and (c) generate
hydropower. The project included: (i) a 236 ft. high rockfill dam on the main
river and three rockfill dams 70 ft., 84 ft., and 127 ft. high to close the
saddles on the left rim of the reservoir, providing an active storage of 0.65
million ac. ft.; (ii) the main chute spillway with four gates 29.5 ft. x 34.5 ft.
and a ski-jump plunge pool along with an emergency open cut spillway on the left
rim of the reservoir having 590 ft. crest length, for the safe passage of the
maximum probable flood occurring under the full reservoir condition; (iii) the
hydropower station having two units of 28 mw each located adjacent to the plunge
pool mainly to provide power during peak demands; (iv) a re-regulating dam about
nine miles downstream of the main dam to balance the intermittent power station
outflow to the continuous irrigation supplies for the two canals on the two banks
directly fed from the re-regulating dam; (v) the new irrigation system for
113,000 acres on the left bank comprising a 78 mile long main canal on the
contour feeding 35 distributary systems, 110 miles of new drains, and land
clearance and rough land levelling of the culturable waste lands within the
command; (vi) the rehabilitation of the existing irrigation systems for 88,000
acres for better control of distribution of water and measurement of irrigation
deliveries, and for assuring adequa'e system transmission capacity to deliver
water to the entire command! (vii) improved agricultural, extension including
trials for non-paddy crops at a new trials station within the new irrigated area,
demonstrations on farmers' fields, and training of farmers and Government
personnel in crop technology and water management; (viii) additional studies for
the feasibility of another storage based hydropower project, and ground water
irrl,ation in selected areas; (ix) a number of consultancies to assist the
Borrower in the project designs and implementation and other studies; (x) a Panel
of Experts to review the designs of the dam and other works, construction
procedures, and arrangements for monitoring, operation, and maintenance; and (xi)
training of the Government personnel by the consultants.



- iv -
Implementation Exgerience
2.          Excellent progress was achieved in the implementation of the dams and
appurtenant works and power generation facilities The main dam was completed
ahead of scheduile and the power static J commenced supplying energy to the
National Power Grid on schedule. The implementation of the irrigation component
of the project, hcwaver, tsok about ten years compared to the planned aix years.
The credit was closed on March 31, 1991, after three extensions of one year each
and two extensions of six months and three months each.   The successful
implementation of the dam can be attributed to the award of constru:tion contract
to an expatriate firm, following ICB procedures which were carried out for the
civil works for the fir-c. time since the Bank started lending to Myanmar, and the
extension of the consultancy contract with the expatriate consulting firm
(responsiblc jarlier for the feasibility study and tender documents) for the
preparation of definite designs, construction supervision, and contract
management.  The resettlement of 94 households displaced from the reservoin was
carried out successfully.  All the families were settled together in zhc new
irrigated area downstream of the dam, houses having been constructed at project
cost and sufficient irrigated agricultural land allocated to each family to
provide better family income.
3.          The delay in the completion of the new irrigation system, carried out
under force account, was mainly due to national shortage of construction
materials, diesel and lubricants, and political unrest during the latter part of
the project period.  There was also initial delay of about 18 months in the
selection of the consulting firm for the preparation of the construction designs
of the new system. The culturable waste land of about 3,500 acres within the new
irrigated area was cleared of vegetation and rough land levelling carried out
before allocation to the farmers for-cultivation. The agricultural mechanization
workshops in the project area also were strengthened to provide agricultural
machinery to farmers on rent and repair service to farmer owned equipment.
Extension and research staff were mobilized early in full strength. Trials for
non-paddy crops were carried out at the new station established within the
project area and demonstrations were arranged at selected farmers' fields to
establish the varieties suitable for the area and train farmers in improved water
management. Farmers' training as well as staff development training sessions
were arranged at the new training center established under the project.  The
findings of these trials were used for agricultural extension activity in both
the new and old irrigated areas. Proper computer based water management was
introduced for controlling the system supplies at the key points in relation to
the crops sown. The expatriate consultants carried out the Myanma Electric Power
Enterprise (MEPE) power planning studies, revision of the feasibility study and
tenders documents for the Paunlaung hydropower project, and studies for the
various agricultural aspects.   Overseas training of the MEPE and Irrigation
Department (ID) staff was carried out by the consultants for the dams and power
generation facilities at their head office.  The consultant also carried out
training in Myanmar for both ID and MEPE staff in specific subjects through
lectures and seminars. ID staff were also trained overseas by the consultants
for Irrigation Systems at their headquarters. The Myanma Agriculture Service
(MAS) staff did not receive the envisaged overseas training under the project.
MAS also reduced the assignment period of the agricultural experts as assistance
became available from other sources. At completion, the oroject cost of about



US$270 million was about 15% higher than the appraisal estimate of US$235
million. The cost in foreign exchange of about US$ 156 million was close to the
appraisa' estimate of US$158 million.   The IDA credit of US$90 million was
utilized, except for about US$2.46 million, which was cancelled.
Results
4.          overall the project was successful in achieving its objectives.  The
power generation commenced five years after the commencement of the
implementati)r of the civil works. The project has contributed an average of 113
GHW energy to the Myanmar National Grid and provided about 44 MW during the peak
load demand period. Unfortunately, the Central Dry Zone of Myarmar, where the
catchment for the project lies, is passing through a dry cycle an    flows into
the reservoir have not exceeded about two thirds of the antic patec.  .nual inflow
which would have given 165 GHW energy right from the first year.
5.          The project has improved the availability of water on the existing
88,000 acres. Assured irrigation supplies on the cld system for the second crop
have resulted in a change of crop mix, also partly dictated by the market price
of the differert agriculture products.   The anticipated areas for the high
yielding variety of paddy, pulses, and chillies have already been achieved, the
sesame area ha3 exceeded expectations, but areas for cotton and onions show large
variation over the years. Shortage of fertilizer and agro-chemicals is the main
bottleneck for the increase of cotton. area as well as yield increases of all the
crops.
6.          The project has created the system for irrigating 107,000 acres of
previously rainfed crops. However, the development of irrigated crops in the new
irrigation system is slow mainly due to:   (a) a delay in appropriate land
preparation by the farmers as the reallocation of most of the land to the faxmlrs
was carried out in the lamt year of the project; (b) lower supplies to the ; *w
system due to insufficient inflow into the reservoir, the old irrigation are2
having priority due to existing rights; (c) running of the power house without
irrigation demand resulting in waste of water; and (d) slower adoptior of
irrigated farming technology by the farmers used to rainfed crops.  With better
rainfall in the catchment and availability of fertilizer and agro-chemicals, the
cropping pattern anticipated at appraisal will be achieved at full development
by the year 1999-2000.
7.          Though development of fisheries was not considered at appraisal, the
fish catch from the reservoir was about 1,600 tons in 1990-91 and is expected to
be doubled by 1994-95.
8.          The association of the consulting firms in the preparation of
construction designs, quality control, and contract management as well as the
training of ID and MEPE staff in their headquarters and within Myanmar have been
very helpful in strengthening ID for preparation of designs, improvement of
quality of implementation of the project and assurances for dam safety. The ID
staff also benefited from the deployment of the Panel of Experts which was
effective in conducting an independent review of all the facets of dam safety.
The review of MEPE power planning resulted in an action plan for improvement of
the systems, which is being progressively implemented. The feasibility study and



- vi -
tender documents for the Paunlaung Hydropower project are being used by the
Government in exploring the funding p.osstbilities for its implementation.
Procurement of drilling equipment and materials under the project contributed to
the completion of the groundwater studies and formu'ation of the second
groundwater development project for irrigation, which is included in the
Government pipeline for future projects. The project economic rate of return is
expected to be 14%, against the SAR estimnate of 21.3%.
Sustainabilitv
9.          The project is sustainable.   However,  some doubts have arisen
regarding the achievement of full anticipated benefits as the inflow into the
reservoir has so far not exceeded 66% of the expected inflow. Though the last
few years have been dry years, the possibility of errors in the initial analysis
could not be ruled out. Even with reduced inflows, the project benefits could
be maximized with maximum use of rainfall, prudent water management on the farm
and keeping the power station closed when there is no irrigation demand.
Extension service for irrigated agriculture, specially for promotion of non-paddy
crops requiring less irrigation water, has to be actively pursued and
strengthened. Improvement in the availability of fertilizer and agro-chemicals
is also necessary to obtain better yields and to further induce diversification
into high value non-paddy crops.
Findings and Lessons Learned
Project implementation suffers greatly when the Government does not
give sufficient priority to the project to enable its access to
controlled materials such as cement, diesel, etc. (PCR paras. 5.8,
and 5.13).
-     Timely procuremrent of construction equipment and consultants is
critical for such projects.   Where the Borrowere'  procurement
procedures are known to be extraordinarily time consuming, IDA
should give more emphasis to agreements to shorten these procedures
and advance procurement action during the preparation/negotiation
stage of the project (PCR paras 5.4, 5.8, 5.13, and 11.3).
-     Formation of farmers' groups and their training in water management
as well as extension activity for irrigated agriculture should be
initiated early and pursued actively to maximize agricultural
production from the -vailable water (PCR paras 5.15, 7.1).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINDA (NYAUNGGYAT) DAM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT (CREDIT 1031-BA)
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PURSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Name:                    .-nda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project
Credit Number:            1031-BA
RVP Unit:                 East Asia & Pacific Regional OfFice
Country:                 Myanmar
Sector:                  Agriculture
2.   Background
2.1       Faced with a stagnating economy and declining exports, the Government
of Myanmar (GOM) decided in the mid-seventies to increase investment for the
development of its natural resources.  Simultaneously, to achieve higher and
sustained growth in the agricultural sector, GOM raised the procurement prices
of agricultural commodities and took steps to improve the availability of
agricultural inputs and tc strengthen the agricultural support activity. For the
Central Dry Zone of the country, which has well recognized potential for non-
paddy crops, dams were planned to stabilize wet season irrigation and assure a
second irrigated crop in the commands of the existing run-of-the-river irrigation
schemes, and extend irrigation to new lands. The generation of hydropower to the
extent permissible under irrigation releases from the dams was also planned to
meet the increasing energy demand.
2.2       To support these GO objectives, IDA provided funding of US$90 million
(Credit 1031-BA of November 4, 1980), with closing date of June 30, 1987, for the
Nyaunggyat Dam Multipurpose Project for constructing a dam on the Panlaung river
for assured irrigation of 200,000 acres in the Mandalay division, and hydropower
installation of 56 MW.  The Governments of Germany (KfW), Japan (OECF), and
Norway (NORAD) cofinanced the project. KfW initially (July 31, 1981) provided
DM 68 million soft loan and DM 13 million finance credit, with closing date of
December 31, 1987. The first supplementary KfW funding (April 8, 1983) provided
DM 22 million soft loan 9 1 DM 22 million finance credit and a second KfW
supplementary funding (Dece-jer 28, 1984) DM 17 million soft loan with the same
closing date of December 31, 1987. An additional KfW grant (February 12, 1987)
of DN' 2.1 million was provided for technical assistance.   The second vfW
suppl,tmentary funding was later (June 29, 1987) reduced to DM 2.6 million. Total
KfW ftnding thus committed was DM 129.7 million. OECF funding (Loan Agreement
of Jantary 9, 1981) was JY 3600 million with closing date January 1986 and NORAD
fundin& (July 23, 1980), was not to exceed the equivalent of US$8.2 million with
closing date till the completion of funding obligations.   All the donors
administered their funding directly. The closing dates remained unchanged for
the donors' fundings, except for IDA credit which closed on March 31, 199± after
several extensions.



- 2 -
2.3       At the request of GOM, the dam was renamed Kinda Dam (instead of
Nyaunggyat Dam) and the name of the project was changed to Kinda Dam Multipurpose
Project (Kinda project) in July 1981. The Kinda project would have followed the
multipurpone project involving storage on the Paunlaung river in Mandalay
division for hydropower generation and irrigation, the updating of the
feasibility study, specification drawings, and tender documents for which were
prepared with funding under the Kinda Project, but due to worsening of the
econouLic situation of the country, necessary financing for the project could not
be arranged.
3.   Proiect Oblectives and Description
3.1       Prolect Obiectives.  The project had the main objective of harnessing
the potential of the Panlaung river in the Central Dry Zone of the country to:
(a) promote cultivation of non-paddy crops, mainly cotton and sesame, through
extension of irrigation to abo3it 113,500 acres of rainfed cropped areas; (b)
increase and stabilize paddy production and improve cropping inter.sity on 88,000
acres of irrigated lands under the existing run-of-the-river systems; and (c)
generate  hydropower.    The  other  objectives  were  to:    (i) explore  the
possibilities of development of ground water potential in selected areas of the
country; (ii) update the feasibility study and prepare specification drawings,
and tender documents of another multipurpose storage scheme; and (iii) strengthen
the Irrigation Department (ID) for investigations, planning, and designs and
implementation of projects, the Myanma Electric Power Enterprise (MEPE) for
planning and operation of power systems# and Myanma Agriculture Service (MAS) for
extension and research.
3.2       Prolect Components.  The project had five main components:
-    Multipurpose Works
(a) A 236 ft high central core rockfill dam on the Panlaung river (about
9 miles upstream of the existing headworks for the right bank Kinda
irrigation system) with spillway and power/irrigation intake on the
left abutment, and three saddle dams on the left rim of the reservoir;
(b) The resettlement of about 94 households (about 400 persons) displaced
from the four villages in the reservoir area;
Works for Power
(c) A hydropower station at the dam with installation of two units of 28
MW each and 31 miles of 132 kv transmission line to the National
Network substation at Thazi;
(d) A re-regulating dam on the Panlaung river, just upstream of the
existing headworks for Kinda right bank canal, to balance the peak
power releases from the dam and to directly feed the main irrigation
systems on both banks;



- 3 -
-    Works for Irrigation. Drainage. and Flood Protection
(3) The rehabilitation of the existing irrigation systems for about 88,000
acres for adequate transmission capacity and controls to permit proper
water management, and improvement of about 110 miles of its roads for
use as farm roadsa
(f) The construction of a new irrigation system for 113,500 acres of
rainfed cultivation on the left bank, down to water courses and farm
turnouts,
(g) The construction of about 32 miles of embankments along the banks of
the Panlaung river, to protect about 10,000 acres of low lying lands
from flooding and constructing another structure for by-passing flood
water from the Panlaung river to the Pauk stream;
(h) The improvement of natural drains and excavation of about 110 miles
of new drains;
(i)  Procarement of construction equipment for the force account execution
of the new irrigation system, rehabilitation of old irrigation
systems, drainage, and flood protection works, as well as equipment
for the operation and maintenance (O&M) of the project works, and for
water management;
-    Works for Land ImDrovement and Agricultural Development
(j) Strengthening of the Agriculture Mechanization Department (AMD) for
providing agricultural machinery repair facilities to the farmers as
well as for clearing and rough levelling of new lands to be irrigated
by procuring additional machinery and implements and establishing
agricultural machinery repair workshops;
(k) Strengthening of the HAS for Training and Visit (T&V) extension system
and conducting trials for non-paddy crops to be promoted under the
project, including establishment of a 1,000 acre seed production -cum-
research farm within the new area, operation of demonstration plots
at selected places, and creation of necessary facilities and
additional staff for training of farmers;
-    Technical Assistance and Training
(1)  Technical assistance through expatriate consulting firms/experts for:
(i) preparation of detailed designs and construction drawings for the
dam and appurtenances, and power generation facilities; contract
management, construction supervision and quality control; and
preparation of a manual for safety monitoring and O&M of the
dams;
(ii) review of the designs of the dam, power house, and appurtenances,
methods of construction to assure quality, and arrangements for



dam surveillance, operation, and maintenance to assure safety by
an independent advisory panel of experts (POE);
(iii) planning and supervision of construction of transmission line and
substation facilities, and quality control (the consultancy was,
however, funded under another KfW assisted project);
(iv) review of MEPE power system planning and operations;
(v)  planning, design, limited construction supervision and quality
control for irrigation works, and recommending proper water
management and assistance in its implementation;
(vi) analyzing risks and related insurance requirements during the
construction of the dam, power house, and other works for
irrigation and power;
(vii)  updating and revising of the feasibility study and preparing
tender documents based on specification designs of the Paunlaung
Multipurpose Project; and
(viii)  recommending measures for development of medium staple cotton and
reviewing cotton ginning as well as paddy storage and milling
facilities;
(m)  Assistance to ID in additional exploration of ground water resources
for formulating a ground water project; and
(n)  Short term fellowships and study tours for training ID staff in
investigations, planning, designs and implementation of projects, MAS
staff in extension and research, and MEPE staff in power generation
planning.
4.   Prolect DesiRn and Organization
4.1       Beginning with the investigations for a storage dam on the Panlaung
river by ID in the late 1960s and the development plans, prepared under bilateral
assistance,  contained  in the  1971  report,  the  project  design  underwent
significant changes. IDA was approached in 1973 for funding. IDA review (1974)
of the preparation carried out that far indicated the need for preparing a fresh
feasibility study including detailed evaluation of hydrology and examining the
possibility of high value crops in the new irrigated area. IDA agreed to GOM
request for use of funds available under IDA Credit 483-BA for preparing the
feasibility study. GOM requested FAO/CP (December 1974) to detail the irrigation
component and contracted a consulting firm (June 1975) for the studies of the dam
and the hydropower generation facilities. The project was appraised in May/June
1976 on the besis of FAO/CP report of January 1976 for the irrigation component
and the consultants' report of March 1976 for the dam and hydropower.   The
appraisal mission having established the geological conditions at the new dam
site as unsatisfactory, IDA decided not to walk away from the project but to
stand back for further additional investigations for fixing the dam site and



- 5 -
revision of the development plans. GOM contracted another consulting firm in
September 1977 to reexamine the best dam site and prepare a new feasibility study
with continued external funding under IDA Credit 483-BA. FAO/CP was requested
to continue and examine the irrigation component further. The consulting firm
and FAO/CP revised proposals became available in August 1978 both for development
with and without power generation and also for the alternati. is of an earth dam
or a rockfill dam. The project was appraised a second time in April/May 1979.
The appraisal mission accepted the assessment of water availability for the
proposed irrigation and hydropower generation as well as the estimate for the
maximum probable flood for the design of spillway.   The rockfill dam was
preferred to earth fill, considering good quality rock available at short
distance. The power component was not appraised in detail but was included for
implementation, since its inclusion improved the economic rate of return (ERR)
of the project, the energy generation being the least cost solution provided the
cost of the dam was not shared by power.
4.2       The inflow estimates (average about 1.1 million ac. ft. from about 865
sq. miles of the catchment) and reservoir operaticn studies indicated sufficiency
of water for about 160 percent irrigated cropping intensity on both the existing
(rehabilitated) and new irrigation systems. With the assured water supply and
soil suitability, the cropping pattern anticipated with project included non-
paddy crops in 67% (cotton 15%, sesame 21%, others 31%) of the area under the old
systems and 93% (cotton 57%, sesame 36%) of the area under the new system. To
provide the necessary crop technologies for extension (specially for cotton), a
1,000 acre research -cum- seed production farm was to be established at Shwedaung
within the new area, and demonstrations were to be arranged at selected farmers'
fields.
4.3       The project was very well prepared, but a few design changes became
necessary during implementation after the foundation conditions for the dams
became visible and also as a result of POE recommendations for improving safety:
(a)  Main Dam axis was changed slightly on the left abutment for better
contact of clay core with the abutment. The width of the fine and
coarse filters was enlarged from 2 meters to 4 meters (at critical
locations up to 6 meters) above the foundation rock throughout the
valley section, due to dispersive clay in the fault zones encountered
within the foundation.  The original nine rows of grouting curtain for
the dam were reduced to four but primary holes were increased in
depth. Four major fault zones were met in the dam foundation and
extensive treatment became necessary.   Shear planes at the power
tunnel intake, power house, spillway and plunge pool, encountered
during excavation, necessitated deep anchors and stepped treatment.
Additional drainage holes and guniting with wire mesh were also
necessary for stabilizing the rock cut in the power house control room
open excavation.
(b)  The diversion tunnel initially designed with lightly reinforced lining
had to be heavily reinforced in bad reaches, encountered during the
tunnel excavation. The steel lining for the penstocks had also to be
extended upstream.



- 6 -
(c)  Re-regulating Dam had to be redesigned with permeable foundation since
the overburden on limestone rock turned out to be about 80 ft deep
(earlier assumption of few feet only), the foundation investigations
at the feasibility study stage having been insufficient.
(d) Emergency Spillway reinforced concrete crest structure was replaced
by grouted riprap, considering the good quality rock encountered.
(e) Transmission Line alignment had to be changed (revised tender was
issued) as economy was possible with an alternative route.
4.4       The project organization included MEPE, a number of GOM agencies led
by ID, and consultants. MEPE was responsible for the power generation facilities
including  the  civil works.   MEPE created  four new  divisions  under  one
superintending engineer in 1981-82. ID was responsible for the execution of all
the civil works excluding those for power; HAS for providing the crop
technologies for the new cropping pattern, training the farmers in proper water
management, conducting crop trials, providing extension service, and assuring
availability of inputs except credit facilities to be provided by the Myanmar
Agricultural Bank (MAB); AMD for land clearing and rough land levelling in the
new areas brought under irrigation; and Settlement and Land Records Department
(SLRD) and Township Committees (TC) for redistributing these lands to the
farmers. Resettlement of the persons displaced from the reservoir was carried
out by a Special Resettlement Committee constituted by GOM for the purpose.
Necessary coordination was provided by the Project Implementation Committee
(PIC), constituted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forest (MAP), while the
management and direction was provided by a Project Director appointed by ID. The
Project Director and PIC (constituted in February 1980) were in place before
appraisal. Two ID civil construction divisions and one mechanical division under
one superintending engineer started functioning for the dam and appurtenances
between April to June 1980. Two more civil divisions for the dam were added in
September and December 1981. Three ID civil divisions and one ID mechanical
division were also formed between August and November 1981 under one ID
superintending engineer for carrying out the force account work on the irrigation
systems. One of these civil divisions was responsible for preparing working
drawings for the irrigation systems with assistance from the consultants. AMD
and SLRD did not establish separate units for the project work and strengthened
their existing township organizations to handle the additional work. MAS created
a new extension unit for the project and provided staff for the Shwedaung farm.
5.   Prolect Implementation
5.1       The project had a good start.  Satisfactory commitments for funding
by the cofinanciers were completed and IDA credit became effective within 15 days
of signing. Excellent progress was made in the implementation of the dams and
appurtenant works and power generation facilities. The Myanmar National Grid
capacity increased by 56 mw on schedule on January 23, 1986.  The irrigation
component of the project was, however, delayed and completed in March 1991, four
years and nine months behind schedule. The project implementation is summarized
in Annex 1, indicating the implementing agency responsible for each work, the
donor agency providing the exte-cnal funding, and the manner of execution. The
selection of a competent contractor for the civil works for the dam and



appurtenances and the power generation facilities was a crucial positive factor
for project implementation, the International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for award
of a civil works contract having been carried out for the first time under the
project.
Access Road and Construction Camp
5.2       GOM commenced the construction of the access road to the main dam by
force account in February 1980 and completed the work in 1982.  IDA provided
retroactive funding of US$0.53 million, mostly for the procurement (on emergency
basis) of construction equipment. IDA also agreed to placement of supply orders
for the equipment on the basis of bids received earlier for IDA Credit 483-BA.
The GOM construction camp was also completed by force account in 1982.
Resettlement
5.3       The resettlement of 94 households (426 persons) from four villages
submerged in the reservoir, having cultivation rights on about 70 acres of
irrigated paddy and about 280 acres of rainfed cropland, and 3 monasteries, was
initiated by the formation of a Resettlement Committee (RC) on October 29, 1980
by the Shan State Peoples Council. Assisted by four sub-committees for shifting,
security during transit, reception at new site, and new facilities, RC completed
the data collection in November 1980, and submitted its recommendations on
December 9, 1980.  The persons to be resettled unanimously opted for living
together and shifting to a site downstream of the dam. Each family was provided
about 50 ft x 100 ft residential plot and a new house (only reusable material
transported from the old houses). About 10% of the families constructed better
homes at their own expense. Subsistence allowance was paid at Kyats 200 per head
per month, for six months. The agricultural land given per family was from 2
acres to 5 acres depending on the number of family members. The total cost of
resettlement comprising preparation about 500 acres of culturable waste land
needed for resettlement (333 acres for cultivation), running transit camps, crop
compensation and subsistence allowance, was about Kyats 0.8 million.   The
resettlement including shifting to the new houses was finished on June 26, 1981.
Irrigation water became available to the families in 1986.  No socioeconomic
survey was carried out after completion of the dam or availability of irrigation
water, to verify if the families were in  better economic situation after
resettlement. However, the general feeling in ID and HAS is that the family
income increased after resettlement. There has been no adverse impact on the
health of the families.
Dam and Appurtenances and Power Generation Facilities
5.4       GOM, prior to appraisal, agreed to procurement of the civil works for
the dam and appurtenances and the power generation facilities under contract to
be awarded under ICB.  The contracts for the supply and erection of all the
permanent equipment were in any case to be arranged through ICB.  The Bank
insisted on advance action for the preparation of procurement documents and
obtaining GOM and Bank clearances, considering the time-consuming GOM procurement
procedures.   The preparatioit timetable required finalizing of the documents
before c-edit negotiations, which was more or less achieved. With funding from
IDA and KfW for these works, different procurement procedures were necessary to



-8-
meet the donors' requirements.  Procurement was therefore carried out in six
different lots, with IDA -funding civil works contract for dam and appurtenances
and contract for the supiply and erection of the hydromechancial equipment
(spillway and outlet gates) for the dam, both under ICB. All other contracts
were financed by KfW and procured under KfW procedures (except contract for civil
works for power generation facilities, which was ICB).
5.5       It is worth mentioning that a few problems were encountered in the
procurement of civil works under ICB. During negotiations for the award of the
contract, the lowest evaluated bidder (US$ 43.745 million and Kyats 129.536
million or Kyats 404.265 million equivalent), insisted on an increase of the
contract amount to US$45.3 million and Kyats 131.1 million, claiming that a
mistake was made in preparing the original bid. GOM considered that the bidder
was backing out and took necessary action to forfeit the bid bond of US$400,000.
His original bid was already about 16% higher than the engineer's estimate (base
cost of Kyats 349.1 million in the SAR). Also, the bidder on his own initiative
initially reduced his bid price after submission to US$41.56 million and Kyats
123.06 million.  The possibility can not be ruled out that the second lowest
evaluated bidder (US$66.389 million and Kyats 81.9 million or Kyats 531.135
million equivalent), having a 30% price disadvantage over the lowest evaluated
bidder colluded with the latter.   A rebidding in this case could have been
considered, but due to the time constraint, GOM, with the agreement of IDA,
negotiated with the second lowest evaluated bidder. During negotiations, the
advance payment was raised to 15% of the contract amount (10% in tender document)
but the contractor agreed to reduce the foreign exchange component of his bid by
US$2.5 million.   The contract (US$63.88 million and Kyats 81.9 million) was
awarded on June 24, 1981, with a delay of 7 months compared to the SAR timetable.
The delay was mainly caused by the unsuccessful negotiations with the lowest
evaluated bidder. There were no significant problems with the procurement of
other items.
5.6       The cltarance of the dam site started on September 1, 1981.   The
Saddle Dam 3 was completed in September 1982, the Saddle Dam 2 in June 1983, and
the Saddle Dam 1 in October 1984. The river diversion took place on January 25,
1983, a two months delay compared to the contract target of November 24, 1982.
The coffer dam construction started in May 1982 and completed on Apri`l 15, 1983,
one month ahead of target. The main dam fill started in April 1983 and finished
on July 24, 1984, nine months earlier than the contract completion target. The
service spillway excavation started in December 1981, strititure completed to
permit gate installation in April 1985, and all work completed in January 1986.
The power house civil works and all equipment installation were completed by
March 31, 1986. The diversion tunnel was closed on April 8, 1985 and release of
water from the storage started on August 17, 1985. The transmission line was
completed under force account and porer supply to the grid commenced on January
23, 1986. The re-regulating dam was completed in all respects by March 3, 1986.
5.7       The implementation of the dam and appurtenances and power facilities
was generally free of problems and these facilities have been performing
satisfactorily after completion. The continuous monitoring of the dam through
recording of the instruments embedded in thi dam has shown no unusual behavior.
The spillway hydraulic performance has not been tested so far as the reservoir
has never attained an elevation higher than the spillway crest.



-9-
Irrigation Systems
5.8       ID executed the rehabilitation of the existing systems  and the
construction of the new system by force account, with assisttnce for detailed
designs by the consultants.   Though the list of construction equipment was
finalized and approved by GOM before the credit negotiations, delays occurred in
fin4lizing procurement contracts mainly due to time-consuming GOM prccedures for
evaluation and approval of awards. The commencement of the implementation was
also delayed due %.o the long time taken by GOM in the selection of consultants
(Section 11). Due to procurement delays and non availability of construction
drawings, the first construction season 1981-82 and half of the second season
1982-83 were lost. When work started ir. December 1982, GOM could not provide
sufficient diesel and proper lubricants to run the machines for optimum
production, and the shortage continued until 1988 when GOM finally agreed to the
persistent IDA recommendation to import crude oil and lubricants. Cement and
reinforcement bars also continued to be in short supply. Reinforcement bars
were imported both under IDA and OECF funding, though not originally provided.
IDA in 1989 agreed to ID payment for local cement in foreign exchange to obtain
supplies on priority.
5.9       The rehabilitation of the existing system  commenced in April 1985
within a pilot area of 20,000 acres. The new tertiary canals with gated control
offtake were introduced, running along the distributary canal, to which three to
four water courses were connected.   These water courses had no controlled
offtakes before rehabilitation and took off directly from the distributary.
These tertiaries created construction problems, occupied additional agricultural
la..d, and gave rise to water distribution problem among the connected water
courses. The arrangement was therefore not repeated in the entire system. For
all the systems:   (i) the distributary channel heads at the main canal were
provided with proper gated control and measuring devices; (ii) the commands of
the water courses serving more than _50 acres were split into smaller commands
having separate water courses for each; (iii) the drainage system capacity was
increased; and (iv) the roads along the distributaries and the main canal were
improved.
5.10      The implementation of the new left bank irrigation system was planned
in well defined sections designated E (distributaries 1 to 12) having 25,000
acres, C (distributaries 13 to 17) having 25,000 acres, D (distributaries 18 to
29 A) having 34,500 acres, and F (distributaries 30 to 34) having 29,000 acres.
With the completion of each section, irrigation water could be provided to the
crops, after the completion of the re-regulating weir and the left bank head
regulator. ID followed such phasing in implementation during the first three
working seasons, Section E having been completed by M4arch 1986, and Section C by
March 1987, but suddenly the strategy changed, on GOM instructions, and
concentrated on completing the entire main canal first without giving priority
to the work on the distributary systems. After completion of the main canal in
1988, efforts were made to finish the distributary systems, and these works could
only be completed by March 31, 1991. On the main canal, precast elements were
used for the road bridges. Trials were made on different types of lining and
brick lining was adopted for better quality of work.



- 10 -
Agricultural Extension and Crop Trials
5.11      Agricultural machinery for carrying out trials for non-paddy crops was
provided by GOM and also procured by HAS utilizing OECF funds. MAS allocated 100
acres within the 1,070 acre Shwedaung farm (established in 1982-83) located
centrally in the new irrigated area, and initially posted seven professionals
(total requirement was 21) to set up the farm to initiate trials for furrow
cultivation of cotton, sesame, and other non-paddy crops. Since completion of
the new irrigation system bringing water to the farm was getting delayed, two
tubewells were installed in 1984 (HAS provided funds outside the project) for
irrigation, but the water being saline, irrigation was not possible and
experiments had to be planned under rainfed conditions. rhe first trials were
conducted during the 1985 rainy season, when staff strength increased to 20.
Irrigation water became available from the new canal system in March 1987. By
this time proper land grading of the farm was complete, and HAS staff in full
strength and buildings became available. Trials under irrigation, carried out
for about four years, were handicapped by:  (i) insufficient initial planning and
coordination with the UNDP - assisted Lungyaw Central Farm for cotton research;
(ii) inadequate monitoring of soils to establish the crop inputs though initial
tests had indicated PH more than 8.5; (iii) shortage of fertilizer; (iv)
irrigation problems arising from damage to distribution canals; and (v) shortage
of diesel for land preparation. Trials conducted on cotton, sesame, chillies,
and onion over 3 years have shown good potential for the expansion of the area
under these crops. The experience gathered from these trials was passed on to
the extension staff for demonstration on the farmers' fields. The recommended
cropping patterns have been rice followed by rice, rice followed by sesame, and
chillies followed by onion for heavy soils, while for the lighter soils, the
cropping patterns recommended were cotton followed by chillies, cotton followed
by sesame, pulses followed by sesame, and onion followed by chillies. Pamphlets
were prepared for cotton cultivation in the project area.
5.12      HAS provided improved extension service in the existing system command
from the very beginning of rehabilitation.   For the new area, extension in
irrigated crops technology was also provided as the sections of the system were
brought under irrigation. The construction of buildings, godowns, and training
centers started in 1982, but could be completed only in 1989 due to shortage of
construction materials. Expatriate specialists were appointed in mid 1983 for
water management (24 months), in late 1984 for plant protection (12 months), and
in mid 1986 for cotton (one month). Fifty-one HAS professional staff out of the
planned 68 were in place since March 1, 1982. In the new irrigation area, crop
trials at Shwedaung farm and demonstration plots were mainly oriented to
increasing the area under cotton and sesame. Demonstrations at farmers' fields
for cotton in rotation with legumes and oilseed crops started from 1983-84 crop
in each of the four townships (Kyaukse, Tada-U, Myittha, and Wundwin), on the
basis  of  the  recommendations  of GOB/UNDP/FAO  Cotton Development  Project
(BUR/78/001). During 1984-85 and 1985-86, 75 demonstrations for 11 different
crops were carried out. During 1986-87, 42 demonstrations for 23 main and 19
secondary crops were carried out. An expatriate extension specialist assisted
HAS in the field operations for about 3 months during 1984. In the old irrigated
area, crop trials started in 1983 for paddy, cotton, and onions. Yields of paddy
during trials on the farmers' fields were obtained at a maximum of 3.5 ton/ha.
Shortage of fertilizer, however, generally affected the trials and yields were
lower.    Since  pre-monsoon  cotton  results  were  discouraging,  the  field



- 11 -
demonstrations aimed at eliminating pre-monsoon cotton in the heavy soils area,
increasing HYV pre-monsoon and monsoon paddy, and introducing post-monsoon
cotton.   In the area of lighter soils, the demonstrations were targeted to
eliminate local paddy, promote medium staple cotton and other cash crops such as
sesame, chillies, and onions. NAB supported the agriculture extension efforts,
providing credit to the farmers at Kyats 220 per acre for HYV paddy and Kyats 160
per acre for cotton. During 1989-90, MAB provided about Kyats 6 million credit
to the p-oject area farmers for crops, and about Kyats 0.4 million for medium
term loans.
Land Improvement and Reallocation
5.13      The strengthening of AMD's capacity for land clearing and rough
levelling in the new irrigation area, provision of agricultural machinery repair
services to the farmers and assistancc in land preparation for crops, was
considerably delayed due to the slow procurement of tractors and implements,
repair workshop equipment and sheds, and shortage of the required construction
materials. By December 1984, however, AMD was fully mobilized with additional
equipment and completion of repair workshops and other buildings, although it was
still not in a position to prepare a detailed land clearing plan due to the
uncertainty regarding the availability of diesel.  Proper utilization of the
equipment, which commenced in January 1985, could not be made due to shortage of
diesel and when water became available in area E in May 1986, rough land leveling
had still to be completed in about half the area needing improvement.   The
machinery remained mostly idle in 1986 due to non availability of diesel. The
land clearance requirement   for areas C, D, and F were mostly met through
farmer's own efforts. However, diesel supplies improved during 1989, and AMD
carried out land clearing on 5,781 acres and rough land levelling on 889 acres
(limited to lands flatter than 22 slope). The farmers are keen to avail the AMD
services for land preparation as AND charges are relatively low, but AND is
unable to meet the demand due to diesel shortage.
5.14      SLRD carried out reallocation of 107,421 acres in four townships
(44,387 in Wundwin; 24,564 in Myittha; 35,510 in Tada-U; and 2,960 in Kyauk-Se),
comprising 103,897 acres of agricultural land and 3,524 acres of culturable waste
land (does not include 500 acres for resettlement), to 17,592 farmers in the new
irrigated gross command area of 149,946 acres (civil works occupied 7,168 acres
and non-agricultural land 35,357 acres). Since reallocation required updating
of the cadastral maps by physical verification of areas lost to canals and drains
and involved decisions from the various Township Committees, SLRD, in spite of
best efforts, could not complete the reallocation before the availability of
water by sections of the irrigation system. About 120 farmers lost cultivation
rights in 1982, when Shwedaung farm was established, but reallocation of land to
these families was not required as MAS took them as farm labor. The project did
not provide funds to SLRD for reallocation of land, except in 1989-90, when Kyats
593,075 were spent. During 1986-87 and 1987-88, SLRD used its own funds. The
number of farmers increased from 17,245 before the project to 17,592, not
including 94 families resettled from the reservoir.
Water Management
5.15      The water management and development of irrigated agriculture in the
new area was planned on the basis of a unit area of 2.5 acres (maximum furrow



- 12 -
length 330 ft.), a water course irrigating 96 acres, with farm turnout for every
8 acres. A mathematical model of both the old Kinda system and the new left bank
system was made operational by the expatriate consultants for determining weekly
water deliveries at the different control locations. These computer programs
remained unutilized for about two years after -us departure of the consultants
(as security deteriorated in the area during 1988, necessitating shifting of the
computer to a safe place) but were brought back into use recently. During 1987-
88, only about 7,350 acres of new area were brought under irrigation, though
irrigation system was completed for 50,000 acres. The area, however, increased
gradually to 21,800 acres during 1990-91.  The development of irrigation is,
therefore, slow. In general, the water application for the crops has been high
as evidenced by the crop areas achieved and the overall volume of water released
into the system. MAS has since prcmoted the fc-mation of farmers' groups on each
water course for efficient management of water on the farm. About 1,113 farmers'
groups are functioning in the new irrigated area, but need to be strengthened
further. The farmers and HAS staff are being trained at the Training Center and
at demonstration plots for proper application of water.  During 1990-91, 64
training sessions were held for various aspects of crop technology benefitting
about 3,700 farmers. Sixteen training sessions were also held for about 200 MAS
staff.
Training
3.16      The consultants for the Dam trained 8 ID civil engineers in their home
office in design of civil works and 3 ID mechanical engineers in the design of
hydromechanical equipment for a period of 3 to 4 months each.  In addition,
overseas study tours were arranged for two senior ID staff. The consultants also
arranged a training program in Myanmar including lectures/seminars on specific
topics (Hydrology, Flood Forecasting, Recording dam instrumentation data and its
analysis, etc.) for about 30 ID/MEPE engineers. Overseas training for eight MEPE
engineers was provided by the consultants for power generation facilities at
their home office, three were trained in civil designs, three in mechanical
designs, and two in electrical designs.   The consultants for the irrigation
system provided training in their home office to three ID engineers in design of
irrigation structures and to four ID engineers in design of drainage works for
a period of 3 to 4 months each. Extensive local training was also provided by
the consultants in application of mathemat cal model/computer program for water-
management to one ID engineer and all the ID technical assistants in charge of
the operation of the irrigation systems. MAS staff did not receive overseas
training under the project as HAS was able to avail of other training programs.
GOM did not favor training of the HAS staff overseas by utilizing borrowed money
and depended only on grant funds.
Groundwater Investigations
5.17      The  groundwater  investigations  to  establish  the  possibility  of
irrigation of crops in five potential areas commenced in Myanmar in 1978 under
the UNDP Umbrella Project. Its Phase I was completed in 1980, when 9 of the 31
wells tested during the phase were made operational for pilot studies. Based on
these studies, Groundwater Project (IDA Credit 1381-BA) was taken up for
constructing 106 tubewells (spope increased later to 120 wells). The project
will close in June 1992. Further investigations were supported under the Kinda
project through procurement of drilling rigs, well components, pumps, and other



- 13 -
auxiliary equipment. The Groundwater Project II feasibility report was comple.ed
by the consultants (under the UNDP Umbrella Project) by June 1984. The project
was, however, deferred due to energy constraints and GOM intenticn to monitor the
impact of the first groundwater project for some time.
6.        Prolect Results
6.1       Overall the project was successful in achieving its objectives.  The
power national grid had an addition of 56 mw, about 8% of the total installation
of about 700 mw.  The power generation commenced five years after tie start of
implementation of works. Additional irrigation capacity has been created for
about 107,000 acres though development of irrigation is slow. Non-paddy crops
are being promoted through extension and field demonstrations.
Agricultural Impact
6.2       Old Systems:   With the introduction of controlled delivery of
irrigation water to the old systems, the farmers' reactions have been mixed.
They are unhappy with the reduction of the abundant supplies during the wet
season which they enjoyed earlier and happy with the assured supplies for the
second crop during the dry period. Though the total cropped area irrigated in
the old systems has not incraased as a result of rehabilitation and assured
irrigation supplies, the crop mix has changed, mainly in response to changes in
market prices of different crops.  The actual recorded total cropped areas
irrigated in the old systems have been consistently higher than the SAR pre-
project or without project figure of 110,100 acres, from 1981-82 (the yoar of
project commencement) to 1990-91 (the year of project closing) as shown below:
Y E  R  RRIATEI CBPP! WMAREA A_E. ONOL         Ow.O af.::QAT1WCROppiN
______  Y$TW~1T4I
1981-82                152,705                             173
1982-83                144 816                             164
1983-84                145,301                             165               l
1984-85                131,155                             :49           _  l
1985-86                127,224                             145               l
1986-87                132,77                              151l
1987-88                129.168                             147               l
1988-89                135,916                             154
1989-90                130,387                             148
1990-91                144,292                             164
(Year is from April 1 - March 31).
The SAR figures for irrigated crop areas under the old systems in the pre-project
situation and after regulation of flow by the dam are compared below with the
actual situation after availability of irrigation water from the dam:



- 14 -
ROOM__________           AW  E W                              W 'ACTUAL    CROPWPIN  ' - ' '. -".
Paddy - Local             40.5               20.6             .             .               .
Paddy -NYV                10.2               65.4            65.1         58.1            62.5          64.6
Cotton                    23.5               13.2            12.4         21.6            10.5          13.4
Chillies                   9.8               10.8             5.6          9.6            10.4           9.7
Sesame                    13.3               18.2            22.0         23.8            21.7          23.6
Onion                      5.4                8.8             4.8          6.6             8.7           7.6
Pulses                     7.4                5.4             8.6          8.0             7.5           5.6
Other Crop                                    2.2            10.6          8.2             9.0          19.8
A' -.                                                                  3             130.3' ': -*   - 144.3
X Cropping Inesiy         125                164             147           154            148           164
(ALL figures in thousand acres).
With the project, the local paddy has been abandoned and the expected HYV area
already achieved, areas for sesame and pulses have been exceeded, and those of
chillies  and  onions  close  to  expectations.    Cotton  planting,  however,  is
irregular.
6.3         New Svstemss   In the new irrigation system, the irrigated crops have
developed at a slow rate compared'to the SAR expectations:
~~~~~~~~iio-,                                   rss. tes        Ia..   "1e   ss
.;.::A             EA            : :   L .". e':;m-;-
Paddv - Local              5.6              5.0                             .                     |
Paddy - HYV                                16.4             4.0            7.2          7.2
Cotton                     7.3             60.5             1.6            4.7          1.5
Chitlies                   8.6             19.6             0.7            2.8          3.1
Sesame                    20.6             38.5             3.0            4.2          3.9
Pulses                    27.9             15.1             2.1            2.4          3.4
Onion_                                      9.9                                                  1
Others                     3.9              7.7             0.3            0.9          1.2
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..j. .......w,. ;,
X Cro  ing Intensity      72              161              24             44           52
All tigures in thousand scres).



- 15 -
The rate of development has been low due to the delay in the completion of the
irrigation systems (by Mazch 1987, the potential had been developAd for 50,000
acres only which did not increase till March 1991) and shortage of fertilizers.
6.4       Proiect Area:  The actual irrigated and rainfed crop areas for the
entire project area for the different crops for the years 1981-82 to 1990-91 are
shown in F4gure 1, along with the areas expected at full development in 1999-
2000.   The figure also gives the situation of rainfall,  inflow into the
reservoir, supply of urea, TSP, and supply of credit by MAB. The rising trend
of the paddy, sesame, onion. and chillies irrigated areas can definitely be
recognized though there are variations which are not possible to correlate with
the rainfall, inflow into the reservoir or availability of fertilizers.  The
areas for irrigated cotton, groundnut, and pulses (includes all other crops) have
varied significantly.  The variation of the rainfed crop areas is also very
significant. The actual crop yields during 1981-82 to 1990-91 and anticipated
yields at full development are also shown in Figure 1. The yields show irregular
patterns as well. For the purpose of PCR estimation of agricultural benefits
(crop areas and yields) under the project, the figures given in Annex 2 (also
shown in Figure 1) have been used.  The year 1981-82 has been taken as the
"Without Project" situation. The SAR areas without project and yields are lower
than 1981-82 figures.   The PCR analysis is, therefore, conservative.   HAS
anticipates that by the year 2000, full development of irrigated agriculture
(crop areas and yields) would be about the same as expected in the SAR. PCR
anticipation, however, is based on reduced cotton area (compared to SAR) and
increased sesame area, which is based on actual trends.   Although the low
reservoir inflow experienced so far and the ID complaints of power releases by
MEPE without allowing for irrigation demand create doubts whether the irrigated
agriculture would develop in the acreage anticipated and whether expected yields
will be achieved, given the shortage of fertilizers and agro-chemicals, no better
assessment can be made under the current uncertain prevailing conditions in the
country. Incremental production at full development is estimated at 92,950 tons
of paddy, 34,580 tons of cotton, 7,680 tons of sesame, 8,730 tons of chillies,
32-330 tons of onion, 8,490 tons of groundnut, and a reduction of 4,340 tons of
pulses.
Power Benefit
6.5       Power generation under the project commenced in 1986.  Due to lower
than anticipated yearly inflows (either due to optimistic initial ass3ssment or
due to prolonged drought in the country), the energy generated at the powe- house
bus bars, when compared to an expected annual average of 165 Gegawatt - hours
(GWH), was:
i~~ ~  .    ...  . .........................     ,:         
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .B. :: ..  .:.:::Y'::... -:-   -   -  ...:..:.f  : 
1986 - 1987               97.32
1987 - 1988               119.30
1988- 1989               108.74
1989 1990                110.38
1990 - 1991               113.78
Year is April 1 - March 31.



- 16 -
The benefit of even this reduced generation has been significant.  The power
generation was generally confined to four to eight hours of peak demand. Peak
generation during the four years 1986-87 to 1989-90 was 39.4, 44.1, 35.7, and
44.2 mw respectively. MEPE has been using its 12 gas turbines (about 12 to 22
mw each) and 5 diesel units (about 19 mw each) for meeting peak loads. With gas
commitments for other uses and overall gas shortage in the country, had Kinda
generation not been available, MEPE expenditure on diesel oil alone during 1990-
91 (US$1/gallon for cost of diesel and consumption of 0.314 liters per KWH) would
have been about Kyats 79 million. The PCR economic analysis is, however, based
on the assumption that the annual power generation would reach 165 GWH in 1994-95
and continue at that level in later years. The benefits are calculated at the
existing average tariff of 0.48 Kyats per KWH (Bank Sector Study of June 1,
1991), the distribution losses being taken at 20Z.
Fisheries Develonment
6.6       The exploitation of the Kinda lak^ for commercial fisheries started
only in 1990-91 by Myanma armed forces who do not allow private fishing due to
security problems. The quality of water has been monitored continuously by MEPE
since the formation of the reservoir for oxygen content and other parameters
affecting fish culture. Nothing has been observed so far which would inhibit
fish development.  The 1990-91 fish catch was only about 1,600 tons (100,000
vis), but is expected to be doubled by 1994-95 and maintained at that level
thereafter.   The fish fetches a net income of about Kyats 100 per vie (3.6
pounds), which is used in the PCR, for calculating the benefit from fisheries.
Impact on the Environment
6.7       The impact of the dam and reservoir, the new irrigation network and
other activities under the project on the environment has been generally
positive. The mitigation of earlier flood damage and availability of river flow
all through the year inducing the development of riverine life are the main
favorable impacts. Rainfall and stream gauge recorders transmitting the data to
the power house control room provide prediction of floods/inflow. Introduction
of irrigation to the new areas has created no adverse health problems.
TraininR Impact
6.8       Training provided to ID staff under the project has strengthened ID
capacity for design of civil works and hydromechanical equipment. MEPE similarly
got strengthened in planning for power generation and MAS for extension in
irrigated crops and for conducting trials to promdote non-paddy crops.
Investment Costs and Rate of Return
6.9       The total project cost (US$270 million) was about 151 higher than the
SAR estimate (US$235 million) mainly due to: (i) higher contract cost of civil
works for the dam and power generation facilities; (ii) higher cost of
consultancy services for these works; and (iii)  higher cost of irrigation
component resulting from the much longer period of construction and large
increase in the cost of materials and labor after 1988. The cost in foreign



- 17 -
exchange (US$156 million), however, remained close to the SAR estimate (US$158
million).   The re-estimated ERR is expected to be about 16% for the project
without power component.  With power included, the re-estimated ERR for the
entire project is expected to be 14Z against the SAR estimate of 21.3%. The re-
estimated net farm income for a typical 5 acre farm is Kyats 32,423, compared to
the appraisal estimate of Kyats 18,259 for a 5 acre farm in non-paddy area
brought under irrigation.   The increase is due to higher financial prices
prevailing after liberalization of agricultural policies.
7.        Pi.)Ject Sustainabilitv
7.1       overall, the project is considered sustainable.  However, some doubts
have arisen regarding the availability of water to the extent anticipated, since
the annual inflow into the reservoir since the beginning of storage in April 1985
has not exceeded 66% of the anticipated average annual inflow. Though the past
few years have been relatively dry years all over Central Myanmar, the
possibility of errors in the basic data used in the initial analysis of runoff
could not be ruled out. The extent to which irrigated crops could develop would
depend directly on the annual inflow and its distribution. Water management at
the farm, therefore, becomes a critical factor and the maximum possible
utilization of rainfall would be necessary. The reservoir water would have to
be conserved to the maximum possible extent during the rainy season when the
hydropower station may have to remain closed. This would require ensuring strict
discipline on the part of MEPE and non-interference by GOM in its operations.
Farmers, already grouped by water courses, have to be continuously trained and
encouraged to practise efficient distribution of water among themselves and to
safeguard against wasteful irrigation.   The extension service for irrigated
agriculture has to be strengthened further and policy decisions need to be taken
to induce farmers to non-paddy crops having relatively smaller evapo-
transpiration requirements.
7.2       Monitoring of the safety of all the project dams and other civil
structures is being carried out at suitable intervals and has to be continued to
assure timely detection of problems, if any, and to implement remedial measure
expeditiously. The review by an expatriate expert of the performance of the dam
and appurtenant structures at a suitable interval (say 5 years) needs to be
arranged.
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)
7.3       The responsibility for O&M of project facilities is shared between ID
and MEPE. ID is responsible for monitoring the safety of the dam and appurtenant
structures; flood forecasting; and maintenance of the dams, civ4l works for
hydropower  (other than powerhouse),  and the  irrigation  system.   The O&M
organization is adequate. Allocation of funds for O&M for 1991-92 is about Kyats
13 million which ID considers sufficient. ID also is responsible for routing
the flood through the reservoir including operation of the spillway gates, but
ID does not control the outflow through the turbines. ID provides to MEPE weekly
indents for releases from the dam to meet irrigation requirements which forms the
basis for MEPE decision for the running of the turbines. The power station is
operated by MEPE for peak demands for about four to eight hours per day. MEPE



- 18 -
maintains all the electrical works and civil works of the power station.
Sufficient staff is available. The allocation of O&M funds is adequate. The
MEPE expense for O&M is also of the order of Kyats 13 million per year.
Cost Recovery
7.4       Cost recovery from the farmers for O&M of the dam and irrigation
systems is being effected through average land tax of about Kyats 2.5 per acre
(variation from Kyats 8 per acre for first class paddy land to Kyats 0.5 per acre
±n upper Myanmar) and irrigation charge of Kyats 10 per acre. In addition, the
dealers trading in farm products, with turnover in excess of K1O,000 per month
have to pay sales/profits tax.   The cost of O&M of electrical works  for
generation, transformation, and transmission (considered for the power grid as
a whole) are not fully recovered from the power tariff. The DCA provided for
14.5X increase in tariff which GOM implemented in 1980-81.  During 1989, GOM
carried out another increase in the electricity tariff. The current tariff level
still does not provide full racovery of the O&M cost.
8.   Bank Performance
8.1       The Bank exercised appropriate caution in the technical evaluation of
the project as evidenced by the conclusions of the 1976 appraisal mission
(para 4.1) and the subsequent Bank support for the GOM decision to carry out
another detailed feasibility study, ucilizing the funds available from another
Bank financed project. Though during the 1979 Bank appraisal of the project an
experienced hydrologist was entrusted to review the crucial factor of hydrology
governing the quantum of project benefits (as established by the consulting
firm), the actual inflow during the period 1981 to 1991 indicates that the Bank
should have been more conservative in establishing the anticipated runoff. To
ensure speedy implementation of the project, the Bank facilitated an early
completion of the approach road to the dam by agreeing to retroactive financing
and repeat order for road construction equipment on the basis of contracts
awarded under another Bank financad project. Being convinced that the dam and
appurtenant work could not be efficiently handled by force account, the Bank had
the uphill task of convincing GOM that these works should be implemented by an
experienced contractor. Though GOM hesitatingly agreed to ICB for the selection
of the contractor, GOM was later happy with the decision because of early
completion of the dam and commencement of power generation. In retrospect, the
Bank should have insisted on the execution of .he new canal system by contract
as well which would have eliminated the long delay in its completion, requiring
extensions of the credit closing date. Use of an expatriate contractor for the
new irrigation system would have resulted in early accrual of benefits from
irrigated agriculture replacing rainfed cultivation. The Bank supervised the
project at half yearly intervals, observed the discussions of the Panel of
Experts and assisted the Borrower in making technical decisions.   The Bank
continuously impressed on GOM the need to overcome the acute shortage of diesel
oil and lubricants through import in order to accelerate the progress of
irrigation works. These efforts, however, succeeded only in 1988 when GOM agreed
to import crude oil for meeting the requirements of all the IDA-financed
projects. To assist the Borrower in relieving the shortage of fertilizer for the



- 19 -
1991 paddy crop, the Bank agreed to the import of 20,000 tons of TSP under the
project.
9.   Borrower Performance
9.1       The Borrower was all through very seen to implement the project on
time and with maximum diligence possible, but could not meet properly the
challenge resulting from an acute shortage of diesel oil and other construction
materials, and could not define the priorities in an effective manner.   The
Borrower, assisted by the consultant, gave maximum priority to the implementation
of the dam, its appurtenant works, and the power generation facilities which were
executed on contract. Lacking the experience of managing civil works contracts,
the Borrower had to depend heavily on the consultants' advice. The Borrower was
also extremely cautious in avoiding a situation which could lead to contractor
claims.   The materials and services to be supplied by the Borrower were,
therefore, delivered in full quantity on time even at the cost of the progress
of the other works under force account execution. The Borrower co:ld not provide
diesel, proper quality lubricants, cement, and reinforcement bars to match the
construction schedule for the irrigation and drainage works.   The Borrower,
however, agreed in 1988 to the persistent DA recommendation to import crude oil
for refining at the Borrower's refinery and proper quality lubricants to meet the
shortage. The Borrower also agreed to the overseas procurement of reinforcement
bars (imported bars were found to cost about 50% of the indigenous supply at the
official exchange rate) and resorted to payment in foreign exchange for the
supply of indigenous cement after obtaining Bank concurrence. Faced with the
acute shortage of fertilizer, the Borrower requested the Bank for procurement of
20,000 tons of fertilizer under the project and the Bank having agreed, the
fertilizer was procured in time for the 1991 monsoon crops.
9.2       The Borrower's procedures for evaluation of bids and approval for
award of contracts for the supply of equipm3nt and materials as well as for the
appointment and selection of consultants were too time-consuming and resulted in
a delay in the start of irrigation works. The Borrower entering into consultancy
contracts for the first time introduced supplementary requirements at the
negotiation stage resulting in a delay in the procurement of consultants for the
irrigation component.
9.3       Since the designs of the civil works were mostly carried out at the
consultant's office in Myanmar, the Borrower personnel profited from their
association. The technology transfer could have been more effective had the
Borrower technical staff been given concentrated refresher courses prior to being
attached to the consultants.  For the irrigation works carried out by force
account with detailed designs prepared by the expatriate consultants, the
Borrower did not provide suitable staff to guide the consultants and give
decisions on their recommendations, in spite of the long history of irrigation
in the country and well established ID guidelines for the irrigation works. The
counterpart Borrower staff, however, provided adequate detailing effort in the
preparation of working drawings.
9.4       The use of consultants and the Borrower's own staff resulted in the
administrat.on costs given below:



- 20 -
ENGINEERING    TOTAL
CONSULTANCY  ADMINISTRFATI  ADMINISTRATI  PERCENTAGE
INVESTMENT COST    COST      ON           ON           ADMINISTRATI
tUS$ MILUON)    MS$ MIWIONy    COST      AND DESIGN   ON
(US$ MILUON)  COST           COST
.__________________________  :._._____._._. _.   US$   M ILLION)
Cam and Appurtenances     101.22           5.58        2.60          8.18         8%
Power Generation Facilities  51.41         3.84       10.63         14.47        28%
Irrigation FaciLities     59.41            2.23        9.88         12.11        21%
The administration (including design) costs are high for both the irrigation and
power facilities.   The high administrative costs for irrigation works are
attributable to force account, the permanent operators and mechanics being borne
on establishment. The operating and maintenance staff also remained idle when
sufficient diesel and lubricant could not be given to the project. For the power
generation facilities also, the costs are high as all the MEPE technicians and
other staff are borne on establishment.
9.5       The Borrower could not carry out the bench mark agro-economic surveys
ir 1981 and repeat the surveys at two year intervals to assess the project
impact. The initial survey was carried out as late as 1987.
10. Proiect Relationship
10.1      Throughout implementation, the project was marked by the most cordial
relationship between the Bank and GOM, although there were serious differences
on the issue of diesel oil and lubricants availability until GOM decided to
import these.
11. Consultine Services
11.1      The project had a significant provision for expatriate consulting
services (para 3.2). Annex 3 gives the salient features of these consultancies,
manner of procurement,  and source of funding.   Except for the KfW-funded
consultancy for power generation facilities and NORAD-funded Paunglaung and MEPE
power planning consultancy, all consultancies were funded under IDA.  On the
whole, excellent services were provided by the consultants and their relations
with the implementing agencies were very good.
11.2      The report by the consultants for Paunlaung Multipurpose Project has
recently been updated by MEPE, which is exploring funding for the execution of
the project. The contract for the Paunlaung consultancy also included the study
of MEPE planning and operations. The study recommendations resulted in the IDA-
funded Power Project (Credit 1245-BA of June 28, 1982) for constructing
additional transmission lines and substations. The other recommendations of the
study were for reduction of generation and transmission costs, reduction of
losses in distribution and additicnal system protection MEPE has been gradually
implementing these recommendations.



- 21 -
11.3      Selection of consultants for the irrigation system was considerably
delayed affecting the commencement of work on the irrigation components.
Negotiations with the firm which submitted the best evaluated technical proposal
could not resul  in a contract as GOM insisted (outside the TOR) that the
consulting firm agree to a professional liability clause which the firm refused.
Negotiations were later held with the firm providing the second best technical
proposal. This firm agreed to the professional liability clause and entered into
the consu'ltancy contract. There were minor problems with the consultants and the
team leader had to be changed. On the whole, however, the consultants provided
good service.
11.4      For consultancies for agriculture development, HAS contracted the
various expatriate experts on the basis of contacts with the individuals known
in the respective fields. The water management specialist provided assistance
to MAS from May 1983 to May 1985, the extension specialist from July to October
1984, the plant protection specialist from October 1984 to October 1985, and a
cotton specialist during May and June 1986. MAS reduced the period for these
expatriate specialists envisaged under the project and also omitted the
expatriate specialists for cotton ginning, paddy storage and milling as these
expertise became available to MAS from other sources, and GOM did not want to use
IDA borrowed money for the expatriate experts.
11.5      ID made attempts to contract a suitable consultant for risk analysis
and related insurance requirements, but due to high consultancy costs and
indications of a high insurance cost, GOM decided not to pursue the study.
Insurance during construction was, therefore, not taken.  MEPE is currently
insuring the power generation facilities with the Hyanma Insurance Enterprise.
12. Prolect Documentation and Data
12.1      The appraisal report provided a useful framework for both the Bank and
Borrower to review project implementation.   Excellent project records, cost
accounting system, and procurement documentation were maintained by the ID, MEPE,
HAS, AMD, and SLRD to identify expenditure by components and implementation
details.  HAS also recorded the irrigated and rain-fed crop areas under the
project.  Data required for the PCR was promptly provided by the implementing
agencies.



PROJECT COSPLETTIOl REPORT
KINDA (NYAUINGGTAT) DAN MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT - IDA CREDIT 1031-8A
Proiect molteaentation
PROCiUE  FOR    IIlIETATIOU         TEiNER       IWLEIENTED      EXElTfIC
PROJEC CT UOEIIT                       WUS UDES THE CIFONEIT                   i ENt CR           DESIGNS IIII     DORENTS           BY         StPERVISED IT
_IIBTEuATloN        PUNS 3?       PREPAREO B
DAM                        Access Road - Construction Equipment           Repeat Order          -ID
Access Road - Civil Uorks                    FA                ID                            ID              to
*1W                                  Construction Cap                          FA               ID                             ID             10
APIRTEIAIT                                 Resettlement                            FA               RC                            RC              RC
Civil I orks - Lot 1                      ICe              CFO             CFD           CONT          CFO, ID
WIOKS                        Spituay end Outlet Gates - Lot ZA                 ICe               CFO            CFO           COlT           CFD, ID
PONER                                Civil Works - Lot 1                       ICi              CFO             CFO           COKT          CfD, KEPE
GENERATION FACILITIES              Penstocks, Gates, Cranes, etc. - Lot 2             IT               CFO             CFD           COST          CFO, IEPE
AMI 0T1OPO                             Turbines etc.  Lot 3                        LT              CFD             CFO           COST          CFD. IEPE
SUWTCilARD                           Generators etc. - Lot 4                      LT               CFO            CFO            CONT        CCFO, KEPE
TRAUISSII LINE                            Naterials - Lot 5                         iT               CFT             CFT           WEPE
KISDA - TUAZI                                 Erection                             FA               CFT                           MEPE         SEPt, CFT
IRRIGATiON                    Construction Equipment an  Spare Parts           ICB, LT                             ID             ID
SYSTENS                    Imported Construction laterials and Getes          ICB. LT                            ID             ID              -
NEW AM  RERABILITATED                    Civil llorks lplementation                    FA               CFi              -             ID           ID, CFI
AGRICULTIRE                    Agricultural Nachinery and Irplements              LT                               NAS            HAS             --
Bultdings                             FA               CC                            CC              HAS
JEAWLWP'HT                    Trials, Deamnotrat ions, Farmer Training            FA               HAS                            HAS            HAS
LAW DEVLOPNENT AND                    Tractors and Workshop Equipment                 LT                               AND            AND              -
REALLOCATION                            Vorkshop Buitdings                         FA               CC                             CC             AN) D
is OEm                           Land Clearing and Levelling                    FA               AND                       - AND               AND
AREA                                    Reallocation                           FA              SLRD                           StRD            SLRD      un s
IRUmTE EXPLORATION                          Equipnt and Naterials                       ICB                            to, CFG          ID                          C D
rt X
PROCN IENT                                   Crude Oll                            ICB                              PC             PC              --
Fertilizer                           ICe                              N HAS          HAS                       0



PROJECT COIPLETION REPORT
KINDA INTAUNGGYAT) DAR IULTIPt POS! PRCJECT - IDA CREDIT 1031-BA
Prolect lelament"tion
|______ _C_   C ON  TR2ACT   A N O U N T
PROIECT COPOENT                            RK5IS U"ER THE COIPXEUT                 W"KISSISILITI                                                     LORENWI  LOCAl
:ERTTIFID UT       FUUS             (NULLIWI)                  (NIUON)
DMN                          Access Road - Construction Equipwnt                 10             IDA               USsa.53                       ..
Access Road - Civil Works                     -.              .      
AND                                   Construction Caop                          .               .                   ..
APPURTEUAUT                                  Resettlement                                            -.                  .                          .
Civil Works - Lot 1                        CfO            IDA                  3/                         3/
WORKS                          SpilIlay and outlet Gates - Lot 2A                 CfO            IDA              S.F. 4.809                  KO.762
POUER                                 Civil Works - Lot 1                         CfD            KfU                  5/
6EERATIOR FACILITIES                Penstocks, Gates, Cranes, etc. - Lot 28               CfD            KfU              ON 16.022                    C1.448
AND CUMDOOR                             Turbines etc.   Lot 3                        CfO            KfW              ON 15.294                   K2.274
SUITCNIAR                              Generators etc.   Lot 4                      CfO             KfU             ON 29.829                    K4.758
TRAMSMISSIU LINE                             Materials - Lot 5                         NEPE            KfU        ON 2.528 - JY 162.213                .
YINDA - TNI'U                                   Erection                               ..             .. -.                                          ..
IRRIGATIOM                     Construction Equilpment and Spare Parts               10          IDA, OECF    USSI.756 - JT 2457.33                ..
SYSTEMS                     lrported Construction Materials and Gates               ID         IDA. OECF      USS1.33 - JT 404.94                 .
NEW AMl RENHWILITATED                      Civil Works tapletentation                     -.              ..                  .. -.
ARICLILTRE                      Agricultural Machinery and Iplements                HAS            OECf              ST 13.56             _
Buildings                             HAS             ..                  ._                         ..
DEVLOIPEUT                     Trials, Demonstrations  Farmer Training               -.              .                   .                          -a
LAND DEVELiPNEWT AR3                    Tractors and Workshop Equipment                  AND            OECf              Jr 189.73                                       > 
REALLOCATION                              Workshop Uulidings                         AND             ..                  .._                        --_ __
IN NEU                             Lund Clearing and Levellfng
AREA                                     Reallocation                             ..                                 .                          .-
6ROSWM9ATER EXPLRATION                        Equipment and Naterials                       ID            IDA
PROCREUENT                                     Crude Olt                             PC             IDA               USS5.28                       . -
Fertilizer                            HAS             IDA              US$4.04



PROJECT COMIPLET ION REPORT
KINDA (NYAJUGGYAT) DAN WJLTIPURPOSE PROJECT   IDA CREDIT 1031-BA
Prolect Imolementation
_____________________                                           IUtACIML CO5T                                         PERIOD Cf IMPLEMENTATI                  _
PROJECT COMPONENT               IKMS UDER TilE C_PNT                         FOREIGN               LOCAL               FRo                        TO
_______,;__________  ..              . >  ;(MILLION)          (MILLION)           W. 0. T.                 N. D. T.           REMARKS
DMN                Access Road - Construction Equ1imtnt               US#0.53                 --              09/18/80                 10/05/80              1/
Access Road - Civit Works                                         K 27.5                80                       82
AND                         Construction Camp                                               K8.7                 80                       82                 2/
APPURTENAHT                        Resettlement                                                K 0.80             10/29/80                 06/26/81
Civil Works - Lot I                      US#61.91              K 80.80            06/13/81                 03/23J86              3/
LORKS                Spitluy and Outtet Gates - Lot Z.               SF 5.039              K 0.762       5V/7/82 - 04/07/82       04/08/86 - 10/16/85        4/
POWER                       Civit works - Lot 1              1        USS18.72              K 40.29            06/13/81                 03/23/86              ,/
GENERATION FACILITIES      Penstocks, Gates, Cranes, etc. - Lot 2B            OM 17.013             K 1.524       01/09/82 - 01/09/82      09/01/85 - 03/31/86        6/
AND OUTDOOR                    Turbines etc. - Lot 3                     Om 15.851             K 2.274            02/07/82                 03/31/86              7/
sUiICURo                     Generators etc. - Lot 4                    ON 33.061             K 5.032             06/04/82                 03/31/86             8/
TRANSMISSION LINE                   Materials - Lot 5                 DO  2.528 - JY 162.213         -                  84                       86                 9J
KIUA - TlAZI                          Erection                                                                        85                        86                10J
IRRIGATION           Construction Equigzent and Spare Parts       US1 .756 - JY 2457.33                           06/03/82                 12/20/86             11/
SYSTEMS           Iqported Construction Materiats and Gates       US$1.33 - J1 404.94           -                  82                       86 6I
NEW AMD REHABILITATED            Civil Works I3plementation                                         K 239.3                82                       91t
AGNICLILTURE          Agricultural Machinery and lmpLements               JY 13.56                -_ 81                                        85                13/
Buitdings                                                  K 8.8                82                       89
DEVELOPNET           Trials, Demonstrations, Farmer Training                 --                   --                 82                       91                14J
LUAD 0EVElaPGNT AND           Tractors and Workshop Equipment                 JY 189.73               -                   81                       84
REAlLOCT104                     Workshop Buildings           .                                 K 2.13                81                       84            .      . 
IN NEW                   Land Clearlng and Levelling                                        K 1.94                86                       90            _
AREA                            Reallocation                              .                                       86                       91                16/
GN~N)IMTER EIIPIORATION    Equipnent awd Naterials                     US$1.203                                    Si 81                    84                17/
PROOIIENT                            Crude Oil                            US$5.28                                    Be 88                    89              ...
. _ ,,,Fertitlzer     _              US$4.04                                    90                        91



- 25 -                             PART ; Annex 1
Sheet 4 of 4
REMARKS FOR PROJECT IMPLEM4ENTATION TASLES
I/    3 contracts for equipment arid spares.
tr    Electric cabling for canp partly carried out by Lot 1 contractor.  He also supplied electricity and drinking
water (paid in VO 3).
3/    Initial contract USS66.389 million and Kyats 81.9 million.  Variation order 1 reduced foreign cost by factor
0.9621424.  Aerent 1 add   USS0.93 milltion and Kyats 2.9 million, VO 2 added tyats 1.24 *illion and VO 3
added USS8.19 million andKyats 15.91 million. The total contract value thus became USSr2.996 million and tKyet
101.99 million. Escelation costs according to agreed formulae.
hi    Excess paymt of USSO.229 million due to esctlation of cost. Tenders Issued to prequalified firma, were opened
on May 4, 19f aend contract signed on April 7, 1982 for USS4.810 million and cKyats 0.762 million.
a/    The Lot 1 contract provided for USS13.1 million aid Kyats 22.873 million for power facilities. A       nit I was
entirely for power, while variation order VO 3 Increased power cost byUSS16.645 million and Kyats 34.1 million.
hi    Original contract signed on January 9, 1982 for 01415.985 million wnd Kyats 1.478 million. A_enknt issued on
July4, 1983 forDOM.037million. TenderopFedonApril 24, 1981 (Germn firms onty). EscalatlonpeidDHiO.992
million ad Kyats 0.077 million.
Z/    Tenders opened April 23, 1981 (German firm  only).  Contract signed February 27, 1982 for 0041S.294 million,
Kyats 2.274 million.  Escalation paid DMO.558 million.
8/    Tenders opened (German firms only) April 24, 1981. Contract Signed Jure 4, 1982 for DH29.489 million and Kyats
4.702 million.  Amendment issued May 18,1984, DKO.343 million and Kyata 0.056 milLion.  An adden   for
electrical equipment of re-regulsting dam. Escalation paid 043.233 million, Kyats 0.274 million.
2/    lids open to Germn and Japanese firms - two contracts awarded Jure 12, 1984 for On 2.317 million, DK1O.210
million  nd two on June 14, 1984 for JY141.946 million and JY20.267 mitlion.  Erection cost not charged to
project.
IO,    Use of NPE construction equipnent for laying the line.
11/    Under OECF funding. there were 17 contracts for construction equipuent and spares (Y2092.28 million), 5
contracts for workshop machines (JY122.52 million), 11 contracts for spares only (JY184.45 mIliton), 2 contracts
for tire (JY47.29 million), and one contract for tools (JY1O.79 million). Against IDA funding, there were 6
contracts for construction equipmnt and spares (USS0.71 milLion), 13 contracts for spares only (USSO.82
million), 2 contracts for tires (USSO.14 million), 7 contracts for office and survey equipment (USSO.1 million).
11/    Against OECF funding, there were 2 contracts for gates etc. (JY286.48 million), one for reinforcemnt (JY112.25
million), and one for waterstops (JY6.21 million). Against IDA funding, there were 8 contracts for mteriaLs
(USS1.33 million).
fli    HAS awarded 4 contracts.
js     Cost included in administration.
sf    AD awarded 8 contracts.
jf/    Cost included in administration.
j       ID awarded 40 contracts.
ABBREVIATIONS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION TABLES
SF    a Swiss Franc                                     CFI  a  Consultant for Irrigation Systems
ON    a Oeutsh Mark                                     CFO  *  Consultant for Groundwater Studies
JY    a Japanse Yen                                     ID   *  Irrigation Department
USS   a US Dollar                                       HAS  a  Nyaum  Agriculture Services
CONT  a Contractor                                      IEPE *  H4yanns Electric Power Enterprise
FA    a  Force Account                                  AND  a  Agriculture Mechanization Department
ICB   a  International Competitive Bidding              SLRD *  Settlement and Land Records Department
LT    a  Limited Tender                                 PC   a  Petroleum  Corporation
CFD   a Consultent for da, etc.                         CC   a  Construction Corporation
CFT   a Corsultant for Transission Line                 RC   a  Resettlement Committe



- 26 -                        PART I: Annex 2
Sheet 1 of 3
PROIECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINDA (NYAUNGGYAT) DAM MULTIPURPOSE PBQJECT
CREDIT 1031-BA
PCR CROP AREAS (ACRES) AND
YIELDS (TON/ACRE) FROM 1981-82 TO 1990-91 AND
EXPECTATION AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
PA
Irrigated Areas          57,000 acres (1981-82 to 1983-84),
from 1984-85 to 1999-2000 increasing uniformly
from 57,000 to 107,400.
Irrigated Yields  -    1.15  (1981-82  to  1989-90),  from  1990-91  to  1999-2000
increasing uniformly from 1.15 to l.
Rainfed Area       -    6,000 acres (1981-82 to 1987-88);
6,000 to 11,700 acres (1987-88 to 1990-91); and
11,700 to zero (1990-91 to 1999-2000).
Rainfed Yields    -    0.62 all through.
C-OTTON
Irrigated Areas   -      31,500 (1981-82 to 1984-85);
31,500 to 12,100 (1985-86 to 1989-90); and
12,100 to 65,200 (1989-90 to 1999-2000).
Irrigated Yields  -    g.2  (1981-82 to 1989-90); and
0.49 to 0.6A  (1990-91 to 1999-2000).
Rainfed Area       -     8,500 (1981-82 to 1985-86),
8,500 to zero (1986-87 to 1999-2000).
Rainfed Yields    -    L.L2 all through.
SESAME
Irrigated Areas   -      16,500 (1981-82 to 1986-87); 20,000 to
26,500 (1987-88 to 1989-90); and
26,500 to 65,200 (1990-91 to 1999-2000).
Irrigated Yields  -    0.09 (1981-82 to 1989-90),
0.09 to 0.16 (1990-91 to 1999-2000).
Rainfed Crop       -     25,000 (1981-82 to 1987-88);
25,000 to 33,300 (1987-88 to 1990-91); and
33,000 to zero (1990-91) to (1999-2000).
Rainfed Yields    -    Q.05 all through.



2 27-                          PART I: Annex 2
Sheet 2 of 3
CHILLIES
irrigated Areas          4,000 (1981-82 to 1984-85);
4,000 to 13,500 (1985-86 to 1989-90); and
13,500 to 30,400 (1990-91 to 1999-2000).
Irrigated Yields  -      .13 (1981-82 to 1987-88); .13 to
.15 (1988-89 to 1989-90); and
.15 to .31 (1990-91 to 1999-2000).
Rainfed Areas      -    1,500 (1981-82 to 1985-1986),
1,500 to zero (1986-87 to 1990-91).
Rainfed Yields    -      .  all through.
ONION
Irrigated Areas   -    7,000 (1981-82 to 1988-89),
7,000 to 18,700 (1989-90 to 1999-2000).
Irrigated Yields  -    2.5 (1981-82 to 1988-89),
2.5 to 2.72 (1989-90 to 1999-2000).
Rainfed            -     500 (1981-82 to 1985-86),
500 to zero (1986-87 to 1988-89).
Rainfed Yields    -    2.07 all through.
GROUNDNUT
Irrigated Areas   -      1,500 (1981-82 to 1989-90),
1,500 to 9,900 (1990-91 to 1999-2000).
Irrigated Yields  -    0.94 (1981-82 to 1989-90),
0.94 to 1.29 (1990-91 to 1999-2000).
Rainfed Areas      -    4,000 to 6,000 (1981-82 to 1989-90),
6,000 to zero (1990-91 to 1999-2000).
Rainfed Yields    -    0.72 all through.



- 28--                        PART I: Annex 2
Sheet 3 cf 3
PULSE,S
Irrigated Areas   -       16,000 (1981-82 to 1987-88); 16,000 to
18,300 (1988-89 to 1989-90); and
18,300 to 20,500 (1990-91 to 1999-2000).
Irrigated Yields  -      0.17 (1981-82 to 1983-84);
0.17 to 0.26 (1984-85 to 1985-86);
0.26 (1986-87 to 1989-90); and
0.26 to 0.31 (1990-91 to 1999-2000).
Rainfed Areas       -     47,000 to 54,800 (1981-82 to 1989-90),
54,800 to zero (1990-91 to 1999-2000).
Rainfed Yields      -       .17 all through.



PROJECT CGPtETION REPORT
KINDA (MYAUNGGVAT) DAN MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT - IDA CREDIT 1031-BA
Project Consultancies
UESMIF        MfI          (MILLION) f   ILLOCA
|                          ;         ;                                     ~~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TO   U
|CM AND ApiFTEInACES AND POS   FACILITIES                        (FUNDED BY IDA FOR DAO  AND APPURTENANCES AND BY KFU fOR POlUER FACILITIES)
Definite Design and Construction SM!ervision                         Sole Source Contract        o              01/23/81        DM14.0a        K3.81
Professional Liability                                              Amenduent i to Contract       IEPE          01/30/82
Performance Monitoring, Training in OMN  and Dam Safety             Amencent 2 to Contract    ID, rEPE          03/15/85         DN1.79        K0.42
Training In Plant Operation. Monitoring Reservoir Uater             Amendnet 3 to Contract         MEPE         1?/15/87         DM1.63        KO.40
Ouality, Additional Inspection                                       -
Flood Forecasting, Telemetering etc.                                Amendnent 4 to Contract      ID. HEPE       02/18/87         DM1.38 6
. __________________                      __    _  _         Us$0.76 I_I_     _O
IRRIGATION S1STENS                                                         (FUNDED BY IDA)
Designs                                                           |      IDA Procedure       |      ID          06/25/82         DG4.16 | K0.70 
Uster llanagelcent                                                |       Sole Source               ID          09/06/86          N N.A.      N.A.
AGRICltLTURE iIEVELOlElT                                                    (FUNDED BY IDA)
Cotton Agronomist                                                 j      Direct Offer              H IAS    |   05/26/86          N.A.        N .A.
Plant Protection Specialist                                              Direct Offer              MAS          11/00/84           - *
Uater Management on Farm                                                 Direct Offer              HAS          05/00/83           ..
Agriculture Extension                                                    Direct Offer              HAS          07/00/84          N.A.       IN.A.
Cotton Gining, Paddy Storage and Milling                                   lNot Used                 .
OTHERl aNilSUTANCIES
Power Systems Planning and Operations                                   Limited Enquiry            MEPE         09/29/80         USS2.2        N.A.
Paunglang Nydropower Feasibility Study and Terders                      Limited Enquiry            MEPE         09/29/80         USM0          N.A.
Risk Analysis and Insurance                                                 Not Used               -                                .         . . -
Grondwater Exploratlon                                                      Not Used               ...                          .... ----     --
Kirda- Thazi Transmission Line                                             Not Used _          _   *               ----     |   *--    |I
Panel of Excerts                                                         Direct Offers       I              L  =    =     I-I=          =       ==
r                                                                                                                                    J s   *   *   |   |   n 1L



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINDA (NYAUNGGYAT) DAN MULTIPUkPOSE PROJECT   IDA CREDIT 1031-BA
Prolect Co_nultancies
.                                       TPX~~~~~~~~~~~~COSTCT  UR
CONSULTANCY    F0                                    foREIGN 4OCAL  tftPTED                     P$1           A
j (ILLICO)    (H4iLulO)          ONI(N/9W                  ATAL          RXR~
DA" AND APPOMTENAUCES AND PRPR FACILITIES                        (FUNDED BY IDA FOR DAN AND APFURTENANCES AND BY KFW FOR POIWER FACILITIES)
Definite Design and Constructior  L-,ervIsfon                                                     12J2418K           480        496.57          Q/
Professional Liability                    ____'2485                                                                  --_          -
Performance Monitoring, Training In O&M, and Dan Safety               DM17.90
._ _. __. _ - __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _ __. _ _. _ USS1.04  K4.2  11/00/87  ---       67-52  -
training in Plant Operation, Nonitoring Roservoir Uater                                                              ..          50.17
Quality. Additional lnsPection
Flood Forecasting, Telemetering etc.                                                              04/00/88             .         27.18
1-  -                                     _    _                            .   ..                         .                I~~~~~~~~~~~~I, 1
IRRIGATION SYSTES                                                         ( FUNDED BY IDA)
Designs                                                               003.82         KO.56       408/00/86           180         11.4           2t
Water Management                                                      DG_.74         r0.15   i   11/00/87                        22.5      .                          o
AGRICULTURE DEWIlOPIENT                                                   (FUNDED 8Y IDA)
Cotton Agronomist                                                    USS0.04         KO.001       06/00/86            48          1      _
Plant Protection Specialist                                          USS0.02         KO.002       10/0D/85            36         12             3/
Uater M4anagement on Farm                                            US$0. 10        KO.005       05/00/85            24         24             4/
Agriculture Extension                                                USSO.02    I   KO.003         10/00/84           15          3
Cotton Gining. Paddy Storage and iltling                          I     --      I       ..           ---               9   1    ---                  _
OTHER COLSULTANCIES
Power Systems Planning and Operatfors                                                             03/00/82                                     I/
Paunslang Hydropower Feasibility Study and Tenders                |OK41.38            N.A.        03/00/82            40          N.A.   ____
Risk Analysis and insurancme                     |                                     .              ...            |3|
Groundwater ExPloration                                           |             |      --            ---              40          ---          7J
Kinda - Thazi Ttransishion Line                                   |        *    |     --     |       -^-       |      40   |         -/
Panel of  Ixprts                                                                             I_  I                          I_I_YI
0



"ART  '. Annex 3
- 31
REMARKS FOR PROJECT CONSULTANCIES TABLES
0t  Consultant worked earlier on Feasibility Study and Preparation of Tender Documents.
1/  No cost liability.
I/  Propos ls were received from 8 short listed firm.  Contract rmaterialized with second rated firm.
I/   N/N Rate USS4,000.  Other expense at actual.
4/  H/N Rate USS4,200.  Other expense at actual.
I/   Funded by NORAD.   Open to Norwegian consultants only.   Only 3 firms short listed.   4EPE evaluated
proposals. TOR approved by IDA and NORAD.
0/ Given up. ID initiated recruiting consultants, but gave up since both consultancy and insurance costs were
too high.
ZI  Funded uider UNDP Umbrella Project.  Consultant was working under Phase 11 and Phase III Extension of
Groundwater Study. Kinda Project supported Phase 11 extension.
~/ Funded under another KfW pro,ect. Consultants were already working on the design of other tranrnission
inees.
2/  Funded uider IDA. Three specialists contracted for Rockfitl Dam, Geology, and Hydraulics.



350
6                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAD Crop Loas
300
Total Cropped Area.
2~~~~~~
Total Iigated Area.-                            - 250
-ho~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
194.700                                           -200   -
& , ~~~Waler Release.' 
.fr tiom Dam Starts                 /                        $ t Irrigation Systems Completed to Irrigate
150 
.  \                   /        ~~~~~~~135.O00lO    
ts _      \            /       tlt~~~~~11,500 
100
-                   -                       i - _  Agcultu  Policy                                                        Ful development -
u)  6 6 IL                             &    / r        lal
X   r e   \           R~~~~esen toir Olnlcw
S  44                                                                      Project
h _       0 o°   \closed                                                                                                                        - 50
;E  2|2                                            LX  19 S A HPCR Projection                                                   - -      -
o                                                                                            ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 04
ts  Oh         .-                                             r'.         O~~~~~~~~~~~~n  h  c
0              03              0              0                                      a0                                            |      0              ( zn | ") l oJ rD Q 
Project Completon Report                                                                             r 
Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project                       Sheol 1 ol a    Figure 1                     O-
Cr edit 1031-BA                                                                                 a
Aqrlculture Benefits                                                                             m



PART I: Figure 1
-33                                        Sheet 2 of 8
Project Completion Report
Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project
IDA Credit 1031-BA
Agnculture Benefits
| 4           Actual Pertormance                           PCR Projection
Paddy Areas & Yields
S lfrV: I   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I ____________
~~~~_                             _                   _    _  _     _
100_                                     __                      _    __
1PCR Analysi
90 
2 f ~~~I         I   .   I                        I
30
PCR Analysis I
I     -~~~~~~1~~-  -j     Y~~~~ield I
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2I
10  ~~~~~~~~~II                                ~        ~        PR Anaiysi
'ftld i                                   ito~~~~~~~~~I 



PART I: Figure 1
Sheet 3 of 3
- 34-
Project Completion Report
Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project
IDA Credit 1031-BA
Agnculture Benefits
Actual Perfornance                            PCR Prqoection 
Cotton Areas & Yields
110
1,!             I .       1                 I      i          I    1       
_  _                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~652
80         X.                   Ig I,I 
PCRAa"
10
00                                                                     CD   i  20   a     
M  -    -             s~b~                          .-             --    -
I                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iel
10                                       Area~~~~~~~~~~~~II            



PART I: Figure 1
-35-                                            qheet 4 of 8
Project Completion Report
Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project
IDA Credit 1031 -BA
Agnculture Benefits
Actual Performance                            PCR Projection
, ,0                                                                      Chillies Areas & Yields
_  s_1-1                    E__________                        sI; ___
X    ______                .__, _,__._,_.  _-___
40_   2     l         !    I    I    '    '    I    1          1    !         11   j *
20 I
0  0PC
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01
10                                                      R  A       Aaeiysis
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ae'I
M7J                                                             ~     ~    i       



PART I: Figure 1
-36-                                   Sheet 5 of 8
Project Completion Report
Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project
IDA Credit 1031-BA
Agnculture Benefits
Acctal Perfofmance                        PCR Proletion
ttO                                                                 Sesame Areas & Yields
I~                  _    ______          .    ..
1o,
90 1~ ~     I 
,iJ                                                                                  652 ; l l:      l 1t
sC ~      _ __ _ _ _                                         -  I    Ir1 1   CR   
60 L                                                      < > ,06
6  40 2z=   C=                "S                    |v--     
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ITl                                   0 I.1{.11
co  IC*  do                 0   Cs                  0.05~~~~~~~~~ytw.* 
10             ~~~~YIel                     PCR Anjt's s
At'
'I 1



PART I: Figure 1
37                                       Sheet 6 of 8
Project Completion Report
Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project
IDA Credit 1031-BA
Agriculture Benefits
Actual Pefornance          1                PCR Prolechuon   -
Pulses etc. Areas & Yields
110     _                              ;-!
1001      _                                                                       ______
L  -  -                   I                                               -    .
-  70~ 
aj nojJ___                                              ___C   .               a Mr2
I 0                                                    PCR A_jlysis
FfW f'S"'"____                                             [ i& -1  11
£    j ~~~~Vjt4i           0O.17-
10
so-
_ _I~~~~~~~~~~~~0



PART 1: Figure 1
-38 -                                       Sheet 7 of 8
Project Completion Report
Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project
IDA Credit 1031-BA
Agriculture Benefits
411e~       Actual Perfltmance        *0e               PCR Prolection
110                                                                 Onion Areas & Yields
_____I_         i   Ii  It.... ;___I_I____                  I   i   i
90- 1                      l:          -               
so I~~~~~~~~~~~II
.;--__         .                                             I
YIl d72
-I0  ----:                                                     ---- r-'
4012 2
8~~ ~             ~~ aI'={        !: I~ I; I_,_I_I_II
PCR Analo,Ps
30
20                    V
Am                   Aa



PART I: Figure 1
- 39                                      Sheet 8 of 8
Project Completion Report
Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam Multipurpose Project
IDA Credit 1031-BA
Agnculture Benefits
.            Acns Pwfoffmrice                          PCR Projection
Ground Nut Areas & Yields
110  _ _                           _ _ _ _ _ _ _              _ _ _ _ _ _ _
X-~~        ~ 1 -r                   l   1                    ________
100                II_ _ _
_   -r    ,- _.   - -_                                                      -  , r-
so                                                               I
O0              _                                            _ _
40    2
50~
_2°L..L -;'                                                                     |
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Cr X    rl I e J g Z j I f 1 m_



- 40 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PRESPECTIVE
(The Borrower has cooperated actively in the preparation of Parts I and III, but
has not provided any additional inputs for Part II).



- 41 -
PART z:                                   Table  1
STATISTICAL INF4 _ _M
RELATED BANK C-EDITS
CROIT UNMa                      PLBW                           TYEA& OF  |           STAIUS
AMD TITLE                                                        APPI_        _      _RAL
483-BA              Rehabilitate and extend flood protection          1974       Coqpleted in 1978.
Irrigation I        embankments, repair available construction
equipment, suppty irrigation puinps to
farmers, and construct jute bating
facilities. 
642-BA              Construct new and rehabilitate existing           1975       Compieted in 1985.
Lowr urma          ftlood protection emkankmens, excavate
Paddy Land          drainage chanwls, and reclaim abakoxned
Oevel amet         _snd.
745-BA              Improve research capabitity of six central        1977       Cotpleted in 1984.
Seeds               farms, develop seed program for rice and
Daveloont           cotton, create processing facilities for
seed and storage, pilot project for
grounduwt seed sto-age in Lower Surma,
overseas training, and consultants.                         _
835-BA              Ftood protection and drainage of 175,000          1975       Completed in 1990.
Paddyland           acres, inctuding reclamation of 50,000
Development 11      acres abandoned lands, procurement of
construction and agricultural equipment,
_              and establishing workshops in the project
area.                                                     _
1092-BA             Improve storage facitities at selected            1981       Copleted in 1986.
Grain Storage       locations within the country.
1245-BA             Provide essential transmission facilities          1982      Completed in 1990.
Power               for the generating stations in operation
and urder construction; institutional
devetopwmnt for operations; plaming; and
financial performence including level and
structure of electricity tariff.
1315-BA             Construct an 82 ft. high dam, rehabilitate        1982       Works comipleted,
tank                and extend existing irrigation system for                    Irrigation and town water
irrigation          5,000 acres.  Construct another dam, 92 ft.                 supply already cm snced.
high for supplying water to 850 acres of                    Project closed in June
orchards, 2,000 acres of paddy, and Nudon                    1990.
town of 40,000 Irhabitants. Also
strengthen ID for design end plaming and
AWS for extension.
1381-BA             Construct 106 deep tLbew lls, Irrigation          1983       Works are in ffnat stages.
Grouniaater         systems, and power lines.  Provide                           Project will close on June
Irrigation          agriculture sa  port progrin for extension,                  30, 1992.
crop trials. and strengthening ID and MAS.
1616-BA             Strengthen seed proction snd menagemmnt           1986       Work is in progress and
Seeds               capability of IAS, and establish efficient                   scheduled for compeiston
Development It      seed multiplication program.                                   in 1992.
1707-BA             Improve efficiency of rice milling through        1986       work is iii progress ad
Grain               rehabilitation of existing facilities and                    scheduled for ccmplation
Storage 11          construction of new mills,                                   in 192.
1731-9A             Rehabilitate and   emize irrigation                1986      Project had delayed start
Ye-U Irrigation     system for 121,000 acres to stabilize paddy                  due to political
Rehabilitation      production, strengthen 10 mechanical wing                    disturbances.
for repairs and  inventory control of                        Implementation is catching
construction equipment, and prepar  a                       up.
Naster Ptan for rehabilitation of
irrigation system  in central  r     r. 
1840-BA             Drilling of 12 gas production wells ard 5          1987      Work In progress.
Gas Development    deep appraisal wells, 64 miles gas                            Scheduled for eompletion
and Utilization     trsmission line to Yangon, gas                               in 1M3.
distribution facilities in Yangon;
providing corthodic protection to existing
pipeliner implemeting liquid petroleum gas
and compressed gas schem, and technical
assistance for proJect implementation.



-42-                           Table 2
PROJECT TLMETABLE
ITD.           DATE PLANNED      DATZ REVISED          DATEZACTUAL.:.
Identification       September 1974                     _September 1974 1/
Preparation           January 1975      June 30, 1977    October 21, 1976 2/
Appraisal Mission    May/June 1976    April/May 1979        April/May 1979 I/
Credit                 April 1977    March/April 1980  April 11 - 17, 1980
Negotiations
Board Approval          May 1977          May 1980            May 29, 1980
Credit Signatures                                          November 4, 1980 i/
Credit                                                      November 19, 1980
Effectiveness
Project Completion                      June 30, 1986        March 31, 1991
Credit Closing                          June 30, 1987        March 31, 1991
_/  Original report prepared in 1971 by ID with UNDP assistance.  It was updated by
ID in 1973 and presented to Bank. Bank review showed that on-farm development was
not properly considered, crop pattern was unrealistic, and hydrology assessment
was inadequate.
2/  FAO-CP commenced preparation of the project (without power) in January 1975.  A
consulting firm was contracted for power component in June, 1975. The project was
appraised for the first time in 1976.   The issues at this time were:   (a)
insufficient technical studies for the dam and need for additional exploration and
review of hydrolwgy; (b) non-availability of agriculture credit; (c) ICB for
construction of dam and appurtenances; (d) strong desire of COM to include power
component in spite of unproven viability; (e) agreement on expatriate consultant
for design of dam and canal works, etc.; (f) availability of local funding; and
(g) cost recovery. Further preparation of the project became necessary. Revised
preparation commenced with contract signing with new consultant on June 30, 1977
for power component and dam. FAO-CP continued updating agriculture component.
2/  The issues were:  (a) overambitious change in cropping pattern; (b) recovery of
O0M and capital cost; (c) availability .of credit to farmers; (d) agriculture
extension facilities; and (e) availability of sufficient local and external
fundings.   ICB was agreed in principle as well as retroactive financing for
construction  of the  approach roads.    Sufficiency  of studies  for  the dam
foundations and hydrology was established, but power portion was not appraised
fully.
i/  Credit signing had to wait for availability of sufficient IDA funds (funds from
Government of Italy became available in October 1980). The credit was signed in
Myanmar by Project Director on behalf of the Association.



- 43 -                                 Table 3
CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS                                Sheet 1 of 2
Oisbursngnt (Credit 1031-8A)
(In US Dotlars million)
BANCK           I
|FT'           QUARTER    ESfn"ATEUPLINAtTWE     ACIM CLOULATIVE       ACUAL AS S OF ESTrMTE
1981                                                          __
2               1.5
3
4               6.5                   1.04                    16
1982               1                                    10.37             -
2              12.5                  10.49                    84
3                                    11.78
__  4                  21.0                  17.69                    84
1983               1                                    23.84
2              28 0                  27.44                    98
3             _                      33.39
4              38.0                  38.6                    101
1984               1                                    43.54
2              45.S                 44.64                     98
3     __  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _45.48
4              56.0                  54.18                    97
¶98S               1                                    57.18
2              64.0                  59.08                    92
3                                    59.45        _
4              75.5                  62.21                    82
1986               1                                    63.90
2              83.0                  64.31                    77
3                                    71.03         _ 
4              90.0                  71.27                    79
1987               ¶                                    73.11
2                                    74.17                    82
3     ____________________           74.28
4 _                                  75.85                    84
1988               1                                    76.54
2                                    76.54                    8S
3                                 i  76.71                    86
4     __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _77.49                                 86
1989               1                                    82.29           ___
2                                    82.29                    91
3         .       _                  82.29
4                                    82.45        J92



- 44 -
Table 3
Sheet 2 of 2
Olsbursement (Credit 1031-BA)
(In US Dottars mitiUon)
FT              SuRTE       ESTINATEDW CONNATIVE     ACTUAL ONJLATIVE        ACUML AS X OF ESTINAT
1990                1                                       82.52
2      __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _82.52                                    92
3                        r              82.95                       92
4             _                         82.95                       92
1991                1       _   _   _     _   _ _82.95                       _   _  _   _   _   _  _
2                                       83.02                       92
3      ____________________             87.04                       97
4 4                                     87.54                       97
The date for final disbursement was April 3, 1991.
A sin of US Dollars 2.46 million, remining after final disbursement, was cancelled.



- 45 -                                          Table 4
PROJECT  fl4PLEMENTATION                                  Sheet 1 of 3
,IICA=,s                         UltTS           APAiSAL ESTIMTATE       _        UL
A. OAM AID PO.ER CONP T
(a)  Preerat=ry Uorbs                      ______________.____
Resetttemut,t of Persons affected         Number                 ;00                     367
Access Roads to Dam                       Kms                     35                      35
GON Construction Camr                     Job                                            100 X
(b; River Diversion and Irri. Outlet                                                            _
Excavation                                mitt_ono _               0.199                  0.310
Confretimn                                thousand m3              3.000                 21.341
Reinforc       _     thousand ton                                  n.a.                  1.045
Guniting                                  thousend  m2  11.600                            4.961
Cc) Main and Saddlea ams
Excavation                                million m3               0.739                  1.344
Core fit                                 million m3               0.946                  1.234
Rock fitt from excavation                 million m3               1.092                  0.889
Rock flit from quarry                     million m3               4.398                  3.339
Fltters                                   million m3               0.352                  0.330
Rfprao                                    million m3               0.106                  0.091
Concrete                                   thousand m3             9.500                  5.980
|d)  Spiltita_
Excavation                                millfon m3               0.343                  0.886
Concreting                                thousand m3             39.000          1       42.353
(e)  Powerhouse etc.                                         I                         I 
Excavation                                million m3               0.303                  0.166
Concretine                               thousand m3   r          22.100          |       17.470
(f)  Re-Regulsting Wefr (RRW)
Excavation                                miltion m3               n.a.                    0.202
Enbinkment                               thousand m3               n.e.                   28.593
Concrete                                 thsiusand m3   !          n.s.                   53.016
(g)  Hydro-Mechanical Euipment       _
(f)  Sftllway gates                       go x U x H (m)       4 x 6.25 x 8.5           4 x 9.0 x 10.5
(if)  Irri. Outlet control gates           Mo x W x N cm)       2 x 1.75 x 1.75          1 x 3.5 x 3.5
(iii)  Power intake gate                    No x U x H (m)       1 x 5.8  x 6.8           1 x 5.8 x 6.8
stoologs                             No x U x N (m)   _                       _
(iv) Draft Tube oqtes                      No x U x H (m)       2 x 6.5  x 3.5           1 x 5.0 x 5.5
(v)  Penstocks                            0 x L (m)            5.15 x 130                   3.6 x 90
Cvi)  Undersiuice gates at RRW             No x U x H Cm)              .                 2 x 16.5 x 8.25
(vii)  L. 8. Canal head gates at RRU        No x U x N (m)                         _      2 x 5.0 x 1.5
tviii)  R. 8. Canal head gates at RRU        No x U X H Cm)               .                3 x 5.0 x 1.5
r(h) Eteeiro-echanidea Eripment
|  Turbines  rd Generators                  No x KW              2 x 2B                   2 x 28
Trrtnmissi n Lirn                          Km                   31                      31



- 46 -                                            Table 4
PROJECT  IMfPLEMENTATION                                      Sheet 2 of 3
!IICATu S            .wITS                      |APPISAL ESTIMATE           ACIIM:-L
B. IRRIGATION. DRAIAGE. FLOD-CMfTROL
(a) Rehabilitation existing systems
Earthwork on canals                             million m3                 0.521              1.058
New and rehabilitated structures                    Nos                  140                260
Drainage earthwork                              million m3                 0.434              0.390
Canal maintenance roads                            miles                 110
On Farm Oeveloprent Earthwork                   million m3                 0.425              0.371
Tertiary canal structures                           was                    n.s.              96
(b) New System
Main Canals - Earthwork (78 miles)              million m3                 5.029              6.177
- Lining (25 miles)                 thousand m3              42.31               22.00
- Structures                    _       Nos                  84                 115
Distributaries - Earthwork (150 miles)             thousand m3              472              2,537
- Structures                            NOs                 386                 336
Tertiaries   - Earthwork (300 miles)             thousand m3              868              1.224
|   -Structures                              Nos                 280               1.932
Water Course - Earthwork                         thousar.im3            1t303              2,438
- Farm Turnouts                         Nos                 1.135            26.1.46
Main Drain   - Excavation                        thousand m3            1.396              1,132
- Culverts                              Nos                  809              1.157
Tertiary Drains Earthwork                        thousand d3              n.a.             1.151
Farm Drains Earthwork                            thousand A3                 1.303           187
(c) Flood Protection                                    Acres              10,000            10 000
Embankment - Earthwork (32 miles)               miltion m3                  1.834             1.748
- Escape                                 Nos                     1                 1
(d) 0 & N Suildings                                    iNos                    31                31
(e) Exploratory Tube wells                              Nos                    49                27
C. PROCOREIIT OF EWUIPNIET AMI VEHICLES
Construction (IDA Finariced)                          Nos                    15                 21
Construction (OECF Financed)                          Nos                   191                94
Construction (CO  Ffnanced)                           Nos                    81                8D
Miscellaneous (IDA Financed)                      thousand USS              983              1.050



- 47  -                                        Table 4
PROJECT  IMPLWIENTATION                                    Sheet 3 of 3
IMKCATDES                            tW6IS         APPRIIN. ESTIMATE       ACTUAL
C.  PrCUin        OF EWUIPRNT. SPARES AIO VEHICLES               ._
Miscellaneous (OECF Ffrnaed)                         thousand US#              728              371
Miscellaneoum (GON Financed)                         thoisand USS                13              13
Agriculture (OECF Financed)                               Nos                   26               26
Agriculture (CON Ffnanced)                                was                  162              153
Misce llaneu  Agriculture (OECi Finaced)             thousand USS               74               74
Miscallaneous Agriculture (G0N Ffncd                 thousand USS               26               83
Farm Power (OECF Financed)                                Nos                   12               12
Farm Power (G   Financed)                                 Nos                    2                2
Grond Water                                          thousand USS                             t 204
D. PFROCU T OF NAITIRLS
Crude Ol                                             milllfon USS                                 5.28
Fertilizer                                             m. tons                               20.000
Tube Weli Casings etc.                               thousanu  USS
E. AGItltLtUAL StXPRT
Bul Iding a                                               Nos                   52               51
Triels and Farm Research at Shwedag                      acres               1.000            1.040
Demonstration Plots (farers ffelds)                       No$                    4               12
Irnrmntal Extension Staff                                 Nos                   97               88
Increswntal Trials Farm Staff                             los                   38               20
Providing agriculture credit to Farears by MAR    Th. Kyatsa/year                  __ _           6.4
f.  FAIM PO     SUPPORT                                                         _
Buildings                                                 oas                    12              12
Land Clearance                                           Acres              11,000            5,494 -
Lad Level l Ing                                          Acres                                  930
Incrmmntal Staff                                          Nos                   77               77
S. LAW   RL CTI0                                         Acres               12.665         107,421
V. C IUTAICI E
Main Oam & Power Copconent Designs                       m.m.                   480             642
Irrigation Syste    s iesign.                            m.m.                  180              194
Enirneering Peuaglaung Project                           m.n.              Not Given           N.A.
Transmission line and Substation                         m.m.                   40            NOT USED
Risk  naltysis                                           m.m.                     3           NOT USED
Agricultural Dewlcon nt Consultants                      M.m.                   132             40
Power System Planing and Panugloung Study                m.m.                    40             N.A.
Grod  ter Investigation                                  m.m.                    40           NOT USED
Panel of Expert                                     No. of experts                3              3
Training and Fellowships                                 M.m.                                   87
N.A. a Not available from reports.
*    * 3s364 by m*eines, 2.110 muwmlly.



- 48 -
PROJECT  COST AND  FINANCING                                  Table 5
(In US$ million)                                          Sheet 1 of 3
A. Project Cost
APPtAISAL ESTIMATES                        ACTUAL
Locat      Forelgn -                Lanlt       EoreiOn   r
casts n|Exchust"|    I Tatat        Casts-                     Melivn l*t t
1. ARAISND ALLI. STEUCIRES-
Civil Works - Preliminary                     4.00            3.00       7.00      5.01          ,           5.01
Clvil Works - Structures                      8.40           43.70      52.10     31.03        62.29        93.32
O2erating and monitoring equipment            0.20            2.70       2.90      0.51          2.38        2.89
Technical Assistance                          0.60            4.20       4.80      0.56         5.02         5.58
Engineerinrg and Aduinistration               2.90             .         2.90      2.60          -           2.60
Physical and Price Contingencies              6.20           20.60      26.80         .              =
Risk Allowance Contingency                    2.20            2.80       5.00         .          .        _
Totat                                     24.50           77.00    101.50    39.71          69.69       109.40
2. POJEt                                                                                            =
Civil Works                                   2.60            9.20      11.80     5.05          18.72       23.77
Equipment - Hydromechenicai                   4.20            8.50      12.70     0.45          12.87       13.32
- Electrical                        5.20           10.40      15.60     0.61         12.12        12.73
-Tranaission                        1.40            2.20       3.60       .           1.59         1.59
Technical Assistance                          0.20            1.70       1.90     0.56           3.28        3.84
Engineering and Administration                 1.40           0.20       1.60    10.63           .          10.63
Phvs'cal & Price Contingencies                 2.50          12.30      14.80       -            -
Risk Allowance Continqencies                  0.50            0.50       1.00 I                  .
Toatl                                     18.00           4S.00      63.00    17.30         48.58        65.88
3. IRRIGATION; ORAIUUUTt, AM  FLQ   COTROL   _                                                     ;_____
Existing Area Rehabilitation                   1.83           0.41       2.24      1.03                       1.03
New Area System                               11.32           3.30      14.62    28.53            .         28.53
Other works                                    2.17            1.34      3.5.     4.45            .          4.45
Construction Equipment and MateriaLs           2.33          12.00      14.33     7.64          17.38       25.02
0I4 C1vit Works                               0.52                        0.52   0.38            .          0.38
Technical Assistance                          0.18            2.04       2.22     0.43           1.80        2.23
Engineering and Adcinistration                 3.70            .         3.70     9.88            .          9.88
Price and Physical Contingencies               8.35           5.51      13.86        .                  -       -
Totat                                     30.40           24.60      55.00    52.34          19.18       71.42



- 49 -
PROJECT  COST AND FINANCING                               Table 5
(In USS million)                                     Sheet 2 of 3
(costed)
A. P£it Cost
APPMAISAL ESTIMATE                     -  AC__ TUALz
ITE                   LocaLt                                L Fori    f| TotaL  L   E oncip,  | oate
Co ts     ExzfiwtW ...            .. Ce t    IEXxb
|4..AGRICULTUWAL SUPPT                -
Civil Works                        0.72         0.16         0.8        0.96                    0.96
Equip,unt                          0.07         0.36         0.43       0.34        0.08        0.42
Technical Assistance               0.12         1.08         1.20       0.01        0.18        0.19
Engineering & Admin.               0.12         0.02         0.14       0.14                    0.14
Incremental Cost for Staff        0.51                       0.51
Phy & Price Contingencies          0.66         0.38         1.04        .            .      _
Total                              2.20         2.00         4.20       1.45        0.26        1.71
5. FAe PEE  SUTPPRT                                                  _
Cvvil tWorks                       0.32         0.06         0.38       0.56                    0.56
Equipment                          0.18         1.13         1.31       0.07        0.69        0.76
Enss   Adminfstration              0.18         0.01         0.19        .            .
Ph1 & Price Contingencies          0.22         0.30         0.52        .            .
Total                              0.90         1.50         2.40       0.63        0.69        1.32
6. LAW REALLWCATI__
Administration                     .           .            .           0.09          .         0.09
7. DETAZLI  E1SN01U                   0.a          6.4           7.2       0.80        7.00        7.80
STI PUIAIIMS P._                                                 _                        ....
B. PILOT 6RUIM  VATERS   EE           0.2           1.5          1.7       0.20         1.20       1.40
9. PROCC EJUIT OF MATERIALS
Crude Oll                          .           .            .                       5.28        5.28
Fertiltzer                                                              1.69        4.04        5.73
TOTAL                                                                   1.69        9=2        11.01
TOTAL CST                        77.00        158.00 |      3m.0o     114.21      155.92      270.13



- 50 -
Table 5
DoRJCT COST MM FN CI                                     Sheet 3 of 3
S. Proiect Financrie
IDA  (Total)                                         USS (Million)         90.00        90.00       87.54
Category (1) Civil works for dam, etc.               USS (Mitlion)         68.00        68.00       64.67
Category (2) Equipment, Materials, spore part
for:  (a) Irrigation facilities         Us$ (Millfon)         6.00         6.00        9.39
(b) Pilot ground water                  USS (Million)         1.00          1.30        1.20
Categr  (3) Tech Assistance ard trainig for:         USS (Million)
(a) Oam  etc.                           USS (Million)         4.20         4.40        5.20
(b) Irrisation facilities               USt (Million)         3.10         3.10         1
(C) Pilot ground water                  USS (Mlifon)          0.50         0.50
Category (4) Petroleum Prdocts                       Us$ (Million)                       4.30        5.28
Category (4/5) Unallocated                           USS (Million)          7.20         2.40
CFV (Total)                                          US Dollars
Equivatent           45.00        45.00       48.58
_ ___________________________________________________      (Million)
OECF (Total)                                         US Olltars
Equivalent           15.00        15.00       13.45
(Nflifon)
GeiWRNuW  OF UoMT (Total)                            US Dottars
Equivalent        Not moe          8.20        7.00
____________________________________   ("Millon)                        than 8.2
WERJIUT  OF NtAUMR  (Total)                          US Dollars
Equivalett           76.80        76.80      113.56
(Miltion)      I
TOTAL FINANCING                                      US Dollars
Equivalent          23S.00       235.00      270.13
fa(Milon)
- - -
Actual disbursinnt by donors was:
KfW   - ON 126.8 million;
oECF - JY 3081 million;
NOWAD - WOK 41 38 Million.



A. Direct Benffts
.A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
A. INI6ATED CIP
Poddy- Local                 40.5         30.3          25.6         20.9
Paddy-NV Pre-onscoon         1.7           1.7          27.3        44.6
Padd-N    Nonsoon            8.5          8.5           54.5        9a.9        81.9         89.83        107.4         162.17
Cotton                       23.5          7.1          73.7         50.2        19.1         9.47         65.2         45.00
chilies                      9.8           2.4          30.4         9.7         13.4          1.57        30.4          9.42
sesae                        13.3          1.4          56.7         9.3         25.9          1.99        65.2         10.40
Groun*t                       .             .           9.9          10.8         1.4         1.31          9.9         12.77
Pulses etc.                  7.4           1.1          20.5         5.1         18.3         4.76         20.5          6.36
Onion                        5.4           9.1          18.7        38.2          7.6         18.35        18.7         50.86
S.  AIFEfitop..
Paddy - Local                5.6          2.9            .            .          11.7        10.17           .
Onion                     _                              .            .           0.3         0.86           .      .
Cotton                       7.3           1.0           .            .           5.4         0.78           .
Croundnut                    3.9          0.9            .            .           6.5         2.19           .
ChIlies                      8.6           1.3                                     .     .        .                                               n .  
Sesae                        20.6          1.1           .            :          33.3         1.89           .n
Pulses                       27.9         3.2            .            .          54.8        49.98           .
0%
TOA RMUE                 7.9           0 $  ' l i112.0 ;                                             " ; ; o
c. er PgMUCF             _                         
Paddv Strtuw                              58.6                     212.9                    185.2       _              212.9
cmOiN.  IN  NS,,     ;       97;     0                                          145                       1         _ |



pgOzJcT RESULTS
A.   irect Benefits
(II)       3                __                __                __                _
ign~~4i
MMUIIJAUCa  MD   SISSYSi    INST*JATRON    ElS   am    iUSMauT*SI ma I  NRG    at Z ALLATION NJ   BMW~ GM
Power Cse  ity         I_____   j___                            28 x2      I     165             28 x2             113.78           28 x2               165
MR.iV  X U  'S,  igT*  h. iRJC    ATM. :N  ;W     .?A                                 i.i ?SJII  'T :R:? ?.... . 
_______________         ________________                  1990-91             K WIZu IEN T E    1994-11 F5
.;   =    Ic*                                        PROW.=     -0    Iw'........... .  -.:  :   ;....   r~ P W i  *
..... S ;.¢¢>>Z.S-i£> *E<>s;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ........... (T                                               I.T".
.. . . :,S:~~', i                       g         SSSt em S : , :'Se  , '     'u(4s           ,            'ees t .'.'
Amui Catch                                                                               1.6                          3.2
cn F
(lCI-
0
5a%



- 53 -
Table 6
PRO.JZCS BMSULS                                   TSheet- 3 of 6
B. EconalInBact
.,ATO .                                      ,5. . STUWE              MUMj LW IWJ. O~WIE _
Economic Rate of Return MX)                                    21.3                                14.1
PV of Net Benefits (Kyats million)                             829.8                               764.8
PV of Net Irrigation Benefits only (Kyats                      774.4
milifon)                                                                                                         ,,
BASIC ASSIDTI__
(a) Agriculture                         _
Project Life (years)                                        50                                30
Constant Prices Used for Analysis                          1980                              1990
(1990 projected expressed 1n 1980
currency values)
Official exchange rate (Kyets a USS1)                      6.7                                 7.5
Wage rate (Kyats/day)                                      7.0                                18
EWMUIC FAI  GATE PRICE (CKN.TinT OF
Paddy                                              1278 (monsoon paddy)                    3,793  1
Cotton                                            6149 (medium staple)                     5,605
Chilfles                                                  4,036                           12,535
Sesame                                                    4,034                            4,047
Groundnut                                                 2,420                            2,829
Pulses                                                    612.5                            3,892
Or on                                                      605                             2,695
Paddy straw                                                44.1
tb) Power                                            Saving in cost of fuel at                K 0.48 per 1i
thera. plants.             ___          :_
The exchoge rate used in calculating the econmic price of paddy is US#1.00 * Kyets 30 bsd on the official barter
exchenge rate for paddy exported through joint ventures. (See Sheet 4)



Table 6
- 54 -                                Shaet 4 of 6
,PRWCT RSSLTS,
--..KYANAR
Kinda Dam MultinurDose Project (CR.1031-BA)
1990 Export Parity Price of Paddy
USS/to        Kvts/ton
Export Price of Rice F.O.B. Bangkokl/                          293         8,7771/
Quality Adjusted (-20X)                                        2A          7,021V
l&t" Port Charges, Handling, etc. (K135/ton)V/                                 20
Le&s  Transport from Kume to Yangon (350 miles @ K4)                          280
Ex mill Price                                                              6,721
Paddy Equivalent (57X)                                                     3,831
L8u Storage Losses, Bagging (K150/ton)                                         30
LIM Transport from Farm to Mill (10 miles @ K4/mile)I 
Economic Farm Gate Price                                                   3,793
Free Market Price                                                          3,131
1.   Based on World Bank Commodity Price projections (July 23, 1991) in 1985 constant
price adjusted to 1990 constant by MUV Index (146.12) with metric ton converted to
long ton.
2.   The exchange rate used in calculating the economic price of paddy is US$1.00 - Kyats
30 based on the official barter exchange rate for paddy exported through joint
ventures.
3.   Adjusted by standard conversion factor (0.2)



Sheet 5 of 6
- 55 -
Kinds DCs  ultipurpose Project (CR. 1031-IA)
1990 Financial and Ecf m1c Priceg
Ff=inc  Prices                       Ecamic Pricegs
Unit       WiGht   KAinit K/ltnw ton   I/Lb            K/tong ton   Il/l!;_
C tb)
Padty           Basket       46.0    64.29    3.131       1.4             37M        1.7
Cotton          Visa          3.6    10.00    6,222       2.8             5,605      2.5
Chillies (Dry)   Visa         3.6    40.29   25,070      11.2            12,535      5.6
Se_ame          Basket       54.0   313.15   12,991       5.8             4,047      1.5
Putses          Baket        69.0   240.00    7.792       3.5             3,892      1.7
Onion           Vis           3.6     8.66    5,389       2.4             2.695      1.2
Groundut       Bakt         25.0   108.64    9,734       4.4             2.829      1.3
Feet1i 1ttzes
Ures            Ton                            2,160     0.96             1,368     0.70
TSP             Ton                            1.900     0.85             1,605     0.72
Potash          Ton                            1.000     0.45             1.350     0.60
Nare (K/load)                        40.00                                          8.00 (per load)
gher- Iro4t
Paddy           Ua  t        46.O   100.00    4,870       2.2                        2.0
Cotton          Visa          3.6    10.00    6,222       2.8                        3.0
ClhLiZes        Visa          3.6    50.00   31.111      13.9                        6.7
Sesame          Baket        54.0   350.00   14,519       6.5                        2.2
Puls            Baket        69.0   250.00    8.115       3.6                        2.0
Onion           Visa          3.6    10.00    6.222       2.8        .               1.5
aroudw t        Baket        25.0   120.00   10,732       4.8                        1.5
Lo
Huun Labor (K/day)           18.0                                                    3.6 (per day)
Animl Labor (K/day)          45.0                                                    9.0 (pW day)
1. Sed prf cs have a 20S prSum in ieo    uwtysis.
INS&. PRJEM   IELTS
C. FJlofu1.LLI
5 acre form (yts)                              18,259 /                             32,423 2,
y     5 cre form fn pm-pady new Irrfgated area.
3/    Typical 5 acre farm.



Table-6
- 56 -                                                  Shoot 6 o£ 6
PROJP-CTr RESUTn;S
0.~~~~~~~~~~      
Study               Purpose as defined at                      status               Impect of Study
appraisat
1.     Review of MEPE#s        Review of NEPE's                The study commenced by a        The study resulted in the
powr system             generation and                  consultant in September         First Power Project for
plansing and            transmission plan to meet       1980 and funded by NORAD.       transmission lines wid
operations, and         the load growth; operating      The con ultants report was      substations, funded by
rec I  d me sures       strategy including load         received in November 1981.    IDA, since completed.
for strengthening.      dispatching; systesm             EPE adopted the
losses; and recond             recommendation of the
Iproved plarining              report and modified its
techniques as well as long    plan accordingly.
term investment strategy.
2.     Fessibility Study       Revision of Feasibility         The Study was funded by         The Feasibility Study was
Pauntsag                Study, folLowed by              NOkAD.  The corsultant          further updated by GM In
Hydropower Project      specification drawings and    cowmenced work in                 1990, for exploring the
tender documents.              September 1980 and              possibiLity of obtaining
submitted the revised           financing through
Feasibility Study and          bilateral arrangeent ad
tender dociumnts in 1985.       supply credits frrm mjoar
The updating of the report    construction firms.
wa carried out by the
same cornultants taking
into account comments by
World Bank and Kinda POE.
Updating was funded uider
IDA First Power Project
and completed in 1988.
3.     Phase II                Study the avaltability of       The procurement of              GO  requested IDA to
(extension) of the      groxnd water In the area        additional driing               consider fuiding of OW 11.
Pilot Crowud Water      selected for the Grouwd         quipment nd materiaels          Later GON wanted to study
Development             Water Project It (GW 11).       for testing and making 27       the Inpuct of GM I for
by drilling test wells and    deep tLbewells operational        soam  more time snd -
making the promising ones       was fuided uider the            procssing for IDA furding
operational.                   project by IDA.                  was put on hold.
Procurement was completed
in February 1984. The
consultancy for the study
and the Feasibility Study
for OW 11 and funded uider
UtOP Umbrella It was
completed In 198g.



- 57  -                                                 Table 7
STATUS OF CO N                                                 Sheet 1 of 3
subiject                        Oeadline for                    Status
Cowl mace
To esploy consultants for:
Consultants contract for
1.      Oesigns, specificeatins, and construction                         definite designs nd
drawings for the ds aid appurtenances                             corstruction supervision
signed on January 23, 1981.
Consultancy completed in
April 1988.
2.      Supervision and quality control tnd                               Included in the above
operation mual                                                    contract and its mundeents.
3.      Planning, design, construction drawings                           Contract signed on June 25,
and supervision of frrigation works                               1982. Consultawcy cmpleted
In August 1986.
46      Pltaning and construction supervision of                          Consultants working in the
transmission and substation facilities                            cowtry under another on-
going KFW au  orted project,
provided the concultancy.
5.      Medium staple cotton development, review                          Only a cotton speciaList was
of cotton ginning sand peddy storage &                            engaged for one mnth wider
-            amitling                                                          IDA fuiding.
6.      strengthening T&V system for extens1on in                         Expatriate consultant engaged
oroject area                                                      uider IDA funding for 3
months.
7.      Power system plaming and operations                               Consultants contracted under
review                                                            NOPAD fuJding in Septeaber
1980. Report cmpleted in
November 1981.
8.      Advisory panel of experts to review the                           Contracts with Panel mewbers
plans, periodic inspection, etc.                                  signed on April 23, 1982.
The panel continued till
Decaber 1986.
9.      Analysis of risks and related insurance                           Analysis was given up as it
requi reoaots for d   and appurtena  e                             as found to be too
expensive. Insurnce
requirement for the uin dam
and appurtenant works, also
given up f_r the *ad reason.
10.     Assistance to ID in grouradwater                                  Comultancy wa funcled
exptoration and denlopmnt of a pilot                              separately uider UNDP
groud water schme, and                                            Umbrella 11 Project.
11.     Detailed engineering of Paunlaung                                 Consultants were contracted
Hydroelectric Project.                                            In September 1980 wider NORAD
furding. Feaibility Report
and tender douents
completed in 1985. Further
revision done In 1988 by sae
consultant wider IDA firded
Power First Project. The
costs and benft1ts Lidated in
1990 by NIEPE for exploring
external funding
possibilities.
To submit a coumpletlon report                       Six months after    Under changed IDA guidelines,
the Credit          sorrower Is to prepre Part
clsiti 'date         11 only. GOl has opted for
preparation of Part It after
receiving Parts I end ti1
from the Bank.
To approve additional staff and cause ID, iEPE and    October 31, 1980    Additional staff was
HAS to appoint                                                             appointed.



Table 7
- 58 -                                                     Sheet 2 of 3
Deadline for
DCA Section                                Subject                          Compliance                        Status
3.06                 To establish and maintain PIC and a suitable fult-                           PIC established and Project
time Project Director                                                        Director appointed.  Both
maintained till coMpletion.
4.02 (a)             To maintain separate accounts a*i subdit suIrIUy       Respectively 6        Audit reports have been
of unaudited accounts, and audited ffnncial            amd 9 months          received fran alt tne
statements for implementing departments nd             after the end of      iplep enting agencies tilt FY
agencies, and MEPE                                     fiscal year           198W)*90.  KAS submitted 1990-
91 also.
4.03 (a)             To fntroduce satisfactory arrangements for             Submit proposal       ON M ranual comapleted by
inspection of dam  nd appurten  nces after             on  year before       consultants. Ree  _d  tions
eompletion and submit proposal for Bank review         completion            are being imptemunted by 10.
4.03 (b)             To furnish regulations for reservoir operation         September 30,         Consultants prepared
1983                 regulations on res rvoir
operations.
4.04                 To establish adequate extension service                                      HAS has etabliShed adequate
extension service.
4.05                 To integrate Kyunchawung Plant into the grid,                                Kyuichaung plant integrated
install additional transformers at aridalay,                                before negotiations.
Toungoo and Thazi substations and upgrade Thazi-                             Additionat trntsformrs
-   Toungoo line to 230kv prior to commissioning of                              inttalled at Thazi, Nandalay
Kinds plant.                                                                 and Toungoo in 1985-86.
Thazi - Toungoo LIne
upgraded.
4.06                 To submit a report on "Power System Pltming and        Apri1, 30. 1981       Report was completed in
Operations Revie"                                                            November 1981.
4.07                 To insure against risks and in sufficient amount                             Risk insurance during
with responsible Insurers                                                    construction of the daom  and
appurtenant works uas not
conidered necesary.  FrOm
1984-85, inurance of power
seeration facilities was
taken by NEPE from Wyyan.
Insurance Enterprise.
4.08                 Increase electricity tariff by 14.5X                   During FY 80181       Effective Septeer 1, 1981.
energy charges were revised,
small power about 202; large
power 33X;  nd medius power
about 25X. A capacity charge
was also intri'acad. Tariff
again revised upmard In
November 1988 102 to 502 for
different cat gories.
4.11                 To give omership of the investments on the power                             Carried out.
eoaponent under the project to NEPE.
4.12                 To review periodieally prourement price for paddyy                           Agriculture policy wsm
and seed cotton to provfde financial Incentives to                           revised in August 1987,
the farmers                                                                  limiting GovernGent
procurement to fndu trial
crops only. Private dealers
started trade in grains.
4.13                 To estabLish and maintain recovery of Oh and                                 Recovery is being effected
capital cost, when compulsory procurement is                                 pertly through land and
modiffed or abolished, in consultation with Bank.                            irrigation tax.



- 59 -
Table 7
sheet 3-of-3
Deadline for
OCA Section                                 Subject                          CrLi fance                         Status
4.14                 To arrange for the provision of adequate credits                              Adequate credit provided.
to farmers
4.15                 To establish a monitoring unit for surveys and          Every 2 years         Bae  soia-economic survey
ifptement surveys                                      beginning              carried out in Moveeber 1987
January 1981          and report received by IDA.
Follow up survey carried out
In 1990 for which report in
awaited.
4.16                 To carry out a resettlement progrem aceptable to                               Reettleaent carried out to
IDA                                                                           IDA satisfaction.
4.17                 To cause ID  AC, AND and OiPE to provide ON for                               GIN organizations are in
sit facilities constructed under this project.                                plae haivng satisfactory
staff strenoth and funding.



- 60 -                      Table 8
Sheet 1 of 7
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Inputs
STAT. *OF -PROJEC  CL                ACTL            COHMENTS.:X,
Up to Appraisal                         485.7
Appraisal thrc gh Board Approval          9.4
Supervision                             198.5
Completion Report Preparation             7.9
..   Up te   Octe...  r  10, 19
L/  Up to October 10, 1991.



USE OF          _ _            (Continued)
8. Missions
STAGEPfA                                            PCILZI(         I PEVIW&TPS F                             P PIOLBI
PROJECT CYCLE                 NIITI.  UUBER OF  i      REPRESNI         It RATING STATUS                            :
.    ;   PERSONS  FIElD                   ;               _    _   _-
Preparation  1        9/74         1          n.%.      Div. Chief,                         Mission combfned with Paddy 11.  Agreement
with GON on preparing Kinda Pro;. and use
____________   __________________              of_FAO/CP.
Preparation  2    11,12f74     1, (4 CP)      24        Econ, (Engr,             .          Reviewed available reports, identified
_________ _  _ Agron,, 2 Econ)                  required additionaM work.
Preparation  3        2/75         1          n.a.          Engr                 .          Finalized TOR for FAO/CP work.
Preparation 4         5/75       (4 CP)        19      (Engr, Agron,                        Preparation of report.
____________     2   Econ)
Preparation 5         6/75         3          n.a.       Proc, N.A.              -          Looked Into ICB procurement possibilities.
Preparation  6      6,7/ '5         1         15            Loa                  .          Reviewed Project funding and co-financing.
Problem3 were force account work and low
water charges.
Preparation  7        7/5          1           5            Engr                 .          ICB for civil work, introduction of
appropriate water charge.
Preparation 8        8/75    1, ( CP)         8        Engr (Engr)                         Report on dan reviewed and second stage
w work discussed.
Preparation 9    9,10/75       1, (4 CP)      24            N.A.                           _ _ ert Preparation.
Preoaration 10        2/76         1           8             FA                             Co-financing discussions.
Preparatfon 11        3/76         2          n.s.     Loa, Director                        GON agreed that PAB wilt charge village
banks 6X interest and farmers will pay
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        ~~~~ ~~~~~~121.
Appraisat    1      5,6/76    9, (5 other    31    4 Engrs, Econ, (2                        C Dom foundations not considered copelent,
donors)               Econ, Org, Loa)                      cost recovery, agency for dam
construction, a viable local and external
assfstance finaneing plan were other
issues.
Preporation 12    9.10/76          4          n._.     2 Engr, 2 Econ                       To obtain decision on further processing.
Preporation 13       8/77          I          n.a.          Loa                 l.plementation procedures examried.
-   *                                                                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~nI-~~~  w P
w g.
ob w
rt m
0



USE OF                          (Continued)
B. RiGsion
_____~~~~ FiE  ___   ___I________
Preparation 14          101m           1          n.a.           Engr                  .          Review of foundation studies, GON
commitment  for tCB for dams obtained.
Preperation 15           2/78      3, t1 CP)       7      Econ, Engr, Geol,                       i ldea of stoged imptementation dropped.
(Engr)                            Uppet %.3. site selected.  Both earth and
rockfitl to be considered.
Preparatlon 16           4/78        (1 CP)        9             Engr                             ID capacity for work examined.
Preparation 17           6/78          1           5             Engr                               eeting at Frankfurt, Germany (GON,
Consultants, World Bank). Decision to
put power to second stage. However,
preparation both with and without power.
Preparation 18           ?m            1          n.a.       Div. Chief                           GON cabinet approved ICB for dam, and
exemption of taxes on expatriate
contractors and consulting firms.
Preparation 19          10/78          1           3       Vice President              .          Discussed Implementation of projects.
Preparation 20          11/78          1          n.a.           Engr                             Reviewed poJect preparation.
Approasat    2         4,5/79      9, (I CP)      n.a.         2 Econ,                            Decision taken for rockfill dam, ICB for
3 Ergr, Hyd,                         dam, retroactive financing for access
Geol, Agron, Org,                       road and consultants controct.  Power
(Agron)                            cowponent not appraised fully.
Isdfficient tronsmission capacity
problem. Kfi funding for power only,
NORAD for studies and OECF for
construction materials and equipment.
Approval of equipment list and ICB
documents a m*Jor issue.
Post-Approasel 1         7/19          1          n.o.      Loan Officer                          F funding discussions.
Post-Approisal 2         9/79          3          n.a.      Econ, 2 Engr              .           Reviewed preparation, GON to commit
Tongoo to Thazi line.
Post-Appraisal 3        11/79          2           5     V.P., Div. Chief             .           Reviewed preparation.
P-4t- Apri eal 4        11/79          1          n.a.          n.a.      _                       Reviewed preparation.
Post-Approisal 5         2/80          2          n.a.        Los, Econ                           t Gost overrun risk, increase of foreign
assistance.  
rt (D
0
rio



USE OF         _
8. Missions
PiJEC! CiO .        :::s                     .        I                    RPi -NG STATU
Post-Appraisal 6        9/80          1         n.a.          Engr                 .          Pre-bid conference of contractors.
Decision on royatty for construction
mterals, purchase of explosives by
contractor approval of POE.
Supervision    1      5,6/81     2. (2 CP)      13           2 Engr               1           Review of bid evalualtion for dam.
(Agron, Econ)
Supervision   2        11/81          I                       Engr               N.R.         Finalized TOR for POE and contracts for
_______________                                     _______________    ~~~~~~~~Panel  members.
Supervision   3         4/82         1                        Engr               N.R.         Project Rev.ew nd Second POE meeting.
SLpervision   4        11/82    2   2 (KfW)    19          Engr, Econ            N.R.         Donors joint review meeting.
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ Enon.   Engr      __  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Supervisfon   5         2/83         2          12            Engr               N.R.         Wefr design and construction, design of
irrigatfon system, Paungtloung Irrigation
_____ ____ ____ __   __ ____ __   _ _____ ____   ___ _____ ____ ___   _____ ____ ____ E xtension .-
Supervision   6         4/8a         1           7            Engr                1/1         Delay in equipment procurement for
irrigation system. Kinda weir foundation
gave surprise, bricks for lining In short
-P-  py.
Supervision    7        7/83          1         n.s.          Engr               N.R.         At Frankfurt, Germany for discussion on
the design of weir.
Supervision   8         9/83         1           4            Engr               N.R.         Review.
Supervision   9        12/83       2 . 2         8       2 Engr, Agron            1/-         Price escalation for ICG contract was
(OECF)                 (Econ, Engr)                        resolved.  Transfer of left head
regulator to dam contractor agreed.
Construction mterials short. Delay in
evaluation of Thazi substation offecting
Kind. transmission System design.
Supervtsion  10         2/84         2           7         Engr, Econ            N.R.         Expensive storage, Inadequate conveyance
(Irri. Adviser,                      and operational standards for irrigation
Div. Chlef)                        system.  Losses hfgh. Paddy area could
-  ______________    be made suitable for tqland crops.
(a
0



USE OF BANK                    (Continued)
B. tihasIIm
77=               m                                    r
Supervision   11        6/84          1          16            Econ               II.R.        Finalize OECF fL rdig.
Supervision   12        7/84          2          19           Engrs                2/V          Delay in payment to short-term
expatriates. Shortages of diesel, cement
and steel. Deslgn progress slow for
irrigation works. Conservative criteria
for cross drainage works.
Supervision   13       11/84          1                  Aset. Director,          N.R.         Review of progress.
Vice President
Supervision   14    11.12/84    3, 2 (Kfl)       13        Fngrs, Agron            2/2         Slow progress in Trawission line
(Engr, Econ)                        design, training of personte. design of
drainage structures. Procurement of
gates delayed. Concrete canal lining not                  a
_______________  ________ _  ________________                 to   standard.    Brick   lining   to   be  adopted.      ON
Supervision   15        2/85          1          7             Econ               N.R.         General Review.
Supervision   16        3/85          2          13      Asst. Director,          N.R.         Review progress.
Prog. Div. Chief
Supervision   17       10/85          1          13          Engineer             N.R.         Review of electrical works progress.
Supervision   18    10,11/85          2          11          2 Engrs             1/1/22        Nleed Identified for additional equipment
and spares. Shortage of cement, steel
and diesel. Reservoir operation study
necessary.  Training not being pursued.
__________                                       ______________ Water management not pursued.
Supervision   19        5/86          2          15        Engr, Agron           1/1/2/2       Shortage of cement, diesel, ad
reinforcement. Only 33X requirement met
In last 2 years. Delay in land
clearance, leveling and reallocation.
Local costs Increasing. Use of
consultant for further dam safety review
instead POE. Farmers having mixed
_ *            _             =                  opinion of tertiaries.
(D a
rtD 
rt rD
0
u A)



USE OF
5. UuJ3.Lns
PROJECT  L bERSUS                              II        REPESENTEDYLWl     RATING STATUS
Supervision  20       12/86          3          13      2 Engrs, 1 Agron         1/1/4/3       Acute shortage of diesel oil and cement.
One year extension closing date
essential.  Reallocation of land under
new irrigation system proceeding very
stow.  Reservoir operation rules to be
defined early.  Additional equipment
procurement not approved by PIC. Bench
Mark Survey data analysis to be
-_________                                               ________________    expedited.
Supervision  21      5,6/87          2          11            Engr               1/1/3/3       Acute shortage of diesel and lubricants
for irrigation works. Gates installation
stow. finatization Paungtaung project,
cost revision needed.
Supervision  22   11,12/             3          23      2 Engrs, 1 Agron         1/1/3/2       Inability to complete Irrigation works
and need for another one year extension.                    Lan
Shortage of diesel oil, poor maintenance
of completed irrigation system and lack
of proper control on water distribution.
Shwedstmg farm trials not producing
technology package for crops.
Supervision  23        3/89          1          13            Engr               1/1/3/2       Third extensfon closing date necessary.
Cement major bottleneck.  Problems ofter
civil unrest. Maintenance in bad shape.
Supervision  24        5/89          1          18            Engr              2/1/3/2        Shortage 'f cement could be sotved by
payment In FE, lubricants In short
supply. Delay in reallocation of lands,
inadequate maintenance of comipleted
irrigation system. Water operation
center not functfonrng.
Supervision  25        6/89          1          6             Aaron               N.R.         Detailed soil survey of trials farm not
carried omt. Conparative advantage, of
crops during trials to be worked out.
Fertilizer In short supply also diesel.
Supervision  26      6a7/89          1           8      Country Officer           N.R.         Review of projects.
Supervision  27        8/89          1          11            Engr              2/1/3/2        Shortage of fertiLizer and agro                              ar l
chemicals.                                                   m a,
rt m
0i



USE OF BAM USOXC@l (Continued)
Supervision  28       12/89          2           14        Engr, Agren          2/3/1/1/2       Belance  construction work to be pushed.
Crop trislo to be reviewed and iqproved.
061 of the system end water management to
be strengthened. Power being generated
even when no irrigation demand.
Supervision  29        5 no1                     10            Engr             2/3/1/1/2       Strengthening needed for crop trials,
water management, an.i 0L organizational
setup. Bolance work on drains to be
_______________   __________   ____________   _________________                  expedited.
Supervisfon  30       10/90          1           Is           Engr              2/3/1/1/2       Work acceleration needed on drains.
Reservoir inflow very low.  Difficultles                     I
in _iporting fertilizer.                                    c
P C R         I        8/91          1           15           Engr                              Collection of data.
PCR           2       10/91          1            2            Engr                             Collectfon of data.
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N.R.    a        Not Rated.
N.A.    *        Not available from records.
( )     a        CPper onnel.
Engr    *        Engineer.
Agron   *        Agronomist
Econ    *        Econormst.
a       Not applicable.
Proc    *        Procurement Specialist.
Los     a        Loan Officer.
FA      *        Financial Analyst.
0 D0
0 ?-
rnt
0
-J



MAP SECTION



_.  2  r~~~~~~~~~~ /:  )      \                            . _         ^                   9             _                                                       IBRD 14544R'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR 154R
sJ ¢   /   /  X  v       ( X A                                  - t \   <                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MYANMAR
// -'  \   t  Q    C   )  \                    5          \\\ \NYAUNGGYAT DAM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
r>* jgMY                   7                           / )t  2   1  S                                              \\S\                                                GENERAL LAYOUT
7'  MYANMAB                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dam, Powerhouse, and  Al lied  Structures
P,;X;ro1eot Areo a            X   y              /         0  160  /     <          <      )                           \f SX                                                        Proposed Access Road
R~~~~~~~~~y of                                                      /A                                                             -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.isling Track
1 /    t 9   )   g        / <        (    {          X                g       ,   \      10)          A                 ;               @         -Proposed Do. and Dikes
|' 1                      .     .A                                                                                                                                          Proposed    Conr|p    FacilitiescAP p C FI
Proposed Project Structures
A,d-.               - - /                             ' ' t / <-8                                                     '              /tn    t ,                                     ReservoHN Area
, g/                                                                                                                                                                               ....< > 2 e 5°  ; -  X  Rivers
D ykeS3"        t~  7                                                                                                                                                            PROJECT STRUCTURES
(DSPILLWAY WITH CHUTE AND
FLIP BUCKET
(2   NAK STRUCTURE
()DIVERSION AND POWER TUNNEL
N    ~ ~ ~ ~ ()POWER HOUSE
\ ~~~~~~~   I    ~      ~      ~     ~     D iRRIGATION OTE
/                 ©~~~(  SWITCHYARD
/  >              ~~~~PROPOSED CAMP FACILITIES,
'~~~  D  n Do  ~    ~ ~      ~ ~~A         LOCAL LABORERS HOUSING AREA
A DIESEL PLANT AND WATER
A3     TREATMENT AREA
CA CONRACTORS WORKSHOP AND
4A    STRAGE AREA
R   rl-.w                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMENITY FACILITIES AREA
(Hosisit.l, P.li-e, SI5EEirg, Me..)
ADMIN ISTRATION AREA
AHOUSING AREA
/ ~~00  \       A   B~ATCHING PLANrT6CEMENT STORE, AND
A FEDLABORATI Ry AREA
duigcost,SCt,CoLO   EQUI PME NT STORAGE AREA
dur.ng                  (-N                          7                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A CRUSHING PLANT
7                                                                                     7                   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 200  400  600 Meter,
7   1   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . -.    h  '
tWY 19'2



M    f,   ;AI> SHAN|.                                
T--  T-                                                                                              MYANMAR
2W \wmAsAY   2D'        ,' o o                                              v  NYAUNGGYAT DAM MULTIPURPOSE PROJEC
)A.E                                           T. Ij,.                                Rehabilitation and  Construction of Irrigation Faciliti
~~~~~~~A0AC ~~~~~~~~~~~and  Drainage Wobrks
PEG                          --
S t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eivhoo otS"'                                                rr00os F8Oh:
C r      Nt of    .irgatio. f-ciliies
I .roble -ieo bo.ndoods
-   M-re Corsai
Seco-dary Ca-als
-    --Gravl rods
Tor roads
/  -  Access ood
Escape
C    A_ edvct
Ro.i1-ys
PROJECT AREAS                      ?,                                                                 _____,____o  _   4   5 M,l
AREA  TOTAL PAMD LAND YA LAND |              \, <,                                                                  2          6 e        .
A    88.DDD    68,ODD   20,0D0               \       _   .   k          '     t
C    25,0DD   12,600   12.4W5t \;   Hcmnh\
D   34-Soo    Z300   3Z2D002                                   |/    \ ;            
E 2*  4orO        W,200                                                                 _
F    29,D0     SDD   Z3SD                                         X (.t                          >
TOTAL  201,S00  88.200  113,300
* f
Ma\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D '''  9/'' '^
t  ''s >\vSt  g /'                                  \\R uM£l~~~~~-ft"
..';,,,,,p"""..........   .. .   , ,,,,,,  ,,



