Document of                  - ,                U hnn
The World Bank                    FILE COur
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2810-BA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
NYAUNGGYAT DAM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
May 9, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since May 1977, the Burmese kyat has been officially
valued at 8.51 to the IMF Special Drawing Right (SDR) and
consequently its value floats relative to other currencies.
The following exchange rate is used throughout this report
except where stated otherwise:
US$1.00  =  Kyat (K) 6.7
K 1.00  = US$0.149
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 foot (ft)           =      0.305 meters (m)
1 mile (mi)           =      1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)           =      0.405 hectares (ha)
1 ton                 =      1,000 kilograms
1 barrel              =      159 liters     3
1 kilowatt (kW)              1,000 wagts (19  kW)
1 megawatt (MW)              1,000 kW (10 W = 103kW)
1 kilowatt (kWh)      =      1,000 watthours (10 Wh)
1 gigawatthour (GWh)  =      1,000,000 kWh
1 kilovolt (kV)       =      1,000 volts
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AC        -    Agriculture Corporation
AFPTC     -    Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
AMD       -    Agricultural Mechanization Department
CD        -    Cooperative Department
DNP       -    Director of the Nyaunggyat Project
EPC       -    Electric Power Corporation
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
GOB       -    Government of Burma
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
ID        -    Irrigation Department
KfW       -    Kreditanstalt fuer Wideraufbau
MAB       -    Myanma Agricultural Bank
MAF       -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forests
MFTB      -    Myanma Foreign Trade Bank
MI-2      -    Ministry of Industry No. 2
PIC       -    Project Implementation Committee
PSD       -    Planning and Statistics Department
PV        -    Present Value
SD        -    Survey Department
SEE       -    State Economic Enterprise
SLRD      -    Settlement and Land Records Department



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURMA
Nyaunggyat Dam Multipurpose Project
Credit and Project Summarv
Borrower:            The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma
Amount:              US$90.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Co-financiers:       The Governments of Germany, Japan, and Norway.
Project
Description:       The project would be the first step in a long-term
program of land and water development in the Panlaung
and Samon River Valleys in Lhe centra± ary Lone of
Burma. It would provide year-round irrigation for
about 200,000 acres in the Mandalay Division in Upper
Burma. About 88,000 acres of this area are under an
existing irrigation system which is only capable of
providing irrigation for one crop during the monsoon
season. With the construction of the proposed Nyaunggyat
Dam, and the flood control works, ttie project area would
receive assured water supplies for irrigation, allowing
double cropping. To help achieve this, the project pro-
vides for the rehabilitation of the existing inefficient
and silted-up irrigation system and construction of new
irrigation and drainage facilities in the new areas.
Complementary measures include on-farm development,
improved water management, agriculture extension and
research, farm mechanization, technical assistance, and
training. The project would also provide for hydroelectric
power generation with a maximum generating capacity of
56 MW and an average annual energy production of 165 GWh.
The project would benefit about 33,000 farm families,
double the utilization of family labor and increase hired
labor requirements by about 38%. At full development, net
benefits from inci,mental agricultural production are
estimated at US$14 million per annum. The cost of power
generation represents the least cost alternative. Higher
than usual contingencies are included in the cost esti-
mates to allow for the uncertainties of bidders for the
ICB civil works construction, since this will be the
first such venture in Burma. The project involves no
other special risks beyond those commonly associated with
similar multipurpose dams.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
- of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                             US$ Million Equivalent
Local Foreign Total
Civil Works                           31.4      61.2   92.6
Equipment                              13.6     37.3   50.9
O&M Civil Works                        0.5        -      0.5
Technical Assistance                    1.1      9.0   10.1
Engineering and Administration          8.8      0.2    9.0
Base Cost                        55.4    107.7  163.1
Engineering Studies
Detailed Eng. of Paunglaung
Project and Power Plan Review /a   0.8         6.4    7.2
Pilot Groundwater Scheme /a            0.2       1.5    1.7
Contingencies
Physical                                5.1     10.9   16.0
Price                                  12.8     28.2   41.0
Risk Allowance                          2.7      3.3    6.0
Total Cost /b                    77.0    158.0  235.0
Financing Plan:                                             US$ Million Equivalent
Local  Foreign  Total
IDA                                             90.0   90.0
Germany                                         45.0   45.0
Japan                                           15.0   15.0
Norway                                           6.4    6.4
Government of Burma                    77.0      1.6   78.6
Total                            77.0    158.0  235.0
Estimated
Disbursement:
US$ Million Equivalent
IDA FY    1981   1982    1983    1984    1985   1986
Annual                       6.5   14.5    17.0    18.0    19.5   14.5
Cumulative                   6.5   21.0    38.0    56.0    75.5   90.0
Rate of return:      21%.
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 2767-BA dated May 1, 1980.
Map:   IBRD Nos. 14543, 14544, 14545, and 14546.
/a   Including physical and price contingencies.
/b   Including about US$13.0 million for taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
NYAUNGGYAT DAM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Union of Burma for the equivalent of US$90.0 million
on standard IDA terms to help finance the Nyaunggyat Dam Multipurpose project.
Co-financing arrangements are being made with Germany, Japan, and Norway
(paragraph 47).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report entitled, "Burma:  Development Perform-
ance and Policies" (Report No. 2347-BA, March 8, 1979) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on March 16, 1979. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        The present leadership under President Ne Win has ruled the country
since 1962, first under the Revolutionary Council and more recently under a
new Constitution. The Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum in
December 1973, and under it, the Pyithu Hluttaw (People's Assembly) was
created with supreme executive, legislative, and judicial authority. The
Burma Socialist Program Party (BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized
political party. The Government's guiding philosophy stated in the 1962
document entitled The Burmese Way to Socialism reflects a combination of
traditional Burmese values and socialist doctrine. Its economic objectives
are set out in the Twenty-Year Plan, which was adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and
is being implemented through a succession of Four-Year Plans.
4.        During the 1960s and early 1970s, the Government made substantial
progress in the attainment of its social and political objectives. These
included increased government ownership of economic assets, greater equality
in the distribution of income, and Burmanization of important professional and
managerial jobs. A fundamental change in the economic and social structure
resulted from land redistribution, which led to a more equal size of holdings
among farm families, and from the nationalization of a number of major economic
activities in trade and industry. At the same time, access of the population
to social services was expanded, particularly with respect to education and
health facilities.  Insurgency was and is still a problem, however, partic-
ularly in the hills and border areas, although there is probably greater
territorial control by the Government now than at any time since Independence
in 1948.
1/   Part I of this report has been revised since the last Board presentation.



- 2 -
5.        Burma's economic performance over this period, however, reflects
the severe disruption in ownership, management, and distribution systems which
accompanied the social restructuring. Public policies and public sector
performance did not compensate for the drastic declines in private investment
and production which resulted; and economic growth suffered, scarcely matching
population growth. Throughout the period, investment levels were low, with
gross capital formation averaging only 10-11% of GNP. Furthermore, invest-
ment was excessively skewed toward nationalized industry, while such key,
directly-productive sectors as agriculture, forestry, and mining did not
receive due attention.
6.        The pricing policies of the Government exacerbated the problem.
They were aimed at keeping down the cost of living for the masses, and State
Economic Enterprises were not allowed full recovery of their costs, leading to
a decline in their financial surpluses and hence in domestic savings. Further-
more, low agricultural producer prices discouraged the production of paddy and
other crops and led to dwindling export earnings. Low export earnings, in
turn, reduced the capacity of the economy to import essential raw materials,
spares, and capital equipment, leading to increasing underutilization of
capacity in most sectors of the economy and severely limiting expansion.
An increasing share of production was either traded in the domestic unofficial
market or illegally exported abroad at a multiple of official prices. In
both cases, the tax base was undermined and income was siphoned off by seg-
ments of the private sector with little opportunity or inclination to invest
these resources productively. The distortions arising from this system were
compounded-by low, official interest rates and an overvalued exchange rate.
7.        In recognition of this poor economic performance, the Government
initiated a period of reforms with the publication of the Twenty-Year Plan.
The main objectives of the Plan are to foster economic growth within the
context of a socialist system, to enhance economic strength and self-
sufficiency by converting from an agricultural to an agriculture-based
industrial society, to eliminate unemployment and to reduce income disparities.
The GOB's strategy for achieving these goals is constantly evolving, with
innovations proposed as new constraints are encountered. The main elements
of this strategy, however, appear to be: (a) to give higher priority initially
to the directly productive sectors, especially to agriculture, forestry, and
mining; (b) to make greater use of aid, trade, and -- to a lesser extent --
technical assistance; (c) to follow a price stabilization program which
emphasizes cost reduction, through increased efficiency in industry and
technical change in agriculture; and (d) to begin to introduce work incentives
and commercial principles, especially in the State Economic Enterprises
(SEEs).
8.        Pricing policy still reflects the desire to provide basic consumer
goods cheaply and to prevent inflation, but it has begun to recognize the role
of prices in creating production incentives and financial viability. Procure-
ment prices of a variety of agricultural products were raised to improve the
economic position of the farmer, while others were decontrolled. The procure-
ment price for paddy was raised by 150% between 1972 and 1974; it has, however,
remained largely unchanged since then despite rapid inflation in the mid-1970s.
In industry, the Government obtained new costing schedules in 1976 and increased
the ex-factory prices of SEEs, although the adjustments remain incomplete.



- 3-
These new costing schedules, in principle, allow profit margins at the produc-
ing level for the first time. The official exchange rate of the kyat was
devalued by 25% relative to the US dollar in January 1975 and a further 9%
relative to the SDR in 1977, thus partially compensating for the overvaluation.
The interest rate on savings deposits was raised from 3.5% to 6% in April 1975
and raised again to 8% in November 1977. Interest charged to farmers on
agricultural loans has been raised to 12%.
9.        In addition to these pricing reforms, the Government introduced
reforms in investment allocation, management of SEEs, and taxation. The
percentage of public investment which was allocated to agriculture (including
livestock, fishing, and forestry) and mining in the Second Four-Year Plan
(1974/75 to 1977/78) increased to 33%, compared to 16% during the previous
decade. The share of industrial investment which was allocated to consumer
goods and light industries, however, was very small. In 1975, a comprehen-
sive set of guidelines was introduced to enable SEEs to operate on a commer-
cial basis and to improve distribution of their production. The guidelines
introduce greater autonomy in the management of SEEs, set standards by which
their operational performance will be measured, introduce financial and
costing practices to encourage efficiency, and provide for a bonus scheme
under which management and the work force may be rewarded for successful
performance. Although problems remain, particularly in regard to incentives
for operational and investment efficiency, production trends and financial
performance have greatly improved. In April 1976, a major tax reform was
enacted. It included the introduction of a Commodities and Services Tax and
a Profits Tax and resulted in increasing Union Governmentt revenue from 9%
of GNP in 1975/76 to 13% in 1977/78. This tax reform represented a major
turnaround in public finance and was perhaps the most important achievement
of the Government in recent years.
10.       In part as a result of these measures and in part as a result
of favorable weather and increased capital inflows, GDP during the Second
Four-Year Plan (1974/75 to 1977/78) increased by an annual average of 4.7%,
compared to 2.7% in the previous decade. Gross fixed capital formation in-
creased by about 8% per annum in real terms, and domestic savings as a percent
of GDP also increased. The improved budgetary position of the Government
lessened its dependence on the banking system, which, in turn, contributed
to a reduction in the rate of inflation. The consumer price index declined
slightly during 1977, and continued to decline, by an estimated 6%, during
1978. The average annual growth in exports was 3-4% in real terms; and
increased external borrowing permitted an annual average real growth in
imports of 16%.
11.       More recently, during the first two years of the Third Four-Year
Plan (1978/79 to 1981/82), GDP, investment, and export growth continue to be
fairly high, but the domestic savings effort may have to be intensified as
budgetary surpluses of both SEEs and Central Government are stagnating. In
fact, despite the generally favorable developments, much remains to be done
to put the economy firmly on the path to sustained and more rapid growth. The
problems confronting agriculture include insufficient supplies of essential
farm inputs, inadequate transportation facilities and shortages of farm power
and basic farm services, in particular agricultural credit and extension
services. They also include the need for further production incentives



- 4 -
through increased agricultural producer prices and through a greater flow of
consumer goods to the rural areas. In industry, further adjustments of SEE
product prices are required to reflect resource scarcities more accurately, to
stimulate productivity growth, and to generate surpluses for reinvestment. Ir.
external trade, the role and impact of the exchange rate needs to be kept
under continuing review, given the importance of greater export growth for the
development of the domestic economy. Greater export promotion efforts for
minor products must also be made.
12.       The need for institution building and management development, which
expand absorptive capacity by improving the design, administration, and imple-
mentation of development programs, cannot be overemphasized. The Burmese
planning and administrative system, as it now exists, is complex and rigid in
its manner of operation and appears to focus excessively on the formulation
of targets. Streamlining of the entire planning and administrative apparatus,
decentralization of decision-making, and strengthening of the capability of
Government entities to prepare and implement projects are urgently needed.
13.       The Government recognizes the general nature of the problems and
issues to which attention must urgently be addressed. If appropriate actions
are taken, Burma is capable of a significant acceleration in economic growth.
In this connection, the 1977 law on the "Rights of the Private Enterprise"
is welcomed. The Rules and Regulations of this law have now been issued, and
it is hoped that by legitimizing private sector activity and establishing a
clearer set of guidelines for the development of the public, cooperative, and
private sectors, some reintegration of the economy will take place which can
be expected to have a beneficial impact upon economic performance.
14.       The Government's planned GDP growth for the Third Four-Year Plan is
6.6%, an ambitious target and one which will require external assistance for
projects contributing towards:
-    intensified and more efficient use of existing cultivated
areas and reclamation of abandoned land in agriculture
(research and extension services, supply of essential
inputs, especially high-yielding varieties of planting
materials, fertilizer and light agricultural machinery;
improvement of irrigation facilities, in particular,
tubewell development; and integrated agricultural devel-
opment);
-    better utilization of forestry resources (through the
improvement of extraction, processing, and transport
facilities);
development of known mineral deposits; and
- development of agro- and mineral-based industries which
possess clear comparative advantage (including food,
fish, and wood products, and fertilizer production).



In addition to such directly productive projects, external assistance is also
required for infrastructure development, particularly to rehabilitate exist-
ing capacity in transportation and communications. The transport sector is
in a serious state of disrepair for lack of spares, new equipment, and main-
tenance. While project loans and technical assistance can be used to address
most of these projects, commodity financing will also be required from external
sources to meet Burma's needs for fertilizer, materials, spares, and equipment
in support of its rehabilitation efforts.
15.       Burma's debt service ratio increased from 10% in the 1960s to about
20% in the mid-1970s, due primarily to a relative decline in exports with
respect to GDP rather than a relative increase in debt servicing. By early
1980, Burma's external public debt, disbursed and outstanding, was approxi-
mately US$1 billion; and the debt service burden had increased further due to
servicing of loans to the oil industry on commercial terms. Burma's exports
are increasing after a long period of decline, and the potential for a con-
tinued upward trend is good. Nevertheless, because of the rising debt service
burden and because of Burma's low income level, external assistance should be
on concessionary terms and should, in addition, finance part of local cost
requirements which cannot, at present, be covered adequately by domestic
savings. Local cost financing is particularly needed for the agricultural
sector where most investments have a low foreign exchange component.
16.       Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a healthy
and literate population. The crucial question is the quality with which these
resources will be managed and developed. The Bank continues to discuss with
the Government further improvements in economic policy which might help Burma
realize its promising potential for economic development as well as external
assistance requirements. Discussions on these topics are carried on jointly
with other donors and the IMF during the Burma Aid Group meetings which the
Bank has organized at the Government's request. The first meeting of the
Group was held on November 30, 1976, in Tokyo; and there have been two subse-
quent meetings, with indications of increasing donor support each year. The
fourth Burma Aid Group Meeting is scheduled for December 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
17.       Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totalling US$33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon
helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
the purchase of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
18.       No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  At the request of
the Government, IDA lending was resumed in 1973. Since 1973, IDA has made
fourteen credits totaling US$272.3 million equivalent (net of cancellations),
three of which have been fully disbursed. About 58% of this assistance was



-6-
channeled to the agricultural sector, consisting of eight projects: irrigation,
rubber, livestock, seed development, two paddyland development projects, and
two forestry projects. About 16% of IDA's assistance supported the rehabili-
tation of the transport sector through three projects, namely inland water
transport, railways, and a second ports project. The remaining L6% of IDA's
assistance has been for two projects in the telecommunications sector (20%)
and one project in the mining sector (6%). The proposed credit would be the
third in FY80, bringing the total of IDA assistance to Burma to US$362.3 mil-
lion equivalent, net of cancellations. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans and IDA credits as of March 31, 1980, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. IFC has made no investments in Burma.
19.       In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through our on-
going projects and sector work, our knowledge of many sectors has improved. A
US$4.1 million UNDP Technical Assistance Project (Burma Umbrella Project), for
which the Bank is the Executing Agency, has developed a project pipeline suit-
able for external financing in priority sectors such as agriculture, transport,
power and industry. The Seed Development and Rubber Rehabilitation Projects
(Credit Nos. 745-BA and 879-BA, respectively) were prepared under the Umbrella
Project. A second phase of this Umbrella Project has been agreed with the
Government and UNDP. Furthermore, the Association plans to continue its
technical assistance on a project-by-project basis to help improve Burmese
project preparation capabilities, as well as administrative and managerial
skills through in-service and overseas training.
20.       The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate con-
straints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying production
for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange. Within this
overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the development of
agriculture, forestry, and mining. Within this framework and where possible,
priority is being given to quick-yielding projects. At the same time, finan-
cing of infrastructure improvements will continue in such areas as transporta-
tion and telecommunications, mainly to rehabilitate existing facilities. Many
of these are inoperable at present and have increasingly impeded economic
activity in the directly productive sectors of the economy.
21.       In line with the need to increase Burma's foreign exchange earnings,
most of the projects under active preparation are designed to have an impact
on increasing agricultural surpluses for export. A paddy storage and handling
project is being appraised. Other projects under preparation include forest
industries, fuelwood supply, fisheries, integrated agriculture development,
and a tubewells project. In addition, a power project to augment transmission
networks is under consideration.
22.       The Bank Group presently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20% and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.



-7-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND POWER SECTORS
The Agricultural Sector
23.         The importance of the agricultural sector, including livestock,
forestry, and fisheries, in Burma's economy is reflected by its accounting
for 36% of GDP (constant 1970 prices), 85% of exports, and 68% of the work
force in 1978. More than 60% of industrial output comes from processing of
agricultural crops such as paddy, cotton, jute, and sugarcane.  Paddy is by
far the most important crop, accounting for about 42% of the value added for
agricultural crops and more than half of the sown area. Other major crops in
terms of sown area include oilseeds, pulses, maize, cotton, sugarcane, wheat,
chillies, jute, tobacco, onions, coconut, and rubber. Over the decade from
1965 to 1975, the agricultural sector performed poorly, with a growth rate
estimated at 1.6% p.a. compared to 2.3% growth in GDP and 2.2% in population.
Agricultural exports in constant prices decreased by about two-thirds, largely
due to declining rice exports. The performance has been attributed to the
lack of production incentives as well as inadequate support services, agricul-
tural inputs, and public investments.
24.         Since 1975/76, however, considerable improvement has taken place
in the sector's performance as a result of Government action to redress past
problems. Reflecting these improved conditions, combined with favorable
weather, the agricultural sector's growth rate from 1975 to 1978 averaged an
annual 3.8%. Public expenditure in the agricultural sector including live-
stock, fisheries, and forestry is targeted to increase to 27% of total state
expenditure under the Third Four-Year Plan (1978/79-1981/82) compared to 11%
in the First Four-Year Plan and 20% in the Second Four-Year Plan. Over the
past few years, the Government has also raised procurement prices for several
important crops, notably jute, cotton, and sugarcane, and has attempted to
increase availability of agricultural inputs and services, particularly ferti-
lizers and extension service.
25.         At present, most agriculture in Burma is rainfed.  In Lower
Burma, where the rains are heavy, there is little water control. These con-
ditions greatly restrict crop yields. In the dry zone, which covers most
of Upper Burma, water availability is inadequate even during the monsoon.
Irrigation systems throughout Burma were severely damaged during World War II,
and the irrigated area did not reach prewar levels until the mid-1960s. About
2.4 million acres or 12% of the sown area is presently irrigated, although only
about 300,000 acres are double-cropped. The Irrawaddy River and its tribut-
aries are the main source for irrigation water, which is used primarily to
supplement monsoon rainfall during the wet season for paddy, and to a much
smaller extent to irrigate other crops in the dry season. The Government,
through the Irrigation Department, controls and maintains the major irrigation
systems. Scattered village irrigation works are constructed and maintained by
cultivators.
26.       Burma has considerable potential to increase its agricultural pro-
duction for exports. A key factor for agricultural development in Lower
Burma would be the protection of paddyland from flooding (Middle Delta) and
salt water intrusion (Lower Delta). The development of groundwater resources
in Central Burma and the expansion of gravity irrigation systems in Upper



- 8 -
Burma are essential for increasing and diversifying agricultural output.
Other important complementary measures for increased productivity include:
(a) adoption and expansion of area planted with high-yielding varieties (HYV),
particularly for paddy and cotton; (b) increased supply and distribution effi-
ciency of all farm inputs, particularly fertilizer; (c) adequate provision of
suitable extension services; (d) expansion and upgrading of applied agricul-
tural research capabilities; (e) development of an effective agricultural credit
system; (f) appropriate supply of equipment and equipment maintenance to over-
come draft power shortages in peak demand periods; (g) rehabilitation and ex-
pansion of post-harvest infrastructure for storage, processing, and marketing
of farm produce; and (h) maintenance of adequate incentives for farmers includ-
ing the provision of adequate supply of consumer goods for rural areas.
27.       Paddy, Burma's main crop, is also its main export commodity.  Pro-
duction has grown slowly, increasing only slightly during the decade before
1975. Over the last 15 years, there has been no significant increase in total
sown area nationwide as increases in acreage in Upper Burma merely compensated
for losses, due to flooding, in Lower Burma. The rice surplus producing areas
comprise about 9 million acres in Lower Burma, mainly in the Irrawaddy River
delta, where soils are fertile and the rainfall abundant. Upper Burma and
the Hill regions to the North and West with less than 4 million acres are rice
deficit areas even though over 300,000 acres of new rice land have been dev-
eloped there since World War II. Under the Third Four-Year Plan, Burma hopes
to boost paddy production to 11.0 million tons by 1982 or by an average 4.2%
p.a. principally throuigh greater adoption of HYV packages. In the past two
years, paddy production exceeded 10 million tons for the first time.
28.       While open market paddy prices currently offer growers considerable
incentive to increase paddy production, particularly in rice-deficit areas,
the GOB-regulated compulsory paddy procurement system and its prices, which
have been maintained at an unchanged level since 1974, now dampen some of this
incentive. Sensitive to the inflationary, budgetary and social consequences
that might arise from increasing procurement and consumer prices, the GOB has
attempted to mitigate this constraint to growth by instituting, over the last
several years, a series of subsidized input supply programs, complemented by
institutional and technical support. A Rice Commission. chaired by the
Minister of Agriculture and Forests, was established in 1977 to examine all
aspects of rice production, marketing, and incentives. It has made several
recommendations on paddy pricing and procurement. The Government is taking
initial steps to adopt some of these recommendations, including higher procure-
ment prices (about 4%) for premium quality paddy.
29.       Cotton cultivation was introduced into Burma in the late 1950s to
supply a newly installed cotton manufacturing industry designed to substitute
for imported cotton goods. Cultivated areas were almost entirely confined to
the irrigated dry zone of Upper Burma. Production of cotton has risen in
importance as the country is faced with growing demand for cotton textiles
and inadequate supplies of raw materials for its underutilized manufacturing
capacity. Over the 1974-78 period, Burma moved from self-reliance for raw
fiber requirements to importing about 8,000 tons or about 37% of her needs.



-9-
Although bolstered by initially favorable compulsory procurement prices, the
cotton development program proved unsuccessful because of unadjusted and in-
creasingly non-competitive prices from 1961 to 1971, mandatory cropping in
unsuitable areas and seasons, high risk, and unsatisfactory varieties. Sown
area declined from 616,000 acres in 1965 to 362,000 acres in 1970 and increased
to 461,000 acres in 1979. Seed cotton production stagnated over most of the
last decade around 40,000 tons annually. Historically, there has been a wide
divergence between sown and harvested areas, reflecting the fact that 90% of
the cotton crop is grown under rainfed conditions. Doubling of cotton pro-
curement prices in January 1974 and again in March-December 1976, has raised
the incentives for farmers to increase cotton production. Yields for 1978 and
1979 show an average increase of 30% over 1971-77 yields, and production is
estimated to increase to 52,000 tons in 1979.
The Power Sector
30.       Available energy resources in Burma include hydro potential, petro-
leum, and gas. The most abundant source is hydroelectricity, with a theoreti-
cal potential estimated at 100 million kW and 370 billion kWh p.a., enough to
meet Burma's power needs for the foreseeable future. In spite of the vast
hydroelectrical potential, only 168.5 MW, generated by the sole hydroelectric
power station at Lawpita, has been exploited.   Past planning for the power
sector has, to a reasonable extent, reflected strategic and security consider-
ations rather than balanced, cost effective solutions. Investment in trans-
mission and distribution facilities had been limited. Investments in the
short-term should, therefore, concentrate on transmission and distribution
facilities and the economic use of existing and planned generating capacity,
while long-term investment should focus on installation of new hydroelectric
facilities.
31.       The Electric Power Corporation (EPC), one of seven statutory corpora-
tions under the Ministry of Industries No. 2, is responsible for power genera-
tion and distribution. It has autonomy in its daily operations; however,
responsibility for decision-making in important matters rests with MI-2. EPC
has a total of 390 MW generating capacity, accounting for 86% of the total
capacity in Burma. Hydroenergy from the Lawpita Hydro Power Station supplied
72% of EPC's total generation in 1977/78. The balance was generated by gas
turbines, steam plants, and diesels.
32.       In 1978, average consumption per capita in Burma was estimated at
about 26 kWh and average generation per capita at about 34 kWh, including that
in captive generating plants owned by GOB departments and industries. The
latter figure compares with 15 kWh in Nepal, 24 kWh in Bangladesh, and 156
kWh in India. At the end of 1978, about 469,000 consumers were connected to
the system, mostly in the major cities. About 7% of the population has access
to electricity and there is a waiting list of over 150,000 potential consumers
who cannot be served, mainly because of inadequate distribution facilities.
EPC sales increased at an average rate of 10.3% during the period 1969/70 to
1977/78 with annual rates increasing from 9.3% during the first 4 years to
11.8% during the last 3 years. Future demand growth is expected to average
10.8% from 1977/78 to 1990/91. GOB plans to meet the short-term requirements
for additional power through gas turbine plants, and medium/long-term needs
through hydroelectric plants. To provide a sound basis for power system



- 10 -
development, the Government would prepare and submit to IDA for its review and
comments a Power System Planning and Operations Review by April 30, 1981
(Section 4.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).
33.       The existing power tariffs are based on a block system with kWh
charges declining with increasing use and averaging about 23 pyas (USd3.4)
per kWh. Whilst general purpose rates are reasonable at 42.5 pyas (USi6.3)
per kWh, industrial rates are low at 12.8 pyas (USil.9) per kWh. A modest
tariff increase of about 14.5%, accomplished by reducing the number of blocks,
was proposed by EPC to the Ministry of Industry No. 2 in February 1979.
The Government would implement the electricity tariff increase of about 14.5%
during 1980/81 (Section 4.08 of the draft DCA). T-o further improve the
financial position of EPC and ensure economic use of power, the Government
would carry out a comprehensive study of electric tariff structures and
levels. The outcome of this study, along with GOB plans to modify power
tariffs, would be submitted to IDA, for its review and comments, by March 31,
1981 (Section 4.09 of the draft DCA).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The project was first identified during engineering investigations
of the Nyaunggyat site to develop water storage along the Panlaung River by
the Irrigation Department (ID), with assistance from Soviet Consulting Engi-
neers. These investigations led to a request by GOB for IDA assistance in
financing the project in 1973. In 1975, a consulting firm was commissioned
to prepare a feasibility report with subsequent appraisal by IDA in May/June
1976. The first appraisal, however, questioned the soundness of the dam site,
and further engineering studies of the Nyaunggyat Dam were conducted by another
consulting firm employed by GOB and financed under IDA Credit No. 483. These
studies led to selection of an alternative upstream site for which a feasibil-
ity report was prepared, and together with subsequent field investigations by
ID and FAO/CP, they formed the basis of project appraisal by IDA along with
representatives of three potential co-financiers -- KfW, ODA, and Norway --
in April/May 1979. A report entitled "Nyaunggyat Dam Multipurpose Project -
Staff Appraisal Report" (No. 2767-BA) dated May 1, 1980 is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C. during April 11 to 17, 1980. The Borrower's delegation was led by His
Excellency U Ye Goung, Minister of Agriculture and Forests. A supplementary
Project Data Sheet and Special Conditions of the proposed credit are given in
Annex III.
Project Objectives
35.      'In addition to dam construction the project would entail agricul-
tural development of an area covering 200,000 acres in the Mandalay Division
in Upper Burma through the rehabilitation of an existing inefficient and
severely silted-up irrigation system and new construction of irrigation and
drainage facilities for new areas. Together with complementary provisions
for agricultural support services, flood control, O&M facilities, and tech-
nical assistance, the project aims to increase area production of paddy,
cotton, oilseeds, and other cash crops by increasing yields and cropping



-   11  -l
intensities. The project would also provide for hydroelectric power genera-
tion with maximum generating capacity of 56 MW and an average annual energy
production of 165 GWh.
Project Description
36.       The project would be implemented over a six-year period.  It
includes the following components:
Irrigation
(a) construction of a zoned earthfilled/rockfilled dam with an
impervious core of about 236 feet in height, and allied
structures;
(b) rehabilitation of existing irrigation and drainage network
serving an area of about 88,000 acres;
(c) construction of irrigation facilities for the development
of about 113,500 acres of new land;
(d) construction of 110 miles of canal maintenance roads for use
also as farm roads;
(e) improvement of existing small channel "yoes" and excavation
of new drainage channels over a total length of about 100
miles;
(f) construction of about 32 miles of earth embankments along
the Panlaung and Paukchaung Rivers for flood protection;
(g) provision of construction, operation and maintenance and
workshop equipment; vehicles, buildings, and O&M services;
(h) resettlement of persons displaced from the reservoir areas,
including compensation for loss of immovable private and
communal property; and
(i) provision for a pilot groundwater scheme to explore groundwater
potential in Burma's dry zone.
Power
(a) construction of powerhouse and installation of two generating
units of 28 MW each and allied works;
(b) construction of about 31 miles of 132 kV transmission line and
extension of Thazi substation;
(c) construction of re-regulating dam; and
(d) preparation of detailed engineering and designs for the
Paunglaung hydroelectric project, which EPC is planning to
implement to meet power demand.
Agricultural Support and Extension
(a) construction of office buildings, residential quarters,
godowns, workshops, and other buildings required for O&M;
(b) strengthening of extension services including provisions for
incremental staff, training centers, equipment and transport;
(c)  setting up of four demonstration plots to demonstrate irrigated
agriculture to dryland farmers;
(d) setting up of a 100-acre irrigated cotton research, demonstra-
tion, and training center in the newly irrigated area; and
(e) provision of equipment for Agricultural Mechanization Department
(AMD) tractor workshops and for land clearing and leveling.



- 12 -
Technical Assistance
(a) provision of expatriate engineering consultancy services for
design, specification, supervision of construction and quality
control of Nyaunggyat Dam, power plant, and allied works and
preparation of operational manuals for dam and power plant
(480 man-months); planning, design, and supervision of con-
struction of hydraulic structures and irrigation works
(180 man-months); planning, design, and supervision and
quality control of construction of transmission line and
substation facilities (40 man-months); and consultancy
assistance for analysis of the risks and related insurance
requirements for construction of the dam, powerhouse, and
allied structures (3 man-months);
(b) provision of specialist services of a cotton agronomist,
(48 man-months), plant protection specialist (36 man-months),
water management specialist (24 man-months), agricultural extension
specialist (15 man-months),and a consulting team comprising an
economist, cotton ginning engineer, and a paddy storage and milling
engineer (9 man-months), to assist in their respective areas in
downstream agriculture development;
(c) provision of assistance to GOB/EPC in preparation of power
system planning and operations review (40 man-months),
(d) provision of short-term fellowships and overseas study
tours for project engineering staff and extension
personnel;
(e)  provision o  assistance to GOB/ID in development of the
pilot groundwater scheme (40 man-months); and
(f) provision of services of an Advisory Panel of Experts to review
the plans during various stages of design refinement and dam
construction, perform periodic inspections during construction,
and provide technical advice to ensure the safety of the dam and
allied structures.
Project Execution
37.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MAF) would be mainly
responsible for the implementation of the project. The Irrigation Department
(ID), Agriculture Corporation (AC), Agricultural Mechanization Department
(AMD) under the MAF, and the Electric Power Corporation (EPC) under the
Ministry of Industries No. 2 (MI-2) would execute various components of the
project. The Planning and Statistics Department (PSD) and Settlement and Land
Records Department (SLRD) of MAF, and the Ministry of Planning and Finance
(MPF) would be directly involved with the implementing agencies in project
coordination and management while the Survey Department (SD), the Cooperative
Department (CD), the Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation (AFPTC),
and the Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB) would be indirectly involved in project
implementation.
38.       The ID would be responsible for (a) supervising construction of the
dam and allied structures under ICB contract; (b) rehabilitation of existing
irrigation works; (c) construction of new irrigation facilities; (d) con-
struction of flood control works, drainage improvements, and canal roads;



- 13 -
(e) on-farm development and water management; (f) construction of the access
road, O&M buildings, and camp sites; and (g) procurement of construction
equipment and materials for force account works.
39.       The AC would be responsible for (a) strengthening extension services;
(b) establishing a cotton research and demonstration farm in the newly irri-
gated area; and (c) constructing input godowns, staff quarters, dormitories,
and farm buildings. An AC Deputy General Manager would be appointed Project
Extension Manager to coordinate implementation of the T&V extension program in
the four townships. The other project activities would be performed by
existing operational units in AC.  The AMD would be responsible for (a) land
clearing and leveling in the new development areas; (b) construction of staff
quarters, tractor sheds, and workshops; (c) providing tractor services to
farmers; and (d) maintaining farm machinery.
40.       The EPC would be responsible for (a) supervising construction of
the powerhouse and allied structures and installation of equipment; and
(b) erecting, by force account, the 132 kV transmission line to Thazi. To
fully utilize the off-peak energy from the Lawpita station at present and
that of the proposed Nyaunggyat power plant, the Government would take neces-
sary actions to fully utilize the power output of the Nyaunggyat plant prior
to its commissioning (Section 4.05 of the draft DCA). These actions include
(a) integration of the Kyunchaung gas turbine with the hydro-grid system;
(b) installation of additional transformers at the Mandalay and Thazi sub-
stations; (c) upgrading of the transmission voltage for the Thazi-Toungoo
line from the currently planned 132 kV to 230 kV; and (d) installation of an
additional transformer at Toungoo substation.
41.       The experience and past performance of the main implementing agencies
indicate that they are capable of successfully implementing their functions
under adequate technical assistance. To assist these agencies in implementing
the project, the Government would establish three additional circles, each
headed by a superintending engineer and 11 additional units, 8 for ID and 3
for EPC. The Government would appoint, in accordance with a schedule satis-
factory to IDA, additional staff for ID, AC, and EPC by October 31, 1980
(Section 3.05 of the draft DCA).
42.       The various implementing agencies would be assisted by consultants.
The Government would employ such consultants (paragraph 36) on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.02(a) of the draft DCA). The
estimated cost for consultancy services is about US$6,000 per man-month
(individual specialists) and about US$10,000 per man-month (consultancy firms).
This cost includes salary, allowance, travel, settlement, miscellaneous
expenses, arnd overhead charges (for firms).
43.       To improve extension services and increase agricultural input sup-
plies in the project area, the Government would (a) set up a work program for
the agricultural extension services, (b) supply fertilizers for paddy, cotton,
and other crops at rates recommended each year by the extension service, and
(c) stock sufficient sprayers and pesticides in each AC Township on the basis



- 14 -
of estimates made annually by the extension service (Section 4.04 of the dr&£f
DCA). To achieve agricultural production potential from project investments,
the Government would make arrangements for adequate seasonal and investment
credit to farmers in the project area (Section 4.14 of the draft DCA).
Project Coordination
44.       To coordinate the work of the various implementing agencies, a
Project Implementation Committee (PIC) has been established in MAF, similar
to those PICs functioning successfully in the Paddyland I and II projects
(Section 3.06(a) of the draft DCA). The PIC, chaired by the Deputy Minister
of Agriculture and Forests, would comprise representatives of agencies directly
involved in project implementation, and would be responsible for inter-
ministerial coordination, project-related policy issues, resolution of imple-
mentation bottlenecks, and important administrative matters. In addition to
project coordination, the Committee is also responsible for reviewing and
approving annual work programs and budgets, reviewing monthly progress reports,
and liaising with IDA and other co-financiers on all project-related policy
matters.
45.       To coordinate technical planning and field execution of all project
components, the MAF has appointed a Senior ID Officer as a full-time Director
Nyaunggyat Project (DNP). The responsibilities of the DNP would include prep-
aration of annual work programs and budgets in collaboration with the various
implementing agencies; resolution of implementing bottlenecks; and conferring
with PIC (on which he serves as member-secretary) on all project matters. The
DNP would be assisted by three superintending engineers, two from ID, one for
the dam and allied structures construction under ICB contract, and the other
for irrigation and agricultural development works by force account, and one
from EPC for the power plant and transmission lines. The Government has
already appointed the three superintending engineers. In appointing the
three superintending engineers, the Government had also approved three
additional project circles (two for ID and one for EPC).
Cost and Financing
46.       The total project cost is estimated at US$235.0 million (including
taxes and duties of about US$13.0 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange
cost of US$158.0 million. Cost estimates (based on March 1980 price levels)
are based on detailed designs and quantities. Physical contingencies are esti-
mated at: (i) 15% for the TCB civil works, force account works (except for
Area F for which contingencies were estimated at 20%), and the access road;
and (ii) 5% for equipment for all project components. Price contingencies are
based on recent Bank projections for inflation: 10.5% for 1980, 9.0% for 1981,
8.0% for 1982, 7.0% for 1983-85, and 6.0% for 1986 for foreign costs; and 7.0%
for 1980-85 and 6.0% for 1986 for local costs. Nevertheless, the cost esti-
mates include a risk allowance of 8% (about US$6.0 million, including about
$3.3 million in foreign exchange) of the cost of ICB civil works for the dam,
powerhouse and allied structures to allow for possible country risks, since
this will be the first venture involving international competitive bidding
(ICB) for civil works construction in Burma. The Government has taken various
measures to minimize the uncertainties on the part of bidders (paragraph 64).



- 15 -
47.       With assistance from IDA, GOB is tentatively making arrangements for
financing part of the foreign exchange cost (about US$66.4 million equivalent)
from bilateral sources:
Source               Amount                 Terms and Purpose
(status)           (US$ million
equivalent)
Federal Republic         45.0        German funds would finance the entire for-
of Germany                         eign exchange cost of the power component:
(approval by KfW
Board is expected                    (i)  About DM 68.0 million would be German
by end-June 1980)                         capital aid (on IDA terms), including
about DM 23.0 million untied aid for
joint financing of the ICB civil works
related to the power component, and
the remaining as parallel financing
for tied procurement.
(ii)  About DM 13.0 million would be German
export credits (terms not vet final-
ized). Parallel fi,nancing for tied
procurement.
Norway                    6.4        Grant for detailed engineering studies
(grant Agreement                     for the Paunglaung Power Project and con-
will be signed in                    sultancy services for the Power Plan Review.
June 1980)                           Parallel financing for tied procurement.
Japan                    15.0        Loan for equipment for irrigation and drain-
(under active                        age works, and agricultural and farm support
consideration)                       (about US$12.3 million), as well as for
civil works of the irrigation component for
the project areas C and E (about US$2.7
million).
The above assistance was discussed during a co-financing meeting which was
chaired by IDA in Paris in February 1980. The Myanma Foreign Trade Bank (MFTB)
and EPC would,be co-borrowers of the German funds. The Norwegian grant and
the Japanese loan are expected to be made directly to GOB. The proposed IDA
Credit of US$90.0 million would finance part of the foreign exchange cost of
the project or about 40% of total project costs, net of taxes and dtuties.
Total external financing would amount to US$156.4 million equivalent or about
70% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties.  Satisfactory arrange-
ments for commitments for co-financing are a condit ion of effectiveness of the
proposed IDA Credit (Section 6.01 of the draft DCA). The Government of Burma
would finance about US$78.6 million equivalent including about US$1.6 million
of the foreign exchange cost (including contingencies) for equipment reserved
for procurement under local procedures (paragraph 48). The proposed financing
plan is as follows:



- 16 -
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
IDA   Germany   Japan   Norway   GOB    Total
Dam & Allied Structures          77.0                                24.5   101.5
Power                                    45.0                        18.0    63.0
Irrigation, Drainage, &
Flood Control                   9.6              13.5              31.9    55.0
Agricultural Support &
Farm Power                      1.9               1.5               3.2     6.6
Detailed Engineering
Paunglaung & Power
Plan Review                                             6.4      0.8      7.2
Pilot Groundwater Scheme          1.5                                 0.2     1.7
Total                       90.0   45.0       15.0    6.4      78.6   235.0
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       Equipment, vehicles, and materials financed by Germany, Japan, and
Norway under parallel financing arrangements would be procured in accordance
with their respective procurement guidelines, while those financed by IDA
would be procured by ICB in accordance with IDA guidelines. Equipment, spare
parts, and materials and groupings, thereof, estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than US$100,000 which are either required urgently or are not suitable
for international tendering, would be procured through prudent shopping by
normal GOB procurement procedures on the basis of compa7-ative prices from not
less than three independent suppliers. Such purchases would be limited to a
maximum of US$1.0 million. Because access road completion is critical to
timely and effective execution of the project, essential equipment for road
construction may be procured after comparing prices from not less than three
independent suppliers in accordance with procurement procedures of the Borrower
acceptable to IDA. Such purchases would be limited to a total of US$1.0
million. Tractors, power tillers, other equipment, and field vehicles with an
estimated foreign exchange cost of about US$1.6 million (including contin-
gencies) would be reserved for procurement under local procedures and would
not be eligible for reimbursement out of the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
49.       The major civil works contract (about US$70.0 million) would include
the construction of the dam, powerhouse, and allied structures, including
furnishing and installation of spillway gates and irrigation outlets. Tender-
ing for this contract would be done under ICB in accordance with IDA guide-
lines. Under a joint financing arrangement, Germany would finance the portion
of these civil works related to the power component (paragraph 47). GOB has
taken niecessary steps for prequalifying bidders for ICB works. The bidding
documents for the ICB civil works contract have been prepared by consultants,
and reviewed by Bank staff and ID and EPC engineers. The Government is in the
process of approving these documents, and bids are expected to be invited by
June 1980.
50.       Civil works for irrigation facilities, flood control and drainage,
land clearing, workshops, agricultural godowns, and training dormitories



- 17 -
would be carried out by force account by ID, AC, and AMD. These widely scat-
tered works, which would be subject to seasonal weather interruption, are
phased over six years and would not be suitable or attractive to international
contractors (there is no private construction industry in Burma). Owing to
the urgent neecd for an access road, the ID had already started constructian
of this road by force account.
5X.       Disbursements from the proposed IDA Credit would cover:  (a) 100%
of foreign expenditures for construction of the dam and allied structures under
the ICB contract, including furnishing and installation of spillway gates and
irrigation outlets (other than those financed by German assistance); (b) 100%
of toreign expenditures (cif) and 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs)
for equipment, spare parts, and construction materials (other than those
financed by Germany, Japan, and Norway); (c) 80% of local expenditures for
other equipment and spare parts procured locally through prudent shopping;
and (K  100% of foreign expenditures for consulting services and training
(other than those financed by German assistance and the Norwegian grant).
52.       Disbursements against all items would be fully documented.  To ensure
tiDlely completion of the access road, being carried out by force account by ID,
it is recommended to retroactively finance about US$1.5 million for eligible
expenditures (foreign exchange cost for equipment and materials) incurred after
Janliary 1, 1980.
Operation and Maintenance
53.       ID would be responsible for reservoir operation in collaboration
with: -,PC based on irrigation and power generation.  The Government would sub-
mit to IDA, for its review and comment, detailed regulations for reservoir
operations by September 30, 1983 (Section 4.03(b) of the draft DCA). ID would
also be responsible for the maintenance of irrigation facilities, campsites,
construction and maintenance quarters, and workshop buildings. Fertilizer
godowns, residential quarters for extension staff, and training school build-
ings would be maintained by AC; farm equipment workshops by AMD; and power-
house and transmission lines by EPC. Incremental O&M costs during the six-year
implementation period have been included as a GOB contribution to the project
cost. The Government would provide these agencies with adequate staff and
funds for the operation and maintenance of the project (Section 4.17 of the
draft DCA).
Dam Safety
54.       Consistent with the growing concern over dam safety by the Interna-
tional Commission on Large Dams and various dam project agencies throughout
the world, the Government would appoint, prior to the award of the ICB civil
works contract, an Advisory Panel of Experts, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA, to review the dam and related structure designs and completed
works (Section 3.02(b) of the draft DCA). The panel would conduct comprehen-
sive reviews and meet as required to ensure general safety of the dam and
al'ied structures and suggest safeguarding measures and/or treatments as and
when necessary during various stages of dam construction. The project also



- 18 -
includes provision of instrumentation on the main dam, saddle dikes and allied
structures to help forecast serious damage or failure on the basis of measure-
ment of movements, strains, settlements, internal seepage, pressures, seepage
gradient, and uplift forces.
Resettlement
55.       The construction of the Nyaunggyat Dam would entail the flooding
of four villages in the reservoir area with a total population of about 400
people and about 650 acres of rainfed cultivable land. The project provides
for the resettlement of this small number of dislocated persons on areas
of unutilized land which will be developed under the project, and for suit-
able compensation for loss of property. The Government would carry out a
resettlement program, including adequate compensation, in accordance with a
resettlement plan acceptable to IDA (Section 4.16 of the draft DCA).
Cost Recovery
56.       The capital costs of the agricultural components -- dam, irrigation,
drainage, flood control, agricultural support, land clearance, and O&M during
implementation -- would amount to about K 663 million in present value (PV)
terms. 1/ Assuming that GOB would adjust its controlled input and output prices
over time to maintain relative prices within the economy (i.e., to increase
nominal prices by the domestic rate of inflation), the PV of total capital and
recurrent project costs, including O&M and subsidies on farm inputs such as
fertilizers and pesticides, over the 50-year project life would amount to
about K 927 million.
57.       Under the existing compulsory paddy procurement and cotton purchase
systems, total GOB net procurement earnings from incremental paddy and cotton
purchases would amount to about K 936 million. This amount exceeds total
capital and recurrent including O&M project costs and subsidies (paragraph 56).
Therefore, full incremental costs would be more than recovered principally
through implicit commodity taxation. In addition, recoveries through land
taxation would amount to about K 1.7 million. This concept of cost recovery
is similar to that approved for the Paddyland I and II projects (Credit Nos.
642-BA and 835-BA).
58.       Similar to arrangements reached with the Government for the Paddy-
land I and II projects, the Government would periodically review and, if
necessary, revise its paddy and seed cotton pricing systems to ensure that
farmers in the project area have adequate financial incentives to make the
investments necessary to increase production (Section 4.12 of the draft DCA).
In the event that the existing compulsory paddy procurement system and/or
compulsory cotton sales program are modified or abolished, the Government
would establish and maintain arrangements in consultation with IDA for the
recovery of the agricultural capital and O&M costs of the project (Section
4.13 of the draft DCA).
1/ Analysis was done in constant 1980 currency units.



- 19 -
59.       To achieve a reasonable cost recovery through EPC's tariff for
capital investment in the power component, this investment should be made part
of EPC's own assets. The Government, therefore, would give ownership of the
investment in the power component of the project to EPC (Section 4.11 of the
draft DCA). This assumes that EPC should be allowed to set tariffs so as to
cover all operating expenses and to ensure a reasonable rate of return.
Based on the new tariff rates (paragraph 33), GOB/EPC would realize a fiscal
rate of return (excluding taxes and duties) of 6.9% for the power component of
the project.
Project Benefits and Justifications
60.       The project would principally intensify and upgrade agricultural
production in the project area. Annual incremental paddy production, at full
development, is estimated at 121,000 tons. Annual incremental production of
seed cotton, at full development, is estimated at 42,000 tons, yielding about
12,100 tons of lint, and about 10,200 tons of oilseed cake and 4,000 tons of
industrial oil. Incremental cash crop production is estimated at 52,600 tons
of onions, sesame, groundnuts, chillies, and pulses. Considering all capital
and recurrent costs and benefits valued in border kyats, the Burmese economy
is expected to realize net benefits of about US$115.6 million in PV terms or
about US$14.0 million p.a. over the 50-year project life.
61.       Directly benefitting from the project would be about 33,000 farm
families. Farm labor requirements in the project area would increase from
about 8.3 million man-days at present to an estimated 22.3 million man-days
p.a. at full development. Presently, 38% of farms in the project area fall
be:Low the IBRD-estimated relative poverty line of US$65 disposable income per
capita p.a., 27% lie between this line and the average of US$120 disposable
income per capita p.a. and about 35% lie above the national average. With
project implementation, all beneficiary farm families are likely to realize
per capita income levels above the national average.
62.       At a modest incremental cost, the project would also provide elec-
trical power of 28 MW firm capacity (maximum 56 MW) and average annual energy
production of 165 GWh when completed in 1985. The project's energy production
would be gradually absorbed from 128 GWh in 1986 to full absorption in 1989 by
the existing transmission system, and serve the requirements of the northern
region. During the first three years, energy production would meet incremental
demand and substitute for the generation of the Kyanchaung gas turbine plant.
Thereafter, it would be allocated solely to meet incremental demand. Since
there exists no hydroelectric project which is ready for implementation, the
only realistic alternative to compare the Nyaunggyat power plant would be a
thermal alternative using petroleum fuel. The analyses of four such alterna-
tives showed that a combination of medium-speed diesel engines (70%) and gas
turbines (30%) would be the least cost thermal alternative at discount rates
above 12%. The economic cost stream of the power component, consisting of
incremental capital, replacement, and O&M costs, was compared with the least
cost thermal alternative. The discount rate which equates the PVs of the two
cost streams is 15.9%. This implies that the power component of the project
is the least cost solution at discount rates below 15.9%.



- 20 -
63.       The economic rate of return (ERR) from the total project investment
is estimated at 21.3%. Were the power component excluded, the PV of net bene-
fits from remaining project components would decline from K 829.8 million to
K 774.4 million. Since the power component enhances the economic viability
of the project, the multipurpose nature of the project is sound.
Project Risks
64.       The project would have no adverse environmental effects on public
health and water quality but instead, reduced flooding and improved drainage
provided by the project would improve conditions in the project area. In
recent years, the incidence of malaria has been increasing due to a variety
of factors including the evolution of mosquitoes resistant to DDT and a gene-
ral slackening of control measures because of inadequate staffing and budget-
ing. The project works are not expected to aggravate the existing conditions
of this malady. The Nyaunggyat project would be Burma's first venture involv-
ing ICB civil works construction. Potential project risks are that: foreign
contractors would find working conditions in Burma difficult and that these
would affect adversely the pace of implementation; problems would arise in
project coordination; and GOB would face difficulties in providing in a timely
manner needed professional and technical staff. To minimize this risk, GOB
has agreed to remove various constraints and provide normal operations for
foreign contractors for ICB works. Because of the complexity of this multi-
purpose project and potential problems concerning coordination in implement-
ing its various components, the Government has already appointed a full-time
Project Director and -hree superintending engineers (paragraph 45), and
has also established a PIC (paragraph 44).
65.       Sensitivity analysis indicates that if project completion were
delayed two years as a result of the potential problems discussed above, the
net PV for the total project would decline from K 829.8 million to K 607.7
million, and the ERR would decline from 21% to about 19%. If cotton yields
amount to only 1,000 pounds per acre (instead of the projected 1,500 pounds
per acre), the net PV for the total project would decrease to K 473.2 million,
and the ERR would drop to about 18%.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the recommendation of the Com-
mittee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
67.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The following events of suspension have been added namely: the
dissolution or the disestablishment of the EPC and the AC or the suspension of
the operation of the EPC or the AC (Section 5.01(a) of the draft DCA); and the
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring of the German assistance,
Japanese assistance, and Norwegian grant (Section 5.01(b) of the draft DCA).



- 21 -
An additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit is that the
Government would make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for commit-
ments of the German assistance, Japanese assistance, and Norwegian grant
(Section 6.01 of the draft DCA).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 9, 1980



- 22 -                                             Annex I
TALL 34                                             Page  I
DUOMA - SOCIAL IDICATORS DATA S
WhU~   CWS (ADUSYD *SAU
LID AR   (IOUSAD SQ.  1.                                                   - RDX.  112UT uTmAT   '
TOTAL            676.6                                                 sox         SW       mE IlCU
AGRICULTURAL     103.6                               MIT  XClOU      GUGRAREC    DCt           INCOI
1960 Lb    1970 lb ESTImTEF A1      REGOO j L    GIDO Li    GOUP J 
OR PE  CAPIT  (USS)                  60.0        80.0    150.0            191.1      209.6       467.5
MUG? CONSMTnTM PE  CAPIT
(i    5Rams or COaL squITYALZAT)   55.0        58.0      49.0           69.1        S3.9      262.1
POPUATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPLATIOU. NI-YEA  (MILLIONS)      21.8        27.0      31.5
011S POPULATION (PUCUT Of TOTAL) 19.0          23.0      25.0            13.2       16.2       24.6
POPULATIC PROJIDONS
POPULAT0IO  IN YAR 2000 MILLIONS)                      51.0
STATIONRUT POPULATION (ULIOUS)                         92.0
TM  STATIO0UY POPULAON TS                            2145
POPULATION DESITY
PE  SQ. 1D.                      32.0        40.0      47.0            86.6      49.4        45.3
P  SQ. 11. AGR.CETU¶AL LAID   204.0         253.0    304.0            330.2      252.0      149.0
POPLATION AGE STRUCrUll (PRCEN)
0-14 TES.                        38.4        40.0      41.0           44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 TUS.                        59.0        57.0      55.0           52.4       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.6         3.0       4.0            3.1        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PD.U)
TOTAL                             1.9         2.2       2.2             2.4       2.4         2.7
URBAN                             5.7         3.9       3.8             4.1       4.6         4.3
CRUDE ImT  RATE (PU ToUSAD)        43.0        40.0      39.0            44.4      42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PIZ T80USAID)    22.0        17.0      15.0            16.4       15.9       11.7
GROSS REPROOUCTION  A                ..         2.7       2.7             3.2       2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCZPTOLS . AlltUAL (T0USAID9S)    ..          ..        ..
USEiRS (PERCEN  OF tAZD       )    ..          ..        ..             7.9      12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
DUEl OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PE CAPITA (1969-71-100)         107.0       102.0      95.0           99.4       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIRZEMETS)                  90.4       101.0    103.0             93.0      93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         50.0        49.0      58.0           56.1       52.1        54.3
Of VIICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      12.1        13.0-f    12.9            10.4       13.6       17.4
CSILD (AGES 1-4) KWTALITY RATE     25.0        18.0      15.0            19.2      18.5        11.4
HEALTH
ITFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTL (YEARS)   43.0        49.0      52.0           49.1       49.3        54.7
INFANT I40ETALITY RATE (PM
THOUSAND)                            ..          ..       ..              ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SaE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        18.0      17.0            31.5      26.3        34.4
URBAN                              ..        35.0      30.0            63.9      58.5        57.9
RURAL                              ..        13.0      13.0            20.1      15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PEICENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        35.0      33.0            15.7      16.0        40.8
UI3                                ..        45.0      38.0           66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                              *         32.0      32.0            2.5        3.5        27. 7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         9900.0/h   8970.0   5410.0           7107.9   11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      7540.0   6120.0         12064.0    5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1400.0      1170.0    1220.0.4LU      2738.4    1417.1       726.5
MRBAN                              ..       250.0     250.OLA           ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                              ..    15820.0   11920.OLL&            ..    2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER aOSPITAL BED          ..        34.0      39.OL            *-      24.8        27.5
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             4.6          ..       ..              ..        5.3         5.4
UR3AN                              ..          ..       ..              ..        4.9         5.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..              ..        5.4         5.5
AVEAGE  MBER OF PERSONS PER BOOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..
URBAN                              ..          ..       ..
RURAL                              ..          ..       ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              .            .        .               .        2.           5
?URAL                              9...                  ..9.                       .



-23-                                                Annex I
Page 2
AL INDICATSOS DAZ  SEIW
muI   WwPs (AJUUSTID A1jAAZ
- WmT MXCII? nzS   NMHA
lInT RIch?      COC3AIIC       DCx3       3NCO
1960 Lb     1970 LIP UTsITI ab       UG1o1 /I  c0w  Id L        n Le
EDUCATION
AMUSS D EmNLL2OS RATIOS
PRI7JAY1     TOSAL                56.0        67.0      80.0            59.5       63.3         62.7
mALZ                 61.0        92.0       3.0            76.9        79.1        67.3
PhALe                52.0        63.0      78.0            43.7       48.4         75.8
SKCODAT:  SOTAL                   10.0        21.0      22.0             19.5       16.7        21.4
MALI                 13.0        26.0      25.0            27.8       22.1         33.0
r13*.                 7.0        17.0      19.0.           10.0       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL  MOL. (2 0o  SNCt41AY)   0.5            1.4       1.4              1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACI RATIO
PRIMAY                            42.0        47.0      52.0            42.2       41.0        34.1
SiCOAY                              ..        32.0        ..              ..       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITnACy RATE (PECX1I)         59.71b        ..      67.0            25.5        31.2        54.0
CONSUHPION
PASSENGER CARS PF  SROUD
POPiLATION                         0.8         1.0       1.2             2.3        2.8         9.3
RADIO RICEIVES PI IO4JSAID
POPULATION                         6.0        15.0      22.0            15.5       27.2        76.9
TV IUCEIVES m   NOOSAD
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..              ..        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GEURAL
UtDfERST") CIRCULATION PE
TROUSAND POPULATION                   ..        15.0      10.0             6.2        5.3         18.3
CIMUM  ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PE CAIA  6.0             ..       S.Uf              ..       1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABO FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10600.0      10920.0   12300.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  40.1        36.9      36.4            21.4       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             68.0        59.6      55.0            66.3       69.4        62.7
DDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.3        15.4      19.0             9.6       10.0        11.9
PARTiCIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOtAL                               47.8        42.9      41.2            35.8       36.9        37.1
MALE                                58.0        54.1      52.9            52.3        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                              37.8        31.1      29.8            15.7        16.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8         1.1       1.1             1.3         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.6/i        ..        ..              ..         ..        15.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF bOUSEHOLDS  44.77?      40.0/f      ..              ..         ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSECOLDS    6.5?        8.07T      ..              ..         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF 80USEHOLDS   16.57?      21.07       ..              ..         ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UR8AN                               ..          ..      94.0            66.5       99.2       241.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      68.0            74.2       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      50.0              ..       91.9       179.7
RURAL                               ..          ..      36.0            50.4       54.8       103.7
ESTI11ATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      35.0            44.3       44.1        24.8
RURAL                               ..          ..      35.0            52.4       53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries asong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is nLot uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, betwen 1974 and 1977.
!c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /a  Loewr Middle Income (5281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  1972;  /L  General hospitals only;   /h 1962;  /i 1958, Rangoon.
.lost Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-24 -                                                                          Annex I
Page 3
ThlflS OF SOCIAL nWICA2VP
Notes: Although the data  r  draw  fro  source  ge-rally judged the met mstbsritstive ed reliable, it should aaso be sated that they ma  sot be inter.-.
tionslip compable becaus  of the lack of stadardised  Wdefntion  sad .o-cpt.  sed by dirfferet estries in colleting the data. The data are, nontheless,
Iuseu  to desc.ribe orders of magntude, indicate trend., and shartein  certain major difference  betse  cousis...
The adusted  roup aeragesfor each indicator ar  populAtium-weigbted g-smtris meas      .sc,disg the soire   -lues of th* indicator and the meet populated
counry  n eah goup.baato lack of data, group avrags of all indicators for Capital Surplus Oil kspcrters sad of indicator, of Access to Water an  Rooreta
Disposal1, Houing, Inom  Distrihuth        sad Peverty for other coutry groups are popultio-weightsd getrio  men  without esissof th  eestrem   vausad
the most popuated coutry.  Sinc  th-oeseo   onre                   ateidctr   e~                   viaiii  fdt  n   snt  .nifoem  catico mt he eusrised
inreatn  aergs  f  n  idiaortoaoter    hee  veaesar   eelyuefl sh..oiaton   fce,ece"  ale  wencsain   hevt                                              ua  f n
idicator at a ien t       theountr  and reeeeegop,.
lAID ARHA (thoundsqb.                                                                   Acc.sa to ftcreta Disposal(prornt  f poultis) -  Itotal  urhc  and rura  -
otl-otal surface ares  1opiin ad are  sad inlsad waters.                            omber of  ppc(talurn,ndua)sevdb                           orta disposa-a
Agricultura1 - itet recent estimate of agricultural are  used temporarily                per-etages of their respective populations. Eicrta dispoa  may I Yinclde
or permanetly for orops, pastures, ameht and kitchen gardens or to                    the collec tion and disposal1, with or sithout treatmct, of hmm  c-crte
lie fallo.                                                                            and nate-water by enter-borne  yrste   or the use of pit privies sod s.ilor
SN tPPCAI  (S$      IPprcaiaetmtsatcretmre prices,                                  Pplation per Pl'isn - Po;solatico divided by ousber of practicing piysici-n
calculaed by nme cosrraic  mthod asWorld bank Atlas (1976-78  ai)               quaified frm    md calsho   at univerity level.
ip6o, 197o, so  19175aa                                                               Pop.Ultion per Ihrarsins Prsos - Population divided by oute.r of practicing male
jffl.MVCGISUKPTION P00 CAPPIT - Aduo  consue - ption of co-ri1 coergy                      sId female gradu_te       s  paticlnre,  a   sliatuns
(col nd igsic,  etrleu, ntural gas and hydro-, ouca  and gS-                    Pp      lanprdHospitalPe _-total  urban, nod  -or1 - Pp.1at I.. (totnl, uric,
thee-a  electricityp) in kilcgrn   of coa   quiesacot por capita; 1960                        oridvie   ythi  enetc  outerofbositt rebed niaici
i970, sod 1976 data,                                                                    public nod private genra  and speialiced hcotpita.l so   cniitnticoci-tn-.
Hcapitals are establishments permanently staffed by nIt ie.t  -c  physicia-
POPoTIATION ADii VITAL STATISTICS                                                           atabli.hmests proiding principally custodial cave nr  st included. Rura
TOtNI Ppulatic., nod-Year Taiilic) ..     ho of July 1; i960, i970, and                 hospitals, hoevr, include hrnlth sad medical ceoters cot peresnetly otafied
i97daa                                                                                by a physician (hut by a medical assistant, nure, eidsife  etc.)  hbict offer
Urban Puaico (percent of total)   R Otic of urban to total population;                   In-_patient aconansd procide In limited rsoge of medical facilitio..
dfeotdeflintions of urhan  re   may affect comparbility cf data                Adission. per Hospta  Red - Total nuber cf adieicts..  to or di-chargen  fro
noug coutries; 1960, 1970, and 1975 dntn.                                             hoepitala divided by the outer of beds.
Proulti io  P-oj-tioos
Fopulation in yearPO   - forrest popolatio  proJections are based                 HOUSPIN
1971 tcta.1 poP.intion by ug  sod sc and their mortality and fertiiity            Average Sic- of Hiousebld (persons per h-hoeld) - tctal, uin. and rurl1
votes  Projeccioc parsaters for morta ity rates comrise of three                   A hcusehold c...sisto of a group of individuals eho stor  liicig quarter  sod
l-eoi  nosunig life eopeotacy It hinth inceaing ctb coutry,s                        thiei main -.a.o.  A bo-d- or lodger map or ay out be i-cludcd ic tic
per capita incoe ire1, sod fesale life eupctancy utbiliiag at                       loonchod for statistical PorP.....
75 y-n,.  Tho parnt-r  for fertility eats also have tbre level                  A-orag  nuber cf persons per roo  - total, uba, and rura  - Ace-ue cob-c
nouion d-vli-e I  fertility nocording to ise-  levl ndpat                          of pernonPs per c    ic all urba, and rura  occpied co-eti-Io duellioct,
family clacigc p-rfr-unE. Sno  coutry is then assigoe:d oef these                   repentively.  iOeLlings eclude non-peenoct ot-uturn  sod un-cpicicats
cine ooehinatins of -otality sod fertility trends for projection                  A,oesa to Sleotrioity (percet of d-eIlingo) - totnl.  rbso, nod v-rn  -   t
purposco.                                                                           -etional dwellings  itb electricity to licing qoarte-  on p-rcntog  of
Ittic rcplainI   stationay popultion there is so groe,th                              total, urban, and  -ura  d-.liigo repectively.
since the hirth rate is equal to the death rate, and aLso the age
et-ucur   eeins contant. This Is achieved only aftsr fertiiity rates            SiOATION
deciinn to the  eplacmet lse-i of unit set reprodution rate,  he                  Adjuted   rclment Patios
each geertion of woe  repiacs itself eoatly.  The sttionas  puPo-                   Primacry school - total, male nod foae-I. ro.s total, sale sd femle  -arol-
intio   a~ ic   wa .etimatd os the basis of the peojsted shrceit                        et *of ali ages at the primar  levl a  perctages of repective pessy
of th  population in tbe y.e  20t00, sd the rate of decline of fertility              school-age populations; normally includes chiLdren aged 6-il fenro but
rate to replacmen  lv,adjusted for diffe-et lengths of pri-ny eduotios ; for coutrico cith
Ye.e stainrcotion      ion israhed - The year then *ttionar  Popsiatin                  universal edcaio      1nrl-et ma  enced 100 percent  i-r som  pupils
sice ba   ee  beahd.                                                                  arIelw       or hv  the official schoolage
Population bennite                                               ~~~~Seconday school  totl, male and femal  - Cmpted n   Ie   eou
Per so. km. - nod-pear population per squar  kilomter (1OO bectares) of                 education esquiresa   latfuy sof appr-cd pimr  Iutction;
total  re                                                                             proides genralv.       tinl  or teacher training instruction   for pupils
Pee es  b.  sgiuiualio- Compted an nboe  for agricultural iod                           usually of 1.2 to 17 years of age;  --rep-ndence cor ,oae g-nernly
only                                         .. uluded.
Po9-aticsAg  Struture (prcent) - ChiLdr. , (0-1u  ynars), woking-age                    Vocatiosal soro1im t (percenthof secodary)  V-Vctional i-titutioouio1,idr
i5-   yeRs), and retie   (b5 Yeuad   e)asp-roetsge  of mid-year                         technical, idastria,o  ohrrurm sitoperate independently orn
population; 1965, i970i  e 19177datad,   .departmentsiof secodary institutions.
Population ?iroeth.Pate (pecet) - total  A,au-l grosth rates of total mid-               2ui-ece   ai  -                  -oins,nd sncnday-   T taletdne,toeaoldi
per  opla0oo  o     1950-ho  70nSU, an  1970-TT.                                 pinymdscooylvl  divided by nuber   f -tah esicti  crr-
Population ir-th hate (Pernt     uban - A-mua g-thi rato  of urbacsedn  levels
popolattuas for 195 -h0, 0ph-70,-sd 17-75.                                            Adult literay rt   (rsa)-Literate  du1tu (nbis to read sod oritr  a
Crude B;ith Pate  r- thousad) - Annual lIce births Per thoussd of Idd-                    ap-retago of total adult population aged 15 Year  sodovr
year  popution  1  0, 1910, and 1977 data.
Crude Death hat.pe  r thoasad) - Anm-a deaths Per thousad of mid-yea                CINsumpTICS
no7'  d 197dt.Panseng  Cor h(pr tbounnd popujl.nioo) - Paoergcr cor  -oprins oot-v  o
Ur7ss  eroduc.t9ibon0'Rate -OAerag9  ot.der of dsoght-rsooan       1i1 bear             setiges  than eight persons ; rocldea anbuisoe, heor.  sod silitovy
in hsr -orsj  esp-doeive period if  hbe eperiences presen.t age-                      ehcticler.
specific fert iiity rats;     . ully fic-y-o  -vergen ending in 196o,               hadic heceier  (per thounand poplition) - Ail typen of rc           nfor radio
1970, and1975.                                                                        broad-ats to general pbtlic per thousad of popoltion; eoc loden ocliotoed
FmIdly Planing - Acceptors. Annua (thousands) - Anua  -utn  of                          receivers in coutrien and in years  he. regiutrti-o of rdind ionst -ao
n-eptors of birth-ootroi ir-ices noder  ..upicen of nstiooal faily                    effect; datn for recent years es not be c-p-rbie sio- 0.~   -tcouiris
pianning prog,-Ue.(ee     f             id e.   er.ntabolished iies dng
PumIly Plannig             - Ues(ecn   fmrre       )- Pr entg  of maried              TV Receive   (pert th -nn  cpuLation) - TI r-ci-er  for broadont to generI
tome o1   ,                                                                                                .f child-hearing age (15-44b year)  bcue brhcnrld-evie  public per thousand popslaltion;soecudnaunlicensed TI rceicer- ir.  ti
tonlmrid  -oe  i  san  age group,                                               sod In yea o b rgistratico  TV vt  n  in effect.
Seoppr Circoltion(e tosn  co]a ho) -Iho the average ciroulti-c
______AND  ____TION                                                                       of 'daily general intret   nnpp ,dfnd  saperiodical publi-ction
indo of Food Production per Capita (1969-71-100) - Sodco of per .apitn                  devoted primaily to recoding g-enerlne.  It IsIonsIdered to bv "doily"
anno.I production of all food  -oiditiss. Production e-iudes seed and                 if it appear   t loant fou  timen cor-.
fce  ad iu on caledar year bais.  Caditien  cover primary goods                     Cinema A.o   Atedn e'pe  CapitoZ1 IeIOar-  bnosd on then-1,ror1tickrto
(..ugrcaeni intend of-snga(  hkiob ar  edible and oo.tniooutricotn               sold durin  tbe ya,  i-cuIogaeoio  to drice-1c ci-en  acd  objire
-(eg.cofe  so  tca are soided). Aggvegat  production of each  -oonry                -nto..
is based co antionni1 average producerpice   ights.
Percait  socl o  caora(p-etet of reuui-itts) - Computed from             LABOR FOnCE
soergy equivaoot of ort f-sd spplies  -viLebLo in country per capita              Ttal Labor PFrc  (thoussodn) - con-icaLy active pe-non, including aveed
per day.  Ac-ilable supplies compise dometic pr-d-otic, iports les                  force  and unemloyed but occluding hus-ic-, students,  t. Dfiitio-
coports, and obangenin stock..Net oupplioenclo.de aninl feed, sssds,                io vaious coutries  -r  not c-p-bti..
quantities used in food p,esonsig, andloeni diutributino. Rcquir-                 Pgomalercent-) - resl  labor fore no percentage of total labor force.
metnnercestinted by PAO base.d oo pb.oIonis  oreda for no-IArmal                          t_e  Pr5re o.t( - labor force in fnming, forestry, bunting sod
Ioc"tivt  _d heal1th  -onidc-lg  cvreetltemperature, bodyweights,                   finhig as percetage of total labor force.
age sd ee, dh,istrbotioe of popuatios, and a11uing iS p.eret for                industry (p,eret) - Lbr  frc  nmiig  ont-utioc,  -cfacturing sod
natahueod l-el.                                                            elcrct,etr  n .a.opretaeo  on   ao  fore.
Poroapita supply of p-oteic (gra per day) - Pro tein contest opePatiainOte(rct)- total, mal, and female -Pricipationo
cait   MetaPpl ffn  per day. Net supply offo  is defined as                          ctcy.      e   are copeted so tota,l, mae,ad fs1o1e ibr fore as per-
above. Resqirveeto for all coutries established by UShA provide for a               cetaI  of total, sol  and female population of all  genrcspeoticei;
minima _dionne of 60 gRame      fttl  rti e  day and SO grm_ of                     1960, i, an-d 1975 data.  Thes  ar  SIIC. participti   ra-tes reflecting
animaland puse prici, ofwiob 15 gram   hol  be animal proteis.                 acso.tr  of tb.e popeltion, and long tim  trend.  A fc -atisaten
Ths   tndroae losr than thos.o  75 gram  oft toa  protein and                are fro  naina   ouoe
23 gram  of uia  p-tei  as no averge fur thwrld, propose d by CAt                 k..omlo DeednyRPtio  -  Otic of poplation noise 15 sod 65 and over to
in the Thir,dtWorld rood Survey                                                     th  labor foc  in age group of 15-64 year..
Per cacit poein supply fromaimal and puioe - Protein supply of food
derived from aiein and pelnen ingaspe   a.1DIYIII
Child (ages 1-4)         Aotlt   as(crtosn) - Ihca  deaths pr thoussad                Percentage ofPrivatencm   (bt hin o,,h and hlind) - R-cived by richest
in ag  grop i~i p5m, to ohiidr   isl this ng  group; for most dec-              5 pereent, richest S eret, porsOpercent, an  poorent IS  eroet
oping c-utri-n data d-eried from life table,,                                         of household..
HEALTH                                                                                POVETYf  T ARGitr 00012
life Eopeotany at hiri(eas  -Aerg  comQber of years of life                          E. timated Absolute PoErt  Iccom a- r   (US  per cacpits  - urban and rurl-I
remanon  atitrb; '90  19,adg 97.dat.                                             Absolute poverty io Is lvlistainoe   levelisnabo    olise
rofat iotlt hae(e.hunn)-doa  deaths of infats u-der one                                nutritionlly adequate diet plus  eneti.1 non-food requir-emet  is cot
yerof age per thous.m.d live births.                                                  ffordable.
Access to Safe Water (pecet of Popultin  - totl   es    n   ua                         Ostimated oslotive Por-ty 1oo    Leve               "pi ecntn   -uban ad rurl1
safe .ater nupply (includes treated surface  atecs or ontreted hut                    persenai isom  of the coutry. Urba  I-ceI ie dericed frmthe rural leov1
ucoo-tmi-ated eater ouch an that from protected hrshole, springs,                     cith adjusten  for higher cot of 1on iginurban arena
and saciter       )a  percentages of their respectice population.               En stiated PopultionP1   bouePcryIcm  leel(1rosc) - urban and
an urban are  apublic foutain or standyot 1eated not acre thisrrl-Preto   ouain(ra   o   ua)ncoe'bouspc"
200- mters from a house say he conidered as being within reasonale
-oces  of that lous e.  In rura  area  reasonble acne   -Iud imply
titthc h-...cif. or  -abe-  of the houshold do not have to spen                                                               ooncad  Social Dats Diiciuon
dieproportion..ts port of tie day in fetchin,g the fnlyp'. seter ...edo                                                Pcoic An.alysisad Pr-jectic    Deportmet
Augut 1979



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
COUNTRY DATA - BURMA*
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY 1978                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH M. constant prices)
US $ Mln.        7                     FY1965-70         FY1970-78        FY1965-78
GNP at Market Prices          4,216         100.0                        2.0               3.3              2.8
Gross Capital Formation         595          14.1                      -3.6                2.7            -0.2
Gross Domestic Saving           421          10.0                       0.5              14.8              9.1
Foreign Capital Inflow          175           4.1                       0.2              13.7              8.3
Exports of Goods, NFS            252          6.0                      -13.5               1.6            -4.5
Imports of Goods, NFS           425          10.1                     -10.4              -0.4             -4.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                          Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
b-  Min.      7Mn.                                %                             '    %
Agricultur? b/                2,017       47.7                    8.5         67.5                  236           70
Industry                        491       11.6                    1.2          9.5                  411          123
Services/Trade                1,721       40.7                    2.4         18.6                  731          218
Not elsewhere specified        . *         *                      0.6          4.4 4
Total                    4,229      100.0                   12.6        100.0                  335          100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                              Union Government
(Kyats mln.)       7 of GDP                   (Kyats ln.)         7 of GDP_
FY78              FY78                         FY78              FY78
Current Receipts                      5,528W/             18.2 A/                     3,870             12.7
Current Expenditure                   4,148               13.7                        4,054             13.3
Current Surplus                       1,380                4.5                         -184             -0.6
Capital Expenditures                  3,64LY'             12.0 t                        607              2.0
External Assistance (gross)           1,738                5.7
* All data for FY1978 are revised estimates of the Government of Burma.
a/ Total labor force:  unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal ocCupation.
b/ Includes livestock, fishery and forestry.
c/ Includes mining, power, and construction.
d/ Includes current surplus/deficit of public corporations.
e/ Includes capital expenditures of public corporations.
not available
not applicable



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 Pages
COUNTRY DATA - BURMA
MONEY. CREDIT aa<     ^                         1970      1973      1974     1975      1976      1977      1978
(Kyats ml  outstanding at end of period)    Sep.         Sep.     Mar.      Mar.      Mar.     Mar.      Mar.
Money and Quasi Money                         2422      3581      4065     5342      6052      6377      6631
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  2616      4342     5040      6447      6663      6468     6869
BRs' Credit to Private Sector                  537      1000       685      639       956      1489     1708
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP             23.6      30.5      27.7     27.6      25.7      23.6      21.8
Consumer Price Index (1972 = 100) a/          91.0    123.5    156.6    206.4    252.6    250.0    236.0
Annual percentage changes in:
Consumer Price lnTnr "r w"rgoT"               -4.0      23.5      26.8     31.8      22.4      -1.0     -5.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                   9.1      18.1      16.1     27.9       3.4      -2.9       6.2
Bank credit to Private Sector                  3.9      49.7    -31.5      -6.7      49.6      55.8      14.7
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                     MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (FY1978)
(US$ mln)
FY76      FY77       FY78
(US$ million)                                                US $mln     %
Rice and rice produces               117       50
Merchandise Trade                   -30.9      -47.9    -174.6        Teak                                   53      23
Exports, mainly f.o.b.              179.9      192.8      238.6       Pulses and beans                       10       4
Imports, mainly f.o.b.             -210.8    -240.7    -413.2         Animal feedstuff                        8       3
Services and private transfers    -18.7         -9.4      -12.4       Base metals and ores                   12       5
Official grants (net)                23.3       24.9       18.5       All other commodities                  36      15
Current account               -2v.i     -j2.4    -16O.5                  TOTAL                               100.0
Long-term capital                    25.0       22.4      195.8      EXTER-i-  DEBI. March 31, 1978
Foreign loans                        39.8       o6.4      169.1
Debt repayment                      -23.1      -o, .      -24.3                                                   US $ ml
Other caplral (net)                   8.3       _A.7       51.0        Outstanding & Disbursed                       499.5
Short-term bank credit              -18.3      -18.8      -14.9        outstanding &       Ursed                    499.5
--Outstanding,  cinc. Undisbursed                                             1187.1
Capitfl. account.               6.'        3.6     180.9
Errors and omissions                 -9.2        8.9        2.9      DEBT SERVICE RATIO  FOR CY77
Overall balance               -28.8      -19.9       15.4
Ratio of debt service to
Gross Reserves tenG year)           134.9      109.3      124.1           merchandise exports                     19.8
Net Rese-ves   (end year)            39.7       40.8       28.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                 IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31, 1980 (Million US$):
Through Dec. 27, 1971    From Feb. 13,,;73 tc Jan. 25, 1975                                             IBRD        IDA
US $ 1.00 = K 4.76         US S 1-00 = R 4.81
Outstanding & Disbursed                          123.5
From Dec. 27, 19'i to    From Jan. 25, 1975 to May 1, 1977  Undisbursed                                           148.8
Feb. l9, 1973           SDR 1.00 = K 7.74                     Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                     272.3
US $ 1.00 = K 5.35
From May 2, 1977
SDR 1.00 = K 8.51
As of December, 1979
SOR 1.00 = K 8.51
US $ 1.00= K 6.70 (approx.)
Annual average at Rangoon.
not available
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
Division C
April 1980



w 27
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1980
US$ Million
Loan or                                               Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower          Purpose           Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and three credits fully disbursed         33.1      53.3
483       1974  Burma   Lift Irrigation               -       17.0       1.4
493       1974  Burma   Forestry                      -       24.0       6.3
597       1975  Burma   Livestock                     -        7.5       4.7
642       1976  Burma   Paddyland Development         -       30.0      16.0
671       1977  Burma   Second Ports                  -       10.0       2.8
686       1977  Burma   Tin and Tungsten              -       16.0       5.9
745       1977  Burma   Seed Development              -        5.5       5.1
835       1978  Burma   Paddyland Development II   -          34.5      32.1
879       1979  Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation         -        4.5       4.5
949       1979  Burma   Forestry II                   -       35.0      35.0
958       1979  Burma   Telecommunications II         -       35.0      35.0
Total                                   33.1    272.3
of which has been repaid              33.1       -
Total now outstanding                     -      272.3
Amount sold                   2.7
of which has been repaid 2.7
Total now held by Bank & IDA /a           -      272.3
Total Undisbursed                                148.8      148.8
Total Disbursed                                  123.5
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
None
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 483    irrigation I Project; US$17.0 Million Credit of June 21,
1974; Effective Date: August 6, 1974; Closing Date:
April 30, 1981
The Project Implementation Committee was established on time and
has functioned effectively. An initial procurement of 10,000 pumpsets
(300 g.p.m.) and accessories was awarded to a local supplier, Heavy Indus-
tries Corporation. All of these units have been sold to farmers in the
project area. Favorable costs on various components of the project have been
sufficient to permit the purchase of 3,000 additional low lift pumps. All of
these units have already been sold to farmers. The construction of four jute
baling plants is nearly completed. Some 550 units of construction equipment
were rehabilitated under the equipment repair program. A reasonable inventory
of spare parts remains for future maintenance. The program to rehabilitate
and extend flood embankments and drainage channels has been completed. The
Closing Date of the Credit has been extended from March 31, 1980, to April 30,
1981, in order to allow for completion of disbursements covering consulting
services for the preparation of final design and specifications for the
proposed Nyaunggyat Dam project.
Cr. No. 493    Forestry Project; US$24.0 Million Credit of July 12, 1974;
Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1981
Project implementation is essentially complete. All major sawmill
rehabilitation and construction has been completed. Log production, from
projected area in FY79/80, is well over target for teak and on target for
hardwood. Project productivity and profitability are most satisfactory.
Remaining procurement will be mainly for spare parts.
Cr. No. 551    Telecommunications Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of May 30,
1975; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The Credit amount has been fully disbursed. Due to initial delays
in preparation of specification, procurement and contracting, and delays in
civil works, execution of the project is about a year behind schedule. The
OPEC Fund is providing a loan to finance a cost overrun of about $3.1 million.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Cost increases due to the recent exchange variation of the US dollar with
respect to the Japanese yen on committed contracts to the extent of US$3.5
million is being financed under the second project. The Posts and Tele-
communications Corporation, the executing agency, is operating satisfac-
torily and is meeting the prescribed rate of return.
Cr. No. 597    Livestock Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of December 30,
1975; Effective Date: March 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project continues to improve in all aspects of implementation.
Field services are being provided by the Veterinary and Animal Husbandry
Department (VAHD) to all 2,665 villages in the project area. The Artificial
Insemination Program continues to expand with over 80,000 cows now insemi-
nated. Communal pastures and village water points are being developed. Vac-
cine production is almost on target. The Livestock Development and Marketing
Corporation (LDMC) continues to collect milk from its own farms and from the
private sector. LDMC has agreed to construct a new dairy plant for the Rangoon
area. The site for this plant has been selected. IDA clearance of equipment
bid documents awaits evidence that adequate water of acceptable quality is
available. The Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science (IAHVS)
continues with the overseas training component, hiring of consultant lecturers
and completion of the building program at Yezin.
Cr. No. 642    Paddyland Development Project; US$30.0 Million Credit of
June 21, 1976; Effective Date: August 20, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The Credit was declared effective following the establishment of
the Project Implementation Committee and the Project Unit. Delivery has
been made on most of the construction equipment and it is being used effec-
tively. Progress on construction has been very good during the 1978/79 and
1979/80 seasons. The Irrigation Department believes the construction program
will be completed on schedule. Early in 1977, the Agriculture Corporation
initiated an intensive agricultural extension program for five project town-
ships. Village and township level officers have been assigned full time to
extension activities. These officers are carrying out a program of periodic
and regularly scheduled visits to the farm areas (Training and Visits Program)
which has been well received by farmers. Consultants' studies on paddy
storage and handling have been completed. Consultants began work on the
hydrologic investigations in September 1977. These investigations are pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 671    Second Ports Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of January 13,
1977; Effective Date: March 18, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Spare parts for existing equipment, new cargo handling equipment,
and repair materials have been delivered to Burma Ports Corporation (BPC).



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
The rehabilitation of the suction dredger has been completed. The repair
of the bucket dredger was completed and the dredger returned to Rangoon in
December 1979. A dredging expert has trained dredger crews in Rangoon, and
two dredger masters have been in Holland for training. Training specialists
are due to commence courses for technicians in May 1980.
Cr. No. 686    Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project; US$16.0 Million Credit
of March 25, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Project implementation is well advanced. Procurement is nearly
complete with orders placed for about US$17.0 million in goods and services.
Capital costs are expected to exceed the appraisal by about 14.8% in foreign
exchange costs and 32% in local costs, primarily because of the higher:
(i) cost of the dredge resulting in change from originally selected procure-
ment approach; (ii) taxes and duties on imported equipment; and (iii) costs
of construction and civil works. An EEC Special Action Credit (declared
effective on March 5, 1980) was extended to help finance part of the local
costs of the project. Shortly before delivery of the dredge, the dredge was
damaged by fire in the shipyard. Damage to the dredge is tentatively esti-
mated at about 20% of its cost. The insurance company has already authorized
execution of repair works. It is expected that repairs would be completed
by July 1980. Consideration is being given to deliver the dredge during the
monsoon season (May to October). The dredge may be delivered around mid-
August 1980. A meeting between the No. 2 Mining Corporation (the implement-
ing agency), consultants, the contractor, and possibly the insurance company
is being planned.
Cr. No. 745    Seed Development Project; US$5.5 Million Credit of November 14,
1977; Effective Date: February 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Project civil works are progressing well. About 90% of land
development is expected to be completed at Magwe and 100% is expected to be
completed at Letpedan before the monsoon season. Over 1,000 ac have been
cleared at Lungyaw. Building construction is well underway with most farm
structures underway or completed. Most senior staff posts have been filled,
however, there is still a critical shortage of support staff. Overseas
training is behind schedule. About 20 staff members have been selected for
short-course training (3-12 months) during 1980/81. Procurement continues to
be slower than appraisal estimates but is following normal GOB guidelines.
While very positive progress has been achieved, a number of areas need further
improvements.
Cr. No. 835    Paddyland Development II Project; US$34.5 Million Credit of
July 28, 1978; Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
The Project Implementation Committee and the Project Unit have
been established as required and a project director and a project exten-
sion manager have been appointed. Procurement of equipment has been



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
initiated. Construction work has commenced with available equipment (from
Irrigation I Project, Credit 483-BA) and the activities would greatly in-
crease after the new equipment arrives in May 1980.
Cr. No. 879    Rubber Rehabilitation Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of
March 13, 1979; Effective Date: May 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The rehabilitation of the GOB rubber estates is proceeding very
well. In 1979, the targetted 1,250 acres of old rubber was cleared and
replanted. This represents a major achievement for the project. The 1980
program will total 880 acres and land clearing is now underway. Nursery
development is well advanced, supplying the imported clonal seedlings for
the planting program. Estate building program is on schedule. The project
will proceed with the development of a 10 ton per day crumb rubber plant
for processing scrap. Equipment procurement is behind appraisal estimates
due to the lengthy government procedures. Rubber section management will
concentrate on the appointment of needed staff and laborers to maintain
progress.
Cr. No. 949    Forestry II - East Pegu Yoma Project; US$35.0 Million Credit
of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 20, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985
Equipment procurement underway. Bid specifications for major
extraction equipment is complete. Consultant for the rehabilitation of the
Okkyin sawmill is on site. Remaining consultants for technical assistance
component expected by May 1980. Overseas training program for Burmese
nationals has been established.
Cr. No. 958    Second Telecommunications Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
December 18, 1979; Effective Date: March 3, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Credit was declared effective on March 3, 1980.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BURMA
NYAUNGGYAT DAM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare the project
May 1975 - April 1976
Follow-up preparation: November 1977 - March 1979
(b) Agency which has prepared the project
Government's Irrigation Department, Electric Power
Corporation, consultants, and FAO/IBRD/CP
(c) Date of departure of appraisal mission
April 16, 1979
(d) Date of completion of negotiations
April 17, 1980
(e) Planned date of effectiveness
October 1980
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
-- Satisfactory arrangements for commitments for co-
financing (paragraph 47).
Other Special Conditions
(a) GOB to implement electricity tariff increase and
to submit its proposals to modify power tariffs
by March 31, 1981 (paragraph 33).



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(b) GOB to submit detailed regulations for reservoir
operations by September 30, 1983 (paragraph 53).
(c) GOB to appoint an Advisory Panel of Experts to
review dam safety and designs (paragraph 54).
(d)  GOB to carry out a resettlement program (paragrapb.55).
(e) GOB would periodically review and, if necessary, revise
its paddy and seed cotton pricing systems and would
establish and maintain arrangements for cost recovery,
in the event the existing compulsory paddy procurement
system and/or compulsory cotton sales program are
modified or abolished (paragraph 58).






_BRD 14543
N.                                             :                                                 >5 t } t 0 0 Fl u '~*ay t + 4 \ < 9 i | -0) [;ruiS t ;q400 i1 i;P:l 0 g j 2 =Fa =; 0 : Q   - DECEMEER t979
u                                                                                   0 :  = E: 5 f iSf    =osz 80 S tX aV   t  S;t   !    =h; >- j;=A;  -A: :: ! z^:t S 22 t W i 5 P 
BE
I                             /,
0 Z   00< k N  $;                                               \     0                             >;   @ aD; O ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ n_           xeE4iCL 
U' \D I2p,/C: Acr: H   t 6, :: r    S::  i - t i  : k    ::          :                     S E  Q  t itai z D  ' 0   0 F                24
C9-\SF   t H  \          S)AS«   CT-  T  NS;                       -                               Z    00E  ^  0 IN  I  -2
\  _   pri'=z2:o:w 5          <0?r/t>      i \><f>  T !     |   0   :)   4  0                                   oL                                        :
4 ZSe,5>f~~Ss   i '.   f23 /,l:   Vaz;:' u  z 70: A i   :: J-i
A                                                                                                                       Z ,:






IBRD 14544R
At,                                 r            /    )                       ^                          =,>    f    ~                        X                                                                            APR IL 1980
ttiJOtA        ~~~CHINA                           fi                ~A~BURMA
S-i                                                                                  4;;4 ,/ ( \ 0 ,;/ t// j \ A \<150 X\ 4 NYAUNGGYAT DAM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
fAN%)~    -ow      :           .  A           /  )         /           4          \                                       \GENERAL  LAYOUT
BURMA                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dam, Powerhouse, and  Al lied  Structures
HAM          B         JrmX /              I>/' -                                                                                                                   - J ....... / 4 t X .                 e Proposed Access Rood
A,- irc       tALt 1 A  O60  
Soy of>                                        ,s/ /- -                                                                                                                                                  Existing Track
8  ~ ~       ~     ~     ?/A                                                                                                                                                                     Proposed Camp Faciitkes
8esrge     < ~~~HA                     (                                          'O<'5                                     / -Proposed Damp Fad Dies
7                                                                            c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ Proposed Project Structures
Q\ Adbrnord7r   a       -t ORPA                           KEM / ( ) \ ,  ./~ \ \N\ \ \ t Reser,oir Area
g1  5eo                                  p/^                                                                                                                                                    ]Ha,/z,,/X 2 X g a \ A /  \S    \SN@o V\ Rivers
°<  ;!rLt7lrJl/7n@  +'^<   )  0  //  '  /)   / (a\  t  X  \       4---~             ./~\  i\s\\\X>Z<o  \                                        -_200--        Contours (in meters)
\,o  ,  J,- -  International Boundaries
! /oR 9 \. D ke                                                                                      'S;2J ,, >\ 0 Jg \\ S 0 t\ *~~~ ) 9 / <\\s\\ \, z l PROJECT STRUCTURES
S SPILLWAY WITH CHUTE AND
FLIP BUCKET
A      K      ?                                                                                                                                                                                   © f/ 0   Ivring construction   wK18 0 X  \    CRUSHINTAKE SLANTRUCT
J=/j.             M   (     -              --   .', c1u                ,,/                             I                                                     0    DIVERSIONANDPOWERTUNNEL
0   POWER HOUSE
-                                 0   I~~~~~~~~~~RRIGATION OUTLET
0                               (SN ~~~~~~~~~SV/ITCHYABD
--  /    /                ~~~~PROPOSED CAMP PACILITIES
o scopriiD,o ~    /    /        LOCAL LABORERS HOUSING AREA
P  Ts--               5 oji Siecoscr/uuli~ ~~~~~Z    DIESEL PLANT AND WATER
~~~                      /              A ~~~~~~~~~TREATMENT AREA
Ci0                                                  1i                             a     CONTRACTORS WORKSHOP AND
A   STORAGE AREA
C---                                                               14\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AM ENITY FACILITIES AREA
I              A      ~~~~~~(Hosoitol, Police Shoepicg, Mess)
LsADMINISTRATION AREA
ZL   HOUSING AREA
/    900                    BATCHING PLANT, CEMENT STORE, AND
FIELDLBRATORY AREA
EOUIPMENT STORAGE AREA
/9)A  CRUSHING PLANT
0   200       400        600 Meters
If,        ,.,                         sc,soiaro~~~~~~~-1hb- -.






D  ADJA P$i ''d  A                  
Ms~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r3:\  g1 P M  A9.Fi ,   
.   S '-N00Ur      ' rb  ss2v     ~                                                                      /                               B J R  MA 
InE-'(lMAflDth2   /°'  '/  ~      N           lli                  ,            J NYAUNGGYAT DAM  MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
a MAD'^/E   :: f;rE  -                J       f            T,                           (i         -        ~ Rehabil tatron  and  Construction  of Irrgation  Facilities
)A                                                 ,                                                t ~>'>f<s ill J/r + 1 5i5-e !; jgyand Drainage Works
S~ ~      ~ ~~I '   a                _            ,         /      ll;L                          _,,,                        _        I,
'V4                                                                                               'ODP~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k ,t0.IOI r . t. nf. , t
'/sl \hdIt  /;?  io >     iA                                    A5l  Resab. 0It0IS  -I I.I9OI.oII focirese
-~~~~~~~~  N ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         .
o-'  (o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,    ,~~~~~~~h.-1,c.
03~ ~    ~               ,     /        -        1)!                                 0                                                  s voveb    od
F<     I=0rS-Et'           _*--                    |-                                                   S1p1--E
I                   I ;A ,?       '   ,jC \ KySu, *                                                                 dAA  t
8.~~~~~~~~~ D                                                                                   S _t   \r
S_~v>                                                                                                                )  53   _ 0 R00. \ o
A,          K                                                           A     to~~~~~K ..,
PROJECT,AREAS.                                              s       /                              \                                       .    3 6       5I/e
1,CRE51                                    .        ,      '._          ,             /.                                                             .
IkE4   TOTAL  PADDY tAND YA LANID                        \ __.                /     _                                                             2      4      6     3r 6-m1-r
: A  SE,C0D  63,rDo  2DD0O   Z t   9    t'^   X;                           0    --:Aqod
c     25,COD     12,600     12400                        Ht|-                                             L  /  ' J H.y,no
D    34,500  2,30- 32,200                                                                                                                            P )eo 
E    foOt  I,0 AREA      20A
E     25,000      4,00      2240D_
TT:261 5c10  68,20C  283,300                        --- 
DC~~~~ 0r 20 SAD ASIDDC I 2 DOD 
0   X   3  1      T                                                 Kanee $hF~~~~~~~~~~y',.1  ! 
,  .   "<  ?AI    .00
> t   'X '       A',                                A-A.
Trs  m   h s ##  e <sdnsso   Wro   eSs aaw  eS -f eror   -  one-J.c   \<4    /  ) /,  t;i, Sw  7r 
6 >fRuo re. bl JAd  N   e -   t;H   gN! soar1js r! s~~~V fFrof rnsV O! saW Sn ioPenF JK\ ,,                          ArNE
vco@pMnce Of FOCh b0 eDnes                \                                                               !          /                                   7Ci~~~~~~~~AA.ngg






,J4 ~~~~>                         BURMAA
INDIA       ~       C HifNA                                                        o 9         )5
MR> 9 2    80                                         ,LNYAUNGGYAT ~~~~DAM MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
N A  -~~   IN  D   A  ~~~" j                                             ELECTRIC PIOWER CORPORATION
A0'N                                             N  5                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POWe Sy stem
AMV                       S                                                               EveTI,           TQfSMSi0   INS
K?  HA, ILANtD  0111E   Ioloe  P ANItOBI   IAT $O   IE
0o~~~~~~I*r                                                 -iJI~~~~~~~~~~~~~230kV
B  -                       2                       1/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12k
7'  '>       '%       5                                    33~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4kV o  oe
0~~~~~Q                                                                 U       -       Li   II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YDRO POWER KOTAMS
I  5                                                        *        *       o    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TH-ERMAL EWPOAO ANT
rro,rIloTAo ,oB,cB A e,rov,r,1                              /                        *       *      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 SUaSTATtZNS
ooonBor'eo TOner, ooo ITo oroB  N.  r                  ("0'                                               V~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARGE INDUTRSIEAL CUSTOMERS
-o---   AitVEAYS
K             by                         ~~~~~~~~~~~STATE CE DIVI5iON BOUJNDARIES
w   k  ~~~~~~                     070    ~~~~~~   SEDAWGTY1_                                                                       _    _ _    _
)25MW 
KYUNCHAN                                T_)o
Di      ½~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t<»\-11Pi6K   '
20                                                                                             50
1JN3y6LJ  'og                                                                                       200
NY     (: IDAU
A~~11N' ~   ~
24P~
I~~,'WA¾A                                                                                                  12'
_ _ _ _   _     _    _    _    _    _    _    _     _    _    _    _    _    _    _     _    _    _    _ N
Sea                           I)                          ISO~~~~~ULEI
_____   _____             ____           _____              ____           ______AUN  STAM1'M
_____ _____ ____ _____ _____ ____ _____ _____ ____ _                              ________________________________________



