CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1517 JM
Project Agreement
(Sugar Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NATIONAL SUGAR COMPANY, LIMITED
Dated March 6, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1517 JM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 6, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and NATIONAL SUGAR COMPANY, LIMITED (hereinafter called National
Sugar), a company organized and operating under the laws of
Jamaica (hereinafter called the Guarantor).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Sugar Industry Authority (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen
million dollars ($18,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition: (a) that the
Guarantor agrees to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as provided in the Guarantee Agreement
of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank; and (b)
that National Sugar agrees to undertake such obligations toward
the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and National Sugar, the proceeds of the loan provided for under
the Loan Agreement, except for the portion thereof allocated to
and withdrawn for Part B (1) of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Loan Agreement, will be made available to National Sugar
on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS National Sugar, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. National Sugar shall carry out Parts A, B
(2) and B (3) of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engine-
ering and agricultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist National Sugar in carrying
out Parts B (2) and B (3) of the Project, National Sugar shall
retain and thereafter employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment (including terms
of reference) shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) National Sugar undertakes to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent
to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by National Sugar to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, National Sugar
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Parts of the Project to be carried out by it.
Section 2.05. (a) National Sugar shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Parts of the Project to be carried out by it,
and any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) National Sugar: (i) shall maintain records and proced-
ures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Parts of


﻿- 3 -
the Project to be carried out by it (including their costs and the
benefits to be derived from them), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by
the Borrower and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall,
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (d) of this
Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the factories,
facilities and construction sites included in the Parts of the
Project to be carried out by it and to examine the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Parts of the Project to be carried out by it, their costs and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between National
Sugar and the Bank, National Sugar shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of its Parts of the Project, their costs and the benefits derived
and to be derived from them, the performance by National Sugar and
the Bank of their respective obligations under the Project Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) National Sugar shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all factories, plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment of National Sugar and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. National Sugar shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, National Sugar shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) National Sugar shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Parts of the Project to be carried out by it, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Loan.


﻿-4-
(b) National Sugar shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Parts of the Project to be carried out by it, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by
National Sugar of its obligations under this Agreement or under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. National Sugar shall, by December 31, 1978,
prepare and furnish to the Bank (i) detailed job descriptions for
all levels of its employees including a description of roles and
responsibilities, (ii) a description of the needs for training in
such production and of a responsive training program designed to
increase technical skills, job satisfaction and motivation and
(iii) proposals for organizational changes required to improve the
efficiency of sugar and sugar by-products production and refining,
if considered desirable.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of National Sugar
Section 3.01. (a) National Sugar shall at all times carry out
its operations, manage its affairs, plan its future expansion and
maintain its financial position in accordance with appropriate
business, financial, engineering and agricultural practices under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by qualified and competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) above, National Sugar shall
continue to employ an experienced and competent chief executive
officer, financial director and technical director.
Section 3.02. (a) National Sugar shall operate and maintain
its factories, plants, equipment and property, and from time to
time make all necessary renewalA and repairs thereof, in accor-
dance with appropriate engineering and agricultural practices.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, National Sugar
shall not sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of
any of its rights, property or assets necessary for its operations
or the carrying out of its Parts of the Project.
Section 3.03. National Sugar shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.04. National Sugar shall carry out a plan satisfac-
tory to the Bank for the rationalization of the manning levels at
each of the Project factories.
Section 3.05. National Sugar shall revalue its assets as at
the end of fiscal year 1978 and thereafter continue to revalue
such assets as at the end of any fiscal year during which general
price levels, as measured by such generally acceptable indicators
as shall be agreed with the Bank, had increased 25% or more from
levels existing, as of the date when National Sugar last revalued
its assets.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. National Sugar shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. National Sugar shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) cer-
tified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably re-
quested; (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information con-
cerning the accounts and financial statements of National Sugar
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request; and (iv) cause each of its subsidiaries to have
their accounts and statements audited in accordance with the
foregoing.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.


﻿-6-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of National Sugar thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For National Sugar:
5 Trevennion Park Road
Kingston 5,
Jamaica


﻿-7-
Cable address:                      Telex:
WISCOKIN                           2113
Kingston, Jamaica                  WISCOKIN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of National Sugar may be taken or exe-
cuted by its Chairman or such other person or persons as said
Chairman shall designate in writing, and National Sugar shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S.M.L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NATIONAL SUGAR COMPANY, LIMITED
By/s/ Trevor Donaldson
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Wesley Wainwright
Authorized Representative


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding under the Project, National Sugar
shall prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in
any event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. National Sugar shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compet-
itive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
The items listed in this Part shall be purchased directly
from the manufacturers under contracts satisfactory to the Bank:
(i) Boiler drums for the Monymusk factory;
(ii) Pressure parts for the Frome factory;
(iii) Furnaces for the Frome factory;
(iv) Refractories for Bernard Lodge factory's Boiler No.
6;
(v) Water treatment plant for Bernard Lodge factory's
Boiler No. 6;


﻿- 9 -
(iv) Tubes, controls, gauges for Bernard Lodge factory's
Boilers (including Boiler No. 6);
(vii) "Unigrator" cane-preparation knives for the Project
factories; and
(viii) Automated vacuum-pan boiling aids for Frome and
Monymusk factories.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory goods for domestically manufactured goods, (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to National Sugar of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Jamaica may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A:    bids offering goods manufactured in
Jamaica if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of National Sugar and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Jamaica equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B:    all other bids offering goods manufac-
tured in Jamaica.


﻿- 10 -
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group
C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of
the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid
shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. National Sugar shall, before
prequalification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
cant for prequalification shall be furnished by National Sugar to
the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
National Sugar's decision, and the National Sugar shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:


﻿- 11 -
(a) Before bids are invited, National Sugar shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, National
Sugar shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to Thich it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the National Sugar and state
the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditioas of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
National Sugar shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform National Sugar and state the reasons for such
determination.


