                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2937



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-74740)



                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 200 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                            ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                    FOR A

               LIFELONG LEARNING AND TRAINING PROJECT


                                  May 19, 2014




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 5, 2014)

                    Currency Unit = Argentine Pesos
                            1.00 = US$ 0.12
                           US$ 1.00 = 8.12

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 – December 31


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGN       National Audit. Agency (Auditoría General de la Nación)
ANSES     National Administration of Social Security (Administración Nacional de
          la Seguridad Social)
AUH       Universal Child Allowance (Asignación Universal por Hijo)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CC        Client Connection
CECAM     Quality and Modernization Center of the Argentine Federation of
          Municipalities (Centro de Calidad y Modernización Municipal)
CNA       Competency Normalization Activity
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DINIECE   National Directorate of information and evaluation of the educational
          quality (Dirección Nacional de Información y Evaluación de la Calidad
          Educativa)
EO        Employment Offices
EPH       National Household Survey (Encuesta Permanente de Hogares)
FAP       Fiduciary Action Plan
FM        Financial Management
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GECAL     Offices of Employment and Job Training (Gerencia de Empleo y
          Capacitación Laboral)
IEs       Implementing Entities
IFPs      Professional Training Institutes (Institutos de Formación Profesional)
IFR       Interim Financial Reports.
INAI      National Institute of Indigenous Affairs (Instituto Nacional de Asuntos
          Indígenas)
INDEC     Nacional Institute of Statistics and Census (Instituto Nacional de
          Estadística y Censo)
INADI     National Institute against Discrimination, Xenophobia and Racism
          (Instituto Nacional contra la Discriminación, la Xenofobia y el
          Racismo)
IPP       Indigenous Peoples Plan
INTA      National Institute of Agricultural Technology (Instituto Nacional de
         Tecnología Agropecuaria)
IRAM     Argentine Institute for Normalization and Certification (Instituto
         Argentino de Normalización y Certificación)
MIS      Management Information System
MOL      Ministry of Labor
MTESS    Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security
NGOs     Non-governmental Organizations
NPV      Net Present Value
OAA      Argentina Organization of Accreditation
OBA      Out-based Approach
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PJMyMT   Youth with More and Better Employment (Jóvenes con Mas y Mejor
         Trabajo)
POI      Labor Orientation Workshop (Programa de Orientación e Inducción al
         mundo del trabajo)
PSM      Propensity Score Matching
QER      Quality Enhancement Review
REGICE   Registry of Training and Employment Institutions (Registro de
         Instituciones de Capacitación y Empleo)
RENACI   National Registry of Indigenous Communities (Registro Nacional de
         Comunidades Indígenas)
SEPA     Procurement Plans Administration System
SIJP     Integrated System for Retirement and Pensions (Sistema Integrado de
         Jubilaciones y Pensiones)
SOE      Statements of Expenditure
UEPE     Executing Unit for Projects with External Financing
UEPEX    Argentina Budget Execution Software for Multi-lateral Lending
         Operations
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
UTeCC    Technical Unit for Certification and Competencies (Unidad Técnica de
         Certificación de Competencias)




                     Vice President: Jorge Familiar Calderon
                   Country Director: Jesko S. Hentschel
                    Sector Manager: Mansoora Rashid
               Project Team Leader: Theresa P. Jones
                  ICR Team Leader: Marcela Ines Salvador
                                          ARGENTINA
                              Lifelong Learning and Training Project




 Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring
 I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 43
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 55
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 57
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 58
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 59
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ...................... 89
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 90
MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                            AR Lifelong Learning
Country:                     Argentina                Project Name:
                                                                                  Project
Project ID:                    P095514                L/C/TF No.(s):              IBRD-74740
ICR Date:                   05/14/2014                  ICR Type:                  Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:              SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                              ARGENTINA
Original Total
                           USD 200.00M             Disbursed Amount:              USD 200.00M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:            USD 200.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process            Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:       06/22/2006         Effectiveness:        01/11/2008            01/11/2008
Appraisal:            04/16/2007       Restructuring(s):                             08/01/2012
Approval:             06/28/2007       Mid-term Review:               N/A            11/29/2011
                                           Closing:            12/31/2013            12/31/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                           Moderate
Bank Performance:                                             Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                         Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings              Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory   Government:    Moderately Satisfactory
                                                 Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                     Performance:




                                               i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                             Quality at Entry
                                    Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                                     (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                                  Quality of
                                     No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                                Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Adult literacy/non-formal education                                   9
General industry and trade sector                                     6
General public administration sector                                 21
Other social services                                                14
Vocational training                                                  50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     17
Education for the knowledge economy                                   33
Improving labor markets                                               33
Social Inclusion                                                      17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:                 Jorge Familiar Calderon                     Hasan A. Tuluy
Country Director:                   Jesko S. Hentschel                    Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:                     Mansoora Rashid                          Eduardo Velez
Project Team Leader:                   Theresa Jones                         Theresa Jones
ICR Team Leader:                    Marcela Salvador
                             Alexandria Valerio/María Laura
ICR Primary Author:
                                    Sánchez Puerta




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed Project aims at supporting the Government of Argentina to consolidate,
strengthen, and increase the coverage of a lifelong learning and competency-based
training system for disadvantaged adults 18 years or older with the objectives for those
who participate to: (i) enhance employability (for unemployed); and (ii) improve career
opportunities (for employed).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                                approval            Target        Completion or
                                              documents)            Values         Target Years
                Within a year, no less than 25 percent of certified adults obtaining registered
Indicator 1 :
                employment or higher salary
Value
                                                  25%                                 53.8%
quantitative or              0
                                                (17,500)                            (40,580)
Qualitative
Date achieved           05/31/2007             11/01/2008                          08/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target surpassed.
achievement)
                Within a year, no less than 50 percent of adults receiving basic education
Indicator 2 : certificates continuing their training or education, obtaining registered
                employment or higher salary.
Value
                                                  50%                                 48.7%
quantitative or              0
                                                (50,000)                            (45,910)
Qualitative
Date achieved           05/31/2007             11/01/2008                          11/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target met. (See Section 3.2)
achievement)
                No less than 50 percent of those in internships, employed within 12 months after
Indicator 3 :
                participation.
Value
                                                  50%                                  56%
quantitative or              0
                                                (72,800)                            (12,114)
Qualitative
Date achieved           05/31/2007             11/01/2008                          08/30/2013
                The most recent data available shows that only 21,649 participants had
                completed their internships by May 2012 and indicates that 12, 114 (56%) of
Comments
                those were employed within 12 months afterwards, slightly exceeding the target
(incl. %
                of 50%. However, the No. of internship participants was much less than targeted
achievement)
                (81,190 vs. 145,000 as of December 2013). See Intermediate Outcome Indicator
                8. (See Section 3.2)

                                               iii
Indicator 4      The formal labor market insertion rate of participants within 12 months after
(additional) :   participation is at least 50% higher than the comparison group.
                                                                       2008-9     86.7%
Value
                                                                       2009-10 108.2%
(quantitative or       0
                                                                       2010-11 79.5%
qualitative)
                                                                      2011-12 128.6%
Date achieved                                                             08/30/2013
Comments          This indicator is derived from the comparison of Youth participants versus a
(incl. %         comparison group created with the panels from the EPH (Permanent Household
achievement) Survey) and for all periods surpasses the 50% target.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                         Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     30 sector councils and technical units installed.
Value
(quantitative                 4                       30                               41
or qualitative)
Date achieved            05/31/2007              11/01/2008                          12/30/2013
                  The indicator was achieved. 41 technical units were established. Most of these
Comments
                  technical units are represented in the 22 Sector Councils with high level
(incl. %
achievement)      representatives created.

Indicator 2 : 300 norms registered.
Value
(quantitative               76                      300                              314
or qualitative)
Date achieved           05/31/2007              11/01/2008                        12/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded.
achievement)
                420 training institutions offering competency-based training and having
Indicator 3 :
                completed quality improvement process.
Value
(quantitative                0                      420                              442
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                   11/01/2008                        12/30/2013
Comments
(incl. %         The indicator was surpassed.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : 150 training institutions certified.
Value
(quantitative                0                      150                              150
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                   11/01/2008                        12/30/2013

                                                 iv
Comments
(incl. %         The indicator was met.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : 250,000 workers trained in competency based courses
Value
(quantitative               2,000               250,000                           388,078
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           05/31/2007            11/01/2008                        12/30/2013
Comments
                 The indicator was surpassed.
(incl. %
achievement)
                100,000 adults evaluated according to competency-based norms, of which 70,000
Indicator 6 :
                are certified
Value                                      100,000 evaluated                 109,453 evaluated
(quantitative               1,250
or Qualitative)                             70,000 certified                  109,143 certified
Date achieved           05/31/2007            11/01/2008                        12/30/2013
Comments
                 The indicator was surpassed. The certification achievements were above
(incl. %
                expectations.
achievement)
                100,000 adults receive basic education certificates.
Indicator 7 :

Value
(quantitative             70,000                100,000                             94,194
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           05/31/2007            11/01/2008                          12/30/2013
Comments         The indicator was met (94.2 percent achievement). Note this reflects data
(incl. %        available only as of December 2012 and which covers only 61% of registered
achievement) participants (further discussion in Annex 2).
                145,000 youth participants in combined work experience and training
Indicator 8 :
                (Internships)
Value
(quantitative                0                  145,600                             81,190
or Qualitative)
Date achieved           05/31/2007            11/01/2008                          12/30/2013
Comments
                 The indicator was not met (56 percent achievement).
(incl. %
achievement)
                No. of youth receiving employment services.
Indicator 9 :
Value
(quantitative              0                   600,000                          602,050
or Qualitative)
Date achieved        05/31/2007              11/01/2008                        12/30/2013
Comments
                The No. of youth joining the program by the end of 2013 achieved the targeted
(incl. %
                No.
achievement)

                                               v
               No. of Employment Offices making informed client referrals to training and
Indicator 10 : education services.

Value
(quantitative               0                      250                            342
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          05/31/2007              11/01/2008                     05/30/2013
Comments
                The indicator was surpassed. The No. of employment offices incorporated in the
(incl. %
                Promotion of Youth Employment exceeded the original target by 40%.
achievement)
                No. of businesses participating in the Network.
Indicator 11 :
Value
(quantitative              0                      0                                 11,999
or Qualitative)
Date achieved          05/31/2007            11/01/2008                           05/30/2013
Comments        The Network of Businesses was not utilized for the Project as originally
(incl. %        designed. The data shows the No. of institutions (11,588 businesses and 411
achievement) public organization/municipalities) who sponsored internships. (See Annex 2)
                No. of workers covered in MIS
Indicator 12:
Value                                          500,000 workers
(quantitative                 0               per year by the end                     2,642,339
or Qualitative)                                  of the Project
Date achieved            05/31/2007               11/01/2008                         05/30/2013
Comments          The indicator was surpassed. The indicator shows the No. of individuals who
(incl. %          have updated their labor histories and/or have received training and certification
achievement)      during the Project.(i.e. 687,000 in 2013, 581,300 in 2012 and 528,400 in 2011)
Indicator 13 :    No. of agencies using MIS
Value
(quantitative                 0                        420                              1,390
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             05/31/2007               11/01/2008                        05/30/2013
                  The indicator was surpassed. The target covered only training institutions but the
Comments
                  MIS was extended to other agencies that were connected and supported as
(incl. %
                  clients: 442 training institutions, 564 municipal employment offices and 384
achievement)
                  enterprises participating in the Fiscal Credit for Training Program.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                           IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     12/21/2007           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     05/28/2008       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               0.00
  3     12/05/2008       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               7.00
  4     06/21/2009           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             14.83
  5     12/19/2009           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             41.86

                                                  vi
  6    06/18/2010         Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory    57.18
  7    02/04/2011         Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory    81.32
  8    07/12/2011         Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory   108.81
  9    02/12/2012         Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory   157.04
 10    10/27/2012         Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory   182.53
 11    05/16/2013         Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory   196.44
 12    01/04/2014         Satisfactory     Moderately Satisfactory   200.00
H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable


I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1. In 2006, with the economy recovering from the economic crisis of 2001-2 and aided by
improved competitiveness, the Argentine Government was shifting policy towards a focus on
employment as the principal means to foster equitable and inclusive development. The Lifelong
Learning and Training Project supported this shift by trying to develop in close coordination with
employers and workers, flexible learning opportunities for the unemployed and poor workers to
acquire labor-market relevant skills in which core competencies were developed. The Project
aimed to improve the quality and relevance of training services (including adult education) and
increase coverage among the economically active population, and in the process make progress
towards the eventual goal of installing in Argentina a lifelong learning and training system linked
to employment. If successful, the Project would improve employability for the unemployed and
poor workers and contribute to higher economic productivity.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

2. By 2006, effective macroeconomic management had helped to establish four years of pro-
poor growth in Argentina and the structure of the economy had changed. Currency depreciation
favored tradable sectors, notably manufacturing. These activities absorbed more labor, and less
skilled workers, than was the case with the dynamic sectors during the 1990s. As a result,
unemployment dropped significantly. In order to sustain growth over the medium-term, however,
Argentina needed to improve the investment climate and raise productivity levels and quality of
exports. The Government identified education and training as major priorities in achieving its
goals of poverty reduction and job creation. Secondary education was becoming a minimum
requirement for access to good jobs and Argentina needed to invest in the less skilled through
additional education and training for school leavers that had not completed that level. In addition,
the knowledge economy was generating new skill requirements.

3. The Lifelong Learning and Training Project responded to the Government’s objective of
improving training and education opportunities to promote employment and reduce poverty. It
was also fully aligned with the 2006 CAS pillar on social inclusion (Report No. 3405). In
addition, the Project built on analytical work (Building a Skilled Labor Force for Sustained and
Equitable Economic Growth: Education, Training and Labor Markets in Argentina, Report No.
31850-AR, May 5, 2006), which proposed measures to increase the linkages between the
education system and labor market and improve the vocational education and training system. It
presented evidence that showed that the rates of return to lifelong learning are substantial at the
secondary school level for both youth and adults in Argentina. Finally, the Project complemented
the Heads of Household Transition Project (Ln. 7369), which was promoting the participation of
beneficiaries of the emergency public works program in training and adult education courses, as
well as strengthening municipal employment offices.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

4. The Project supported the Government of Argentina to consolidate, strengthen, and increase
the coverage of a lifelong learning and competency-based training system for disadvantaged


                                                 1
adults 18 years or older with the objectives for participants to: (i) enhance employability (for
unemployed); and (ii) improve career opportunities (for employed).
These objectives were translated into the following key indicators and targets:

(1) 300 competency-based occupational standards registered by sector groups
(2) 150 training institutions certified
(3) Participation of 250,000 workers in competency-based training courses
(4) Certification of 70,000 workers according to competency-based occupational standards
(5) Within a year, no less than 25 percent of certified adults obtaining registered employment or
higher salary
(6) Award of 100,000 secondary or primary education certificates to out-of-school adults
(7) Within a year, no less than 50 percent of adults receiving basic education certificates
continuing training or education, obtaining registered employment or higher salary
(8) Participation of 145,600 youth in youth internships
(9) Within a year, no less than 50 percent of youth participating in internships are employed.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

5.   There were no revisions to Project Development Objectives or key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

6. The primary target group was disadvantaged adults 18 years or older. Loan resources also
financed activities to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social
Security (hereafter Ministry of Labor - MoL) to install a lifelong learning and training system
linked to employment, including the creation and/or support of entities providing employment
and educational services such as professional training institutes, adult education services of
provincial Ministries of Education, and municipal employment offices.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

A. The Component to Expand and Strengthen Competency-Based Training and
   Certification System supported the expansion and improvement of a competency-based
   certification and training system through three subcomponents: (1) establish in 30 economic
   sectors, competency-based training and certification systems, through development, validation
   and registration of occupational norms, training and certification of evaluators, and ensuring
   the functioning of qualified third-party assessment centers and certification organizations; (2)
   align the supply of training with the competency-based approach and strengthen professional
   training institutes; and (3) train, assess and certify workers.

B. The Basic Education Services and Certification for Adults Component offered
   economically active adults, particularly the vulnerable and disadvantaged, the opportunity to
   complete their basic and/or secondary education using innovative policies and strategies
   through two subcomponents: (1) support to selected Provincial Ministries of Education and
   (2) support to sub-projects for adult education services, including through technical assistance,
   preparation and publication of didactic materials, and adult education courses.

                                                 2
C. The Promotion of Youth Employment through Work Experience and Training
   Component (hereafter Promotion of Youth Employment) was targeted to youth between
   18 and 24 years of age excluded from full participation in the economy because of their low
   education and skills level and low or nonexistent work experience through three
   subcomponents: (1) providing employment and career orientation to youth through municipal
   employment offices; (2) facilitating training and/or education opportunities; and (3)
   organizing internships with employers.

D. The Strengthen Management Information System, Project Administration and Studies
   Component had two subcomponents: (1) installation of an integrated management
   information system (MIS), including its operation and incorporation of users; and (2) project
   administration, including impact evaluations and studies to support the development of a
   longer-term strategy for a lifelong learning system.

1.6 Revised Components

7.   Project components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

8. There were three major changes to the Project design. First, in 2009 the Secretary of
Employment eliminated the technical project coordinator role in favor of managing the
components within the MoL structure. Second, through two project restructurings (described
below), the funding allocation for the promotion of youth employment program stipends rose
from $43 million to $73 million, mainly by reducing the allocation for consultant and non-
consultant services, goods and works expenditure category. Third, the MoL and the Bank agreed
to focus efforts on the Basic Education Services and Certification for Adults Component with the
Provincial Ministries of Education, dropping the smaller second sub-component of special
subprojects with other implementing entities.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

9. The Project benefited from the findings of a study on education, skills and the labor market
(Report No. 31850) and operational experiences from Bank financed projects in Argentina that
included second chance adult education (e.g., Heads of Household Transition Project, Ln.7369-
AR) and a pilot Program of Training and Certification of Competencies financed by an Inter-
American Development Bank grant. Lessons were incorporated from competency-based training
and certification systems in Australia, Chile, Mexico, and New Zealand and technical insights
from OECD research on skills and lifelong learning policies, as well as innovative approaches to
adult education in countries such as Mexico and to youth unemployment in the UK and Latin
America. The Bank also had a long-standing partnership with the MoL in the area of social
protection, as well as substantial involvement in the education sector. Project objectives were
clear, realistic and important for Argentina, reflecting the strong focus of the Government on
employment as the principal means to foster equitable and inclusive development.


                                                3
10. Regarding quality at entry, the Competency-based Training and Certification System
component provided an operational entry point to support the MoL’s strategy, which focused on
the development of workforce skills for disadvantaged workers through a system that (a) made
qualifications more transparent, portable, and relevant; (b) offered a modular system of training
that linked to skills demands; and (c) promoted quality of services through third-party
accreditation and certification of providers and individuals.

11. The main justification for the Basic Education Services and Certification for Adults
component is the importance of providing second-chance education opportunities in a system of
lifelong learning and training, particularly since the target group was disadvantaged adults.
Secondary education certification was a key to employment as well as professional training
opportunities. Background analysis included a study of the performance of the adult education
system in Argentina and the growing shortfalls in secondary education certifications. Keeping in
mind that these activities and reforms in the provision of adult education were not the
responsibility of the Ministry of Labor, the ambitions of the component were modest. Innovative
approaches would be supported only in selected provinces where interest and experience existed.
In addition to support for the development of more flexible and pertinent education services, the
design focused on certification results as reflected in the output-based financing mechanism and
based on lessons learned in previous Bank projects.

12. The activities designed under the Promotion of Youth Employment through Work
Experience and Training component were backed by a diagnostic study prepared by the MoL and
lessons from both international experiences, and from previous Bank support to municipal
employment offices. International evidence showed that the most effective tools for increasing
youth employability consisted of comprehensive programs, including both a life skills training
component as well as on-the-job training through internships.

13. The admittedly complex Project design and comprehensive scope was justified by the
Government’s ambitious goal of installing a lifelong learning and training system linked to
employment which required activities in all components, as well as by the previous experience of
the Ministry of Labor in carrying out similar activities and collaborating with the Bank. The
targets were demanding, but were based on careful analysis and realistic projections, and focused
on outcomes for which the Project could reasonably be held accountable. The key indicators
combined intermediate results of lifelong learning and training activities, with employment
outcomes, with the latter not overly ambitious. The risk of inadequate capacity was correctly
identified as substantial for both: (i) financial management and procurement within the MoL; and
(ii) labor intermediation in the municipal employment offices. These were the only risks which
adversely affected Project performance.

2.2 Implementation

14. Overall, implementation was satisfactory and the Project closed on schedule after 6 years of
execution 1. The Project was amended once and restructured (Level 2) twice, mainly to facilitate

1
 Although there was provision for retroactive financing of up to $40 million, because of problems to obtain the
needed documentation of eligible expenditures, only $1.5 million was used.

                                                      4
disbursements. The amendment, processed in August 2009, added an additional activity (workers
assessment) to the output based activities list. The restructuring approved in April 2011
reallocated resources from the categories of consultants and non-consultant services and
operating costs to the category of Stipends under the promotion of youth employment program.
A restructuring in August 2012 primarily modified administrative procedures (the contracting
method for the youth orientation workshops changed from consultancy services to standard fees,
as used by other training courses). In addition, the MoL decided to finance some expenditure
using national resources in order to simplify internal administration. As a result the amounts in
the expenditure categories of consultants, operating costs, training and education sub-projects
were reduced. The allocation for the fees expenditure category increased substantially (from $48
million to $81 million) and the amount for the stipends category for the youth employment
program was raised again. Unit costs for output based activities were increased once for school
certifications, norms, evaluators, evaluations, and curricular designs and didactic materials.

15. The Competency-based Training and Certification System Component was
implemented satisfactorily. Despite a high volume of planned activities, because of the close
involvement of Sector Councils (comprised of industry, employers, trade unions and other
relevant associations), the Component started according to plan. This was expected, since it was
designed to scale-up a successful pilot experience. The only activity that took time to materialize,
although it was achieved shortly before Project closing, was the completion of an official
agreement with the Argentina Organization of Accreditation (OAA) to accredit Certification
Organizations.

16. The one area that proved more complex than anticipated was Bank procurement. The MoL
had anticipated the institutional complexity of scaling up and had prepared accordingly in the
area of technical staff, but the client and the Bank underestimated the time and effort that it
would take to become fully proficient with Bank procurement processes. Although the inclusion
of output based activities was designed to ameliorate this problem, the original Project design
still included substantial expenditures on equipment for training institutions.

17. Several factors worked in favor of successful implementation if the component. These
included (a) the leadership and steadfast support of the Minister of Labor; (b) strong technical
and institutional capacity in the MoL to carry out an ambitious and operationally complex
program; (c) the MoL’s openness to innovating and to learning by testing unconventional paths
to achieving results (e.g., offering training in the workplace rather than asking participants to
attend courses in a traditional classroom setting); (d) the willingness of the MoL to negotiate
with provincial and municipal entities and Sector Councils to tailor some aspects of the program
to fit the needs of their beneficiaries; and (e) the strong pool of sector experts willing to be
placed on retainer to offer short-term training programs on demand.

18. Some difficulties were encountered, namely: (a) the rapid acceleration to expand almost
exponentially stretched MoL capacity, placing quality Component A –Summary of outputs
at peril; (b) at times it was hard to attract qualified Sectors covered                  41
sector experts, many of whom work in industry and       Competency   Norms registered   314
receive more lucrative offers for their time; and (c) Workers trained                 388,078
                                                        Workers certified             109,143
despite encouragement from MoL and from Bank Training institutions strengthened         442


                                                 5
supervision missions to gather, systematize and share information on outcomes and impacts,
most Sector Councils and training institutions remain weak in this area. Some inroads have been
made to address these challenges, but more time and effort will likely be required to address
them in full.

19. There were initial delays in the implementation of the Basic Education Services and
Certification for Adults Component. Changes in staffing within the MoL contributed to a lack
of clarity on the criteria for eligibility for Project financing related to both the requirement for
innovations in the delivery of adult education services as well as the output based disbursement
mechanism. The output-based approach (OBA) changed the long-standing financing
arrangement between the MoL and the provincial ministries of education from one based on
inputs and processes, with little monitoring of certification results, to one where the focus was on
the introduction of innovations to make adult education services more pertinent and accessible
for workers and certification results. The shift to a focus on results and the incorporation of the
innovation criteria took time and considerable efforts.

20. In 2008, the Bank and the MoL took steps to overcome the implementation delay. First,
Bank and the MoL agreed on the innovation criteria (modular scheme, flexible entrance,
recognition of previous knowledge and combined training and education curricula) which would
be the basis for MoL work with provinces. Second, recognizing that the MoL needed to refer
adults to education services in all provinces, the Bank would recognize as eligible expenditures
the certifications of beneficiaries of any program of the MoL, whether in innovative or regular
educational services. Nevertheless, because of the initial delay the Project did not begin to
finance expenditures related to this component until late 2009 after the Ministry adjusted the
agreements with the provinces to incorporate information on innovations and certifications.

21. In the end, activities under this component covered seven provinces. Activities were not
carried out in Buenos Aires, which given its size would have had a large impact on the scope and
results of this component, nor in Santa Fe, both included in the original Project design. In 2010
the Bank recommended that the MoL focus its efforts on the provincial Ministries of Education
and consider dropping the second subcomponent of sub-projects for adult education services.
The second subcomponent would have required developing a process to promote and select
subprojects proposed by other agencies and guarantee the validity of the certification, taking
attention away from the main providers of adult education services – the provinces. The MoL
agreed and this was formalized in the August 2012 restructuring which also maintained the
original certification target for the component of 100,000 adults. About 45 percent of the adults
enrolled in education classes and supported by the Project were individuals referred from the
promotion of youth employment program. An unexpected technical difficulty was the serious
problem in accessing information from school authorities on education certifications. When this
difficulty persisted, the MoL organized visits by regionally-based staff to collect the data.

22. The Promotion of Youth Employment through Work Experience and Training
Component 2 was implemented satisfactorily despite facing various challenges. One unforeseen

2
 In Argentina, this program was known by the title Jóvenes con Más y Mejor Trabajo (Youth with More and Better
Employment).

                                                      6
development was the introduction by the Government of the Asignación Universal por Hijo
(AUH, Universal Child Allowance), which caused many youth to opt out of the promotion of
youth employment program because they could not receive a benefit from both. Nevertheless,
the No. of youth who joined the program met the target (600,000) and the No. of participating
municipal employment offices was higher than expected.

23. There was better performance on organizing the Component C–Summary of outputs
orientation workshop and linking youth to adult Total Youth covered                         602,050
education services, than for professional training and      Municipal  Employment Offices      342
internships. The capacity of the municipal                  Youth in Services:
                                                            Employment Orientation Workshop 476,971
employment offices varied substantially and many had Second-chance education                377,475
difficulties in matching participants from the Professional training                         80,060
promotion of youth employment program with Internships                                       81,190
competency-based training courses. Furthermore it
took time for the management information system (MIS) improvements supported by the Project
to be realized, including ensuring the timely availability of information on training courses at the
municipal employment offices. By the end of the Project, only 81,190 youth had been placed in
internships compared to the target of 145,600. The shortfall was explained by several factors
including the lack of participation by the “Network of Business for Youth with a Future”, the
failure to carry out a planned outreach campaign to employers, and the fact that some municipal
employment offices identified very few or no internships, in part because they had yet to develop
relationships with employers.

24. Although the comprehensive and tailored approach of the component drew on international
experience and was in theory a strength, it proved challenging to pull off in practice and suffered
from inadequate coordination among the different units of the Ministry managing the promotion
of youth employment program, supporting the municipal employment offices, promoting adult
education, and organizing adult training and certification. That being said, the MoL made
adjustments to improve performance. For example, it changed the structure of incentives for
youth attending adult education courses to better align them to the PDO: instead of supporting
only attendance, it started providing bonuses for completion of studies. Other issues addressed
during implementation included ending recruitment of youth attending secondary school (not
adult education classes) and stopping recruitment directly from social organizations.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

25. Design. Adequate, high quality and reliable indicators were identified to monitor progress
towards the PDOs, drawn mostly from existing administrative data available in the MIS of the
MoL, as well as in the database on social security contributions. Easy access to the latter was a
particular strength in measuring outcomes. The fact that the Project supported the integration and
strengthening of existing systems in the Ministry of Labor was an advantage. Preliminary
designs were available for possible impact evaluations of three Project interventions:
competency-based training, adult education, and promotion of youth employment. One weakness
was the lack of a target for youth participation in training courses.

26. Implementation. The MoL demonstrated strong capacity given its qualified staff. The
appropriate data was collected on a timely basis and made available to staff in the MoL and the
                                                 7
Bank. The database on formal employment was cross-checked periodically in order to track
formal employment outcomes (rates of insertion and salary levels). Collection mechanisms were
appropriate and attention was paid to ensuring quality and consistency. For the Promotion of
Youth Employment Component, the Bank and the MoL collaborated on the design and
implementation of a survey of participants, a qualitative and process evaluation, as well as ex-
post reviews of internships and self-employment activities, although the latter two were late in
the life of the Project. The arrangements appear to be sustainable beyond the Project as they are
being extended to other activities and are now part of the MoL’s regular work program.
Although the decision of the Ministry to focus exclusively on outcomes in the formal labor
market is understandable, it meant that the likely positive impact of Project activities on informal
workers went unmeasured in spite of accounting for 40% of the labor market.

27. There are two caveats to this assessment. The first is that in the case of Component B (Adult
Education), it proved difficult to access or to obtain information on certifications. This was a
serious problem because it was an output based activity. When other alternatives did not prove
successful, the MoL organized a special supervision exercise which did manage to collect the
needed data, although it cannot be considered an efficient mechanism. The second is that no
impact evaluations were carried out for a variety of reasons including the reluctance of the MoL
to modify normal procedures in order to identify an acceptable control group and difficulties (un-
related to the Project) in the implementation of a special purpose social protection survey which
would have provided an excellent base for an impact evaluation of the promotion of youth
employment program. Although no impact evaluations were carried out, the MoL staff proposed
alternate arrangements in order to track progress on Project results, particularly for adult training
and certification and the youth employment program. While not using experimental methods,
both evaluations were methodologically sound.

28. Utilization. Monitoring indicators were reviewed and used to measure progress and to
identify problems for all components. Findings were used, in general, to modify procedures and
to take actions. Again there is a caveat to this assessment. There could have been more effort to
monitor data on the delivery of the activities of Component C (Promotion of Youth
Employment) particularly the shortfalls in the referrals of youth to different services (internships
and professional training) as well as the variation in performance among municipal employment
offices. The data could have been used to a greater extent, for example, in negotiations with
municipalities regarding the timing and quantity of additional cohorts of participants and in
discussions with other units in the MoL critical to the provision of services.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)




                                                     8
Safeguard Compliance

29. Appropriate activities were carried out consistently during Project implementation in order
to achieve the proposals made in the Indigenous Peoples Plan (IPP), respecting cultural diversity
at the municipality and provincial level. As stipulated, the agreements signed between the MoL
and provinces (Component B) or municipalities (Component C) included a special clause
requiring the inclusion of the IPP as an integral part of the annual operational agreements
(Protocols). The Protocols were signed before loan funds were advanced or transferred to a
province or municipality.

30. There were some delays at the beginning of the Project to operationalize the Protocols
beyond the legal requirement. The principal obstacles were: communication problems between
communities and urban centers where programs were managed; communication constraints
arising from the predominant use of indigenous languages; scarcity of training pertinent for the
specific needs of indigenous communities; little or no formal studies offered by the provinces for
indigenous youth; and the persistence of discriminatory attitudes among officers in the public
and private sectors (local public agencies, schools, banks, etc.).

31. Early on the MoL hired two qualified consultants to support implementation of the activities
planned in the IPPs. The strategies used to overcome the obstacles noted above included: (i)
providing support to provincial and municipal staff; (ii) taking a broad approach to the
consultation process; (iii) translating materials to native languages; (iv) organizing awareness
workshops for central and regional MoL staff and other agencies - training and adult education
centers and municipalities; (v) arranging for training on intercultural issues, especially for
municipal employment office staff; (vi) coordinating with other programs to guarantee adequate
training and education opportunities; (v) using national funds to finance IPP activities when
Bank procurement process were difficult to apply; (vi) including questions on ethnic identity in
the MIS; and (vii) taking timely remedial actions to resolve weaknesses.

32. All activities planned in the IPPs in the 12 provinces where the OP 4.10 was triggered were
carried out and in some provinces additional activities were included. The budget was covered in
part by the Loan but mainly by national funds. In all, US$ 480,000 of national funds was
invested, besides expert staff, demonstrating the commitment of the MoL to fully implement the
IPP. The instruments and materials used by the Project were under constant review with the
intention of improving their application and adapting them to the particular characteristics of
different indigenous communities, including those for the orientation workshop for youth and for
the bilingual adult education tutors. The MoL actively articulated with indigenous communities
and other national and provincial agencies (National Ministry of Education, INADI, INTI,
among others). This approach facilitated communication between Project staff and indigenous
communities and creative solutions to carry out IPP activities.

33. Regarding indigenous beneficiaries, the Project covered 15% of the indigenous population
in the 12 provinces which triggered OP 4.10. 12,100 individuals (around 8% of the indigenous
population of the 12 provinces) completed labor histories in the municipal employment offices.
There were 3,244 participants in adult education (30% more than planned), 2,241 in professional
training, 345 in self-employment training, and 296 were assisted in finding formal jobs.

                                                9
Reflecting promotion efforts among young people, 3,088 participated in the promotion of youth
employment program, of which 53% were female; 1,942 benefited from internships.

Fiduciary Compliance

34. Despite the fact that the MoL had administered several Bank loans, this Project experienced
difficulties on fiduciary issues. In contrast to previous projects where most financing went for
monetary transfers to individuals, the Project had a complex design requiring stronger
coordination between administrative and technical units. The Executing Unit for Projects with
External Financing (UEPE) lacked sufficient capacity for financial management (FM) and to
handle the considerable volume and diversity of procurement procedures.

35. The MoL only partially complied with the Bank’s financial management requirements. The
mandatory budget execution software for multilateral lending operations in Argentina (UEPEX),
was not fully implemented until November 2010. In addition, there were substantial delays in
delivering a concurrent audit report which complied with the terms of reference. Because the
MoL failed to address these and other weaknesses included in the FM action plan, in June 2011
the rating was downgraded to unsatisfactory.

36. Thereafter, actions were taken to solve the issues. The MoL and the Bank met with the
National Audit Agency (AGN) to clarify their understanding of the terms of reference and the
expected scope of their field work for the concurrent audit, particularly as related to output based
activities. AGN finally delivered an acceptable report in November 2011, thereby resolving a
major FM weakness. In spite of the spotty performance on the concurrent audit, the delivery and
the findings of the annual financial audits were satisfactory. The FM rating was upgraded to
moderately unsatisfactory at the end of 2011 and to moderately satisfactory in early 2012, a
ranking maintained until Project closing. During this latter period, only moderate shortcomings
were identified: i) delays in the submission of the concurrent audit reports to the Bank; ii) delays
in the submission of Interim Financial Reports (IFR); and iii) minor differences between
disbursements records in Client Connection (CC) and Project uses of funds reported in the IFR.

37. The Project experienced significant difficulties in complying with Bank procurement policy
and procedural requirements, including the use of the Procurement Plans Administration System
(SEPA), use of correct procedures, and timely notification of changes in procurement to the
Bank. The Project also had some delays in starting procurement processes in part due to lack of
knowledge of Bank rules for some procedures.

38. The October 2010 ex-post procurement review detected problems. The observations made in
the previous review had not been addressed and there were additional problems brought about by
the high volume of procurement procedures: poor planning of purchases resulting in the
repetition of similar purchases in a short period of time; incorrect use of the shopping procedure;
significant discrepancies in cost estimates; and failure to register all planned procurement. In
addition, the field visit found inconsistencies between the information held by the MoL on the
technical specifications, quantity and location of purchased goods and what was observed at the
sites. As a result, the rating was downgraded to unsatisfactory and a detailed report provided to
the MoL with a plan to address urgently the irregularities. In order to follow-up on these issues

                                                10
an additional review with an expanded field sample took place in February 2011. In part because
the Secretary of Employment took a pro-active role in addressing the problems, control over the
assets acquired with Project funds and the registration of procurement information in the
Procurement Plans Administration System (SEPA) both significantly improved. The MoL also
decided to centralize purchases made with loan funds in order to lower the risk of the use of
different procedures among institutions. Since these improvements were maintained, the
procurement rating was moderately satisfactory from mid-2011 until the end of the Project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

39. Given the nature of the Project, the main question is whether there are means of sustaining
the reforms and institutional capacity supported by the Loan. The picture is mixed. Continuation
seems highly like for the Competency-based Training and Certification System because it is a
core component of the MoL’s strategy to improve employability, workers’ competencies and
competitiveness. The training system enjoys the support of employers, workers, trade unions,
industry associations, and sector-based organizations in the roughly 40 sectors where the
program is in operation. In 2011, the MoL passed Resolution No. 434 to provide a legal
foundation to the National Lifelong Learning System. This resolution opened the door to
additional resolutions passed since then to institutionalize important elements of the system. The
combination of resolutions gave way to the Lifelong Learning Strategic Plan: Innovation and
Employment Argentina 2020. The MoL plans to continue innovating, expanding, and financing
the competency-based program and has allocated financing to this end. It is possible that the
heavy reliance on public funds could get in the way of expansion. In light of this, the MoL is
working proactively on three fronts: (1) improving its communication strategy to show the
advantages, achievements, and impacts of the Lifelong Training System; (2) promoting the use
of the fiscal credit scheme (a tax rebate for employers who provide competency-based training
and certification), especially among medium-size and small enterprises; and (3) institutionalizing
the program by ensuring that most training offered is competency-based.

40. In the case of Basic Education Services and Certification for Adults there is some
evidence to suggest that at least some of the supported activities will be sustained beyond the end
of the Project. First, the agreements between the MoL and the provincial Ministries of Education
are multi-year, and continuation of some actions is already envisaged. Second, the fact that the
innovations supported by the Project were designed and implemented by provincial Ministries of
Education, not parallel organizations, favors institutional sustainability. Third, the technical
capacities developed since 2010 in areas such as modularization of curricula, preparation of
didactic materials, teacher and tutor training, and student assessments would help to sustain the
reforms. Fourth, Project resources covered a relatively small share of total expenditures for this
component and it is likely that financing would continue to be covered jointly by provinces and
the national level. Finally, the recent Ministerial Resolutions (in Chaco and Chubut, for example)
give a legal basis to the new modular curricula, an innovation financed under the Project. The
longer term goal of generating and sustaining innovations in adult education services depends on
the education ministries at the national and provincial level.

41. In the case of the Promotion of Youth Employment Component, the President recently
announced a new youth program Progresar to be managed by ANSES with a focus on
promoting the completion of secondary school and targeting nearly the same group as did the
                                                11
MoL. While the detailed regulations are still being developed, the new program plans to
incorporate the curriculum for the orientation workshop, developed under the Project, as well as
the referrals to youth to education and professional training and a role for the MoL.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

42. Creating jobs and increasing productivity are at the top of the social and economic agendas
of governments around the world. Skills development is an essential component of these
agendas. 3 The objectives, design and implementation of the Project are relevant to Argentina’s
current strategy for economic growth, competiveness and social development. The Project is also
consistent with the FY2010-2012 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) (Report 48476-AR, May 6,
2009) and the draft new CPS 2013-2016. In fact in the FY2010-2012 CPS, there was a shift to
more support for the social inclusion pillar. A key element of the Bank’s ongoing policy dialogue
toward this objective is to improve the employability of the most vulnerable.

43. The Competency-based Training and Certification Component is currently focused on
working with strategic sectors for economic growth and, in coordination with other Government
programs, to meet national goals established for 2020. The Component has scope for expanding
to more sectors, raising labor productivity, and improving the country’s global competitiveness.
The provision of second-chance education services and improvements in their pertinence and
accessibility for adults in the working population (Component B) remains relevant to the lifelong
learning aim of ensuring linkages between the education system and labor market in Argentina.
The share of adults who have not completed secondary school has fallen from slightly over 50
percent in the 2001 Census to 43.4 percent in the 2010 Census, but is still substantial. This has
obvious consequences on the economy as a whole, as highlighted by several studies at the
international level, as well as for Argentina. 4. Data from the most recent National Household
Survey (2013) confirm that people aged 20-64 with complete secondary education have a ten
percent higher probability of being employed. Among the employed, workers with complete
compulsory education enjoy on average a 55 percent higher wage and a 27 percent higher
probability of being employed in the formal sector. Youth unemployment is still a challenge as
the rate remains more than three times higher than the national average.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

44. This section discusses achievements on the two Project Development Objectives as
measured by the PAD indicators as well as findings from impact assessments on competency-
based training and the promotion of youth employment program, both carried out by the MoL.



3
 (p. 11, “The Right Skills for the Job? Rethinking Training Policies for Workers, Rita Almeida, Jere Behrman,
David Robalino editors)

4
 Among others, Alzúa, Gasparini and Haimovich (2010) show that in Argentina the number of years of education
has a causal relationship with probability of employment, wage and number of working hours.


                                                       12
45. There are three Project Outcome Indicators, each related to a component. The first is
outcomes for certified workers. Results surpassed targets in both dimensions: the No. of workers
certified was higher than planned and 53.8 percent either improved their salary or obtained
registered employment, more than double the 25 percent goal 5. The second indicator related to
adult education certification. Although the second sub-component for special projects was
dropped from the Project, the target of 100,000 certifications was maintained. Based on data
available in November 2013, this indicator is considered achieved: there are only minor
shortfalls in both actual certifications (94,194 vs. the 100,000 target) and the outcome for those
certified, with 48.7% continuing training or education or obtaining registered employment or a
higher salary, versus the goal of 50%. These figures also underestimate the results of the Project
for two reasons. First, the information does not include certifications (nor the related outcomes)
awarded at the end of 2013. Second, because it proved difficult to obtain information on
certification, results are only available for 60 percent of the adult students registered in the MIS
of the Ministry, excluding, for example, Buenos Aires, the largest province and proactive in adult
education. The third indicator covered the promotion of youth employment. As previously
discussed, there was a significant shortfall in the No. of internship participants (81,190 versus the
145,000 target). Even though outcomes for participants exceeded expectations, with 61% having
found a formal job within a year after internship completion compared to the goal of 50% 6, the
outcome indicator cannot be considered as achieved.

46. The Data Sheet and Annex 2 have information on the results of 12 intermediate indicators
which cover all four Project components: all but two achieved or surpassed the targets. The
exceptions relate to youth internships. Annex 2 also contains information on component outputs
and other selected monitoring indicators.

47. As already mentioned, impact evaluations using the preliminary experimental designs
included in the PAD were not carried out. The MoL did evaluate the impact of competency-
based training and the promotion of youth employment program using quasi-experimental
methods 7. Key findings from the evaluation indicate the following: (a) the competency-based
program reached its target beneficiaries, specifically, poorly qualified or unqualified workers and
unemployed individuals, many of whom were age 25 or below; (b) the probability of obtaining
formal employment 12 to 18 months after completing the program increased by 30 percent for
trainees who had been unemployed or employed only in informal sector activities; (c) the
probability of obtaining a job in the formal sector decreased with age, increased for those who
had previously held a formal sector job, and was lower for women; (d) the impacts were slightly
stronger for more vulnerable groups; and (e) training programs in metal mechanics, automotive
mechanics, software, and construction had the strongest impacts on employment.



5
 Figures are based on the assessment of labor market outcomes only for workers certified through end June 2012.
MoL did not provide updated information.

6
    Based on the latest measurement (end 2013) for those youth who had completed internships by December 2012.

7
    Details on the methodology for both evaluations are in Annex 3.


                                                          13
48. In the case of the Promotion of Youth Employment program, the MoL developed a strategy
to try to attribute the impact on labor market with a view to obtaining a measure that could
reflect the broader program, not only internships. This was done by creating a comparison group
with data from the Permanent Household Survey (EPH – Encuesta Permanente de Hogares)
panel of youth with similar characteristics of the target group for the promotion of youth
employment component (age 18-24, less than complete secondary school education, not in
school, and unemployed or under-employed, informal workers in the base year). This group of
youth is followed in the panel and their average formal labor market insertion is calculated a year
later. The insertion rate of the “EPH panel youth” is then compared to that of the promotion of
youth employment program participants 8 over the same period. Information for the cohorts is
shown in the Data Sheet (additional PDO indicator) and was monitored as part of Project
supervision. For each cohort, the difference in the formal labor market insertion rate of the youth
employment group was more than 50 percent higher than that of the comparison group, the target
agreed between the MoL and the Bank team.

49. This technique is not as rigorous as a randomized evaluation- the two datasets are collected
from different sources and there might be unobservable characteristics that could bias the results.
The analysis lacks sensitivity analysis or descriptive statistics comparing the participants and the
comparison group. Estimates could be biased upwards since full-time informal employees are
not included in the comparison group. Although not likely, it might have been possible for full-
time informally employed youth to participate for some period of time. Even with those caveats,
and assuming this is an upper bound estimate, the results suggest a positive employment impact.

3.3 Efficiency

50. The economic analysis presented in the PAD took a two-pronged approach – the first of a
general nature and the second more quantitative. First, evidence was provided to demonstrate the
need for a Project which sought to upgrade the skills and competencies of the labor force, as well
as to address social deficits arising from inequitable attainment in education and skills. Second,
evidence was provided regarding the specific components by making a cost-benefit assessment
using the estimated unit costs in order to determine the order of magnitude of gains necessary for
the Project to have a positive net value.

51. Annex 3 contains the complete economic analysis which updates the quantitative section of
the PAD using actual costs and No. of participants. Given that estimates of local spending were
uncertain at that time, the PAD analysis only included loan financing. Since the amount of local
spending is now available, the ICR update includes: a) calculations considering only Bank
financing in order to compare results to the appraisal estimates and b) calculations considering
the total Project costs for a more complete efficiency assessment. The figures below refer to the
latter calculations.

52. In the case of the Component to Expand and Strengthen the Competency-Based Training
and Certification System, for all scenarios including the most conservative one, the annual


8
    Participant is defined as any youth who participated in at least the initial orientation workshop (POI).


                                                             14
increment in beneficiary income needed to break even is modest. For instance, assuming a 40
year-old worker and applying the highest discount rate, an annual increment of US$69 would be
sufficient to make the investment economically viable. For a 60 year-old worker willing to retire
at minimum retirement age, the investment in training and certification will be offset by just
US$ 149 per year. To put these figures in context, the amounts represent respectively 15 percent
and 33 percent of the current monthly minimum wage in Argentina. The Component is more
cost-effective than the PAD estimates due to the fact that there were both cost savings and a
higher No. of beneficiaries. In the case of the Basic Education Services and Certification for
Adults Component, an even lower annual increase in beneficiary income is needed to break even.
For a 40 year-old person, the needed increment is US$18 per year. The No. of actual fell only
slightly short of the target and actual spending was less than initially allocated.

53. In the case of the Promotion of Youth Employment Component, the updated analysis takes
into account changes during implementation. The analysis presented in the PAD focused only on
internships, but in practice the youth participated to a greater extent in other services
(employment services and education). For this reason, the updated economic analysis applies the
same methodology as used in the other two Components. The analysis takes into account that
more resources were spent for this Component than initially allocated and the No. of participants
was close to the target. Assuming 45 years of working life remaining, and the higher discount
rate of 12 percent each beneficiary would need to experience an increase of US$120 (27% of the
monthly minimum wage) to make the investment economically viable. In sum, even with
conservative estimates and without considering other likely positive spillovers to firms and to
beneficiaries’ families, among others, the figures justify a satisfactory assessment of the
economic efficiency of the Project.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

54. In most aspects Project results are quite positive. With the exception of youth internships, all
PDO and Intermediate Results Indicators are met, even exceeded in many cases and economic
efficiency is satisfactory. Quasi-experimental evaluations for competency-based training and the
promotion of youth employment program suggest positive impacts. However, given the weight
of the Promotion of Youth employment component in Project costs the overall outcome rating is
assessed as Moderately Satisfactory given the substantial shortfall on internships.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

55. Although there was no explicit targeting instrument used, it is likely that many of the
participants in Adult Education Services and the Promotion of Youth Employment components
were disadvantaged given their gaps in education attainment. In 2012, poverty rates were
between 50-60% higher for adults and youth without complete secondary education, compared to
the average. Even though participants in competency-based training and certification activities
were likely better off, for one year for which data is available (2011), 40 percent of trainees were
either unemployed or had an unregistered job. In practice, it is more difficult to extend the reach
of these activities to the most disadvantaged because the evaluation of competencies is difficult
to carry out for the unemployed, self-employed or informally employed. That being said, the

                                                15
poverty impact of the component would be promoted by the fact that the focus was on norms for
basic occupational categories, thus creating opportunities for relatively unskilled workers and the
fact that certification benefits those who have acquired learning mainly on-the-job. Nearly 60
percent of trainees were male.

56. About 60% of the participants in adult education services were women; child care services
and semi-onsite students’ flexible schemes facilitated their access and retention. In the case of
the Promotion of Youth Employment activities, there were pro-active efforts to incorporate a
gender focus. In order to work specifically in this area, the MoL supplemented Project resources
with a grant from the Gender Action Plan. The MoL developed materials to be used for the labor
orientation workshop as well as in the training for the municipal employment offices. The grant
aimed to improve the quality of employment services provided to clients, particularly for young
women, to counsel female jobseekers, and to strengthen capacity to interact with employers.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

57. The quality certification process with the participation of independent, specialized agencies
that was used for training institutions was not only technically rigorous and best practice, but
influenced other areas of the Ministry. The Ministry is promoting and supporting a similar
process for the municipal employment offices. The investments made in strengthening the
management information system (MIS) facilitated improvements in administration of
agreements and the exchange of information with myriad actors, such as training institutions and
the municipal employment offices. This was critical to consolidate a systems approach to
lifelong learning and training. Advances were also made in the regular reporting of monitoring
indicators for the programs managed by the Ministry of Labor. The development of a network of
Public Employment Services is still in progress; nevertheless, through the Project, more than 340
employment offices across the country have been strengthened, and staff has been trained to
counsel, reach out to employers, and make referrals to training/education programs. Finally,
improved procedures needed for asset control, identified in an ex-post procurement review, were
applied not only for goods financed by the Project, but extended to all Ministry purchases.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

58. Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

59. Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

60. The Ministry of Labor has signaled its intention to expand the competency-based training
and certification program. The 2014 budget already picked up the activities that had been
previously financed by the Project. Two other signs of program continuation are: (a) the legal
resolutions that the Ministry of Labor has passed since 2011 to institutionalize those elements of
the Lifelong Learning System that have reached maturity and that can be consolidated in

                                                16
legislation; and (b) the expansion of the fiscal credit for competency-based training to incentivize
worker training in formal enterprises. Nevertheless since these activities are largely dependent
for the time being on public funding, budget cutbacks could get in the way of expansion. In the
case of adult education services, the new Progresar Program continues to focus on secondary
school completion for adults with education gaps. However, the longer term goal of generating
and sustaining innovations in adult education services depends on the education ministries at the
national and provincial level where interest and commitment are mixed. In addition, although the
key promotion of youth employment activities, namely the orientation/soft skills course and
professional training will continue to be provided by the MoL for Progresar, it is not clear what
will happen with other services such as supported job search and internships. Finally, it is
unlikely that the gains made possible by the improvements in the MIS (integration of data bases
and making obligatory its use) will be reversed. Taking into account these factors the risk to
development outcome is assessed as moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

61. Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. Project preparation was informed by
examples of good practices and lessons learned from projects in Latin America and other regions.
The Bank team included experts with international experience in the design and management of
lifelong learning systems as well as on adult education services and the Argentine education
system. The Project design benefited from feedback from peers who participated in a Quality
Enhancement Review (QER). The use of the output based disbursement mechanism, innovative
at the time, was ideal to support the competency-based training and certification system. It was
an effective tool to support activities being undertaken by sector actors (development of norms,
worker evaluations and certification, and alignment of curricular designs), facilitated
disbursements, and maintained a focus on results. However, there were moderate shortcomings.
Not enough attention was paid to ensuring timely information on adult certifications from the
provincial Ministries of Education and identifying up-front the changes needed in the agreements
between the MoL and the provincial Ministries of Education. Furthermore, the Bank team
underestimated the strains on MoL capacity. Preparation should have focused more on
implementation arrangements, specifically on streamlining the high demands on capacity for
carrying out procurement activities and clarifying the requirements for the concurrent audit.
Notwithstanding the technical capacity of the MoL, it took much longer than anticipated for it to
become familiar with Bank fiduciary requirements, especially on procurement. Finally, the Bank
team did not identify the risk of not being able to identify sufficient internships.




                                                17
(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

62. The quality of supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. At least two supervision
missions, with specialized experts as team members, were carried out every year. There was a
strong focus on the PDO and outcome indicators as well as fiduciary and safeguards policies.
There was a high level of engagement between the Bank and the client. Aide Memoires provided
a thorough and candid account of implementation progress, challenges, and agreements between
the two parties and show the efforts of the team to improve processes in order to achieve the
PDO and outcome indicators. ISRs were candid about the lags in progress on some activities and
fiduciary weaknesses. In the case of adult education services, attention was paid to both the
implementation of the innovations in adult education services to improve their pertinence,
accessibility, and efficiency and the results on certifications. Bank staff was pro-active in
recommending the dropping of the smaller activity on sub-projects with other implementing
agencies in favor of maintaining the focus on activities with the provincial Ministries of
Education.

63. However, there was a moderate shortcoming. Progress was slow on identifying internships
activities which was a key indicator for the Promotion of Youth Employment Component. The
view of the ICR team is that it would have been advisable to restructure the Project to reduce the
value of the target. The Bank team opted not to lower the target in order to maintain a focus on
expanding efforts to promote internships, and in view of the favorable labor market outcomes of
those who did participate. Nor did the target of 145,000 (or 25 percent of participants) seem
excessive relative to the scale of the promotion of youth employment program (around 600,000
participants). The Bank team did recommend that the rate of new entries into the Promotion of
Youth Employment program be moderated since there was a shortfall not only in internships, but
also in opportunities for participation in other services (professional training, for example).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

64. Taking into account the ratings of moderately satisfactory on both ensuring quality at entry
and supervision, overall Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

65. Economic growth and job creation (particularly in the formal sector) maintained a favorable
enabling environment for Project implementation. However, there were also moderate
shortcomings. Little attention was paid to the technical issues which arose during Project
implementation and there was no monitoring of the actions agreed between the Ministry of Labor
and the Bank. There was little interest in improving adult education services to make them more
pertinent and accessible for working age adults. Results would likely have been both more

                                               18
significant and more sustainable with more interest and support of the initiative on the part of the
National Ministry of Education. For this component as well as for the Promotion of Youth
Employment component, on occasion, sensitive relations between the national government and
the provinces and municipalities made it difficult to conclude technical agreements, as proved to
be the case with the province of Buenos Aires and the capital. Finally, provincial Ministries of
Education did not provide needed information on education certifications.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

66. There were several areas of strength. First it is important to recognize the scale of the main
activities - economic sectors included in the competency-based training and certification system,
adults trained, professional training institutes with strengthened capacity, and the Promotion of
Youth Employment and the fact that it was largely managed through the regular Ministry
structure. In particular the continuity and strategic direction of the MoL was an important
ingredient for the success of the competency-based training and certification activities. For this
component qualified staff of the MoL ensured the timely implementation of annual work
programs and achievement of targets. The Directorate of Institutional Quality coordinated
implementation activities with Sector Councils, the Argentine Institute of Norms and
Certification (IRAM), the Center for Municipal Quality and Modernization (CECAM), the
Argentine Accreditation Organization (OAA), training institutions, and the universities
contracted to support and strengthen the capacity of the training institutes. Throughout
implementation, the MoL had qualified staff that provided a direct line for the implementation of
the three sub-components. Project documentation shows that the MoL was quick to identify and
solve implementation bottlenecks. An important aspect that should be recognized is the MoL’s
openness to take informed risks, learn from experience, and make adjustments. For example,
when it became clear that it would be unrealistic to expect adult workers (employed or
unemployed) to turn up in the classroom for training, the Sector Councils proposed, and the MoL
agreed, to take the training to the workplace or as close to the workplace as possible (e.g., in
agricultural fields and at construction sites). As a result, competency-based training programs
reached a greater No. of participants, particularly in rural areas.

67. The MoL understood the relevance of having pertinent adult education services due to the
substantial share of the Argentinian population lacking particularly complete secondary
education, and the consequences for their employment. After initial implementation delays, the
MoL team became more proactive, focusing more on promoting and documenting innovations in
adult education services and making substantial efforts on certification results. Noteworthy were
the sustained efforts to exchange experiences and to promote the use of key indicators and
information among a large set of provincial Ministries of Education, not only those who were
eligible for financing under the Bank loan. In addition, the MoL organized a special supervision
effort to collect data on certifications when this information was not forthcoming from the
provincial ministries of education. It would have been helpful to have had the same attention
paid to innovations in services as there was (rightly) to the operational barriers for participation
(child care, materials) and accessibility (vacancies) given that it is also relevant to improve adult
education performance. For the Promotion of Youth Employment component the MoL
responded to problems, for example, to address registration of participants at schools and moving
                                                 19
incentives from attendance to certifications or completion of training. In order to promote
internships in the public sector, the MoL negotiated and signed agreements with the Ministry of
Justice, Secretary of Sports, and the National Administration for Social Security. Staff
responsible for indigenous issues was proactive and committed going beyond the formal
requirements of safeguards policy. The MoL’s staff was also proactive to incorporate gender
focus on the developed materials and the delivery of the Promotion of Youth Employment
services.

68. However, there were also moderate shortcomings. One area where the MoL could probably
have done more during implementation was to systematically collect and disseminate
implementation experiences -beyond targets and outputs. The Network of Businesses did not
participate in the Promotion of Youth Employment component and there was no national
campaign for private internships, contrary to the original Project design. Opportunities were
missed to use performance data (for example, on internships and professional training) in the
negotiations with municipalities on the timing and extent of further rounds of entries into the
youth employment program or to identify which municipal employment offices most needed
support. However, in spite of the strong performance described earlier in this section, there are
two main reasons why a lower rating of moderately satisfactory is assigned. First, assessed in the
context of the ambitious goal of the Project to make progress in the installation of a Lifelong
Learning and Training System in Argentina, there was inadequate articulation across components
and areas of the MoL. Consequences included the shortage of professional training opportunities
for participants in the Promotion of Youth Employment component and shortfalls in the
performance of the municipal employment offices, including in the identification of internships.
There was also poor coordination between the technical and administrative areas of the MoL.
The second factor is the serious deficiencies in procurement and financial management described
in Section 2.5.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

69. Based on the ratings on government and implementing agency performance, the rating is
moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned


70. Piloting and Learning. The competency-based training and certification system began over
ten years ago as a pilot. Experience shows that getting the system’s structure and technical
content right was a process that took time and that involved some trial and error. The MoL’s
commitment to learning and improving before scaling up was a key factor to success, and
contributed to the strong results for these Project activities. The dissemination of early successes
was also key to expanding the appeal of the program.

71. Relevance of Country Context and Timing. Specific conditions in Argentina may have
provided a propitious environment for the activities supported by the Project. First, employment

                                                20
and training policy became a priority given the resumption of economic growth, employment
creation, and improved fiscal performance after the decline of competiveness during the 1990’s
and the economic crisis of 2001-2. Second, the culture of tripartite social dialogue facilitated the
impressive accomplishments in sector participation which are a necessary pillar for the
development of a lifelong learning and training system and its sustainability. Third, in order to
reach the scale of activities and investments - all driven by sector actors - steady progress is
required over a sufficient time period. This might have been difficult to achieve in the absence of
the stability observed in both representatives of the social actors and in MoL staff.

72. Strategic and Comprehensive Engagement with the Private Sector. In large part, the
success of the competency-based and certification system rests on the work of the sector councils.
These councils played a dual role as both aggregators of technical know-how and conveners of
relevant participants from industry, trade unions, employers, and training institutions. Since they
were envisaged as a fundamental building block in the architecture of the system, careful
attention was given to how they were selected into the program. Sectors councils not only had to
be on the county’s priority list as having substantial potential for reactivation, but also had to
demonstrate commitment to advancing the competency-based training and certification in the
sector. That is, sectors that understood the importance of having qualified workers to seize new
technologies, improve product quality, reduce workplace accidents (and insurance policies) and
increase market share. To increase the take up, MOL offered a combination of financial
incentives and technical inputs to support the needed interactions of sector councils with industry
and union representatives, employers and training providers. Financial incentives included the
development of standards and curricula, the cost of training delivery and the provision of some
resources for training and light equipment. Without the recognition of the training program as
part of Government’s policy to improve the employability and employment outcomes of low
skilled and unemployed workers, it is unlikely that an effort of the current magnitude would have
emerged (as is the case in most countries where efforts to cover vulnerable populations tend to
resemble a patchwork of projects rather than a structured program).

73. Flexible Approach Needed to Maintain Private Sector Engagement. To sustain the
interest of industry and employers, the MOL worked with sector councils to ensure they had
flexibility to tailor training programs to fit industry needs (i.e. course duration, training length,
trainer profile, training location, etc.) while meeting overall competency-based training and
certification standards. Had the Government been inflexible on the approach to marry the needs
of industry with national program competency-based training and certification standards (as was
the case in some programs in Mexico), the private sector would have found it unproductive to
remain on board.

74. Leadership and Institutional Capacity. The Minister of Labor was an early advocate of
the competency-based and certification system. For over ten years, he provided strategic
leadership and supported the efforts of MoL senior management to build and strengthen the
system. Having his weight behind the effort was a factor for success. Implementing a
competency-based training and certification system that truly reflects industry demands is a
complex task that requires working with a multiplicity of sectors and many stakeholders within
each sector, some of whom may be at odds with a new system or with each other.



                                                 21
75. Output-based Activities. The output based disbursement mechanism proved effective for
financing agreed outputs, in fact so much so that the Ministry of Labor decided to move the
payments for evaluation and certification services to this disbursement modality. There are two
caveats to the otherwise positive experience. First, the time-lag between the initiation and
completion of activities related to formulation of the occupational norms and related activities
and the reimbursement of costs could be several months, thus requiring sector councils to rely on
their own resources for extended periods of time. Second, when new finance and disbursements
arrangements are to be put in place, as was the case for output based disbursement mechanism
for adult certifications, assurances need to be confirmed early on that the required information
and data are feasible, timely and aligned with the technical objective.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

76. The MoL has indicated that they have no further comments beyond those registered in
    Annex 7.

(b) Co-financiers
77. Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
78. Not applicable.




                                               22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                    Actual/Latest
                                         Appraisal Estimate                                   Percentage of
            Components                                              Estimate (USD
                                          (USD millions)                                       Appraisal
                                                                       millions)

                Total Baseline Cost              360.00                   678.70                  188.50
Physical Contingencies
                                                    0.00                     0.00                  0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                   0.00                     0.00                   0.00
             Total Project Costs                 360.00                   678.70                  188.50
Component A                                      110.90                    58.60                   52.80
Component B                                       48.40                    13.40                   27.70
Component C                                      167.60                   599.80                  357.90
Component D                                       33.10                     6.90                   20.70
      Total Financing Required                   360.00                   678.70                  188.50


Project Cost by Component (BIRF)

                                                                    Actual/Latest
                                         Appraisal Estimate                                   Percentage of
            Components                                              Estimate (USD
                                          (USD millions)                                       Appraisal
                                                                       millions)
                BIRF Baseline Cost               200.00                  200.00                   100.00
Component A                                       70.20                   50.00                    71.20
Component B                                       28.10                   10.30                    36.70
Component C                                       86.00                 133.00                    154.70
Component D                                       15.70                    6.70                    42.70
           Total BIRF Financing                  200.00                  200.00                   100.00


(b) Financing
                                                                Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                              Type of Co-                                   Percentage of
             Source of Funds                                    Estimate       Estimate
                                               financing                                     Appraisal
                                                              (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                        160.00         478.70         299.20
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                                   200.00           200.00           100.00
and Development


Note: The differences between the cost estimates made at appraisal and actual spending for the Bank loan are due
principally to the following factors. First, in relation to the Promotion of Youth Employment Component, resources
were reallocated to stipends. In addition, reflecting both the emphasis given to the orientation training and to
shortfalls in the capacity of the municipal employment offices, more resources were spent to contract outside


                                                       23
providers. Second, for the Adult Education Component, the second sub-component was dropped and fewer
resources were required by provincial ministries of education or for printing of educational materials. Third, in the
case of the Competency-Based Training and Certification System Component costs for training and the technical
assistance provided to training institutes was less than expected. Fourth, affecting all components was the decision
of the MoL to incorporate most consultants as regular staff, thereby removing this financing from the Project. Fifth,
in part because of the difficulties managing Bank procurement procedures, some spending (transfers to municipal
employment offices and equipment purchases, for example) were financed through national resources instead of the
loan. Sixth, some projected financing (for equipment purchases planned for the MIS in the fourth component) was
covered instead by other Bank loans to the MoL. While many of these factors apply equally to the revised estimates
of Government funding, those figures are more difficult to interpret. Since the Project was implemented through the
administrative structure of the MoL, it is somewhat arbitrary where to draw the line between the overall operations
of the MoL and spending which relates most closely to the Project. An additional complication is the methodology
to convert spending in Argentine pesos into US$ over the Project life.




                                                        24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project supported four components. The detailed results for each one are listed below.

Component A: Expand and Strengthen Competency-Based Training and Certification System

The indicator selected to monitor the achievement of this component was defined as having no
less than 25 percent of certified adults obtaining formal employment or a higher salary. This
indicator was surpassed: 53.8 percent of certified adults either obtained formal employment or a
higher salary within a year of being certified. The targets for all intermediate indicators were
achieved, with most being surpassed. In particular, the No. of workers trained in competency
based courses was significantly higher than the original estimate.

The specific activities accomplished by sub-components included these: (a) for sub-component
A.1 (Establish Competency-based Certification), Sector Councils were constituted to carry out
competency normalization activities, technical units were established in the Sector Councils to
support their work, and Certification Organizations were identified and registered to serve as
independent evaluators of competencies; (b) for sub-component A2 (Align Training with
Competency-based Approach and Strengthen Professional Training Institutes), an
assessment framework was developed to evaluate the quality and relevance of training
institutions, curricular designs were prepared to underpin the competency norms approved in
sub-component A.1, and staff from training institutions were trained in the competency-based
approach; and for subcomponent A3 (Train, Assess and Certify Workers) the training,
assessment, and certification of workers was carried out.

Sub-component A.1 (Establish Competency-based Certification). The project consolidated
the social basis that makes lifelong learning sustainable through the Sector Councils for training
and labor competencies certification. The MoL decided to use Sector Councils as the vehicle to
promote a strategic vision on employment and to respond to the demands of workers at both the
national and regional level. The establishment of a Sector Council is a process that takes time
(identification of the sector and its major representatives, establishment and signing of the
Protocol outlining the work plan, the regular evaluation of results, etc.) and required the
commitment and involvement of senior officials from the Ministry, the unions and the industry.
Each Council can involve more than one sub-sector: the 22 Sector Councils created over the life
of the Project (2008-2013) oversaw the work of around 40 technical units 9.

The first 10 of the 41 sectors now covered under competency-based certification included
construction, contact centers, forestry, graphics, automotive mechanics, metal mechanics,
metallurgy, confectionery, bakery, and fruit and olive orchards. The No. of sectors covered grew
rapidly starting in 2007: about 70 percent were added between 2008 and 2013, coinciding with
the implementation of the Project. Since 2008, under the Project 314 competency norms
(surpassing the Project goal of 300) were developed. The norms cover 41 sectors, with


9
 In the PAD results framework it was erroneously assumed that there would be a one-to-one correspondence
between sector councils and technical units.


                                                      25
automobile mechanics having the greatest No. of norms (39), followed by construction (37)
frigorific/refrigeration (32) and metallurgic/metal mechanics (29). Under the Project, 1,330
evaluators were trained. Table 1 provides a breakdown by sector of the norms, certifications,
curricula designs, evaluators, and worker evaluations and certifications supported by the Project.

In March 2014, the team preparing the ICR visited representatives of Sector Councils (and
corresponding technical units) covering: (i) construction, (ii) metal mechanics, (iii) software, (iv)
bakeries, (v) footwear (leather-working), and (vi) fruit, vegetable and olive production. The
sample visited included small and large ones, industry and union-led management, and a range of
public, private and trade union-owned institutions in the city of Buenos Aires and the provinces
of Buenos Aires and Mendoza. The ICR team’s overall impression after speaking with more than
30 representatives and stakeholders is positive. While the degree of penetration across sectors
varies in scope (geographical coverage) and depth (No. of norms and curricular designs
developed), all representatives were committed to competency-based training and certification.

Sub-component A.2 (Align Training with Competency-based Approach and Strengthen
Professional Training Institutes). During Project implementation, in order to align training
courses with the competency-based approach, 251 curricular designs were developed, the vast
majority (190) based on competency norms. As part of the strategy to strengthen and improve the
quality of training providers, 690 training institutions were prequalified for participation based
on an assessment against a standard for institutional quality. Of these, about 442 started a
structured process of institutional development based on the results of the application of a
diagnostic instrument and an intervention framework proposed by the Ministry.

Out of that group, 150 training institutions completed the institutional strengthening program
(meeting the Project target) and received from an independent third party, the Argentine Institute
for Norms and Certification (Instituto Argentino de Normalización and Certificación –IRAM) a
quality certification. The accreditation provided by IRAM ensures that the training is aligned to
agreed standards and delivered with quality and efficiency. This process started from zero and
required the agreement with IRAM to jointly develop a new quality referential (norm) to apply
to the training institutions and specialized technical assistance. The Ministry also contracted the
Center for Municipal Quality and Modernization (Centro de Calidad y Modernización Municipal
or CECAM) to assist those 150 training institutes to address their quality and pertinence gaps in
order to receive the IRAM certification.

While some of the training institutions that participated in the project focused solely on training
for specific sectors, a number of them covered sectors beyond those included in the project.
Since the institutional capacity interventions were intended to improve the training institution as
a whole, the delivery of program offerings beyond sectors included in the project was markedly
improved. In some cases training offerings beyond project financed sectors developed
'competency-based-type' standards, training curricula and delivery methodologies. Since one of
the goals of the institutional strengthening is to gain a highly coveted certification from a third
party (IRAM), there is now a concrete benchmark against training providers can aspire to obtain
and be assessed.
This sub-component was perhaps the most challenging and it had the slowest implementation.
Changing institutional practices takes planning and requires making adjustments, learning and

                                                 26
implementing new practices. An added challenge was the need to find appropriate moments
during the academic calendar to work with the institutions and staff. Opportunities in the
academic year to do this work are limited, making advance planning an absolute must.

Sub-component A.3 (Train, Assess and Certify Workers) Demand for competency-based
training in Argentina has grown since 2003, with a total of 388,078 individuals having
participated in these programs in the context of sector agreements during the period of the
Project. Almost 25 percent of all participants joined the training programs in 2012 and 2013. It is
important to highlight that in addition to these individuals, whose training was directly financed
by the Project, there were also indirect beneficiaries if one takes into account those who received
other types of training in the 442 Training Institutions that were strengthened as part of Sub-
component A.2.

Participant characteristics. Training benefitted mainly individuals who were receiving social
transfers from the MoL between 70 to 86 percent, depending on the sector). Only about one-fifth
of participants took part in the Promotion of Youth Employment Program, and about one-third of
participants enrolled in industrial manufacturing programs. Slightly over half of the participants
were men (52 percent). About 37 percent of participants were between the ages of 18 and 25, and
50 percent were between the ages of 26 and 46. The provinces of Buenos Aires, Mendoza,
Tucuman, Santa Fe, Cordoba, and Salta as well as the city of Buenos Aires accounted for three
quarters of all participants.

Certification. Among the individuals who were evaluated, 99.7 percent received certification,
the majority of them after 2008 once the program was scaled up. The final ratio between workers
assessed and certified (99%) was different than assumed in the PAD (70%); the estimation were
done based on the pilot experience, but with the maturity of the sectors involved and the
consolidation and understanding of the process, almost all workers assessed were also certified.
Two sectors accounted for about two-thirds of all certifications: construction (53 percent) and
frigorific/refrigeration (9 percent). The distribution of types of certification does not seem to
correlate with either the total availability of norms per sector or the length of time the norm has
been in existence. As it shown in Table 1, the norms have been used by the sectors both for
curricula design and workers certifications in all cases, except the ones recently developed
(Commerce and Technological University).

In interviews during the ICR mission, all representatives of Sector Councils agreed on the
importance of allowing innovation and the importance offsetting some of the costs of developing
norms and providing training. Each sector is unique, so implementation had to allow for some
flexibility to adapt to different conditions on the ground, whether that meant taking the
classroom to the field to train farmers or entering into an interim arrangement with trade unions
to support competency-based training with curricula focused on draft norms rather than approved
norms (metal mechanics sector). Another point on which there was a consensus was the
importance of one of the byproducts of competency-based training: building participants’ self-
esteem. Acknowledging the existing skills of technically unqualified workers - many of whom
had been toiling away for years - gave them social standing in their families and communities.
This awakened a desire for continued growth.



                                                27
The construction sector has been a trailblazer, pioneering the implementation of a system to keep
track of trained and certified individuals. In this sector, each person who participates in
competency-based training or is certified on a competency norm receives an ID card with a
digitally readable computer chip that records their training trajectory and earned certifications.
This makes it easier for the cardholder to access formal employment and for prospective
employers to know the person’s occupational qualifications.

A top challenge mentioned included the need to strike a balance between quantity and quality. At
times, the courses felt rushed or somewhat driven by the need to meet targeted outputs. A second
challenge was the constant need to raise funds to cover the cost of training equipment.

      Table 1 - Registered Competency Norms, Certification and Evaluations, by Sector 2008-2013

                                                               # Curricular
                                           # Registered        design based        #                        # Trained
                                                                                            # Individuals
                                           Competency               on        Individuals                   Evaluator
                                                                                              Certified
                                             Norms 10          Competency      Evaluated                        s
                                                                  Norms
 Public administration                         4                                1.003          1.000          20
 Agricultural-agro-industrial                  8                                2.609          2.603          70
 Shoes                                         5                   5             351            351           10
 Garments                                      8                   5             301            289           22
 Building                                      37                  32           57.810         57.763         150
 Contact center                                3                                1.419          1.419          40
 Electric power                                15                  3             358            386           37
 Gas stations                                  7                   5            4.317          4.276          29
 Forests                                       12                  8            4.439          4.390          78
 Cold storage plants                           32                  25           9.853          9.764          41
 Graphics                                      3                   18           1.317          1.317          18
 Timber industry                               7                   7             353            349           30
 Wool textile                                  3                   3             137            137           11
 Building superintendents                      1                                 501            500           21
 Automobile mechanics                          39                  23           4.833          4.829          70
 Metal mechanics                               6                   2             260            260            9
 Metalworkers                                  23                  14           3.405          3.398          51
 Water                                         12                  6            4.057          4.036          231
 Pastry cooks                                  14                  5             355            355           24
 Oil                                           13                                 81             81           13
 Pizza-fast food                               5                                  45             45            3
 Fruit, vegetable & farm family
                                                3                               2.891          2.890           81
 production
 Mohair goat sector                            1                                 122            121            25
 Trade                                         1                    4                                          12
 Fruit, vegetable and oil sector               19                   7           4.219          4.205           71
 Naval sector                                  4                    8            26             26             7
 Teleworkers                                   5                                 627            605            29
 Superintendents (horizontal property)         1                    1           1.362          1.349           18



10
     Each norm includes between 2-5 competency units.


                                                          28
 National Technological University        5                                                    15
 Tourism                                  9              6           1.954        1.954        63
 Wine industry                            9              3            448          445         31
                 Total                   314            190         109.453      109.143      1.330


In order to consolidate gains and institutionalize important aspects of the competency-based
training and certification system, since 2011 the MoL has put out several important Ministerial
resolutions. These resolutions define the framework and operational procedures for the system,
including the institutional arrangements and responsibilities within the MoL, the eligibility
criteria and instruments relating to the participation of the different stakeholders and institutions
participating in training and certification policies and to receive public funds. In particular,
Resolution no. 434/2011, the National System of Lifelong Training, set up the strategic lines of
activity, provided a legal foundation and laid the base for additional resolutions put out since
then to institutionalize important elements of the system. These include (a) Resolution No.
1204/2011, Institutional Strengthening and Certification of Quality for Training Institutions; (b)
Resolution No. 1471/2011, Sector Certification of Worker Competencies; (c) Resolution No.
1495/2011, Definition and Content of Basic Competencies; and (d) Resolution No.
1496/2011,Basis for the Creation and Functions of the Sector Councils for Training and
Certification of Labor Competencies.

Component B: Basic Education Services and Certification for Adults

This section describes in more detail the results for the intermediate result indicator, the specific
activities and investments supported under the Project for the seven provinces which
implemented innovations in adult education services, and finally, the main findings of a
background paper written during preparation of the ICR. The purpose of the background paper
was to analyze the recent evolution of adult education in Argentina in order to provide the
context for the activities supported by the Project to implement innovations in services and to see
if the data could possibly shed some light on their performance primarily by comparing the
trends and patterns in these 7 provinces with the rest of the country.

The intermediate result indicator was the No. of participants in adult education certifying basic
education completion (target 100,000). Table 2 below shows the breakdown of the results
achieved for the 7 provinces and the remaining provinces as well as those participants referred
from the Promotion of Youth Employment Program. Based on latest data available as of Project
closing, 94,194 participants completed either the primary or secondary education cycle. Of those,
42% (39,241 participants) are from the seven innovative provinces supported under the
Component. Of those certified, 37,660 (40%) participated in the promotion of youth employment
program, with the majority (94.5%) concentrated at the secondary level. Among all those
receiving certifications, 79.4% certified the secondary level and the rest primary level. Patterns
did not differ between the 7 provinces and the others.

These figures underestimate Project results. It proved difficult to obtain information on
certification, so the data show results only for 61% of students registered in the MIS of the MoL.
For example, information is missing from the province of Buenos Aires, the largest and proactive
in adult education. Additionally, certification results are only available until December 2012.


                                                 29
       Table 2: No. of certified beneficiaries by type of province and program participation
                                              -2008-2013
                Type of         Youth Program   Other Participants   TOTAL
               Province          Participants
              Innovative            15,497            23,744          39,241
                Others              22,163            32790           54,953
               TOTAL                37,660            56,534          94,194
               Data source: Ministry of Labor

Table 3 below shows in detail the educational innovations, beneficiaries and certification results
for each of the 7 provinces where the Project supported innovation activities. There is great
variation in the certification results among these 7 provinces; rates range from 18% in Mendoza
to 8.5% in La Rioja. Figures are based on information on certifications awarded through the end
of 2012, due to delays in receipt of information from provincial jurisdictions.

Project investments were mainly focused on the hiring of tutors to support semi-onsite students’
and distance educational schemes that were promoted (40% of the total). Another 40% of the
resources were divided between development and printing of new curricular designs and
teaching materials and teacher training for the use of new methodologies for flexible teaching
modalities. The rest was to reproduce materials in different languages for indigenous people and
to hire bilingual teachers. To a lesser extent basic educational kit and books were bought.




                                                 30
                                     Table 3. Summary of Innovations, Enrollments and Results for 7 Provinces

                                                                        Enrollment       Youth        (2) / (1)   Enrollment      Adults         (4) / (3)
Province               Characteristics of innovations                   as of 2013     Participants    in %       as of 2012   certified as of    in %
                                                                            (1)      Enrolment 2013                   (3)           2012
                                                                                     (component C)                                   (4)
                                                                                           (2)
           • Modular
           • Semi-onsite students’ courses in addition to face-to-
             face.
           • Recognition and accreditation of previous knowledge
             acquired (with official document)
           • Flexible schedules to respond to the characteristics of
Chaco        the participants.                                            87,986         57,213          65         79,080         7,522           9.5
           • Educational content associated with the world of work
           • Childcare services for adults with young children who
             attend face-to-face or semi-onsite students’ modalities.
           • Teacher training and tutors for semi-onsite students’
             and face-to-face modes
           • Special services for Indigenous People (ethnic Qom,
             Wichí and Mocoví)
           • Delivery of educational kits

           • Modular
           • Semi-onsite students’ courses in addition to face-to-
             face.
Chubut     • Flexible schedules to respond to the characteristics of      7,980          4,307           54         6,560          1,031          15.7
             the participants.
           • Childcare services for adults with young children who
             attend face-to-face or semi-onsite students’ modalities.
           • Delivery of educational kits and didactic materials




                                                                             31
           • Modular
           • ·Curriculum-based on disciplinary areas relevant to
             adults, especially in the area of work.
           • Recognition and accreditation of previous knowledge
             acquired (with official document)
           • ·Semi-onsite students’ courses in addition to face-to-
             face
           • ·Flexible schedules to respond to the characteristics of
Córdoba      the participants.
           • Educational contents associated with the world of
             work.                                                      75,667   13,767   18.2   64,020   8,781   13.7
           • ·Modular educational materials adopted at the national
             level by the Plan Fines from the Ministry of Education.
           • Teacher training and tutors for semi-onsite students’
             and face-to-face modes
           • ·Establishment of 60 new places to accompany the
             semi-onsite students’ mode
           • · Project integration at the end of educational segments
             (level 1-4, 4-7, 7-11)

           • Modular
           • Curriculum-based on disciplinary areas relevant to
             adults, especially in the area of work.
           • Recognition and accreditation of previous knowledge
             acquired (with official document)
           • Semi-onsite students’ Offer in addition to the face-to-
             face                                                       15,075   6,239    41.4   12,895   1,091   8.5
La Rioja
           • Flexible schedules to respond to the characteristics of
             the participants.
           • They use the material produced by Cordoba
           • Delivery of technological kits (scientific calculators
             and pen drives) as a retention strategy
           • Each module contains formative assessments
             complemented by a portfolio of activities performed
             by students in each area of discipline. At the end of
             each section, a summative evaluation is given.
           .
           • Semi-onsite students’ courses in addition to face-to-
             face

                                                                           32
Mendoza    • Flexible schedules to respond to the characteristics of   53,063    16,120    30.4   48,129    8,704    18.1
             the participants.
           • Educational contents associated with the world of
             work.
           • Modular
Misiones   • 59 places for distance education courses were opened      61,479    29,716    48.3   48,990    6,852    14
             for Youth Program participants
           • Delivery of educational kits as a retention strategy.
           • Extension of the school calendar from January to
             December with the inclusion of summer school for
             Youth Program participants.
           • ·Modular
Tucumán    • ·Curriculum-based on disciplinary areas relevant to
             adults (work, citizen participation and lifelong
             learning)
           • Recognition and accreditation of the previous
             knowledge acquired
           • Development of modular training materials                 61,212    31,279    51.1   47,987    5,089    10.6
           • Teacher training for the semi-onsite students’ mode
           • Flexible Schedule to respond to the characteristics of
             the participants ·
           • Educational itineraries (modular sequence) adapted to
             adults
           • Flexibility for entrance to the educational system in
             different moments during the year.
           • Citizenship workshops.

Total                                                                  362,462   158,641   43.8   307,661   39,070   12.7




                                                                          33
Recent Trends on Adult Education in Argentina and in the 7 Project Provinces

In order to put the Adult Education Services Component in context background papers were
prepared both during Project preparation and for the ICR. The papers used data drawn from two
sources: the periodic Population Census as well as the National Directorate of Information and
Evaluation of the Education Quality (DINIECE - Direccion Nacional de Información y
Evaluación Educativa). In the case of the latter, a particular interest was to see how trends in the
7 provinces which had received support from the Project to implement innovations to improve
both the accessibility and pertinence of adult education services compared to the rest of the
country. Also, the comparison of the trends identified in both papers shows the changes in adult
education during the time of Project implementation.

The background paper done at the time of Project preparation identified several important trends
and characteristics of adult education in Argentina. Although there had been an expansion in
adult education enrollment between 1997 and 2005 (of about 70,000 students), in the case of
secondary students the peak had been reached in 2001 and thereafter declined, in part because of
a decline in the share of the age group 20-29 in the population. In addition, the total No. of
individuals attending adult education classes had peaked in 2003 (615,431) and had fallen
slightly in 2005 (608,735). The coverage of adult education services was very small in
comparison with the need, reaching only 5% of the potential population who had not completed
secondary education. High rates of failure in the system had persisted for a long period. About 25
percent of those who enrolled dropped out during the year and for those remaining, one-third did
not get promoted to the next level. This means that half of those who initially enroll failed each
year. The No. (and proportion) of secondary school completers within adult education had
increased over the period 1997-2005, moving from 72,500 to 102,500. But this represented only
4.2% of the 2.4 million of individuals aged 20-49 who in 2001 had achieved no higher than
incomplete secondary. The paper suggested that there was lots of room to expand both the No. of
students and the efficiency in adult education, even assuming that Argentina continued to make
progress on increasing the No. of children who completed secondary school.

The purpose of the background paper done as part of the ICR preparation was twofold: to update
the trends in adult education in Argentina in order to provide the context for the activities
supported by the Project; and to see if the data could shed some light on the relative performance
of the 7 Provinces by comparing them with the rest of the country. The analysis covers the period
2001-2012, using the same data sources as the first background paper and covers trends in the
schooling deficit among the population age 18-49 (proxy for potential unsatisfied demand),
trends in enrollment in adult education and trends in secondary graduation rates in this modality.
The 7 project Provinces are not homogeneous. Three of them (Misiones, Chaco and Tucuman)
are among the provinces with the highest school deficit in the country. Mendoza and Chubut are
only slightly worse that the country average, while both La Rioja and Cordoba are slightly better.
Thus it was not always possible to find a particular pattern for the 7 Project provinces. As did the
previous paper, the main target population for adult education is defined as those between 20 and
49 years of age, but the analysis also covers 18-19 year olds and those above 50 years of age.
The main findings are summarized below. The complete paper is in the Project files.




                                                34
First, data from the 2010 Population Census showed that 43.3 percent of the Argentine
population between 18 and 49 had not completed secondary school, a drop of 8.6 percentage
points compared to 2001. The No. of individuals without secondary school had barely changed
over the period, remaining at about 7.8 million. For the 7 Project provinces, the reduction was
more accelerated, but still not sufficient to compensate for their worse starting point, so that in
2010 they still lagged the rest of the country with 47.6 percent of the population without
complete secondary education. The acceleration experienced by these provinces was due
primarily to improvement in performance for 18-29 year olds.

Thus, despite a reduction in the general educational deficiency, Argentina still registers a high
percentage of adult population that has not completed secondary school. More than 40 percent of
the working-age population in their most productive years was undereducated. This has obvious
consequences for the economy, as highlighted by several studies at the international level, as
well as in the specific Argentinean context 11, as well as for individuals. Data from the most
recent National Household Survey (2013) confirm that people aged 20-64 with complete
secondary education have a 10% higher probability of being employed. Among the employed,
workers with complete compulsory education enjoy on average a higher wage (55% higher) and
higher probability of being employed in the formal sector (+27%). Therefore, tackling
educational deficiency and in particular graduation form compulsory schools represents a crucial
issue to achieve the PDO objectives to (i) enhance employability (for unemployed); and (ii)
improve career opportunities (for employed).

Second, based on DINIECE data, overall enrollment in adult education increased 20% between
2001 and 2012, but in the 7 Project provinces the increase was more than double that (42.8%)
with more of a difference after 2007-2008. For the rest of country the increase was due mostly to
those under 20, whereas for the 7 Project provinces it was the age group between 20-29 years of
age which increased the most.

Third, the No. of secondary school graduates in adult education increased 44 percent for the
country between 2001 (47,707) and 2012 (68,736), but more than doubled for the 7 Project
provinces (from 5,640 to 11,375). For both the country as a whole and for the 7 Project provinces
during the middle of this period (starting around 2004) there was a decline, which was reversed
beginning in 2007-2008. The corresponding share of secondary school graduates represented by
the 7 Project provinces declined from 11.8% in 2001 to 9.6% in 2006 before rising to reach
16.5% in 2011-2012.

Fourth, the graduation rates for secondary adult education students rose slightly from 11.5% in
2001 to 13.2% in 2012. For the 7 Project provinces the rate stayed the same at about 11.4%,
although there were contrasting trends during the period. Between 2001 and 2007 there was
actually a decline in graduation among the 7 provinces, followed by an increase in graduation
rates between 2007-2012. This translated into a higher than the average country-wide
improvement in graduation rates during this period for the 7 Project provinces, at that same time


11
  Among others, Alzúa, Gasparini and Haimovich (2010) show that in Argentina the number of years of education
has a causal relationship with probability of employment, wage and number of working hours.


                                                      35
that enrollment was also increasing more in these provinces. The analysis seems to suggest that
the activities supported by the Project may have contributed to higher enrollments as well as
improved efficiency in adult education services in the 7 Provinces.

Component C: Promotion of Youth Employment through Work Experience and Training.

Although implementation of this component faced challenges, aside from internships other
targets were achieved. Below is a description of the outputs/outcomes by sub-component,
focusing on the performance of the MoL in each area. The component aimed to provide to youth
participants a range of quality services all with the aim of improving employability. These
services could be combined and phased according to the needs of the participant and the local
economic context for a maximum of 24 months.

Providing employment and career orientation to youth through municipal employment
offices (Sub Component C.1). As the table below shows, the geographical coverage of the
promotion of youth employment program expanded greatly over time. When the program started,
it was implemented in only seven provinces and 33 municipal employment offices, with a total
of 9,500 beneficiaries. Five years later, it covered all provinces and 342 offices (representing 274
municipalities) and was serving 260,000. The coverage of this component was larger than
expected: the No. of youth who joined slightly exceeded the target of 600,000 and the No. of
employment offices offering the program exceeded the target of 250.

                  Table 4. Coverage of the Promotion of Youth Employment Program 2008-2013


                                        2008          2009         2010         2011         2012            2013      Total

 No. of provinces                         7            16           21            23           24             24        24

 No. of Employment Offices                33          112           157          226          287            342       342

 No. of youth participants in
                                        9,268        58,171        59,912     138,403       125,437         103,706   476,971
 Orientation Workshops
 Youth Covered*                         9,526        75,229      124,686      317,491       286,447         259,611   602,050
*Defined as those who received the stipend at least one month which means they participated in a service.

With the massive influx of youth into the program, the efforts of the municipal employment
offices focused on developing and strengthening and development the initial activities and
services to be provided, i.e., the Orientation Workshop (Programa de Orientación y Inducción al
Mundo de Trabajo – POI), referrals to adult education services, and support for job search skills
(see full list of activities below). To this end, quality, standardized materials were produced for
training providers and the counselors in the employment offices (POI, Club de Empleo, etc.).

The jury is still out regarding the impact that life skills training (embodied in the POI) has on
labor market outcomes. However, there is strong evidence in both developed and developing
countries regarding the positive impact that this type of training has on awareness, self-esteem,
and motivation. Youth in the focus groups organized for the qualitative analysis done under the
Project provided a positive assessment of the POI.

                                                              36
Facilitating training and/or education opportunities (Sub Component C.2)

It was envisaged that the MoL (through the UTeCC, Technical Unit for Certification and
Competencies) would develop competency-based standards, training and certification for basic
skills, as well as for selective occupations relevant for youth, and train instructors so that the
corresponding training courses could be delivered in existing schools and professional training
institutes. Good quality materials for basic skills courses were developed, but used only to a
limited extent during the summer when other services were not available (adult education, for
example), primarily because the activity did not prove to be popular among the participants.

In addition, referrals were made to second-chance education and professional training courses.
Participation in adult education ended up being the most important activity under this sub-
component, second only to the POI. According to the latest data available 12 , nearly 38,000
received their certifications, about 10% of program students. The certification is expected to
contribute positively to the Project Development Objective of increasing the employability of the
unemployed. The literature on returns to education shows that probability of employment in the
formal sector for those with complete secondary education is higher than for those who have not
completed that level.

                                  Table 5. Youth Participation by Service Category


                             No. of participants                                         602,050
        Services
        Orientation Workshop (POI)                                                       476,971
        Adult Education                                                                  377,475
        Professional training                                                             80,060
        Internships                                                                       81,190
        Self-employment Workshop                                                           3,684
        Other workshops                                                                  118,988
        Basic appointments at Employment Office                                          125,662
         Note: No. of participants includes those who have received a stipend at least one month which means they participated
         in a service. Most participated in more than one service during their time in the program.

The range of services reflects the aim of the MoL to respond to both the different interests and
concerns of the participants, as well as to operational needs. “Other workshops” refer mainly to
cultural and awareness activities (arts performance, information on reproductive health, violence,
etc.) to promote integration and social inclusion. Also, mainly in order to minimize gaps between
enrollment in the program and the initiation of activities or between different activities, “Basic
appointments at Employment Office” were organized to avoid “losing” participants (twice a
month and for no longer than two months).




12
  As is the case in general with the information on education certifications for the Project, figures reflects data as of
December 31, 2013, meaning that certifications in the 2013 school year are not included. In addition, the data is
incomplete since it covers only about 60% of registered participants in adult education classes.


                                                             37
Additionally, a study was done to analyze the trajectories and results for a group of youth in the
program who participated in the self-employment activities (3,684). To be able to receive
financial assistance for their enterprise and coaching/mentoring, those youth needed to complete
the entrepreneurship training course, present a technically sound business plan, and register with
the tax authorities. Among this group, of the 90 percent still in operation, about a third had
achieved employment quality ranked as medium or high (compared to about half for adult
participants in the self-employment activities) and about twenty percent of the projects were
considered to have high chances of sustainability (slightly higher than the share for adults).
Preliminary recommendations to improve the design and implementation of self-employment
activities include the need for stronger monitoring and evaluation of the experiences (more focus
on results and the systematization and exchange of findings), updating the ceiling for financial
assistance and differentiate according to the type of project, and extending the time of follow up
and mentoring of the entrepreneurs.

Organizing internships with employers (Sub Component C.3)

The PAD outlined two strategies that the MoL intended to use to promote internships with
employers. One, at the national level, internships with large employers would be proposed by the
members of a Network of Businesses for Youth with a Future (the Network). Two, for smaller
companies and in localities where Network companies are not located, municipal employment
offices would be responsible for helping to promote internships. However, in practice no
internships were identified through the Network for the Project, leaving the main burden of
promoting internships to the municipal employment offices, supplemented by support from the
MoL in reaching agreements with other public agencies to offer internships. Efforts were also
handicapped by the lack of an effective outreach campaign for employers, although one had been
included in the Project design. By the end of the project, there had been around 81,190
internships, only 56 percent of the target. Some of the challenges faced could also be attributed
to the different characteristics of the employment offices and the heterogeneous local labor
markets (management and leadership, institutional capacity, regional economic growth, etc.).
Some offices did not identify even one internship, while others were effective in working with
employers and promoting internships.

A qualitative analysis was conducted to review internships in the private sector, public
institutions and social or non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The study covered twenty-
eight cases in four localities (Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires - CABA, Conurbano Sur, Gran
Resistencia y Gran Rosario), which accounted for the largest number of internships. There were
some general findings for all internships. For example, all sponsors and youth assessed the
experience as positive. Youth identified the learning gained, especially in soft skills, increased
social capital, and expanded opportunities. The competency most commonly identified by all
youth was responsibility (timeliness, complying with work hours, letting people know if absent
or late, and task focus). Neither the private or public sector sponsors identified any big
differences between the youth and other entry level workers. In fact sometimes the youth were
better. Youth saw the value of the internships as a signal to employers as most did not have
previous experience. Now they had references.




                                               38
On the other hand, some results varied depending on the sponsor, the extent of linkage with the
employment office and the social context. Private firms considered the internships an efficient
way to respond quickly to higher demands and to try out potential new staff. All had considered
contracting some of the participants. In addition, in order to participate in additional internships,
the MoL required some employment of previous participants. Firms promoted the termination of
secondary school among their participants and to that end allowed some flexibility in work
schedule. If youth were studying to finish high school it was seen as a sign of commitment and
responsibility. In the area of skills acquisition, after responsibility, the ones most commonly
mentioned for private internships was adaptability and teamwork, whereas for public and social
organizations, it was communication and self-confidence. Specific job-related skills were more
likely to be acquired with the private sector. Administrative skills were more commonly acquired
with the public sector and skills for social or community work only for public and social
organizations. In the case of social organizations the importance of the internship as a source of
income and of social integration was mentioned.

The proximity to the labor market of the internships depends on the linkages with the
employment office as well as with the possibility for labor market insertion once the internship
was finished. While the private sector in general ranked higher, there were good examples in the
public sector. At the other extreme were most internships with NGOs. The report ranked the
internships overall using four criteria: presence of a tutor/coach at the workplace, the relationship
with the employment office, and the scope for development of soft skills and of job-specific
skills. Those with a positive classification on all four dimensions were ranked high, those lacking
in one dimension were ranked medium, and those lacking in two dimensions (the remainder)
were ranked low. The top performers were most of the internships in the private sector. The
bottom performers were most of the internships in the NGOs, primarily because there was little
contact with the employment offices and no development of job-specific skills.

The outcomes for those who did participate in internships surpassed the target. According to the
latest data available (mid 2013) which looks at outcomes for those youth who had completed
their internships 12 months or more before the measurement date, out of the 21,649 beneficiaries
who had completed their internships by May 2012, 56% of them found a formal job within a year,
exceeding the 50% targeted. Given the scale of the promotion of youth employment program, the
target set for internships was much higher than other youth employment programs in the region
(around 10,000 a year) which also have much fewer total participants. Comparing the outcomes
for Argentina with similar programs in other countries is difficult because of different indicators.
Although the results for Argentina are higher, part of the explanation may be that other programs
only count employment in the same firm which sponsored the internship.

          Indicator                                             Program
                             Juventud y Empleo-                  ProcaJoven-             Jóvenes en Acción-
                             Dominican Republic                    Panama                     Colombia
                                     33%                            22%                          32%
                           Receives offer at the firm                                    Is hired by the firm
        Insertion rate                                    Is hired by the firm at the
                            where internship took                                       where internship took
                                                             end of the internship
                                    place                                                        place
       Source: IDB “Cómo mejorar las posibilidades de inserción de los jóvenes en América Latina?”




                                                         39
Institutional Arrangements

The institutional arrangements for this component were complex (including multiple units under
the Ministry of Labor as well as municipal employment offices across the country). This
component was implemented mainly by municipal employment offices based on signed
agreements between the MoL and the respective municipalities. The municipalities received
support from the MoL, including equipment, support for promotional activities, training and
technical assistance as specified in the agreements. The aim was for municipal employment
offices to serve as a gateway to the appropriate services for youth who needed basic skills,
wished to finish their education or receive professional training.

Component D: Strengthen Management Information System, Project Administration and
Studies

The objectives and indicators for the component were reached. The component was successful in
supporting the integration of the data bases which exist in the MoL and the development of a
new unified tool required for the planning and monitoring of the Lifelong Learning and Training
System. This strengthened MIS facilitated the interface among different processes, originally
distributed in different data bases, which today are compatible and integrated with each other.

By the end of the Project, the MIS had national coverage, was available 24 hours a day and had
exceeded the targets set for transactions per month and users connected at any one time (5,100
users vs. the target of 1000). Intermediate indicators were met. It was expected that information
on 500,000 workers would be in the MIS by the end of the Project. Between 2008 and 2013, 2.6
million individuals updated their labor histories and/or registered their training and certification
(687,000 in 2013, 581,300 in 2012 and 528,400 in 2011). In total there are 1,390 institutions
(442 training centers, 564 municipal employment offices and 384 enterprises participating in
Crédito Fiscal for training) connected and supported as clients vs. the target of 420 institutions.
This scaling up of users shows the emphasis given to facilitating access and use of information
by key actors in the Lifelong Learning system, aside from the MoL.

The MIS facilitated administrative processes, planning, and the promotion of the activities of the
different Project components. There were two main improvements aside from the integration of
information:

1) Support for Effective Decentralized management: MIS users can manage and exploit
information directly (see, add or use data). It is a fluid system in terms of the activities which can
be registered and the availability of individual, personalized information. In the registration of
information, one of the main advances was the ability to capture data at source while the central
level validates information and guarantees the security of the system.

2) Capacity to Monitor physical and financial targets: The strengthened MIS allows for the
complete follow up of an action and identification of the achievements reached. The Project
contributed to improvement management within the Ministry since the MIS must be used for all
actions, not just those of the Project. The MIS is also integrated and compatible with other
systems such as records and resolutions. The installation of the tool modified the administrative

                                                 40
structure because different aspects of the same action were integrated and use of the system is
mandatory. Thus, it broke down some divisions between units since different processes are
related to each other. Starting from the resolution that originates an action (budget and goals),
specific activities, participants, and execution must be recorded to make a payment. This
required the strong development of various types and levels of internal and external users,
thereby contributing to transparency.

Additionally, the possibility to assemble different data bases has facilitated the availability of
information to support the implementation of impact evaluation studies, such as the impact
assessments for components A and C.

Even though the objectives and indicators for the component were achieved, additional
improvements and development are planned, such as access and external management of some
services related to employment offices like intermediation (direct access by companies and
jobseekers). Also modules of e-government could be incorporated to facilitate registration in
courses, etc.

This component also financed consultancy services for project administration. The No. of
consultants working on activities related to the Project and financed by the Loan was usually less
than planned. In practice, many functions were transferred to line staff, thereby strengthening
MoL capacity. The celling planned for 2011 was 85 consultants, but only 42 were hired with
even less by the end of the Project.

                            Consultants financed by loan proceeds

                   2007             2008            2009        2010         2011      2012 until
                                                                                      closing date.
    BIRF
                     83              85             105         105           85           65
  (planned)
    BIRF
                                     66             115          85           42           15
 (executed)




                                               41
                                      Selected Monitoring Indicators

                             Indicators                         Target Values           Link to Component

          Lifelong Learning Program –Component A – Competency-Base Training and Certification
     No. of sectors/province/month (distribution)
                                                                    41
1
     No. of Normalization Committees (Unidades Técnicas de
                                                                       22                      A.1
     gestión) working.
     No. of competence norms registered in each sector.                314
2    No. of evaluators trained and registered.
                                                                    1,330                      A.1
     No. of individuals (employed and unemployed) trained by       388,078
     province/month/sector (F/M)
3        - No. of individuals evaluated                            109,453
                                                                                               A.3
         - No. of individuals certificated                         109,143
     No. of training institutions strengthened                       442
         - With diagnosis                                            690
4
         - In program of improvement
                                                                                               A.2
         - Certified                                                   150

                    Lifelong Learning Program –Component B – Adult Education Services
     No. of agreements with                                     7 (Chaco, Chubut,
         - Provinces                                            Cordoba, La Rioja,
1                                                                                              B.1
                                                               Mendoza, Misiones y
                                                                    Tucuman)
2    No. of individuals registered/attending school                  923,458                  B.1/
3    No. of individuals certified (F/M)                               94,194                  B.1/
         - Primary                                                    19,417
         - High school                                                74,777
4    No. of HH/PEC beneficiaries registered/attending school         570,611                   B.1
5    No. of HH/PEC beneficiaries certified (F/M)                      56,534                   B.1
         - Primary                                                    17,630
         - High school                                                39,204
6    No. of indigenous individuals registered/attending school        3,244                    B.1


  Lifelong Learning Program – Components C and D - Employment Services and Work Placement for Youth
1   No. of employment offices (EO) with youth services              342                   C.1
2   No. of youth beneficiaries registered (F/M)                  602,050                  C.1
    Total No. of Youth beneficiaries directed to other services
3        - No. of beneficiaries who attended labor                                        C.2
             orientation course                                  476,971
4   No. of youth registered for finish primary or high school.   377,475                  C.2
    No. of youth certified                                        37,660
5        - Primary                                                 2,087                  C.2
         - High school                                            35,573
6   No. of youth beneficiaries trained                            80,060                  C.2
7   No. of youth beneficiaries in “pasantias”                     81,190                  C.3
8   No. of Youth beneficiaries placed in employment               74,147                  C.3
    No. of external agencies connected and using the
9                                                                  1,390                 D.1
    information system
10 No. of individuals registered (updated labor histories)      2,642,339                D.1


                                                    42
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

This section presents evidence to assess the economic efficiency of the Project. Section (a)
updates the cost-benefit analysis by calculating the unit cost per beneficiary in each of the four
components of the Project and providing an idea of the value of benefits per beneficiary that
would be required to consider the Project economically viable and updates the PAD analysis for
youth internships. Section (b) refers to selected international evidence, presents information on
the Argentine labor market in order to put into context the required benefits estimated in the first
section, and finally discusses details of two impact evaluations.

     a. Cost-Benefit Analysis

This analysis updates the one presented in the PAD. It applies the same methodology in order to
offer comparable estimates. Given the flexible and modular structure of the Project, the wide
range of age groups covered, the estimation of the Project’s internal rate of return would require
several assumptions on benefits achieved by beneficiaries. 13 Rather, this analysis opts for
applying a more conservative methodology. It consists in looking at the actual amount invested
in each Project component and the No. of beneficiaries covered, to derive the unit cost per
beneficiary. This allows for an estimate of the order of magnitude of benefits necessary for the
Project to have a positive net present value. Taking into account the different age groups covered
as well as the broad scope of activities considered, the exercise assumes different scenarios of
duration of working life (from 5 to 45 years after participating in Project activities) and social
rates of return (8% and 12%) 14.

The cost-benefit analysis in the PAD took into account only Bank financing, not considering
costs covered by the Government of Argentina. The updated analysis includes: i) calculations
considering Bank’s financing only, to compare results to estimations at appraisal; and ii)
calculations considering the total Project cost, for a more accurate evaluation of efficiency.

It is important to recall that the design of Project activities envisaged at appraisal changed
somewhat during the lifetime of the Project. In the case of the Promotion of Youth Employment
Component, changes have been substantial. This would seriously affect comparability of the
economic analysis if this one had been based on activity-specific assumptions for estimating
benefits, as they would no longer be valid. On the other hand, the issue is of less concern when
focusing on unit cost per beneficiary. Even with different activities, cost figures can still be used
to derive conclusions on the economic efficiency of the Project.




13
  The same issue would arise for a cost-effectiveness analysis. Furthermore, a comparison between the three
components would be complicated by the different age groups targeted.

14
  The social rates of return used under the three scenarios are compatible with estimates used in the literature on
educational programs in Argentina. See Cossa (2000) and McCready (2005) and consistent with the average interest
rate on Argentine government bonds over the period 2007-2012.


                                                        43
Table 1 presents information for the first component of the Project, Expansion and Strengthening
of a Labor Competency-based Training and Certification System. It includes the No. of
beneficiaries, the actual cost, the cost per beneficiary and the annual increment in social benefits
to break even assuming that the worker is 20 years of age (i.e. can potentially work for 45 years ),
30, 40, 50 and 60 years of age. The analysis does not consider opportunity costs for the worker,
as the certification does not require a significant commitment of time. It is evident that the
annual increment in beneficiary income to break-even is very modest in all scenarios. For
instance, assuming a 40 year-old beneficiary and applying the highest discount rate, an annual
increment of US$ 69 would be sufficient to make the investment economically viable. For a 60
year-old worker willing to retire at the minimum retirement age, the investment in training and
certification will be offset by just US$ 149 per year. To put these figures in context, the amount
represents respectively 15% and 33% of the current monthly minimum wage 15 in Argentina. The
economic analysis at appraisal considered higher component costs and a lower No. of workers
certified. Cost savings and the surpassing of targets on certification made this component more
cost-effective that what was expected in 2007.

Table 2 presents the same information for Component B, Expansion of Coverage and
Certification of Basic Education Services for Adults. As in the previous case, the opportunity
cost of classes is not included as this component is based on innovative programs offering the
possibility of completing mandatory education through modalities that are flexible, modular and
responsive to the needs and circumstances of interested adults. Investment in Component B
requires an even lower annual increase in beneficiary income to break even. For a 40 year-old
person, the needed increment would equal US$ 18 per year. The total No. of beneficiaries
reached was in line with what was expected in 2007 (94,000 versus 100,000 estimated), while
IBRD resources assigned to this component were less than expected. As a result, again in this
case, spending for this component has been more efficient then appraisal estimates, in the sense
that it requires a lower increase in annual beneficiary’s income to offset the unit cost.

Component C, Promotion of Youth Employment through Work Experience and Training,
changed in design with respect to its original description at appraisal, as explained in detail in
Section 2.2 of this ICR. The economic analysis in the PAD focused on on-the-job training or
internships for youth, and took into account the cost for employers as well as the opportunity
cost for youth arising for this time-intensive activity. During implementation of this component,
however, there were less internship compared to some other activities, such as orientation
workshops and other employment services, and adult education. Out of the total youth
participants, only about 15% participated in on-the-job training. For this reason, this exercise
applies the same methodology used for the other components. Hence, it disregards opportunity
costs as the vast majority of activities financed did not require a heavy time commitment
incompatible with other activities in the labor market. (For completeness, an update of the
calculations made specifically for internships in the PAD is presented in Box 1).

Table 3 presents the results for Component C. The actual No. of beneficiaries includes all who
received a payment for at least one month (meaning that they were participating in an activity)


15
     As of April 2014 the monthly minimum wage in Argentina is AR$ 3600, roughly US$450.


                                                       44
and the actual component costs, which were significantly higher than expected at appraisal. The
services offered were much cheaper than average cost of on-the-job training. Given that roughly
73% of beneficiaries in this component are less than 21 years of age 16, let us consider the case of
45 years of remaining working life. Assuming the higher discount rate of 12%, each beneficiary
should get an increase in annual income of US$ 120 (27% of the monthly minimum wage) to
make the investment economically viable. Even in the worst case scenario, of young
beneficiaries working only 5 years after completing the program, an annual increase of 61% of
the monthly minimum wage would be sufficient to break even.




16
     Informe mensual Enero 2014, Programa Jóvenes con Más y Mejor Trabajo. MoL.


                                                      45
Table 1. Component A: Expansion and Strengthening of a Labor Competency-based Training and Certification System.
Project Unit Cost and Gains per Beneficiary to Break Even

                                                                                      Annual increment in Beneficiary income to break even
                                                              Unit Cost                                                   Assuming       Assuming
                                  No. of        Cost of                       Assuming 45     Assuming      Assuming
                                                                per                                                       15 years of    5 years of
                               Beneficiaries   Component                        years of     35 years of   25 years of
                                                             Beneficiary                                                   working        working
                                                                              working life  working life working life
                                                                                                                              life          life
OVERALL PROJECT
Discount Rate 12 per cent         109,143      $58,659,766      $537              $65             $66            $69           $79          $149
Discount Rate 8 per cent          109,143      $58,659,766      $537              $44             $46            $50           $63          $135
IBRD ONLY
Discount Rate 12 per cent         109,143      $50,000,653      $458              $55             $56            $58           $67          $127
Discount Rate 8 per cent          109,143      $50,000,653      $458              $38             $39            $43           $54          $115

Table 2. Component B: Expansion of Coverage and Certification of Basic Education Services for Adults. Project Unit Cost
and Gains per Beneficiary to Break Even

                                                                                         Annual increment in Beneficiary income to break even

                                 No. of         Cost of       Unit Cost per      Assuming       Assuming     Assuming      Assuming       Assuming
                               Beneficiaries   Component      Beneficiary       45 years of    35 years of   25 years of   15 years of    5 years of
                                                                                 working        working       working       working        working
                                                                                    life           life          life          life          life

OVERALL PROJECT
Discount Rate 12 per cent         94,194       $13,432,355        $143             $17             $17           $18           $21              $40
Discount Rate 8 per cent          94,194       $13,432,355        $143             $12             $12           $13           $17              $36
IBRD ONLY
Discount Rate 12 per cent         94,194       $10,273,973        $109             $13             $13           $14           $16              $30
Discount Rate 8 per cent          94,194       $10,273,973        $109              $9             $9            $10           $13              $27




                                                                  46
Table 3. Component C: Youth Component. Project Unit Cost and Gains per Beneficiary to Break Even

                                                                                     Annual increment in Beneficiary income to break even

                               Predicted      Estimated       Unit Cost
                                No. of         Cost of          per         Assuming       Assuming       Assuming       Assuming       Assuming
                              Beneficiaries   Component      Beneficiary   45 years of    35 years of    25 years of    15 years of     5 years of
                                                                           working life   working life   working life   working life   working life


OVERALL PROJECT
Discount Rate 12 per cent       602,050       $599,905,688      $996          $120            $122          $127           $146             $276
Discount Rate 8 per cent        602,050       $599,905,688      $996           $82            $85            $93           $116             $250
BIRF ONLY
Discount Rate 12 per cent       602,050       $132,981,989      $221           $27            $27            $28            $32             $61
Discount Rate 8 per cent        602,050       $132,981,989      $221           $18            $19            $21            $26             $55




                                                                 47
Box 1. Youth Internships, Project Unit cost and gains per beneficiary to break even

The evaluation of internships at appraisal considered the following cost structure: i) the government cost of
internships (stipend, transportation and internship related expenses); ii) the employer cost of training (stipend and
transportation expenses) and iii) the trainee opportunity cost for the duration of the internship (PAD, 2007).

An update of this exercise takes into account some modifications which took place during implementation. First,
the cost structure differed somewhat depending upon whether the employer was private, public, or NGO. These
differed in terms of the stipend paid by the government and the average duration of the internship. By considering
the respective share of each type (private sector, public sector, NGOs) of internship financed, it is possible to get
an average approximation of unit cost and gains per beneficiary to break even, comparable to estimations at
appraisal.

Second, the evaluation at appraisal considered transportation expenses and other training-related expenses
financed by the government and the employer. During implementation, these extra-costs were incorporated into
the general stipend. Therefore, the present update does not present these spending categories as separate items.

Incorporating these adjustments, Table B1 presents the cost structure for: i) private internship only; and ii)
average taking into account the different types of internship. The opportunity cost is estimated based on labor
income and employment probability for the 18-24 youth, with incomplete secondary education, belonging to
quintiles I and II (EPH 2013-II). It emerges that, in both cases, unit cost per beneficiary is in line with estimates at
appraisal ($2,953), although slightly lower.

                                   Table B1. Cost Structure Youth Internship
                                                                        Average (Private Sector, Public
                                             Private sector only
                                                                                Sector, NGO)
 Stipend paid by the government                          $823                                 $945
 Stipend paid by the employer                          $299                                   $108
 Private Opportunity Cost of Training                 $1,213                                 $1,487
 Total                                                $2,335                                 $2,540

Again, the gains per beneficiary that would make this activity economically viable depend on the number of years
that the beneficiary works. With 45 years of work and a 12% discount rate, additional income of US$ 307 per
year, per beneficiary, would be needed (about 68% of the monthly minimum wage.

              Table B2. Youth Internships – Unit Cost and Gain per Beneficiary to Break Even
                                                          Annual increment in Beneficiary income to
                                       Unit Cost per                      break even
                                             Beneficiary         45 years of         25 years of        5 years of
                                                                 working life        working life      working life
  Private sector only
  Discount Rate 12 per cent                     $2,335               $282                $298              $648
  Discount Rate 8 per cent                      $2,335               $193                $219              $585
  Average (Private Sector, Public
  Sector, NGOs)
  Discount Rate 12 per cent                     $2,540               $307                $324              $705
  Discount Rate 8 per cent                      $2,540               $210                $238              $636




                                                       48
   b. General Evidence on Benefits

The impact of interventions such as technical training, completion of secondary school,
employability workshops and on-the-job training on different age-groups of workers has been the
object of extensive and well-known research at international level. This section briefly recalls
some of the conclusions highlighted by the international literature and presents specific evidence
for Argentina collected by the MoL on labor market outcomes of Project beneficiaries of
competency-based training and the promotion of youth employment, based on administrative
data and the National Household Survey (EPH).

International evidence

There is widespread consensus on the positive returns of education on labor market outcomes,
both in developed and developing countries. Among others, findings by Hanushek et al. (2011),
Blundell et al. (2005) and Card (1999), indicate that at the individual level, higher education
levels are associated with improved employment opportunities and higher earnings. In Latin
America, returns to secondary education have been positive although decreasing in the last
decade (Manacorda et al., 2005, and Gasparini et al., 2011) consistent with the observed increase
in coverage of this educational level experienced by the region.

Evidence on the impact of occupational training on labor market outcomes is more mixed.
Recent studies in several European countries find that youth vocational graduates enjoy a faster
transition to work, are more likely to have a permanent first job, and are less likely to find
themselves in a first job with a qualification mismatch (CEDEFOP, European Centre for the
Development of Vocational Training - 2013). Hanushek et al. (2011) get similar results for a
broader set of developed economies, although they warn that positive impact is usually short-
term and decreasing with time. Evidence is less straightforward for developing countries.
Almeida et al. (2014) find no effect of occupational training on the probability of being
employed in Turkey, but a positive effect on the quality of employment. Murrugarra (2011) and
Bodewig & Hirshleifer (2011) point to the importance that occupational training could have for
specific segments of the population, particularly old-age workers, in Latin America and Eastern
Europe & Central Asia, respectively.

Finally, a growing literature has been focusing its attention on the effect of lifelong-learning
activities on labor market outcomes of youth, specifically. Among others, Cooper et al. (2011)
focus on strategies in Latin America targeted to at risk youth population that are no longer in the
educational system, an approach similar to the one adopted in Component C of this Project. They
found that there is scarce robust evidence of the effectiveness of these programs. Nevertheless,
they do remark on the importance of “life skills” - personal discipline, formal appearance,
personal conduct, fluent language and a sense of the position in the hierarchy –as equally or even
more important than technical skills.

In terms of evidence on job training programs for youth in Latin America, Ibarraran & Rosas
(2009) find that this particular activity increases the employment rate by about 0 to 5 percentage
points—with higher and significant for some groups such as women –with an impact of 6 to 12
percentage points in the employment rate. In most cases there is a larger and significant impact


                                                49
on job quality, measured by getting a formal job, having a contract and/or receiving health
insurance as a benefit.

New evidence for Argentina

The MoL conducted a quasi-experimental impact evaluation 17 on occupational training 18, which
was completed in 2013. The study focused on the impact of sectoral (or competency-based)
training on employment outcomes among individuals who had participated in such training in
2010 19. A comparison group is constructed by Propensity Score Matching (PSM), on the basis of
some observable socio-demographic and behavioral characteristics (gender, age, educational
attainments, geographical origin and location, experience in the formal labor market) previous to
treatment. Data on both treatment and comparison groups are drawn from the MoL
administrative data, completed labor force histories from those who registered in municipal
employment offices and expressed interest in employment services, thus reducing the potential
risk arising from differences in motivation (unobservable) among the two groups. The scope of
the analysis is limited to the impact on the likelihood of getting a job in the formal sector, thus
disregarding other potential benefits such as wage increase or labor income from a job in the
informal sector 20.

The evaluation finds that participation to occupational training increases the likelihood of finding
a job in the formal sector from 10% to 13%. Notwithstanding that this represents a 30% increase
with respect to the comparison group; the employment probability is still low for both groups.
This could be explained by the fact that, despite the occupational training, beneficiaries are still
part of a vulnerable group with serious deficiencies in terms of educational attainment and
experience in the formal market.



17
  Evaluación de impacto en la inserción laboral de los beneficiarios de los cursos sectoriales de formación
profesional, MTESS, 2013.

18
   The quasi-experimental approach is very useful in situations in which it is difficult to apply a random
discrimination between population that participate in a determined policy and those who do not. Difficulties can
arise for a variety of reason during policy implementation (political choice, logistics, lack of resources.). For a
similar application of the quasi-experimental approach in the evaluation of employment policies, see King et al.
(2012) and Card et al. (2010).

19
  As such, please note that results apply only to a subgroup of the total beneficiaries of occupational training under
this Project.

20
   This quasi experimental impact evaluation was internally reviewed within the Bank. The reviewers congratulated
the work and the innovative use of PSM with administrative data. To strengthen the study’s robustness, reviewers
suggest considering to combine the PSM approach with Difference-in-Difference (DiD), in order to make sure to
control for unobservable characteristics. The DiD, that requires following both treated and control groups over time,
is feasible in this case given the availability of administrative, longitudinal data. Provided that both groups show
similar characteristics over time/ trends (before the treatment), this approach would avoid the potential bias from
unobservable characteristics. Combined with the PSM already used in the MoL study, this would ensure a robust
impact evaluation.


                                                         50
The study also presents important findings for other Components of the Project and the
interaction between them. It finds that when occupational training is accompanied by completion
of mandatory schooling and experience in the formal sector, the likelihood of finding a job in the
formal sector for these vulnerable beneficiaries increases from 31% to 36% for men and from
27% to 30% for women, justifying the broad scope and the flexible structure of the Project.

The EPH is quite useful to identify differences in labor conditions for population that has
completed mandatory schooling, with respect to those who have not, those providing some
evidence on activities under Component B. Data from 2013 21 highlight that among population
aged 20-64, those with complete secondary education have a 10% higher probability of having a
job with respect to those who do not. Among employed, those with complete mandatory school
enjoy a 55% higher salary, and are 27% more likely to be employed in the formal sector. Among
youth (18-24), complete secondary school translates in a 13% higher probability of being
employed, and 29% higher probability of working in the formal sector. These data are consistent
with findings in a recent paper by Alzúa, Gasparini and Haimovich (2010) that show that in
Argentina years of education are causally linked to probability of being employed, average wage
and the No. of hours worked.

In terms of Component C, the MoL used administrative data from the social security registry to
describe some of the labor outcomes enjoyed by beneficiaries of the Programa Jóvenes con Más
y Major Trabajo (PJMyMT). The analysis is restricted to those who have at least participated to
the labor orientation workshop. It considers those beneficiaries who are no longer enrolled in the
program, and evaluates their insertion in the private labor market within 12 months (time 1) after
their “graduation” (or simple exit, at time 0) from the program. The evaluation also presents
results for a comparable group built based on the National Household Survey, which showed
similar characteristics at time 0 (age 18-24, less than complete secondary school, not attending
school, and unemployed or under-employed, informal workers in the base year).

On average over the period 2008-2012, 19.1% of the youth that participated in some activities of
the program 22 were found to have found a job in the formal private sector within 12 months after
exiting the program. On average, only 9.6% of the comparison group of non-beneficiaries (drawn
from EPH) found a job in the formal sector. Therefore, in the period 2008-2012 Project
beneficiaries were nearly twice as likely to find a formal job relative to the comparison group.

Finally, the results of the Project PDO indicators offer informative data on benefits from
participating in Project activities. Among the beneficiaries of occupational training (component
A), 53.8% obtained either formal employment or higher salary within a year. The 48.7% of
adults certifying completion of basic education (component B) found a job in the formal sector
or obtained a wage increase. Among the youth (component C) participating to on-the-job training,
56% got a formal job.



21
     Encuesta Permanente de Hogares, II trimestre 2013, INDEC.

22
     Unfortunately, results per specific type of activity are not available.


                                                              51
Final considerations from the literature review

International evidence on the active labor market policies such as occupational training and
youth employment do not give a final word on the impact of such programs, nor its magnitude or
duration. This is even truer for literature reviewing examples in Latin America. Note that this
does not mean that these policies do not have an impact on labor market outcomes, but only that
until now the literature have not been able yet to combine strong methodological choices with
availability of data, in order to provide final evidence.

The Argentine MoL does a good job in providing first evidence on the impact of occupational
training and employment services for youth in the context of the Lifelong Learning project, but
even in this case the robustness of results could be improved. This observation reinforces the
rationale for estimating the Project's efficiency by using a Net Present Value (NPV) approach,
avoiding making arguable assumptions on potential quantitative benefits. In this way, the NPV
presents a conservative, and yet clear, argument for the Project's effectiveness given the very low,
marginal benefit that would eventually be sufficient for the project to break even.




                                                  52
References used in the Economic and Financial Analysis

Aedo, C. (2007) “Argentina Life Long Learning and Training Project - Economic Evaluation”.
Project Appraisal Document

Almeida, R. et al. (2014). “The Impact of Vocational Training for the Unemployed.
Experimental Evidence from Turkey”. World Bank, Policy Research Working Paper 6807

Blundell, R. et al. (2005). “Evaluating the impact of education on earnings in the UK: models,
methods and results from the national child development survey: . Journal of the Royal
statistical society: series A, July 2005, Vol. 168, No 3, pp. 473-512.

Bodewig, C. & Hirshleifer , S. (2011). “Advancing Adult Learning in Eastern Europe and
Central Asia”. World Bank, SP Discussion Paper NO. 1108

Cedefop (2013). “Labour market outcomes of vocational education in Europe. Evidence from the
European Union labour force survey”. CEDEFOP, Research Paper No 32

Card, D. (1999). “The causal effect of education on earnings”. In: Ashenfelter, O.; Card, D. (eds).
Handbook of labour economics. Amsterdam: Elsevier, Vol. 3A, pp. 1801-1863.

Cooper, R. et al. (2011). “Expertise on Evidence of Good Practices of Life Skills and
Employability: Programs for High Risk Youth in Latin America”. JPAL

Gasparini, L. et al (2011). “Educational Upgrading and Returns to Skills in Latin America.
Evidence from a Supply-Demand Framework, 1990-2010”. CEDLAS.

Hanushek, E.A. et al. (2011). “General education, vocational education and labour-market
outcomes over the life cycle.” Bonn: IZA, Institute for the Study of Labour. IZA discussion
paper; No 6083.

Ibarraran, P. & Rosas, D. (2009). “Evaluating the Impact of Job Training Programs in Latin
America: Evidence from IDB funded operations”. Journal of Development Effectiveness

King, C. et al. (2012). “Local Investments in Workforce Development: 2012 Evaluation Update”.
Ray Marshall Center for the Study of Human Resources

Manacorda, Marco, Sanchez-Paramo, Carolina and Schady, Norbert (2005) “Changes in returns
to education in Latin America: the role of demand and supply of skills”. CEPDP, 712. Centre for
Economic Performance, London School of Economics and Political Science, London, UK. ISBN
0753019116

Murrugarra, E. (2011). “Employability and Productivity among Older Workers: A Policy
Framework and Evidence from Latin America”. World Bank, SP Discussion Paper NO. 1113

MTEySS (2012). “Informe Programa Jóvenes con Más y Mejor Trabajo”

                                               53
MTEySS (2013). “Evaluación de impacto en la inserción laboral de los beneficiarios de los
cursos sectoriales de formación profesional”.




                                           54
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                   Responsibility/
              Names                              Title                  Unit
                                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Maria Lucy Giraldo            Senior Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
                                                                       LCSHS-
Theresa Jones                 Lead Operations Officer
                                                                        DPT
Juan Prawda                   Consultant                               EASHD
                                                                       LCSHS-
Marcela Ines Salvador         Social Protection Specialist
                                                                        DPT
Supervision/ICR
Mario Cristian Aedo Inostroza Sr Education Econ.                      ECSH2
                                                                      LCSHS-
Jorge C. Barrientos           Consultant
                                                                       DPT
Sergio Espana                 Consultant                              LCSHE
Ana Maria Grofsmacht          Procurement Specialist                  LCSPT
Luz Maria Meyer               Financial Management Analyst            LCSFM
Juan Prawda                   Consultant                              EASHD
                                                                      LCSHS-
Marcela Ines Salvador         Social Protection Specialist
                                                                       DPT
 Alejandro Roger Solanot      Sr Financial Management Specialist      LCSFM
Isabel Tomadin                Safeguards Consultant

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                 USD Thousands (including
                                             No. of staff weeks
                                                                       travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                               5.85                         38.01
  FY07                                              39.16                        248.78
  FY08                                               0.95                         -0.49
                              Total:                45.96                        286.30
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                               0.00                          0.00
  FY07                                               0.00                          0.00
  FY08                                              12.99                        111.30
  FY09                                              12.46                         94.07
  FY10                                              14.99                        111.53
  FY11                                              37.90                        116.72
  FY12                                              26.73                        103.19
  FY13                                              30.62                        134.58
  FY14                                              29.45                        137.44


                                                  55
Total:   165.14   808.83




         56
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                      57
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                       58
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

English Summary of the main points from Borrower’s contribution

Component A:

  •   The Project consolidated a social and institutional base for lifelong learning by creating
      and strengthening the Tripartite Sector Councils of Certification and Training.
  •   The MoL values the opportunity offered by the Project to achieve the standardization and
      the adoption of written administrative procedures, contributing to the organization of the
      area and the systematization of actions. This has allowed the institutionalization of the
      different lines of work, both within the MoL and other agencies of the National Public
      Administration.
  •   The systematization of procedures that were fragmented, and consequently the
      establishment of unified mechanisms of work enabled the counterparts and MoL to
      consolidate technical teams and to work together.
  •   A better organization of administrative procedures also helped to achieve a large scale in
      the execution of training activities and to monitor results.
  •   The Sector Councils have promoted a regional and territorial view. Instruments were
      developed to track implementation progress. The result-oriented approach and the
      definition of targets at each phase contributed to the development of annual plans
      consistent with the goals and needs of each sector and region.
  •   The norms and competency-based approach brought about a systematic organization of
      the training supply provided by the MoL. The Project helped to promote a policy of
      institutional quality with a central focus on Lifelong Learning; it drew on a highly
      technical approach and promoted the transfer and dissemination of knowledge to the
      private sector.
  •   Standardization of work roles (norms) has greatly contributed to the development of a
      policy for equity. The assessment and the subsequent certification of competences
      promoted the recognition of knowledge, skills and abilities of workers who, for social,
      economic and family reasons, had to interrupt their educational trajectories.
  •   The Project emphasis on achieving results was highly valued. Performance management
      modified the procedures followed by the MoL’s technical teams at the central and regional
      levels, as well as among technicians in the sectors.
  •   An interesting aspect of this Project was its implementation through the institutional
      structure of the MoL and regular staff dedicated to the respective components, instead of
      an ad-hoc, separated implementation unit.
  •   The sustainability of the Component’s strategy and activities is supported by a) the
      established management capacity of the MoL, the strengthened institutions, and ownership
      of the strategy by the main Sectors and b) the legal documents (Resolutions) that move
      towards the creation of the Lifelong Learning System as well as its main strategic lines.




                                              59
Component B

  •   At the time of project design, it was expected that some provinces, including Buenos Aires
      and Santa Fe that traditionally carried out innovative policy initiatives would participate in
      the actions of this component. However, the two mentioned provinces ended up not
      participating because of institutional changes that occurred during the first year of the
      Project.
  •   Obtaining data and information on the results achieved by the participants constituted a
      major challenge to overcome. This is in part because of differences in registration
      procedures used by provincial educational ministries and the MoL (Statistical vs. Nominal
      Administrative data). This difficulty adversely influenced both the verification and timely
      achievement of the goals.
  •   Among other challenges, the MoL highlights the promotion of some of the innovations,
      especially the possibility to recognize participants’ prior technical knowledge as part of
      the academic curriculum and the evaluations of performance.
  •   The innovations financed by the MoL incentivized the National Education Ministry to
      promote similar initiatives, financed by the European Union, which were complementary
      to this project, supporting the need for change in adult educational policy in Argentina, as
      indicated by previous studies used at the Project design stage.
  •   The MoL highly valued the concern by the World Bank to obtain information on the
      results achieved by the participants, as it helped to strengthen the technical team "to work
      for results."
  •   Procurement processes were long and complex given the timing of the school calendar.

Component C

  •   The design of the national youth program was based on a pilot project undertaken by the
      MoL ("Youth with a Future" Program). In view of the magnitude of the youth
      employment problem, the Ministry recognized the need to implement a policy with greater
      coverage and scope aimed at young people aged 18 to 24 who had not completed formal
      studies and had difficulties with their insertion in the labor market. This decision was
      based on the understanding that the most important determinants that explained the main
      issues affecting youth in households with low incomes, are linked to the lack of a set of
      basic skills usually required to access quality employment (formal education, job training,
      work experience, etc.) Thus in 2008 the Youth with More and Better Jobs (PJMyMT) was
      launched.
  •   The Business Network, which served the "Youth with a Future" Program, did not respond
      to the large-scale PJMyMT. During Project preparation, the Network was envisaged as
      the principal mechanism to incorporate program participants in internships given the size
      of the companies participating to the Network. However, most of these companies were
      located in the metropolitan area of Buenos Aires, and could not offer opportunities
      nationwide. Moreover, the participation of businesses was not adequately promoted and
      the scale of internships in this Network (1000 young people a year) wouldn’t be sufficient
      to achieve the Project’s goal.



                                                60
•   364 municipalities received support for municipal employment offices (MOE) to serve
    young people, thereby covering the main urban centers in the country and surpassing the
    goal that was set.
•   The main challenge was to strengthen the links with the productive and institutional
    context (particularly training institutions and other specialized organizations) locally.
•   Institutional strengthening through financing and training of human resources in the areas
    of youth employment has allowed the MOE to have a specialized area that applies specific
    strategies for youth, including interventions to address the characteristics of this target
    group, remove barriers and ensure their inclusion in the labor market.
•   The personalized service offered by the MOE was able, through progressive interventions,
    to close the gaps between the youth and the labor market in order to "build bridges" and
    overcome gender barriers, lack of basic employability skills, strengthen their self-esteem,
    communication skills and ensure access to other benefits (i.e. child care).
•   Heterogeneity of municipal institutional realities generated uneven performance. In some
    cases, the increasing demand of the program exceeded the institutional capacity to provide
    an adequate supply of benefits/services. These circumstances demonstrate the need to
    continue strengthening the MOE in their joint work with local contexts, developing better
    links with both training institutions and employers.
•   The MoL has been promoting municipal employment services since 2006, and the area of
    youth employment, from 2008. The period is still relatively short for such a complex
    institutional framework to mature. Moreover, considering that the MOE are under the
    jurisdiction of municipalities, the ability of the MoL to promote more even interventions
    was limited. The management arrangements in each locality necessarily affect the results.
•   In some municipalities, the short time since the installation of the MOE was the main
    reason for the low "recognition” obtained among local actors, particularly among the
    employers. It is necessary to develop more intensive outreach strategies to local private
    companies to build bonds of trust and use of the services offered by the MOE.
•   About opportunities for training and / or education for youth, one of the main challenges is
    to expand and strengthen the supply of technical and vocational training based on a
    competency-based approach and establish a stronger relationship between the training
    institutes and the MOE.
•   Internships for Youth presented major difficulties for its implementation, which affected
    the overall development of component 3 particularly compared with what is described in
    the Project’s original design.
•   Nevertheless, the Ministry made countless efforts to promote practices among young
    people valuing that experience in a work environment as a key learning for the population
    served by the program.
•   In this sense, new areas were opened-not originally foreseen in the Project-to provide
    opportunities for young people. The agreement with state agencies and non-governmental
    organizations expanded the supply of internships. These are lines of action that will need
    to be enhanced in the future. Also extending the relationship with government agencies to
    promote internships will be another way to promote internships.
•   Another possible strategy to promote internships in the productive sectors would be to
    coordinate through the Sector Councils.
•   The decentralization of management in municipalities using their network of employment
    offices reflected a high dispersion in the interventions.

                                             61
  •   Notwithstanding the challenges, the MoL is satisfied with the results achieved during
      Project implementation, which show significant annual growth in youth participation in
      internships. In all nearly 90,000 youth went through this kind of experience in the Project
      and the young men and women who participated have expressed high satisfaction and
      incorporated meaningful learning to bring them closer to the labor market.

Component D

  •   The MoL recommended properly considering timing and level of negotiation demanded by
      the integration of the different developments of the program. This system was able to carry
      out the physical management of several components, and has also provided information
      relevant to its assessment.
  •   The adoption of a legal framework supporting the information process was a key factor to
      move from technical development to the consolidation of a MIS. Regulating the developed
      management tools has allowed for sustainability and has also attributed clear
      accountabilities to each area of the MoL, as well as to the rest of the agencies that are part
      of the MIS.
  •   The MoL appreciated the flexibility of the Management System, which enabled its
      compatibility with the array of databases and applications used by the Ministry. This
      coordination facilitates cross-checking massive volumes of information managed from other
      organizational units (those related to social security were particularly useful).

Recommendations to the World Bank

  •   It would be important to adjust the procedural mechanisms to local characteristics and
      regulations of the country, as more flexibility does not necessarily undermine transparency,
      and supports the realization of the goals.
  •   The Bank might change some administrative processes (procurement) to adapt them to
      existing commercial and financial procedures in Argentina.
  •   The purchase of equipment and materials using Bank procedures would be one aspect to
      re-consider in any new loan. They are not appropriate for the characteristics of a Project
      like this one. A more streamlined procurement process is not incompatible with the
      standards of transparency and can meet the criteria of efficiency and effectiveness.
  •   The World Bank technical teams need to be more informed about MoL plans and
      programs, particularly those that respond to local requirements.
  •   It has been clearly expressed and demonstrated that for the purposes of local technical
      assistance (training institutions); the skills of national consultants are more relevant and
      appropriate. The expertise of foreign consultants is more appropriate for knowledge
      exchange, seminars or similar activities.
  •   Under Component 3, it should be noted that the relationship between the MoL and the
      Bank was fluid during preparation and execution. The Bank had flexibility to understand
      the obstacles that made the achievement of results difficult, and the efforts made by the
      MoL to promote improvements were positive assessed. However, it would be appropriate
      for the Bank reviews to have a more comprehensive view of the different components of a
      Project, particularly when the actions of some of them may affect the achievement of
      another.

                                               62
•   As was stated in the Aide Memoires, throughout Project execution, the performance on the
    main indicator for Component 3 was discussed extensively. In this regard, it was agreed to
    expand the definition of the outcome indicator. While there was willingness from the
    Bank to understand the situation, it would have been better to formally change the
    indicators provided in the PAD, to show more clearly the achievements of the Project.
•   The Bank could contribute and support the dissemination of lessons learned during the
    implementation of the Project to a greater extent and promote exchanges between similar
    experiences.
•   The development of systems for the collection and massive exploitation of information is
    essential to the implementation of public policies at large scale. Its use is not limited to
    implementation monitoring (physical or financial), but it is also linked to access to public
    information, impact assessment and results accountability. The MoL recommended the
    Bank to continue supporting this type of developments as part of more general
    institutional processes, as was the case in this project.




                                             63
Full version in Spanish

El propósito de este informe es presentar de manera sucinta los logros, los desafíos y las
principales lecciones aprendidas del Proyecto mencionado.

Componente A
Ampliación y fortalecimiento del sistema de capacitación y certificación basado en las
competencias

Componente B
Ampliación de la cobertura y de la certificación de Educación Básica para adultos
Componente C
Fomento del empleo para jóvenes a través de servicios de empleo, educación, capacitación y
pasantías.

Componente D
Fortalecimiento de los sistemas de información y gestión para la formación y capacitación
basadas en competencias

El objetivo del proyecto fue contribuir a la consolidación, fortalecimiento y aumento de la
cobertura de un Sistema de Formación Continua, capacitación y certificación basado en
competencias laborales, destinado a adultos de 18 años o más, con el propósito de que los
participantes: (i) mejoren su empleabilidad y (ii) refuercen sus oportunidades de avance en sus
carreras profesionales.

Por otra parte, su ejecución mejoraría la calidad y relevancia de los servicios de capacitación y
formación general de adultos al mismo tiempo de apoyar la creación de un Sistema de
Formación Continua y Certificación de Competencias Laborales vinculado con el empleo. Los
Componentes mencionados anteriormente permitirían el logro de esos objetivos.

A los efectos expositivos, se han respetado para la organización de este informe los componentes
y subcomponentes que integran el Proyecto, considerando los siguientes cinco ejes:

•      Principales aprendizajes adquiridos durante la ejecución del Proyecto;
•      principales desafíos;
•      qué se valora y qué cambiaría;
•      qué recomendaciones le haría al Banco Mundial, y
•      cómo ve la sostenibilidad de la línea que lleva adelante.

Componente A:

1.     Sobre los subprocesos de normalización, evaluación y certificación de trabajadores
y trabajadoras basados en normas de competencia laboral.

Principales aprendizajes adquiridos durante la ejecución del Proyecto:



                                               64
Como avance en el proceso de consolidación del Sistema de Formación Continua y la creación
de una base social e institucional de sostén del mencionado Sistema, uno de los aprendizajes a
destacar lo constituye el proceso de creación e institucionalización de los Organismos Sectoriales
de Certificación. Éstos están conformados en su mayoría, por actores sindicales y empresariales
en forma conjunta. A pesar de que estos actores en algunos casos sostienen intereses
contrapuestos; los procesos de normalización, evaluación y certificación de trabajadores, -piezas
clave de la formación continua-, lograron consolidar puntos de consenso que potenciaron la
participación conjunta de ambos actores del mundo del trabajo.

Así se ha modificado la lógica en la que era sólo uno de los actores mencionados el que se
involucraba en el reconocimiento y en la mejora de las competencias de los trabajadores de un
sector de actividad, consolidándose de este modo una base importante para la realización efectiva
del diálogo social de actores.

Para llevar adelante el enfoque de las competencias laborales, fue importante la apropiación y
profesionalización por parte de los actores sociales, -sindicatos y empresarios- del proceso de
normalización y certificación de competencias laborales de los trabajadores y de las acciones que
supone este proceso. Se partió de un esquema altamente técnico, desconocido en el marco
estatal, que promovió la capacidad de transferencia y divulgación hacia el sector privado de estos
conocimientos. Esto permitió la multiplicación e intercambio de saberes y la adquisición de
competencias que no estaban disponibles sistemáticamente en espacios educativos o
especializaciones para los profesionales. Aún hoy su aparición es incipiente en algunas
instituciones.

Cabe señalar por otra parte y relacionado con el concepto del párrafo anterior, que la norma de
competencia laboral al promover el proceso de certificación cumplió por un lado, un cometido
social –reconocimiento de las competencias laborales de los trabajadores en el ejercicio de un
oficio- y por otro un proceso sistemático de ordenamiento de la formación profesional brindada
por el MTESS.

Principales desafíos:

Uno de los grandes desafíos fue vencer las resistencias de algunos sindicatos en promover entre
sus trabajadores la certificación de competencias. Para esto fue fundamental la formación
continua que permite brindar apoyo al trabajador para mejorar sus cualificaciones.
Otro de los desafíos con los que se encontró esta línea ha sido la necesidad de incorporar en la
visión del empresariado, las ventajas comparativas que significaba la posibilidad de evaluar y
formar a sus trabajadores bajo parámetros normalizados y poder así orientar sus planes de
capacitación con un criterio fundado en un diagnóstico técnico.
Si bien la implementación del Proyecto facilitó un desarrollo exponencial de la evaluación de
competencias de los trabajadores, un desafío a resolver en el futuro es lograr una mayor
profundización y ampliación de las acciones de evaluación y certificación hacia nuevos sectores
de actividad.




                                               65
Qué se valora y qué cambiaría:

Como valoración positiva se puede mencionar que este Proyecto ha permitido la sistematización
de procedimientos que se encontraban fragmentados, y consecuentemente, la constitución de
mecanismos unificados que posibilitaron a las contrapartes, consolidar equipos técnicos para el
trabajo con la Dirección. En los sectores que han promovido más la evaluación de las
competencias de los trabajadores, estos equipos han ganado solvencia técnico profesional y
administrativa. En forma adicional, la sistematización de procedimientos mencionada dio lugar a
la construcción y actualización de normativas específicas para la gestión de la formación
continua que confluyeron en la Resolución de creación de la línea de Certificación Sectorial y su
reglamentación (Resoluciones MTESS N° 1471/11 y 247/13, respectivamente).

A modo de sugerencia, se podría modificar la estructura de los proyectos a los efectos de que
sean más dinámicos y que permitan su revisión y modificación en función de la experiencia
acumulada durante su ejecución.

A su vez, sería importante profundizar la difusión de las acciones de normalización, evaluación y
certificación de competencias laborales, entre el sector empresarial.

Qué recomendaciones le haría al Banco Mundial:

A partir de la experiencia acumulada en esta línea en los años de ejecución del Proyecto, se
aconseja considerar las formas en que los actores involucrados se apropian de las acciones
previstas aun cuando éstas no respondan taxativamente a los esquemas propuestos en el Proyecto.
Por el otro, sería importante ajustar los mecanismos procedimentales a las características
territoriales y regulaciones vigentes en el país, dado que una mayor flexibilidad no atentaría
contra la transparencia, y apoyaría la concreción de las metas.

Cómo ve la sostenibilidad de la línea que lleva adelante

Este es un desafío a considerar. En efecto, a medida que se profundicen las acciones, serán
mayores las demandas de los empresarios y la posibilidad de autofinanciamiento de Organismos
Sectoriales. Para ello es central que los actores puedan sostener los consensos logrados y que los
que todavía no han incorporado los procesos de certificación, puedan avanzar en ese sentido.

2.     Acerca del Fortalecimiento de las Instituciones de Formación profesional

El desarrollo de este subcomponente comprende tanto las acciones de mejora de la calidad de las
Instituciones de Formación Profesional, la certificación de la calidad de las mismas, como la
formación de docentes y diseños curriculares.

2.1 Fortalecimiento de las Instituciones de Formación profesional

Principales aprendizajes adquiridos durante la ejecución del Proyecto




                                               66
En cuanto a los Proyectos de Fortalecimiento de la Gestión de las Instituciones de Formación
Profesional, uno de los principales aprendizajes en esta línea lo constituye la mejora en la
sistematización de procedimientos en cuanto a lo requerido para la presentación de proyectos por
parte de las instituciones, el desarrollo de su ejecución, la adquisición del equipamiento, la
contratación de consultorías y el registro de instalación del equipamiento en las instituciones
destinatarias. Ante las exigencias establecidas por el Reglamento del Préstamo BIRF ARG 7474,
se generaron instrumentos de registro en el interior del área que luego fueron utilizados para
Proyectos de otra fuente.

Otro aspecto que contribuyó en este proceso fue el planteamiento de metas físicas para cada
etapa básica (Precalificación, Plan de mejora y Certificación) así como para cada año de
ejecución del Proyecto. Esta información contribuyó al desarrollo de una Planificación anual de
los proyectos acorde a las metas y a las necesidades de las instituciones por sector y por región.
En lo relativo a la línea de Certificación de Calidad, la contratación directa de la Asistencia
Técnica (FAM) y del Organismo Certificador (IRAM) por un número predeterminado de
Instituciones, agilizó el cumplimiento de las metas de certificación a partir del segundo año de
ejecución en el que se planteó una meta mayor en cada contratación. En este sentido el cambio
de modo de contratación que se solicitó en la última etapa del proyecto, al exigir que se hiciera
por concurso, demoró y dificultó hasta la fecha la finalización de las acciones comprometidas.

Qué se valora y qué cambiaría

Se valora la posibilidad de extender la Red de Formación Continua a diferentes sectores y
diferentes territorios, brindando no sólo apoyo en la adquisición y actualización del
equipamiento existente en los centros, sino también apoyando la implementación de
herramientas de gestión con criterios de calidad en todos los centros miembro de la Red.

Podrían modificarse algunos procesos administrativos de los procedimientos de compra
centralizada, de modo de adecuarlos al circuito comercial y financiero de la Argentina. Esto
sería importante a los efectos de no tener que dar de baja la compra del equipamiento
comprometido para el fortalecimiento de una institución, por razones administrativas ajenas a la
estrategia del Proyecto.

Cómo ve la sostenibilidad de la línea que lleva adelante

La sostenibilidad de la línea está dada por la capacidad de gestión instalada en las instituciones
fortalecidas, la introducción de las IFP en procesos de documentación de procedimientos y
registro, asegura la continuidad del Plan de mejora transferido. Los actores responsables de las
Instituciones a través de la asistencia técnica del equipo a cargo y las reuniones de transferencia
de las metodologías e instrumentos desarrollados en las dimensiones de la calidad de la gestión,
logran apropiarse de los procesos básicos.
Estos procesos se refuerzan con la certificación y revalidación de la calidad que se realiza en una
segunda etapa en un grupo de Instituciones con mejor nivel de avance.




                                                67
2.2 Formación Docente y el Desarrollo de Diseños Curriculares

Principales aprendizajes adquiridos durante la ejecución del Proyecto

El Proyecto facilitó la decisión de la Dirección de elaborar los diseños curriculares propios y el
correspondiente material didáctico. Promovió en ese sentido una metodología de trabajo con la
participación de expertos y actores sociales a fin de obtener un producto consensuado para el
desarrollo de las capacitaciones.

Uno de los principales logros del Componente A y de este subcomponente en particular, es la
elaboración de la matriz de calificaciones. Elemento ordenador de la Formación Continua,
permite vincular la norma de competencia laboral con el diseño curricular específico.

Por otra parte y, tal vez ya con una visión general sobre el Componente, uno de los aprendizajes
a mencionar en esta línea, ha sido el reconocimiento de la necesidad de sistematización y
desarrollo de un registro permanente de las acciones ejecutadas o en ejecución. En general, en el
quehacer diario, no se dimensiona la progresión de las actividades y metas de cada equipo. Cada
visita del Banco ha requerido de informes que deben disponerse a partir de una base de datos
actualizada, lo que permite, informe tras informe, visualizar las tendencias que se vienen
expresando. A su vez, a partir de la práctica sistematizada en procesos y registros, se ha
desarrollado una mayor capacidad para establecer hipótesis de trabajo.

Principales desafíos

Es un desafío para esta unidad, el sostener la calidad alcanzada a la par del desarrollo y
ampliación de las líneas de acción. Lo que antes era un objetivo, ahora es un escalón que mueve
a objetivos más altos. La innovación tecnológica en los sectores de actividad incita a la
incorporación de nuevas tecnologías, muy vinculadas a lo audiovisual y comunicacional con
impacto en la elaboración de los materiales didácticos

Qué se valora y qué cambiaría

Es profundamente valorado por este equipo de trabajo el haber logrado la sistematización de las
acciones. Esto ha permitido en principio, institucionalizarlas en líneas, tanto hacia el interior de
la Dirección (Resoluciones MTESS 1204/2011 y SE N° 1550/2012) como hacia otras
direcciones dentro del mismo ministerio, y en relación con las contrapartes y distintas
dependencias de la Administración Pública Nacional.
Por otro lado, la actualización permanente de la información y su traducción en datos, ha
permitido revertir la lógica del trabajo “a demanda”, esto es, a partir de la solicitud de los actores,
y sustituirla por otra que responda a la coherencia que instala la implementación del Sistema
Nacional de Formación Continua.
Se propone cambiar algunos aspectos de los procesos de licitación para acciones de consultoría.
Por tratarse de actividades en las que, a los fines para los que se solicitan, se pondera más el
componente cualitativo, el proceso de evaluación y los instrumentos resultan algo rígidos.




                                                 68
Qué recomendaciones le haría al Banco Mundial

Se recomendaría por un lado, a los equipos técnicos y consultores intervinientes por Banco
Mundial, una mayor consustanciación con los planes y programas del MTESS, en particular por
las necesidades a las que responden y el anclaje local necesario para otorgarles sentido.
Por otro lado y en relación a los procesos licitatorios, el desconocimiento sobre la complejidad
de las realidades y contextos de los sujetos destinatarios de los planes y programas, así como de
las variaciones que impone la distribución de talleres de capacitación y actualización de
directivos y docentes de IFP en un país de vasta extensión territorial y diversidad cultural, trajo
aparejado demoras debidas a reiteradas solicitudes de No Objeción ante contingencias
presentadas por fuera de la linealidad del proceso de contratación, propias del dinamismo del
trabajo de cada área técnica en sí misma. Si los procesos contemplaran un rango más amplio de
opciones, a disponer según criterio del responsable por la contratante, estos tiempos se verían
sensiblemente reducidos e impactarían favorablemente en la ejecución de las metas propuestas,
porque podrían agotarse en el transcurso de 1 año.

Cómo ve la sostenibilidad de la línea que lleva adelante.

El Proyecto ha contribuido a visibilizar la labor de construcción de los diseños curriculares como
elementos centrales en lo que a la formación profesional, a partir del enfoque por competencias,
se refiere. En ese sentido, la decisión de institucionalizar esta tarea como línea independiente
pero articulada con el resto de los equipos del Sistema de Formación Continua, es un elemento
importante que fortalece la sostenibilidad de estas acciones.

Otro aspecto a resaltar, más relacionado con los aprendizajes pero también vinculado con la
sostenibilidad de las acciones de Formación Docente y Diseño Curricular, es que de la
experiencia desarrollada con las consultoras adjudicatarias de la licitación, ha resultado
claramente expreso y manifiesto que para las necesidades de asistencia técnica local, resulta
pertinente y adecuada la asistencia de consultoras nacionales. La experticia de consultores
extranjeros, en cambio, resulta más adecuada para relaciones de intercambio, seminarios o
similares. Si bien una consultora extranjera alcanzó durante el proceso de evaluación una
calificación que la posicionó holgadamente en la lista corta, en la práctica concreta ha requerido
de excesiva asistencia del equipo técnico de la Dirección de Fortalecimiento Institucional (DFI),
para colocar los contenidos en contexto y llevarlos a la realidad de los destinatarios de los
talleres. En suma, lo que debiera haber resultado una acción tercerizada, resultó una sobrecarga
de trabajo para el equipo.

3.     Formación Sectorial

Principales aprendizajes adquiridos durante la ejecución del Proyecto

Entre los principales logros alcanzados por la línea de formación de trabajadores en
competencias laborales se consigna la superación de la meta física alcanzada y la ampliación de
los sectores participantes en el proceso de formación de trabajadores ocupados y desocupados.
Se ha logrado trabajar con más de 45 sectores de actividad con una cobertura territorial de
alcance nacional. La adquisición de equipamiento para la ejecución de las acciones de

                                                69
capacitación laboral, el material didáctico utilizado en estas acciones, ha contribuido a mejorar
la capacidad de las instituciones de formación profesional que participaron de las actividades del
Proyecto.

El proyecto contribuyó fuertemente a la consolidación de las bases del Sistema Nacional de
Formación Continua a través de la formación de los Consejos Sectoriales de Formación Continua
y Certificación de Competencias Laborales. Ellos se sustentan en el diálogo social de actores del
mundo del trabajo, base fundamental de la formación Continua. Los Consejos surgieron por
voluntad política de la actual gestión del Ministerio de Trabajo, contaron con el apoyo explícito
del Ministro Carlos Tomada, pero difícilmente podrían haberse formado y desarrollado si no se
hubiera promovido la participación en la formación laboral de numerosos trabajadores de
diversos sectores de actividad.

Un aspecto no menor a destacar entre los aprendizajes adquiridos es la organización de
procedimientos administrativos para la ejecución masiva de acciones de formación profesional.
Estos han facilitado el ordenamiento de los presupuestos de cursos de costos variables; la
definición de la unidad de gestión y control de proyectos en relación al aporte principal de cursos
y el diseño de proyectos a plazo medio y seguimiento en relación a resultados.

Principales desafíos

En el desarrollo de las acciones se ha logrado alinear a los actores sociales al cumplimiento de
los procedimientos de compra de equipamiento según las exigencias del Banco Mundial. Si bien
las compras después de algunos intentos de descentralización se realizaron desde el nivel central,
las especificaciones técnicas, la identificación de los bienes adquiridos, las precisiones sobre su
localización fueron cuestiones atendidas entre los actores sociales y los equipos técnicos del
nivel central.

A su vez, se ha logrado adaptar los mecanismos de entrega de información del Proyecto y de
rendición económica en función de lo solicitado por el Banco Mundial.

Qué se valora y qué cambiaría

Este equipo valora el hecho de que la estandarización y el establecimiento de procedimientos
administrativos escritos, haya contribuido a la organización del área en general. Por otra parte,
sería facilitador adaptar las pautas exigidas por el Banco Mundial para la compra de
equipamiento, ya que no es conducente que lo habitual sea la compra por la vía de solicitud de
excepciones.

Qué recomendaciones le haría al Banco Mundial

Una recomendación a presentar a partir de la experiencia de trabajo de este equipo sería la
creación de una línea de asistencia técnica para proyectos que incorporen tecnología novedosa o
innovaciones en didáctica.




                                                70
A su vez, como se señaló más arriba, se recomienda adaptar las pautas de compra de
equipamiento para posibilitar y agilizar este tipo de acciones.

Cómo ve la sostenibilidad de la línea que lleva adelante

La línea de formación sectorial es sostenible, dado que durante la implementación del Proyecto
se ha logrado la apropiación de la misma por parte de los principales actores sectoriales del país.

Componente B

Principales aprendizajes adquiridos durante la ejecución del Proyecto

El dictado de normas vinculadas con los procesos innovadores en la enseñanza media, la
sempiresencialidad, la modularización, por ejemplo, fortaleció las iniciativas innovadoras y
permitió su institucionalización, además de contribuir a su sustentabilidad y a la posibilidad de
su análisis y aplicación en otras localizaciones geográficas, tomando en cuenta sus características
particulares.

Las estrategias compensatorias tales como: útiles, material didáctico, posibilidad de utilización
de los servicios de cuidado infantil a través de salas y jardines maternales contribuyeron a
facilitar el acceso y la permanencia de los participantes en el sistema educativo.

La flexibilidad en el calendario educativo y la estructura modular permitió el ingreso de los
participantes en diferentes períodos del ciclo lectivo y el avance según sus propios ritmos de
aprendizaje.

El reconocimiento de saberes previos ayudó a que los participantes con años anteriores cursados,
pudiesen ingresar en diferentes trayectos superiores al inicial sin que como respaldo ostentaran
exclusivamente una documentación de respaldo.

El desempeño eficiente de los tutores y facilitadores constituyó una importante estrategia para la
contención de los alumnos en el sistema educativo y para su apoyo en la resolución de las
problemáticas que algunos presentaron. Este aspecto ha contribuido a la mejora de los niveles de
egreso de las provincias innovadoras y en las asistidas por el Ministerio de Trabajo en relación
con la información proporcionada por DINIECE.

La incorporación de contenidos vinculados con el mundo del trabajo permitió que los
participantes reflexionaran sobre su trayectoria ocupacional y su futura inserción en el mercado
laboral o en la gestión de un emprendimiento propio.

La ejecución del componente y la evaluación realizada sobre las provincias con innovación
contribuyó a una evaluación integral de la línea de certificación de estudios obligatorios,
primarios y secundarios, impulsada por la Dirección Nacional de Orientación y Formación
Profesional, (ver informe sobre los resultados alcanzados sobre las siguientes variables: tasa de
egreso, duración e inversión realizada) Los mismos criterios de evaluación y las mismas



                                                71
variables fueron aplicadas al resto de las provincias asistidas por el MTESS, que no llevaron
adelante procesos de innovación.

Principales desafíos

Al momento del diseño del Proyecto y en particular de este Componente, se estimó que algunas
provincias que tradicionalmente llevaron adelante propuestas de innovación con un caudal de
alumnos matriculados relevante, irían a participar de las acciones del Componente. Es el caso de
las provincias de Buenos Aires y de Santa Fe; sin embargo, los cambios institucionales que se
sucedieron durante el primer año de vida del Proyecto hicieron imposible su incorporación a la
experiencia de innovación. No obstante ello, participaron otras que permitieron avanzar en la
implementación del Componente.

En la etapa de diseño se consideró que las organizaciones no gubernamentales podrían llevar
adelante propuestas innovadoras. Este fue el fundamento del subcomponente B2. Tal vez se
subestimó la incidencia del Sistema Educativo Argentino según el cual, las jurisdicciones
provinciales son las que acreditan la certificación de los niveles obligatorios de enseñanza y
tienen la facultad de reconocer las propuestas curriculares que pueden llevar adelante
fundaciones o entes privados para cumplir el mismo cometido. Durante la primera etapa de
ejecución resultó pues, difícil encontrar organizaciones fuera del ámbito gubernamental, que
proporcionaran estos servicios educativos. En la vida del Proyecto, el MTESS identificó algunas
de dichas instituciones, pero los procedimientos establecidos para su contratación no hubieran
permitido observar los resultados alcanzados por la incorporación de los participantes en los
estudios obligatorios. Por tal motivo, ambos organismos, Ministerio y Proyecto, adoptaron
criterios específicos y consensuados, para contabilizar la meta del Componente. Estos criterios
constan en las respectivas Ayudas Memoria.

La obtención de los resultados alcanzados por los participantes al finalizar el ciclo lectivo
constituyó un desafío muy importante a vencer. Las diferencias en los sistemas de registro entre
las jurisdicciones educativas y el MTESS, -Registro Estadístico vs. Nominal-, requirió de la
colaboración del personal de la supervisión de la Secretaría de Empleo para efectuar el
monitoreo de los resultados de los participantes en los niveles de educación primario o
secundario (promovido, certificado, abandonó o repitente). Los inconvenientes en compatibilizar
ambos registros han incidido en la verificación en tiempo y forma del cumplimiento de las metas.
Este equipo considera que uno de los principales desafíos fue promover en el sistema educativo
de las provincias asistidas, los procesos de reconocimiento de saberes previos, mediante
evaluaciones que permitan observar el desempeño de las diferentes competencias necesarias para
el nivel al que podría postularse el participante, ofreciendo diversas alternativas a la presentación
de documentación que los acredite.

   •   Lograr la sustentabilidad de las innovaciones implementadas en las diferentes
       jurisdicciones con el apoyo del Ministerio de Educación de la Nación.
   •   Promover el desarrollo de innovaciones en otras provincias/ instituciones para facilitar
       los procesos educativos sin perder calidad.
   •   Fomentar la difusión de las acciones desarrolladas a través de publicaciones elaboradas
       por el Ministerio sobre las lecciones aprendidas.

                                                 72
   •   Garantizar y promover la sostenibilidad de los procesos innovadores a través de la
       difusión de lecciones aprendidas por ejemplo en la Provincia de Chaco. Es importante
       resaltar que durante el año 2012 el Ministerio de Educación, Ciencia y Tecnología del
       Chaco aprobó el diseño curricular para la educación inicial primaria y su modalidad
       adultos y secundarios a través de la Resolución 10.469/12.

Qué se valora y qué cambiaría

Se valora la intervención del Ministerio de Trabajo, Empleo y Seguridad Social con el apoyo del
BIRF, para la propuesta y desarrollo y/o fortalecimiento de procesos innovadores en las
diferentes jurisdicciones educativas, dado que por la carencia de asistencia técnica y/o financiera
se hubiese dificultado la implementación de los mismos.
Además, se consideran positivamente las visitas de seguimiento compartidas con los consultores
asignados en las diferentes misiones, las que resultaron provechosas en términos de
asesoramiento para la mejora continua de los procesos innovadores y de la sistematización de
información.

Los eventos de intercambio de experiencias nacionales que organizamos que sirvieron para la
cooperación horizontal y el conocimiento de los diferentes referentes provinciales entre sí,
también han sido valorados por este equipo de trabajo.

Se solicitaría la facilitación del proceso de adquisiciones dado que el mismo resulta muy extenso
y complejo para su ejecución durante un ciclo lectivo.

Se valora expresamente la preocupación por parte del B. Mundial de la obtención de los
resultados alcanzados por los participantes de las acciones de este Componente.

Qué recomendaciones le haría al Banco Mundial

Este equipo recomendaría facilitar el intercambio en el ámbito internacional de los equipos
técnicos para un mejor acompañamiento y seguimiento de los procesos que se desarrollan en el
marco del proyecto.

Además, aconsejaría los servicios de asistencia técnica prestados al Ministerio con la presencia
de consultores internacionales que tengan experiencia en proyectos similares mediante la
organización de talleres participativos u otras modalidades en las que se puedan presentar los
casos y evaluarlos.

Componente C

El Proyecto, a través del Componente C se propuso alcanzar a aproximadamente el 10% de los
1.7 millones de jóvenes argentinos entre 18 y 24 años de edad sin sus estudios formales
obligatorios finalizados, a través de la implementación de servicios de empleo para jóvenes en
250 oficinas municipales de empleo; brindar información y contactar desde la oficina municipal
de empleo a 600.000 jóvenes; y promover la participación de 145.000 de ellos en trayectos
combinados de capacitación en competencias básicas y experiencia laboral.

                                                73
Cabe señalar que durante el proceso de diseño del Proyecto, sobre la base de una experiencia
piloto encarada por el MTESS realizada desde el “Programa Jóvenes con Futuro”, se delineó un
programa nacional para jóvenes. En tal sentido, asumiendo la dimensión de la problemática
juvenil, el Ministerio estableció la necesidad de poner en marcha una política con mayor
cobertura y alcance destinada a los y las jóvenes de 18 a 24 años que no hubieran finalizado los
estudios formales y presentaran dificultades de inserción en el mercado de trabajo. Esta decisión
se sustentó en el entendimiento que los determinantes más relevantes que explican las principales
problemáticas laborales que afectan a los segmentos de la población juvenil pertenecientes a
hogares de bajos ingresos, se vinculan con la carencia de un conjunto de competencias básicas
requeridas habitualmente para acceder al empleo de calidad (estudios formales, capacitación y
formación para el trabajo, falta de experiencia laboral, entre otros). Así, en el año 2008 se
implementó el Programa Jóvenes con Más y Mejor Trabajo (PJMyMT) a través del cual se
articulan y coordinan las prestaciones impulsadas por el MTESS dirigidas a mejorar la
empleabilidad del mencionado grupo poblacional.

La implementación del PJMyMT se apoyó en la oportunidad brindada por el Proyecto
Formación Profesional Permanente, financiado parcialmente por el préstamo BIRF 7474-AR. El
Proyecto posibilitó desarrollar espacios de atención a los jóvenes, desde una perspectiva
novedosa en materia de políticas activas de empleo, centrando sus intervenciones con foco en los
jóvenes como protagonistas de la definición de su propio proyecto formativo ocupacional. La
estrategia de la política dirigida a los y las jóvenes se apoyó en el conjunto de los componentes
del Proyecto: la orientación laboral y apoyo a la búsqueda de empleo, a través de la red de
oficinas de empleo municipales; el mejoramiento cuali-cuantitativo de los servicios educativos
destinados a jóvenes y adultos; y la oferta creciente de Formación Profesional como resultado del
fortalecimiento del Sistema de Formación Continua.

Aprendizajes adquiridos durante la ejecución del Proyecto.

El proceso de creación de áreas de atención a jóvenes en la Red de Oficinas de Empleo
Municipales permitió -en el trabajo conjunto con los actores locales- generar un fuerte impacto
de sensibilización respecto de la problemática juvenil e identificar las principales barreras que
dificultaban la concreción de oportunidades de inclusión social y laboral para los colectivos más
vulnerados. En este sentido, el Proyecto ha logrado instalar el servicio público de empleo como
ámbito de referencia para la población juvenil desde el que se promueven estrategias para el
desarrollo de un proyecto formativo-ocupacional en el que cada joven puede definir - conforme a
sus intereses y a las oportunidades de los mercados de trabajo locales- trayectorias formativas
posibles.

Entre los principales logros alcanzados se puede señalar que se superaron las metas de atención a
jóvenes que recibieron información del servicio público empleo, así como la de aquellos que
realizaron alguna prestación específica orientada a la mejora de la empleabilidad. Al mismo
tiempo, los 364 municipios que recibieron fortalecimiento para las Oficinas de Empleo para la
atención a la población juvenil permitieron cubrir los principales centros urbanos del país,
sobrepasando la meta que se había programado.



                                               74
Subcomponente 1:
Acerca de acciones de Empleo y orientación vocacional para jóvenes

El desarrollo de este subcomponente se propuso el fortalecimiento de la capacidad de las oficinas
de empleo de los Municipios (OEM) para la prestación servicios de orientación y tutorías para
jóvenes. Para ello se creó en las OEM un Área de Empleo Joven, se capacitaron y financiaron
equipos técnicos, se reacondicionaron las oficinas y se dotaron de equipamiento informático.

Por medio de entrevistas personales los equipos técnicos de las OEM asistieron a los jóvenes
para que identifiquen sus intereses laborales y obtengan información sobre un conjunto de
prestaciones que mejorarían su empleabilidad. Los jóvenes que participaron se comprometieron a
poner en práctica acciones específicas y convenidas con ellos mediante una declaración firmada.

Asimismo se desarrollaron diseños de intervención adecuados para la población juvenil
destinados a fortalecer las acciones de orientación y apoyo a la búsqueda de empleo, tales como:
“Talleres de orientación e inducción al mundo del trabajo” y el “Club de empleo”. Para su
implementación se capacitó a equipos técnicos de las OEM.

Principales desafíos

El principal desafío es fortalecer la articulación con el contexto productivo e institucional (en
particular IFPs y otras organizaciones especializadas) a nivel local. Esto permitirá a la OEM
desarrollar estrategias adaptadas a cada territorio y desplegar un esquema de recursos que
garantice ofertas adecuadas para sostener los trayectos que cada joven demanda para su proceso
de inclusión social y laboral, partiendo de la base que gran parte de la población juvenil que se
acerca al programa tiene importantes déficits de competencias sociales, lo que les impide el
acceso a prestaciones específicas vinculadas al mundo laboral, y requieren de un mayor
acompañamiento.

Qué se valora y qué cambiaría

En primer término, el fortalecimiento institucional a través del financiamiento y capacitación de
recursos humanos en las áreas de empleo joven de las OEM ha permitido contar con un ámbito
especializado que aplica estrategias específicas, incluyendo intervenciones que atienden a las
características de dicha población para la remoción de barreras tanto objetivas como subjetivas,
asegurando su creciente inclusión.

Asimismo, se desarrolló en cada municipio una red de instituciones que colaboraron con las
OEM, la que permitió brindar orientación y derivar a los jóvenes a talleres con el objetivo de
contribuir a que definieran su proyecto formativo-ocupacional; fortalecieran sus competencias
básicas; recibieran información sobre el mercado de trabajo local y sobre la normativa que rige
las relaciones laborales. También les permitió introducirse en un proceso de alfabetización
informática. En esta perspectiva, ha sido muy valorado el desarrollo de los talleres de orientación
e inducción al mundo del trabajo (POI) que cubrió a casi 480 mil jóvenes, generando un alto
nivel de satisfacción por parte de todos los participantes, tal como arrojan las distintas
evaluaciones realizadas.

                                                75
A través de la atención personalizada en las OEM se pudo registrar que las brechas que
distanciaban a los/as jóvenes del mercado de trabajo requerían de intervenciones graduales y
progresivas con el fin de “tender puentes” para procesar y superar barreras de género, manejo de
competencias básicas de empleabilidad, destinadas a fortalecer su autoestima, desarrollo de
competencias comunicacionales, entre otras, asegurando el acceso a otras prestaciones más
específicas.

Entre las lecciones aprendidas cabe destacar que la heterogeneidad de las realidades
institucionales municipales generó desempeños desiguales. En algunos casos, la demanda
creciente sobre el programa superó las capacidades institucionales para proveer una oferta de
prestaciones adecuada a las demandas. Estas circunstancias evidencian la necesidad de continuar
fortaleciendo a las OEM en su trabajo de articulación con los contextos locales, en el desarrollo
de mejores vínculos tanto con las instituciones de formación como con el sector empleador.

Si bien el MTESS viene impulsando la Red de Servicios de Empleo desde el año 2006, y el área
de empleo joven, a partir de 2008, el tiempo de maduración de una institucionalidad tan
compleja resulta aún escaso. Por otra parte, teniendo en cuenta que las OEM se encuentran bajo
la jurisdicción de los municipios, esto dificulta ciertos niveles de gobernabilidad al MTESS para
impulsar de manera más homogénea metodologías y procedimientos de intervención. Mucho se
ha avanzado en este camino, aunque las modalidades de gestión en cada territorio inciden
necesariamente en los resultados alcanzados.

En algunos municipios, el escaso tiempo transcurrido desde la instalación de estos ámbitos
constituyó el principal motivo del bajo “reconocimiento” que obtuvieron entre los actores locales,
en particular entre el sector empleador. Y si bien el Ministerio fortaleció las OEM a través de la
contratación de diferentes perfiles profesionales, en el futuro es necesario desarrollar estrategias
más intensivas de acercamiento a las empresas privadas locales para generar vínculos de
confianza y aprovechamiento de los servicios ofrecidos por las OEM.
Recomendaciones al Banco Mundial

En relación con este Subcomponente el rol del Banco Mundial ha sido muy positivo, y cabe
señalar que desde otros Proyectos ha procurado apoyar y fortalecer la Red de Servicios de
Empleo, a partir de la comprensión de las dificultades que enfrenta el MTESS para llevar
adelante la concreción de esta institucionalidad. La heterogeneidad de contextos y recursos
puede computarse como una de las dificultades que explica la obtención de disimiles resultados.

Subcomponente 2
Acerca las oportunidades de Capacitación y/o educación para jóvenes

Las OEM brindaron servicios correspondientes a aquellos jóvenes que requerían habilidades
básicas, o completar su educación y/o recibir formación profesional, permitiéndoles así mejorar
sus cualificaciones a fin de vincularse al mercado laboral.

Las OEM procuraron asegurar la disponibilidad del tipo de capacitación requerida tanto por
los/as jóvenes como las demandadas por el mercado laboral local, identificando y resolviendo
brechas, con el apoyo del MTESS. Las oficinas también apoyaron a los interesados en trabajar en

                                                76
forma autónoma brindando la capacitación y orientación suficiente, en articulación con otras
instituciones.

Principales desafíos

Uno de los principales desafíos es expandir y fortalecer la oferta de FP, basada en un enfoque de
competencias laborales. Promover cursos adecuados a los trayectos profesionales iniciales, ya
que constituyen la demanda básica de las personas jóvenes sin experiencia laboral ni formación
previa. Por otra parte, es importante incluir en estas currículas competencias básicas que
aseguren la superación de los déficits educativos que presenta la población juvenil que participa
en el programa.

El principal desafío, sobre todo teniendo en cuenta la política que en la actualidad impulsa el
Gobierno Nacional para los jóvenes a través del PROGRESAR, es vincular con más fuerza a las
instituciones de Formación Profesional con las OEM. También deben profundizarse las acciones
de articulación con las instituciones de IFPs sectoriales para que su oferta alcance a los jóvenes
más vulnerados.

Sin embargo, puede destacarse la mayor vinculación obtenida con el sistema educativo que
brinda la oferta para jóvenes y adultos, así como con Universidades y Organizaciones que han
tenido a cargo el dictado de talleres de competencias básicas y de orientación e inducción al
mundo del trabajo , entre otros,

Qué valora y qué cambiaría

Cabe destacar que los procesos de Orientación Laboral encarados por los jóvenes permitieron el
desarrollo de un Proyecto Formativo Ocupacional y la definición de trayectos que permitían
fortalecer de manera creciente la empleabilidad. Esto exigió priorizar prestaciones previstas en
este subcomponente, resultando las más demandadas, al mismo tiempo que restaron peso
cuantitativo tanto a la FP como a las prácticas laborales. Los/as jóvenes priorizaron como primer
trayecto la finalización de estudios formales, entendiendo que este constituía un primer paso
necesario para su acercamiento al mercado de trabajo desde la perspectiva de un empleo decente.
Esto dilató el acceso a otras prestaciones y se constata en los indicadores de monitoreo que
muestra que casi 400 mil jóvenes se incluyeron en acciones que permitía la finalización de la
escolaridad obligatoria.

En los diferentes estudios realizados quedó en evidencia que el impulso que da el PJMyMT para
cumplir con el trayecto de los estudios formales es registrado por los jóvenes como un logro
central para mejorar sus posibilidades de insertarse en un trabajo registrado, ya que constituye un
requisito generalizado en las demandas laborales; al tiempo que les permite fortalecer su
autoestima y proyectar el cumplimiento de trayectos formativos de mejor nivel, es decir
continuar estudiando. También se ha detectado que los jóvenes que han desertado del nivel
educativo y se incluyen los cursos del FP presentan dificultades para sostener la continuidad en
la asistencia y tiene poca confianza de alcanzar las metas propuestas por los cursos. Esta
situación, dada la dispar oferta de formación profesional existente en los territorios, en algunos
casos se constituyó en un obstáculo para realizar las derivaciones pertinentes

                                                77
Recomendaciones al Banco Mundial

Cabe señalar que la relación con el Banco resultó fluida durante la preparación y la ejecución, se
planteó un intercambio permanente de propuestas para avanzar en el logro de los objetivos e
indicadores de resultados planteados. Existiendo flexibilidad para comprender los obstáculos
que se presentaban para el desarrollo de determinadas prestaciones, así como se valoraron los
esfuerzos realizados por el MTESS para promover mejoras en los resultados. No obstante,
resultaría oportuno que las evaluaciones del Banco partieran de una visión más integradora de los
distintos componentes de un proyecto, en particular cuando las acciones de algunos de ellos
puedan impactar en el logro de los objetivos de otro

Subcomponente 3
Acerca de las Pasantías para Jóvenes

Este subcomponente estuvo destinado a apoyar la organización e implementación de
subproyectos de pasantías que incorporan los siguientes elementos: (a) integración en el lugar de
trabajo; (b) participación de la comunidad; (c) desarrollo de hábitos y actitudes de inserción
social; (d) estimulación de una experiencia positiva en un trabajo decente.

Desafíos

Este fue el subcomponente que presentó mayores dificultades para su implementación, situación
que afectó al desenvolvimiento general del Componente C desde la perspectiva de lo prescripto
en el Proyecto. Pese a ello, el Ministerio realizó innumerables esfuerzos para promover prácticas
entre los jóvenes valorando que la experiencia laboral en un ámbito de trabajo constituye un
aprendizaje central para la población atendida por el programa.

En este sentido, se abrieron nuevos ámbitos -no previstos inicialmente en el Proyecto- para
ofrecer oportunidades a los y las jóvenes. El acuerdo con agencias estatales y con organizaciones
no gubernamentales potenció estas experiencias.

Se observa que en las Provincias en las que las áreas de Producción y Empleo asumieron
compromisos con la promoción de prácticas en las empresas, los resultados fueron positivos.
Esta es una línea de intervención que será necesaria potenciar a futuro. Asimismo ampliar la
vinculación con agencias del Gobierno para promover la realización de prácticas calificantes será
otra vía para promover esta prestación.

Asimismo, se evalúa positivamente la estrategia de, en el futuro, apoyarse en los Consejos
Sectoriales de Formación Profesional para promover este tipo de experiencias en los sectores
productivos.

Qué valora y qué cambiaría

En el esquema propuesto en el Proyecto, las experiencias de prácticas laborales debían ser
presentadas por empleadores, comprendiendo: a) el número y los detalles de las características de
la pasantía (habilidades necesarias, contenido del trabajo, duración, condiciones laborales tales

                                               78
como horario); b) capacitación y educación propuestas para los participantes tanto en el lugar de
trabajo como fuera del mismo; y c) posibilidades de evaluación y certificación de competencias.
Este subcomponente se planteaba dos estrategias previstas respecto de la promoción de prácticas
laborales, una a nivel nacional, que consistiría en propuestas presentadas por grandes
empleadores, miembros de una Red Empresaria que promocionó el MTESS. La segunda se
orientaba a empresas más pequeñas que no pertenecían a la Red, y estaban localizadas en los
municipios, asignando un rol central a las oficinas de empleo municipales (OEM) responsables
de identificar las oportunidades. Ambas estrategias presentaron dificultades.

Los principales problemas presentados han permitido realizar algunos aprendizajes. Por una
parte, la Red de Empresas no respondió de la manera prevista a la masividad del PJMyMT, ya
que no confiaron de manera adecuada en el rol intermediador de la Red de OEM para la
búsqueda de los jóvenes y promotores de proyectos, lo que impidió una articulación eficiente.
Cabe destacar que, en la previsión inicial, este era el mecanismo de mayor escala para incorporar
a los participantes del Programa en las prácticas calificantes dado el tamaño de las empresas. Si
se observa la evaluación realizada del Programa Jóvenes con Futuro (base del diseño de este
Componente) solo una cuarta parte fueron reclutados a través de las OEM). La mayor parte de
estas empresas estaban localizadas en el área metropolitana de Buenos Aires, no ofreciendo
oportunidades a nivel nacional. Por otro lado, es evidente que no se logró sensibilizar la
participación de los empleadores de manera adecuada y que la escala en que esta Red Empresaria
participó de estas prestaciones muestra que su oferta rondaba una cobertura de aproximadamente
1000 jóvenes anuales sin que se pudiera superar esta meta.

Por otra parte, si bien las OEM han desarrollado buenas capacidades institucionales para la
atención de las personas con problemas de empleo, mostraron mayor debilidad en relación con
los procesos de intermediación y, en particular, en su vinculación con el sector empleador
privado. Asimismo el tamaño de las empresas a las cuales más habitualmente llegan las OEM
implica pensar en una cobertura acotada, ya que se trata de pequeños comercios y/o empleadores.
En algunos casos, la presencia MTESS constituyó un factor de desconfianza, barrera que en el
corto tiempo de implementación de la estrategia de proximidad y promoción a las micro-
empresas no ha sido posible superar.

La descentralización de la gestión en los municipios apoyándose en la red de Oficinas de Empleo
reflejó una alta dispersión en las intervenciones. Sin duda el Proyecto planteó una meta muy
elevada en este subcomponente, sin atender a las restricciones que presentaba la articulación con
empleadores para sensibilizar y comprometer a las empresas en este tipo de acciones.
Paralelamente, cabe señalar que en la experiencia comparada se verifica la dificultad de los
servicios públicos de empleo para tomar contacto con el sector empleador y ofrecer, entre otros,
servicios de intermediación.

No obstante lo dicho, el MTESS se manifiesta satisfecho por los resultados alcanzados -durante
la ejecución del proyecto- que muestran un crecimiento anual significativo en la participación de
los jóvenes en acciones vinculadas al empleo como parte de las prestaciones del Programa. Si se
considera el Entrenamiento para el Trabajo y la Inserción Laboral Asistida, casi 90 mil jóvenes
pasaron por este tipo de experiencia en el marco del Proyecto.



                                               79
En los estudios realizados, los/as jóvenes que participaron en este tipo de prestaciones han
manifestado alto grado de satisfacción, incorporando un aprendizaje significativo para su
acercamiento al mercado de trabajo.

Qué recomendaciones le haría al Banco Mundial

Tal como consta en los Ayuda Memoria, a lo largo de la ejecución del Proyecto se reflexionó con
insistencia en el marco de las Misiones de Supervisión del Banco Mundial sobre el logro del
indicador principal del Componente: “Después de un año, no menos del 50% de los jóvenes que
participaron en prácticas calificantes mas capacitaciones (165 mil), obtienen empleo registrado”.
Tanto el MTESS como el Banco, asumiendo las dificultades para su concreción y verificando
que el cumplimiento físico de la meta estaba muy por debajo del esperado, acordaron modificar
este indicador y ajustarlo a las condiciones objetivas en las que se desarrollaba el Proyecto. Estas
no sólo se basaban en dificultades operativas para acceder a proyectos presentados por
empleadores, sino también en la decisión de los/as jóvenes de apostar a otras prestaciones como
terminalidad educativa, por considerarla prioritaria para su proyecto formativo ocupacional.

En tal sentido, se acordó ajustar la definición de indicador de resultado, conforme a la siguiente
propuesta: “no menos del 50 por ciento de los jóvenes que han participado al menos en los
Talleres de Orientación, consiguen empleo dentro de los 12 meses posteriores o certifican su
nivel de estudios secundarios”.

Si bien existió predisposición por parte del Banco para comprender esta situación, tal vez hubiera
sido necesario concretar la modificación en los indicadores previsto en el PAD, de modo tal que
permitieran mostrar con mayor claridad los logros del Proyecto.

Componente D

Principales aprendizajes adquiridos durante la ejecución del Proyecto

        Entre los principales aprendizajes que deja la ejecución del componente vale la pena
apuntar el nivel de negociación que demanda la integración de los desarrollos de un programa
particular de las características del Sistema de Información para el Proyecto de Formación
Continua (punto b de las premisas mencionadas en el apartado siguiente). Es importante evaluar
adecuadamente los tiempos que esto demanda, ya que, a su vez, el enraizamiento de los nuevos
desarrollos en la matriz de información del organismo ha demostrado ser absolutamente clave. El
sistema de gestión desarrollado no sólo ha sido capaz de administrar la gestión física de los
distintos componentes, sino que se mostró dúctil para suministrar información que fue utilizada
en evaluaciones de dichos componentes. Otro aspecto destacable es el papel de las apoyaturas
normativas que se mostraron, muy útiles y dinamizadoras del proceso de adopción del Sistema
de Gestión. Es posible, en medio de procesos de transformación, administrativa, caer en cierta
fascinación tecnológica que nos induzca a creer que la adopción de herramientas de gestión
innovadoras decantará naturalmente, por el mero influjo de su potencial. Sin embargo, en nuestro
caso, la adopción de una normativa de soporte al proceso de informatización, fue clave e
introdujo un parte aguas que permitió pasar de los desarrollos incipientes a la consolidación.



                                                80
Principales desafíos

El desarrollo del Sistema de Información para el Proyecto de Formación Continua se propuso
crear herramientas eficaces para la administración y seguimiento de los resultados físicos de la
política de formación del Ministerio de Trabajo en su conjunto.

Las premisas conceptuales que guiaron su desarrollo fueron las siguientes: a) recolección de
datos en la fuente (favoreciendo en consecuencia la descentralización operativa del sistema). b)
integración de todos los desarrollos de software en las políticas informáticas generales del
organismo (eludiendo la tentación de configurar sistemas cerrados sólo capaces de dar respuesta
a un componente particular de la política del Ministerio) c) diseño de una arquitectura
informativa capaz de dotar a los datos administrativos de un fuerte potencial para su uso en
investigaciones y evaluaciones de impacto. d) crear las apoyaturas normativas necesarias para
garantizar la exclusividad del Sistema Informático como herramienta de gestión física de la
política e) dotar a los usuarios de capacidades para el aprovechamiento de la herramienta de
información (generando políticas e instancias de asistencia técnica y capacitación).

Estas premisas constituyeron, así mismo, los desafíos del proyecto, que fueron abordados
sistemáticamente en todos sus puntos a lo largo de la ejecución del programa de financiamiento.

Qué se valora y qué cambiaria

Desde este Componente se valora la ductilidad del Sistema de Gestión que fue posible gracias a
considerar las compatibilidades con el conjunto de bases de datos y aplicaciones del Ministerio.
Dicha articulación, facilita el cruce con volúmenes masivos de información gestionadas desde
otras políticas y unidades organizativas (particularmente útiles resultaron las relativas a la
seguridad social).

Qué recomendaciones le haría al Banco Mundial

El desarrollo de sistemas de recolección y explotación masiva de información resulta
consustancial a la implementación de políticas públicas de gran alcance. Su utilidad no se limita
a la clásica demanda burocrática de control de ejecución (física o financiera), se liga hoy también
fuertemente a la posibilidad de crear marcos de acceso ciudadano a las mismas, al desarrollo de
capacidades evaluativas sobre sus impactos y a la rendición de resultados a la ciudadanía en
general.

Existe un gran potencial si el apoyo de los organismos multilaterales en materia de desarrollo de
este tipo de sistemas contempla desde su punto de partida estrategias de enraizamiento en el
proceso administrativo general de las políticas en su conjunto (más allá de la fuente de
financiamiento). Esa visión ha estado presente en este componente y entendemos que los buenos
resultados obtenidos ameritan sostenerla como recomendación.




                                                81
Cómo ve la sostenibilidad de la línea que lleva adelante

El ejercicio de la facultad reglamentaria por parte de un órgano burocrático con atribuciones en
la materia, introdujo una fuerte señal hacia los actores y hacia el personal interno del propio
organismo. Dio entidad y previsibilidad a los cambios e inició una fase de consolidación que hoy

Reflexiones finales: Principales resultados alcanzados durante la ejecución del Proyecto.
Componentes A y B-

        El Proyecto de Creación de un Sistema de Formación Continua ha tenido como propósito
principal generar las bases para su constitución. En tal sentido, para evaluar el logro del objetivo
se tienen en cuenta aspectos cuantitativos y cualitativos. Los primeros tienen que ver con la
cobertura y su alcance y los segundos con su sustentabilidad técnica, social e institucional. Si se
considera el crecimiento del número de trabajadores comprendidos en las acciones de formación
en general (formación profesional, certificación de competencias laborales y finalización de
estudios formales) puede sostenerse que las metas cuantitativas del Proyecto han sido
ampliamente cumplidas. En cuanto a las metas de certificación de estudios obligatorios de nivel
primario y secundario de adultos a través de experiencias innovadoras no se alcanzó la meta total
aún, aunque registró niveles aceptables. Debe tenerse en cuenta que los egresados durante el
último año de ejecución del Proyecto serán finalmente informados en el transcurso del año 2014.

        La masividad de las acciones de formación queda demostrado con el número de
trabajadores alcanzados por las mismas. El cómputo de las personas contadas una sola vez, si se
analiza el período comprendido entre 2003 y 2013, alcanza a 1.638.698. A partir del año 2008,
fecha de inicio de este Proyecto se observa un incremento de la matrícula de trabajadores
inscriptos y capacitados en las diferentes líneas sustantivas de este Proyecto de 1.419.337 .

       La cantidad de sectores económicos y actores sociales comprendidos en las acciones
llevadas adelante en el marco de este Proyecto, cobran importancia de manera similar al
crecimiento de matrícula de los trabajadores formados. En ese sentido la participación de más de
45 sectores de actividad, 135 organizaciones sindicales, 260 organizaciones empresariales, 112
organizaciones sociales y 43 organismos estatales, demuestra la incidencia en la creación del
Sistema.

        La formación profesional en Argentina ha encontrado en los actores sociales, en
particular en los sindicatos, un fuerte protagonista. El proyecto deja consolidada una base social
sustentable de la formación Continua a través de los Consejos Tripartitos de Formación Continua
y Certificación de Competencias Laborales. Los 25 Consejos creados dan cuenta de ello. Han
surgido de la expresa voluntad del Ministro de Trabajo, Empleo y Seguridad Social, como es de
público conocimiento. La máxima autoridad del Ministerio los ha convocado no sólo en las
sesiones inaugurales de cada uno de ellos, sino en las sucesivas reuniones de evaluación de los
resultados alcanzados, a posteriori de la implementación de proyectos. Los Consejos han
promovido una visión estratégica sobre las características demandadas a los trabajadores de los
sectores de actividad, y una reflexión sobre el empleo. En ese sentido recogen una tradición de la
formación profesional argentina y de las iniciativas de incentivo del diálogo social de actores



                                                82
creado a través de las convocatorias de las mesas sectoriales, antecedente de los mencionados
Consejos.

         Los Consejos han promovido una mirada regional y territorial de la formación Continua a
través de la conformación de aquellos específicos de la radicación de un sector de actividad en el
territorio. Nos referimos por ejemplo al Consejo Forestal de la Madera y Mueble, que encuentra
su localización en las provincias del territorio nacional donde la actividad económica tiene
relevancia. En igual sentido puede mencionarse al Consejo Vitivinícola y al Apícola.

       La evaluación de impacto realizada arrojó un resultado satisfactorio sobre las
probabilidades de inserción laboral de los trabajadores formados en cursos sectoriales. Al
respecto pudo corroborarse en el 2011, sobre una cohorte de beneficiarios que realizaron los
cursos durante el año 2010 que, en promedio, los trabajadores desocupados que se formaron en
cursos correspondientes al sector del software, la metalmecánica y la construcción alcanzaban un
13% más de probabilidades de insertarse laboralmente. Tal como señala el informe
oportunamente entregado a la Misión de supervisión, existen variaciones al interior de los
sectores, en relación a la probabilidad de inserción según edad y género.

        Las metas vinculadas con la Evaluación y Certificación de Competencias Laborales han
sido plenamente alcanzadas y este proceso ha contribuido fuertemente a la consolidación del
Sistema Nacional de Formación Continua. No sólo por la atracción de la temática por parte de
los actores empresariales y sindicales, los que han vencido paulatinamente sus resistencias, sino
por los productos alcanzados en este proceso. 384 Normas de Competencia laboral elaboradas
con la participación de los actores sociales, la evaluación de 109.453 trabajadores -entre febrero
de 2007 y diciembre 2013 y la certificación de las competencias laborales de los mismos.
Además los dispositivos vinculados con la registración de las normas de competencia, las
evaluaciones de los trabajadores y la certificación alcanzados por cada uno de ellos en el
REGICE (Registro de Instituciones de Capacitación y Empleo) ha dado cuenta de ello. La
creación de los Organismos de Certificación Sectorial y los avances, lentos pero firmes, hacia su
reconocimiento ante el Organismo Certificador de la Argentina el OAA, dan cuenta de los
procesos de institucionalización.

        La normalización, evaluación y certificación de competencias laborales de los
trabajadores ha contribuido a consolidar en los sectores de actividad una capacidad técnica
orientada a la evaluación, a la promoción de instrumentos de evaluación y a la formación de
evaluadores a fin de continuar con estas prácticas a través de la asistencia técnica y financiera
proporcionada por el Proyecto.

        La normalización de los roles laborales ha contribuido fuertemente al desarrollo de una
política destinada a la equidad. La evaluación y consiguiente certificación de las competencias de
los trabajadores ha promovido el reconocimiento de los saberes, habilidades y destrezas de
trabajadores que, por diversas circunstancias sociales, económicas y familiares, vieron
interrumpidas sus trayectorias formativas.

       La normalización promovió el ordenamiento de la oferta de formación Continua
proporcionada por el MTESS. A partir de la norma se construyó la matriz de calificaciones,

                                               83
producto que integra, o permite vincularla al diseño curricular y al curso con su denominación.
La correspondencia entre diseño de curso, denominación y norma contribuye a hacer trasparente
la oferta de formación profesional y facilita el proceso de orientación.

        Las metas correspondientes a la precalificación, ejecución de los planes de mejora y
certificación de la calidad de las instituciones se alcanzaron en su totalidad. Resulta
indispensable para el funcionamiento del Sistema contar con un conjunto de instituciones
involucradas en la implementación de las dimensiones del fortalecimiento de la gestión (la
vinculación con el contexto productivo, la orientación laboral, la formación basada en
competencias laborales y el seguimiento de los egresados) ya que de esta manera se estandariza
la calidad de los centros de formación profesional desde la perspectiva del empleo. El proceso de
certificación de la calidad de las instituciones respecto del referencial elaborado con IRAM da
cuenta de ello y resulta el primer escalón para la certificación de la calidad de las instituciones
contra la norma ISO 29.990.

        En tal sentido y de acuerdo con lo enunciado en el párrafo anterior, el Proyecto
contribuyó a promover una política de calidad institucional como eje transversal de la Formación
Continua. Uno de los principales desafíos fue justamente alentar en los cuerpos directivos de los
Centros de Formación Profesional la necesidad de mejorar la calidad de los aprendizajes. En
algunos casos estos abordajes se realizaron a través de los organismos de los cuales dependen las
instituciones –jurisdicciones provinciales- y en otros a partir del convencimiento de las
autoridades directivas de cada una de las instituciones.

        La promoción de la formación de la red sectorial de las instituciones constituyó otro
desafío: el intercambio de información, la aplicación de procedimientos similares, la calidad del
equipamiento disponible y su mejora, la formación de los docentes constituyeron ejes de la
política formativa y desafíos a vencer con la promoción de un número significativo de
instituciones.

       La elaboración de diseños curriculares y de su correspondiente material didáctico supuso
promover la participación de actores y el compromiso de los mismos en un proceso de duración
considerable que requiere de experticia técnica, actualización permanente y voluntad de aprender
y aprovechar los avances tecnológicos en su elaboración.

        La implementación de procedimientos administrativos requeridos por el Banco
constituyó un desafío a vencer. Impactaron en los aprendizajes de los equipos técnicos del nivel
central y regional para la implementación y en los actores externos, tanto institucionales como
sociales. Comprendieron tanto aspectos vinculados con las transferencias de los fondos
necesarios para la implementación de acciones (número de cuotas, topes de cada una de ellas,
entre otros aspectos) como con la adquisición de bienes y servicios a través del Proyecto.

        En relación con el Componente B, más allá de la necesidad de verificar el alcance de las
metas del Proyecto, contribuyó a consolidar la mirada del MTESS desde la perspectiva del
trabajo de la formación básica. En ese sentido acompañó los esfuerzos en promover “la segunda
oportunidad” para los adultos a través de formas más flexibles –la semipresencialidad, la



                                                84
modularización, el desarrollo de estrategias compensatorias- consolidando de este modo el
primer peldaño para la formación continua de los trabajadores.

       Vencer y convencer a las jurisdicciones educativas provinciales para incorporar
modificaciones en la educación de adultos desde la Cartera de Trabajo constituyó un desafío en
sí mismo. No obstante ello, a la par de impulsar estas innovaciones por parte del Ministerio de
Trabajo, el Ministerio de Educación de la Nación, promovió una iniciativa similar con apoyo de
la Unión Europea que resultó complementaria a la impulsada por el Proyecto y abonó la
necesidad de cambios en una modalidad educativa con falencias en la Argentina, tal como
indican los estudios previos a la elaboración del diseño del Proyecto.

        Las innovaciones educativas asumieron características propias en la implementación en
cada una de las provincias en consonancia con el régimen federal educativo del país. Así la semi-
presencialidad ganó terreno y cobertura en la provincia de Tucumán, en Chubut, en La Rioja, en
Misiones, en Córdoba y en Mendoza. En algunos esta modalidad de enseñanza preexistía sin ser
aprovechada por los adultos y en otros su implementación fue mejorada sustantivamente a través
del fortalecimiento de los docentes a cargo de los núcleos, la ampliación horaria, la tutoría
(Misiones). Las innovaciones dejaron una capacidad instalada de fuste en cada una de las
provincias que la abordaron.

        La necesidad de obtener los resultados alcanzados por los participantes de las acciones de
certificación de estudios obligatorios y de los cursos de formación profesional contribuyó a
afianzar la cultura de los equipos técnicos de “trabajar por resultados”.

Qué valoramos y que cambiaríamos:

El MTESS considera que los logros alcanzados en materia de metas físicas y los aspectos
cualitativos de la implementación han contribuido a asentar las bases del Sistema de Formación
Continua en sus aspectos, conceptuales, institucionales y sociales.

        Se valora del proyecto el énfasis puesto en el alcance de resultados. La gestión por
resultados modifica los procedimientos seguidos por los equipos técnicos de los niveles centrales
y regionales y por los técnicos de cada uno de los sectores y/o jurisdicciones en la
implementación de las líneas de trabajo del Proyecto. Este punto se visualiza en las evaluaciones
realizadas sobre la aprobación o desaprobación de los participantes de los cursos de formación
continua al finalizar cada uno de ellos y en los diversos resultados (promovido, certificado,
abandono, repitente) en la educación de adultos.

        El énfasis puesto por las auditorías sobre las adquisiciones del Proyecto contribuyó a la
visibilidad de las acciones del mismo. Identificar cada bien con el organismo y protocolo por el
cual fue adquirido y las precisiones requeridas al respecto proporcionaron los incentivos para la
identificación de una marca entre los actores participantes en las acciones del Proyecto:
Formación Continua. A modo de ejemplo puede decirse que su logo es visible en los centros de
Formación, en los materiales didácticos de cada uno de los Componentes y en los equipos
adquiridos.



                                               85
        Se valora el énfasis puesto por el Banco en la sistematización de la información de cada
una de las acciones de formación. En tal sentido, el análisis de los costos y dimensiones
comprendidas en los “fee” de cada curso y en las cápitas de los beneficiarios participantes del
Componente B resultan de alta utilidad para estandarizar la gestión y analizar las posibles
fluctuaciones económicas de los recursos asignados a la implementación de acciones, más allá de
la vida del Proyecto.

        La adquisición de equipos y materiales a través de los procedimientos previstos por el
Banco sería uno de los aspectos a modificar en un nuevo Préstamo. Los mismos no se adaptan a
las características de un Proyecto como éste. En tal sentido se necesita un procedimiento más ágil
de adquisiciones, que por ser diferente no está reñido con los criterios de transparencia y cumple
con el criterio de eficacia y eficiencia para garantizar su disponibilidad.

        En algunos aspectos la duración del Proyecto resultó escasa. Esto se refleja especialmente
en la implementación del Componente B: la duración de la finalización de la escuela y la
percepción de los resultados requiere de mayor tiempo de implementación y seguimiento.
Experiencias innovadoras como la acreditación cruzada, son de mediano plazo de duración. Para
que sus resultados hubieran sido apreciados durante la vida del Proyecto, hubiera sido necesario
detectar este tipo de iniciativas al momento de su comienzo y haber alcanzado pleno dominio en
su ejecución.

        Un aspecto que se relaciona con el párrafo anterior tiene que ver con la
complementariedad en la ejecución de los Componentes. La incorporación de los Jóvenes a las
acciones formativas, constituyó un eje en la implementación del Componente B. En los últimos
años del Proyecto se incentivó la participación de los Jóvenes en el Componente A. El fomento
de la efectiva participación de los Jóvenes en los cursos de formación profesional se dio al
mismo tiempo de la elaboración sustantiva de los productos del Componente. A modo de
ejemplo, difícilmente se hubiera aprovechado la certificación competencias de los jóvenes si no
se disponía de las normas. Si los jóvenes son procedentes de sectores muy vulnerados carecen de
competencias básicas y actitudinales para llevar adelante en forma cabal un curso de formación
profesional. La incentivación de la participación juvenil requirió de un concurso de esfuerzos
institucionales que pudieron ponerse en marcha hacia el final de la vida del Proyecto.

       Un aspecto interesante de la ejecución de este Proyecto es haber privilegiado en su
implementación la organización del Proyecto a través de la línea institucional en el conjunto de
los Componentes y no haber constituido una Unidad Ejecutora independiente.

Recomendaciones al Banco Mundial:

       Mejorar la asistencia técnica vinculada con los procedimientos de adquisiciones al
momento del diseño del Proyecto. Este aspecto resulta de capital importancia para no tomar
decisiones apresuradas que luego impactan en la gestión.

      Contribuir a la difusión de las experiencias positivas y lecciones aprendidas durante la
implementación del proyecto y promover el intercambio entre experiencias similares.



                                               86
         Por el otro, sería importante ajustar los mecanismos procedimentales a las características
territoriales y regulaciones vigentes en el país, dado que una mayor flexibilidad no atentaría
contra la transparencia, y apoyaría la concreción de las metas.
Sustentabilidad del Proyecto

        El Sistema de Formación Continua ha ganado en institucionalidad a través del conjunto
de Resoluciones que dieron origen a su creación, Resolución MTESS N° 434/ 11 como de las
principales líneas estratégicas que los constituyen. Entre ellas se pueden mencionar la
Resolución N° 1496/11 de Conformación de los Consejos Sectoriales de Formación Continua y
Certificación de Competencias Laborales; la Resolución MTESS N° 1471/11 de Creación de la
Línea de Certificación Sectorial y la Resolución Reglamentaria SE N°247/2013; la Resolución
MTESS N° 1495/11 Creación de la Línea de Competencias Básicas; y la Resolución MTESS N°
1204/11 de Creación de la Línea de Fortalecimiento Institucional y Certificación de la Calidad
junto con la Resolución Reglamentaria SE N° 1550/12.

Componente C “Fomentar el empleo para Jóvenes a través de Servicios de Empleo,
Educación, Formación Profesional, y Pasantías” sobre el cual MTESS fundamentó la línea
estratégica de promoción de la inclusión para jóvenes. Dicha línea se concretó a través del
Programa Jóvenes por Más y mejor Trabajo, convirtiéndose en el año 2014 en una política del
Gobierno nacional a través del PROGRESAR.

       De los estudios realizados se ha podido verificar una adecuada focalización del Programa,
ya que los/as beneficiarios/as del PJMyMT en su mayoría presenta un déficit educativo total o
parcial y si bien casi la totalidad cuenta con experiencia laboral, esta es, mayoritariamente, no
registrada o informal. Asimismo, el grado de vulnerabilidad socio-económica es elevado, la
mayoría de ellos se ubica en el 40% de los hogares con ingresos familiares más bajos.

        Por otra parte, la información relevada muestra que en el marco del Programa se han
llevado adelante prestaciones acordes a los déficits que presentan los/as jóvenes en materia de
empleabilidad. Uno de los logros más importantes es que los/as beneficiarios/as casi duplican el
nivel de asistencia al sistema educativo que el total de los/as jóvenes provenientes de hogares de
similar origen social. En este sentido, parece válido afirmar el impacto positivo del Programa, ya
que resulta una medida eficaz tanto para que retomen sus estudios, como para contener a
aquellos que estando en el sistema educativo, presentan riesgos potenciales de abandono.
Adicionalmente, la mayoría de los beneficiarios tiene una opinión positiva de las prestaciones en
las cuales han participado, a la vez que considera que el Programa les ayudará a mejorar sus
posibilidades para encontrar un trabajo mejor.

        No obstante lo dicho, y a pesar de los importantes avances alcanzados por la política, se
requiere mejorar algunos aspectos de su implementación en vistas de incrementar su impacto
positivo sobre las condiciones laborales de los jóvenes. Una de las dimensiones más relevantes
es la intensificación de las prácticas laborales certificadas en empresas o instituciones y la
ampliación de los contactos con las empresas demandantes de personal a nivel territorial. Es
decir, que se requiere incrementar los esfuerzos en las acciones de intermediación que establecen
nexos más directos entre los jóvenes y el acceso al empleo de calidad.



                                                87
        La magnitud que aún presenta este colectivo especialmente vulnerable y la gravedad de
sus consecuencias para el entramado del conjunto de la sociedad, exigen indudablemente que el
Estado siga redoblando sus intervenciones. En este sentido, surge el PROGRESAR como
definición de una nueva política pública establecida como un derecho para todos/as los/as
jóvenes de este grupo vulnerable, brindando la oportunidad de mejorar su empleabilidad con eje
en la educación y en la formación profesional, principal déficit de este colectivo.

        Desde esta perspectiva se asume la necesidad de entablar de un sólido y real compromiso
del estado (en sus distintos niveles), de las IFPs, de empresarios y sindicatos a través de una
participación activa en la tarea de promocionar la inclusión de jóvenes en la educación formal, en
acciones de formación profesional de calidad y en empleos registrados, dado que se ha
demostrado que el tránsito por estos trayectos mejora sustancialmente sus posibilidades de
desarrollo socio-laboral futuro. Sólo a través de la sinergia pública y privada podrá potenciarse la
repercusión de las acciones, no sólo para lograr la mayor inclusión de los jóvenes trabajadores,
sino también para mejorar la competencia económica de las unidades productivas y la
ampliación de la representación de los actores sociales.




                                                88
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                       89
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Evaluación de impacto en la inserción laboral de los beneficiarios de los cursos sectoriales de
formación profesional. Subsecretaría de Programación Técnica y Estudios laborales, MTEySS,
DGEy EL (Noviembre 2013)

Proyecto de Desarrollo de un Sistema de Formación Continua. Propuestas Educativas en el
Marco del Componente B: “Ampliación de la cobertura y certificación de Educación Básica para
Jóvenes y Adultos”. MTEySS, DNOyFP (Febrero 2014).

Evolución reciente de la Educación de Jóvenes y Adultos en la Argentina: La experiencia de las
Provincias con Propuestas Educativas Innovadora by Sara Troiano (Febrero 2014)

“Jóvenes: formación y empleo. Estudio sobre los participantes del Programa Jóvenes con Más y
Mejor Trabajo”. Serie Estudios/12 Trabajo, ocupación y empleo Investigaciones 2013: Estudios
sobre multinacionales y evaluación de políticas, SSPTyEL, MTEySS by Mazorra, X.; Schachtel,
L.; Schleser, D.; Soto, C. (2013). En prensa.

Revisión de Entrenamientos para el Trabajo del Programa Jóvenes con Más y Mejor Trabajo -
Estudio de casos - by Evelyn Vezza y Sara Troiano (Febrero 2014).

Estudio Evaluativo “Resultados alcanzados en los Emprendimientos Laborales y Productivos
ejecutados por jóvenes del Programa Jóvenes con Más y Mejor Trabajo” Coordinadora del
Estudio Lic. María Sol Niemand (Febrero 2014).




                                              90
MAP SECTION




    91
92
