Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No,: 17939
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2207-COM)
June 2, 1998
Transport I
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Monetary unit= Comorian Franc (FC)
(FC/US$, period average)
1989       1990      1991       1992      1993      1994       1995     1996      1997*
319.0      272.3     282.1      264.7    283.2       416.4    374.4    383.7    441.9
(*) As of October
Source: International Financial Statistics, IMF.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Kilometer (km)                              0.62 mile
I square Kilometer (km2)                      0.386 sq. mile
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DGTP           General Directorate of Public Works (Direction Generale des
Travaux Publics
DRTP           Regional Directorate of Public Works (Direction Regionale des
Travaux Publics
EU             European Union
FAC            French Aid and Cooperation Fund (Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation)
FER            Road Maintenance Fund (Fonds d'Entretient Routier)
(;iOC          Government of Comoros
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            International Development Association
IsDB           Islamic Development Bank
PAD            Project Appraisal Docurnent
PIP            Priority Investment Program (Programme d'Investissement Prioritaire)
RN             National Road (Route Nationale)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
WFP            World Food Program
Vice President:                Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:              Mr. Michael Sarris
Sector Manager:                Mr. Yusupha B. Crookes
Task Team Leader:              Mr. Abdelmoula Ghzala



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2207-COM)
Table of Contents
PREFACE                                                                       i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                            iii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                    I
A. Background                                                               1
B. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives                          2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives                                        3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                     8
E. Project Sustainability                                                  9
F. Bank Performance                                                         10
G, Borrower Performance                                                     10
H. Assessment of Outcome                                                    11
-. Future Operations                                                        12
J. Key Lessons Learned                                                      12
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES                                                  15
TABLE  1:          Summary of Assessments                                   15
TABLE  2:          Related IDA Credits                                      16
TABLE  3:          Project Timetable                                        16
TABLE 4:           Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual    17
TABLE  5:          Key Indicators for Project Implementation                18
TABLE  6:          Studies Included in the Project                         21
TABLE  7:          Project Costs                                           22
TABLE  8:          Project Financing                                       22
TABLE  9:          Economic Costs and Benefits                             23
TABLE 10:          Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement           24
TABLE 11:          Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                            24
TABLE 12:          Bank Resources: Missions                                25
APPENDICES
A.                 Implementation Completion Mission's Aide Memoire
B.                 Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C.                 Maps IBRD 22135, 22136 and 22137
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2207-COM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Highway
Maintenance Project, for which Credit 2707-COM in the amount of SDR 4.6 million
(US$6.57 million equivalent) was approved on January 22, 1991 signed on March 1,
1991 and made effective on March 2, 1992.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1997 two years later than the original
closing date. Final transaction took place on May 7, 1998 at which time a balance of
SDR 117,731.17 was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Gualberto Lima-Camnpos, Consultant, and reviewed by
Abdelmoula Ghzala, Task Team Leader for the Project and Yusupha B. Crookes, Sector
Manager, AFTT 1.
Preparation of the ICR started during the Bank's implementation completion
mission in September 1997. The report is essentially based on material in the project file
and data provided by the Government of the Federal Islamic Republic of Comoros. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of this ICR and prepared its own evaluation of
the Project's execution, which is included as Annex to the ICR.
The ICR was sent to the cofinanciers (FAC and UNDP) for comments, if any, on
May 11, 1998. No comments were received.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2207-COM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. INTRODUCTION
i.    Bank operations in the transport sector in Comoros began with the First Highway
Project (Credit 852-COM, US$5 million) which became effective in January 1979. The
objectives of this Project were to assist the Government of Comoros (GOC) in
strengthening road administration and upgrading and expanding the main road network.
These objectives were only partially achieved. The Bank also co-financed the Second
Highway (Maintenance) Project (Credit 1188-COM, US$6.3 million) which became
effective in February 1982. The Project aimed at improving the condition of the existing
road network, ameliorating accessibility to isolated areas and increasing the institutional
capability of road maintenance. These objectives were also partially achieved.
B. SUMMARY OF IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
ii.    The Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 2207-COM) was conceived as a
further effort to expand the experience of the two previous transport operations in
improving the road network and strengthening the Government's road maintenance and
rehabilitation capability. According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) the main
objectives of the Project were: (i) stemming the deterioration of the paved road network;
(ii) improving road safety; (iii) ensuring continued access to markets to and from isolated
areas; (iv) continuing the efforts started under the first and second highway projects to
strengthen the government's road maintenance operations and establish appropriate road
planning and budgeting with help from technical assistance; and (v) promoting private
sector development in the area of road maintenance.
iii.   All the objectives were important for the country and relevant for the transport
sector. The objectives were very explicit in the SAR and in the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA). They were appropriate for a country where the vast majority of
population lives in rural areas and, therefore, important for the development and
sustainability of the agriculture activity and for poverty alleviation. They were fully
consistent with GOC priorities for the transport sector and supported Bank's country
strategy at the time of Appraisal.



iv                                ICR - Comoros: Highway Maintenance Project
iv.    The Highway Maintenance Project merits a rating of Satisfactory as do Bank's
and Borrower's performances. Project objectives were overall achieved since: (i) the
condition of the paved road network was substantially ameliorated, (ii) the access to
markets for small farmers and consumers in isolated areas was facilitated,  (iii)
institutional capacity was strengthened, and (iv) private sector in the area of road
maintenance works was developed. The life of the Project was initially set at four years.
The Credit closing date was extended twice and by two years. Although Credit proceeds
have been disbursed 98 percent, the Project remained inactive for almost three years since
effectiveness, due to factors such as political instability, underestimation of costs,
noncompliance with procurement procedures, as well as long delays in the preparation of
the bidding documents for the periodic maintenance works.
v.    Physical objectives were substantially achieved. Under both the Core and the
Additional Programs for Periodic Maintenance, 169 km of paved roads were maintained
on the three islands. Under the Program of Routine Maintenance, 478 km of paved and
unpaved roads were maintained. Fourteen bridges were also restored. The Project
financed also the acquisition and rehabilitation of various types of equipment.
vi.  Institutional development and public sector management objectives were
achieved to a large extent. GOC implemented a cormprehensive restructuring plan for
DGTP and DRTP including: (i) creation of a Planning and Studies Unit; (ii) staff
rationalization; (iii) adoption of new methodologies and organizational procedures; (iv)
training of different categories of personnel.  The training program  was overall
adequately carried out and contributed to substantial improvement in the technical and
managerial skills of local staff.
vii.  Sector policy objectives were partially achieved. GOC prepared and discussed
with the Bank, the transport sector strategy and PIP. In addition, the study on the
development of environmentally sustainable tourism provided GOC with a basis for the
design of a tourism sector strategy and the accompanying measures for infrastructure
development and environment protection and improvement. However, in 1995, GOC
decided to carry out construction of roads, which were not inscribed in PIP and were not
in accordance with transport sector policy objectives.
viii.  Financial objectives were substantially achieved.  GOC promulgated new
regulations regarding the Road Maintenance Fund (Fonds d'Entretient Routier) (FER)
and opened a FER account at the Central Bank. FER contributed to the financing of both
Road Maintenance Programns. Expenditures financed by FER exceeded appraisal
estimates by 45 percent.
ix.   Private sector development objectives were substantially achieved. The Project
contributed to the creation of the first 15 Comoros Small and Medium Enterprises
(SMEs) in the area of road maintenance and had a favorable impact on their business
turnover. The Project also encouraged small business to develop. About 150 individual
workmen (tdcherons) were contracted to carry out routine maintenance works.
iv



Evaluation Summary                                                       v
x.    Poverty alleviation objectives were substantially achieved. By keer -f the road
network steadily open, the Project had a beneficial impact on the rural I)c , since it
facilitated small farmer access to markets and reduced the cost of providing basic needs
to consumers. Moreover, between 1993 and 1997, the Project generated a significant
number of local jobs, mostly for unskilled labor. Following the dev- 1"ation of the
Comorian Franc (FC) in January 1994, the Project identified and implemei i a food-for-
work program sponsored by WFP to compensate the loss of purchasing power of FER.
xi.   Environmental objectives were substantially achieved.  The Project 1v <
positive impact on the environment by repairing road drainage which was in bad shape
and thereby decreasing erosion and flooding risks. The drainage works contributed also
to improve populations' living conditions in some villages situated along the roads. It is
estimated that about 45,000 people, representing around nine percent of Comoros'
population, have directly benefited from the works, in particular children who make daily
use of the road shoulders on the way to and from school.
xii.  Sustainability is likely. DGTP and DRTPs have significantly increased their
technical capabilities and with the newly acquired or rehabilitated equipment, DRTPs are
now able of carrying out more appropriately force-account works or renting the
equipment to contractors. On the other hand, at Project closing assurance was given that
GOC will take all necessary measures to ensure that adequate funds for road maintenance
will be transferred to FER. GOC is also committed in improving FER performance, in
particular by setting up a management committee for FER with road and transport users
participation. In addition, the continuity of the jobs, the SMEs and the small businesses
stimulated by the Project is likely, since road mainLenance works financed under the FER
are now systematically carried out.
C.   FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
xiii.  In December 1996, the Bank and the Borrower identified and started discussions
on the preparation of the Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project. The Project is
an integral part of a multi-donor financed program in the Conioros, and supports the
development objectives of the larger program. The main program objective is to improve
living conditions and stimulate economic growth, while preserving the environment and
public investments in basic infrastructure.
xiv.  The following lessons can be learned from the Highway Maintenance Project:
(i)   There is a necessity for better up-front preparation and better
understanding of a project in order to have the costs estimates as accurate
as possible and the figures carefully verified prio. to submission of the
Credit to the Board for approval.  It could be preferable to delay
presentation to the Board than be confronted later with a situation in which
the Credit amount is insufficient to implement the Project. Otherwise,
v



vi                                   ICR - Comoros: Highway Maintenance Project
there is a need for more flexible lending instruments when the problems
are perceived. An alternative approach in project implementation could
be a request for supplemental financing.
(ii)   Capacity building takes place more ef.fectively when a technical training
program is meticulously designed according to country and agency
specific conditions and needs, and candidates for training are carefully
selected according to their level of education and profiles, as well as,
interests and expectations.
(iii)   For a small country as Comoros, a smnall technical assistance program is
more effective. In addition, it is important to select consultants efficiently
and have their work completely integrated into that of the national teams.
(iv)   In Comoros, during project appraisal and the first stage of project
implementation, it is important to carry out procurement workshops for
high level Comorian Government officials. In addition, for major civil
works contracts, the procurement process should be as advanced as
possible, before the Project becomes effective, in order to avoid long
delays between effectiveness and disbursement.
(v)   In  a framework of political instability  and  constant changes in
Government as is the case of Comoros, the continuity of the national team
of the project is crucial for a successful implementation of the Project.
vi



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2207-COM)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    The Federal Islamic Republic of Comoros is located at about equal distance from
Madagascar and Tanzania at the northern end of the Mozambique Channel. It consists of
three main islands: Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli, with a population (1996) of
about 500,000. GNP per capita was US$460 in 1996. The Comoros is predominantly a
rural economy and is highly dependent on external assistance. In 1996, agriculture
accounted for about 40 percent of GDP, and provided over 70 percent of employment
and almost all export earnings. The manufacturing sector, which contributed less than 5
percent to GDP, consisted primarily of export crop processing. Tourism has started to
develop, and shows promising growth potential.
2.     The geography of the Comoros imposes severe problems for both domestic and
international transport. The islands are mountainous and the rugged terrain makes road
construction and maintenance relatively expensive. The volcanic soils and the heavy
rainfall result in the rapid deterioration of low cost unpaved roads. However, since
independence in 1975, considerable investments were made to expand and improve the
quality of the road network on the three islands. In comparison with other least-
developed countries, the Comoros has today an adequate road network (about 750 km of
which 75 percent is paved) with most areas either connected or within reasonable
distance.
3.    Bank operations in the transport sector in Comoros began with the First Highway
Project (Credit 852-COM, US$5 million) which became effective in January 1979. The
objectives of this Project were to assist the Government of Comoros (GOC) in
strengthening road administration and upgrading and expanding the main road network.
These objectives were only partially achieved.  Road construction was completed
satisfactorily but the road improvement and maintenance program was not successfully
accomplished. The Bank also co-financed the Second Highway (Maintenance) Project
(Credit 1188-COM, US$6.3 million) which became effective in February 1982. The
Project aimed at improving the condition of the existing road network, ameliorating
accessibility to isolated areas and increasing the institutional capability for road
maintenance.  These objectives were also partially achieved.  Road works were



2                                 ICR - Comoros: Highway Maintenance Project
satisfactorily carried out, but institution-building activities were not successfully
implemented.
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 2207-COM) was conceived as a
further effort to expand the experience of the two previous transport operations in
improving the road network and strengthening the Government's road maintenance and
rehabilitation capability. According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) the main
objectives of the Project were: (i) stemming the deterioration of the paved road network;
(ii) improving road safety; (iii) ensuring continued access to and from markets in isolated
areas; (iv) continuing the efforts started under the first and second highway projects to
strengthen the government's road maintenance operations and establish appropriate road
planning and budgeting with help from technical assistance; and (v) promoting private
sector development in the area of road maintenance.
5.    All the objectives were important for the country and relevant for the transport
sector. At the time of Appraisal, about half of the paved road network was in serious
need of periodic maintenance and under risk of rapid deterioration. The objectives were
appropriate for a country where the vast majority of population lives in rural areas and,
therefore, important for the development and sustainability of agriculture activity and for
poverty alleviation. An improved and better maintained road network would contribute
to provide the rural population with access to markets and educational, medical and
administrative services.
6.    The above objectives were very explicit in the SAR and in the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA). They were fully consistent with GOC priorities for the
transport sector as expressed by the Minister of Planning, Equipment, Environment,
Urbanism and Housing in a 1986 letter addressed to the Bank. The objectives supported
the Bank's country strategy at the time of Appraisal, as stated in the 1987 Country
Economic Memorandum, "Investments in roads camnot continue at the same pace as in
previous years and the emphasis must now be placed on the existing roads." The Project
was not overly ambitious and did not involve complex activities. However, the SAR
underestimated Project costs and Project design had to be reviewed during
implementation (see para. 32).
7.    To achieve its objectives, the Project included the following components:
a) a three-year road maintenance program for carrying out: (i) periodic
maintenance on a total of about 226 km' paved roads to be divided into a Core
Program entirely financed by IDA, and an Additional Program financed partly
This amount was revised during Project implementation (see para. 32).
2



Project Implementation Assessment                                        3
by IDA and partly by GOC, (ii) improvement and reconstruction of unsafe
bridges and retaining walls, (iii) routine maintenance of 462 km of paved
network, and (iv) repairs on the earth road network;
b) a program of road marking and signing for improvement of traffic safety;
c) institutional support to the General Directorate of Public Works (Direction
Generale des Travaux Publics) (DGTP) including: (i) technical assistance to
help DGTP implement the Project, (ii) assistance in creating a planning and
study unit, and (iii) training for its staff; and
d) road-widening studies, transport sector studies, and a study for the promotion
of labor-based methods in contracted out routine road maintenance works.
8.    The Project was estimated to cost a total of US$11.28 million and planned for co-
financing by the United Nations Development Program (UJNDP), the French Aid and
Cooperation Fund (Fonds d'Aide et Cooperation) (FAC), and GOC. IDA's contribution,
SDR4.6 million (US$6.57 million equivalent), represented 58 percent of the initial
Project costs. Initial FAC, UNDP and GOC contributions were respectively estimated at
US$1.97 million (18 percent), US$0.69 million (6 percent) and US$2.04 million (18
percent).
9.    The DCA was signed on March 1, 1992. The Credit was closed on December 31,
1997. The Project was implemented by the Ministry of Equipment, Energy, Postal and
Communication Services2 through DGTP. The final Project cost was US$12.11 million,
108 percent of initial estimate. IDA-Credit disbursements reached 98 percent of the total
amount. FAC and GOC increased their initial contributions by 13 percent and 45 percent
respectively but UNDP's contribution decreased by 75 percent. Although not foreseen in
the SAR, the World Food Program (WFP) also contributed to the Project under a food-
for-work program estimated at US$240,000.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.   The Highway Maintenance Project was, to a large extent, adequately carried out
and merits a rating of Satisfactory. Four of the five main Project objectives were
achieved since: (i) the condition of the paved road network improved, (ii) the access to
markets for small farmers and consumers in isolated areas was facilitated,  (iii)
institutional capacity was strengthened, and (iv) private sector participation in the area of
road maintenance works was developed. However, at the time of the Project closing the
2 The Ministry in charge of public works has been renamed several times during Project implementation.
At Project closing, it was called Ministry of Regional Planning, Urban Development and Housing
(Ministere de l'Amenagement du Territoire, de l'Urbanisme et du Logement)
3



4                                 ICR - Comorcis: Highway Maintenance Project
marking and signing program was still underway. Therefore, the benefits of this activity
in terms of road safety improvement can only be assessed after the program is completed.
11.   Physical objectives were substantially achieved. Under both the Core and the
Additional Programs for Periodic Maintenance, 169 krn of paved roads were maintained
on the three islands. These works consisted of: (i) resealing of the roads with a single
surface dressing, (ii) regravelling of shoulders, and (iii) repair of pavement edges.
Under the Program of Routine Maintenance, 478 km of paved and unpaved roads were
maintained. These works particularly involved: (i) filling of potholes, (ii) keeping of the
carriageway sides to their original width, (iii) cleaning of shoulders, (iv) clearing of
brush, (v) cleaning of drainage structures and (vi) repairing of retaining walls (vii)
rehabilitation of 60 bridges.  A  more specific Program  for Improvement and
Reconstruction of Bridges was also successfully carried out. Fourteen bridges were
restored, basically through the repair of abutments and decks.
12.   To enable the three Regional Directorate of Public Works (Direction Regionale
des Travaux Publics) (DRTP) to carry out the Routine Maintenance Program, the Project
financed the acquisition and rehabilitation of various types of equipment.  New
equipment comprised a dump truck, ten liaison vehicles, two melting machines and three
compactors. Equipment rehabilitated involved bulldozers, loaders, graders, dump trucks,
compactors and compressors. In addition, power generators, computers, and furniture
were adequately supplied according to the needs of DGTP and DRTP.
13.   As noted above, at Project closing, the road marking and signing program
financed by FAC, was still underway. The program is expected to be completed by June
1998. The program was delayed because the periodic maintenance works started with a
delay of more than two years and the marking could not be implemented before the roads
have been used for a certain period of time.
14.  Institutional development and public sector management objectives were
achieved to a large extent. These objectives were an irmportant part of the Project and, to
help achieve them, appropriate technical assistance was identified and engaged.
Supported by the Project, GOC implemented a comprehensive restructuring plan for
DGTP and DRTP including: (i) creation of a Planning and Studies Unit; (ii) a staff
rationalization; (iii) adoption of new methodologies and organizational procedures; and
(iv) training of different categories of personnel.
15.   To help DGTP to carry out the restructuring plan and implement the Project, the
SAR identified a small technical assistance program. The consultants were efficiently
selected and their work was completely integrated into that of the national teams. The
technical assistance program included: (i) a technical expert to assist and advise the
Director of DGTP and coordinate Project components; (ii) an accountant to assist DGTP
in the administrative and financial management of the Project; (iii) an expert on
equipment maintenance; and (iv) an engineer for short-term support. GOC appointed
counterparts to all technical experts. The performance of the technical experts was
4



Project Implementation Assessment                                         5
satisfactory. All experts provided on-the-job training to local staff. A local accountant,
contracted under UNDP funds, replaced the expatriate accountant, a United Nations
Volunteer, during the third year of Project implementation.
16.   As a condition of Credit effectiveness, DGTP created a small Planning and
Studies Unit. This unit is responsible for: (i) preparing the Priority Investment Program
(PIP), a sliding three-year investment and maintenance program for the transport sector;
(ii) organizing and monitoring feasibility studies; (iii) monitoring procurement; and
(iv) establishing and maintaining a road data base.
17.   DGTP and DRTP carried out a staff rationalization program. This was a difficult
task to implement given the high rate of unemployment in Comoros combined with an
environment of political instability. From 1990 to 1994, the staff was reduced by 45
percent in DGTP and DRTP. Regular staff decreased from about 432 people to 140 and
temporary staff from 239 to 156. The staff reform contributed substantially to: (i)
increase efficiency and discipline, (ii) improve accountability, and (iii) ameliorate terms
and conditions of employment.
18.   An extensive training program was adequately carried out and contributed to
substantial improvement in the technical and managerial skills of local staff. The training
program was meticulously designed according to the specific conditions and needs of
DGTP/DRTP. Candidates for training were carefully selected according to their profiles
and level of education, as well as their interests and expectations. The training program
was carried out through:  (i) training-by-doing on the job;  (ii) specific training
workshops conducted by technical assistance experts; (iii) transfer of know-how to
designated counterparts; and (iv) training abroad. It covered a broad variety of road
maintenance topics such as programming and budgeting of works, work supervision,
stock control, accounting, and equipment maintenance, as well as procurement and
contract management. The program covered different personnel categories from top
management to field workers. Initial estimates for personnel to be trained were exceeded,
since as many as 59 workers were trained instead of 22 foreseen in the SAR. As for
training abroad, the Project granted 7 eighteen-month scholarships for graduate studies in
road engineering, as well as 22 short-term fellowships for upgrading of technical skills.
As a result of the training program, DGTP/DRTP staff feel more capable, more confident
and enthusiastic.
19.   Sector policy objectives were partially achieved. During both appraisal and
implementation periods, substantial and fruitful discussions on road management and
maintenance policies were held with GOC policy makers. GOC also prepared and
discussed with the Bank the transport sector strategy and PIP, and took into consideration
adjustments recommended by supervision missions. However, in 1995 GOC decided to
carry out construction of three stretches of roads, which were not inscribed in PIP and
were not in accordance with transport sector policy objectives. The Bank suggested that
GOC correct the situation and, subsequently, GOC canceled the construction of one of
the roads and revised the standard of the other two.
5



6                                 ICR- Comoros: Highway Maintenance Project
20.   During Project implementation, GOC took important steps regarding the
development of the tourism sector. It is expected that, in the next few years, the tourism
sector will take a more important place in Comoros economy and contribute to the
improvement of the living conditions of the population by stimulating economic growth.
Under Project financing, a consultant carried out a study on the development of
environmentally sustainable tourism which provided -JOC with a basis for design of a
tourism sector strategy and the accompanying measures for infrastructure development
and environment protection and improvement. The study findings helped also GOC and
the Bank in the identification and preparation of the next infrastructure and environment
operation.
21.   The Project also financed two additional sludies: (i)  a study on periodic
maintenance which contributed to updating SAR estimates and assessed the needs on
short-term technical assistance for periodic road maintenance; and (ii) a study on urban
development which provided GOC with maps of the main Comorian cities and developed
an Urban Master Plan for Moroni. However, three other studies programmed in the SAR
(study of the port and maritime sector, the study of the air transport sector, and the study
on the development of labor-based contractors) were canceled because funding was made
available by other donors on a grant basis. The study on the autonomous management of
the regional workshops was also canceled due to UND)P budget constraints. This study
and the road widening and upgrading studies will be carried out under PPF funding of the
next infrastructure-sector operation.
22.   Financial objectives were substantially achieved. As a condition of effectiveness
GOC promulgated new regulations regarding the ]Road Maintenance Fund (Fonds
d'Entretient Routier) (FER). GOC also opened a FER account at the Central Bank, with
an initial deposit of FC 40 million, to be managed by DGTP. However, replenishments
of the account were irregular and arrears sometimes accumulated, due to tight budget
constraints under which GOC operates. The situation has nonetheless improved after
GOC decided the funds to be provided directly through the national petroleum company
instead of the Government Budget. As foreseen in the SAR, FER contributed to the
financing of both Road Maintenance Programs. Expenditures financed by FER totaled
US$2.98 million equivalent. This amount exceeded appraisal estimates by 45 percent
basically because the Project was extended by two years. However, not all of the
programmed activities in the SAR could be financed because project costs were
underestimated (see para. 32).  As regards the Additional Program for Periodic
Maintenance, only 22 percent of the works identified in the SAR could be accomplished.
The Routine Maintenance Program was more adequately financed. As a result, the
amount of works carried out has even exceeded SAR estimates (478 km instead of 462
km).
23.   Private sector development objectives were substantially achieved. The Project
contributed to the creation of the first 15 Comoriarn Small and Medium Enterprises
(SMEs) in the area of road maintenance and had a favorable impact on their business
turnover. The Project also encouraged small business to develop. During Project
6



Project Implementation Assessment                                     7
implementation, about 150 individual workmen (tdcherons) were contracted to carry out
routine maintenance works, such as (i) filling of potholes, (ii) clearing of brush, and (iii)
small masonry works. At Project closing, approximately 40 percent of the routine
maintenance works were already accomplished through contracting out.
24.   Poverty alleviation objectives were substantially achieved. By keeping the road
network open steadily, and therefore overcoming the isolation of rural areas, the Project
had a beneficial impact on the rural poor, since it facilitated small farmer access to
markets and reduced the cost of providing basic needs to consumers. As noted above, the
vast majority of Comoros' population lives in rural areas. Moreover, as shown on the
following table, between 1993 and 1997, the Project generated a significant number of
local jobs, mostly for unskilled labor, through the periodic and routine maintenance
works carried out.
Local jobs generated
by Project implementation  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
Routine Maintenance
SME(s)               48    77   453   202   302
Individual workmen   96    66   166   172   60
Periodic Maintenance    0     0    200   163   15
Rehabilitation of Bridges    5    85   103   140
Total                149   228   922   677   377
25.   Following the devaluation of the Comorian Franc (FC) in January 1994, the
Project identified and implemented a food-for-work program sponsored by WFP and
evaluated at US$240,000. This program contributed significantly to compensate the loss
of purchasing power of FER and allowed the contracted individual workmen to continue
to carry out road maintenance works. During the two-year period of the program (1994-
1996), 70 percent of payments to the individual workmen were in food.
26.   Environmental objectives were substantially achieved.  First, road works
followed exactly existing alignments and therefore did not have any effect on land use.
Second, the Project had a positive impact on the environment by repairing road drainage
which was in bad shape and, thereby decreasing erosion and flooding risks. Third, the
drainage works also contributed to improve populations' living conditions in some
villages situated along the roads. It is estimated that about 45,000 people, representing
around nine percent of Comoros' population, have directly benefited from the works, in
particular children who make daily use of the road shoulders on the way to and from
school. These works were carried out in Nioumachoua, Wanani, Fomboni, Djoiezi and
7



8                                 ICR - Comoros: Highway Maintenance Project
Bandar-Essalam in the island of Moheli; Mirontsy, Bazimini, Bambao, Domoni and
Mramani in the island of Anjouan; and Selea, Mitsoudje, Singani, Itsoundzou et
Ifoundihe in the island of Grande Comore.
27.   The life of the Project was initially set at four years. The Credit closing date was
extended twice and by two years to December 31, 1997, to allow both Periodic and
Routine Road Maintenance Programs to be completed. Although Credit proceeds have
been disbursed 98 percent, the Project remained inactive for almost three years since
effectiveness, due to factors such as political instability, underestimation of costs,
noncompliance with procurement procedures (see Section D), as well as long delays in
the preparation of the bidding documents for the pe:riodic maintenance works. A mid-
term review did not take place because there was no need for an in-depth review for
retrofitting or reorienting the Project. Once the procurement problems have been solved,
disbursement picked up as planned. Almost all funds were committed and used as
foreseen.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
D.1 Factors within Government control
28.   Project activities were hampered and delayed by political instability. In November
1989, following the Appraisal mission of October 1989, a coup occurred, in which the
President of the Republic was assassinated. As a result, project preparation remained
paralyzed for almost one year. A second Appraisal had to be carried out in September
1990. Another coup mounted by mercenaries took place during Project implementation
in September 1995. The political situation remained unclear until early 1996, with the
existence of two governments. The political situation deteriorated once again in August
1997, following secessionist attempts in the islands of Anjouan and Moheli. At Project
closing, the situation was still unclear. Some final periodic maintenance works in
Domoni (Anjouan), accounting for approximately US$30,000, could not be
accomplished. Moreover, during Project implementation the dialogue between the Bank
and the Borrower was made difficult due to numerous changes of Ministers and of other
high government officials. As an example, during the implementation period of the
Project (five years), the Minister in charge of public works has been changed 15 times.
However, Project technical teams have remained almost the same during the
implementation period, which insured Project continuity.
29.   During the first stage of Project implementation, a major problem related to
procurement of works arose. Following an international competitive bidding for the
Periodic Maintenance of Roads Program, the Borrower's evaluation committee
recommended awarding the contract to a bidder who did not submit the lowest bid. This
bidder was a joint-venture between a national and a foreign company and the Borrower
wished to apply the clause of national preference which, in accordance to Bank rules and
guidelines, was not applicable in such a case. The Borrower finally agreed to review its
8



Project Implementation Assessment                                       9
recommendation, and the contract was finally awarded to the lowest bidder with a five-
month delay.
30.   A devaluation of the national currency by 50 percent occurred in January 1994, at
which time the monthly replenishments of FER were FC 20 million. The Bank suggested
that GOC raise them to FC 30 million in order to absorb the devaluation effect. At
Project closing, monthly replenishments were only FC 22 million. It was estimated that
capacity of FER to pay for imported inputs such as spare parts, asphalt and cement was
reduced by at least 40 percent. A food-for-work program sponsored by WFP had, in the
meanwhile, contributed to lessening the loss of purchasing power of the FER (see para.
25).
31.   Due to GOC overdue payments, the Bank suspended general disbursements three
times during Project implementation: (i) from September 30, 1995 to November 16,
1995, (ii) from March 2, 1996 to April 9, 1996, and (iii) from July 1, 1996 to November
25, 1996. These suspensions adversely affected Project implementation since most of the
works financed under IDA credit remained paralyzed during the suspension period.
D.2 Factors outside Government control
32.   During the preparation of the bidding documents, the cost of the Core Program for
Periodic Maintenance of Roads was found to be US$11.5 million, which represented six
times as much as the amount evaluated on the SAR. Although including important
drainage works not programmed in the SAR, the evaluation also revealed that Project
costs overall were underestimated. Therefore, both the Core and the Additional Programs
for periodic maintenance had to be completely reassessed and redesigned. As a result, the
maintenance works were significantly delayed, the amount of road to be resealed was
reduced by 25 percent, and activities such as the double resealing of roads and some
drainage works were canceled.
33.   Following a cyclone in February 1996, road maintenance works were suspended
for some days, in particular in the island of Anjouan. Moreover, as a result of damages
caused by the cyclone, additional works estimated at US$130,000 had to be carried out
throughout the entire road network.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILTY
34.   Sustainability is likely. DGTP and DRTP have significantly increased their
technical capabilities, particularly in the areas of planning and budgeting, supervision of
works, equipment maintenance, and monitoring of procurement procedures. With the
institutional reforms introduced and the training program successfully accomplished,
DGTP is now capable of planning and supervising periodic and routine maintenance
9



10                                ICR - Comoros: Highway Maintenance Project
operations. In addition, with the newly acquired or rehabilitated equipment, the three
DRTP are now better able to carry out force-accoumt works or rent the equipment to
contractors.
35.   At Project closing, assurance was given that GOC will take all necessary
measures to ensure that adequate funds for road maintenance will continue to be
transferred to FER. In particular, replenishment of funds will continue to be processed
directly through the national petroleum company, which is crucial to FER continuity.
GOC is also committed to improving FER management, in particular by setting up a
management committee for FER with road and transport user participation. In addition,
the continuity of the jobs, the SMEs and the small businesses stimulated by the Project is
likely, since road maintenance works financed under the FER are now systematically
carried out and other donors, such as FAC and the European Union (EU), continued to be
involved in the financing of road works.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
36.   Project Identification and Preparation started iin July 1989, appraisal took place in
October 1989 and September 1990, and the project was presented to the Board in January
1991. The Bank's performance during Identification, Preparation and Appraisal was
satisfactory on the whole. The Bank responded proimptly to the Borrower's request for
the support of the transport sector and encouraged other donors to participate in the
Project. However, Project costs regarding both the Core and the Additional Programs for
Periodic Maintenance of Roads were underestimated. This caused some delays in Project
implementation since both Programs had to be reassessed. It is quite obvious that the
reduced amount of 15 staff weeks spent during Project preparation was not appropriate
and better up-front work and better understanding of the Project would have been
necessary to assess conveniently Project cost estimates.
37.   The Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory. During supervision, the
Bank maintained a close monitoring of the Project and helped the Borrower in identifying
technical problems as well as implementing appropriate solutions, including on
procurement matters, and on transport and tourism development policies. Regular
supervision missions took place, comprising a total of 54 staff weeks. Labor costs were
US$127,000 which represented an annual average of US$25,400. For a Project rated
Satisfactory, that has disbursed 98 percent of Credit proceeds, this figure compares very
favorably with the annual average for Sub-Saharan Aifrica of US$70,000.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
38.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory as regards project identification and
preparation. It participated fully in discussions concerning component identification.
10



Project Implementation Assessment                                      11
However, political instability that followed the coup of November 1989, delayed Project
appraisal for about one year.  Moreover, delays in meeting conditions of Credit
effectiveness, in particular the promulgation of the new regulations regarding FER and
the opening of a separate Bank account, delayed the Credit effectiveness significantly.
Signed in March 1, 1991, the Credit became effective one year later, in March 2, 1992.
39.   The Borrower's performance during implementation was satisfactory overall,
despite irregular FER replenishments and a major procurement problem that occurred at
the beginning of project implementation (see para. 29). The quality of procurement
documents improved, nonetheless, along with Project implementation. Staff selected to
manage the Project was competent and committed. In addition, GOC steadily maintained
almost the same national team during the implementation period of the Project. This was
crucial for the successful implementation of the Project given a framework of political
instability and constant changes in Government.
40.   As regards Credit covenants, although Borrower's compliance was satisfactory
overall, there was a major problem in 1995. GOC awarded three road construction
contracts, financed through its own budget (about US$4.4 million) to a contractor on a
single source basis. The roads were not inscribed in the PIP3 and contracts exceeded
US$400,0004. Following Bank's recommendations, GOC canceled one of the contracts,
accounting for approximately US$2 million, renegotiated the other two and integrated
them in the PIP. Regarding Project accounts, the 1996 audit reports underlined some
irregularities in Project book-keeping, in particular because double-entry methodology
was not used and ledgers regarding FER expenditures were missing. Following audit
recommendations, DGTP installed adequate accounting software and provided training
for personnel. At Project closing, no audit reports were outstanding and Project accounts
were kept in order.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41.   The Project is rated as Satisfactory since overall objectives have been achieved.
Maintenance and management of the roads on all three islands improved, and the road
network is in good shape, benefiting their populations and business enterprises.
Institutional reform and capacity building were attained. As a result, accountability and
operational efficiency of the road maintenance agency increased, and the limited funds
available for road maintenance are now being used more efficiently.
42.   The revised economic rate of return for the investments made under the periodic
road maintenance program, calculated for the purpose of this ICR, is 23.1 percent (see
Table 9). The evaluation was based on lifetime investments of 15 years. It took into
3 Credit Covenant 4.02 (a) of DCA
4 Credit Covenant 4.02 (c) of DCA
11



12                                ICR - Comoros: Highway Maintenance Project
account actual costs, projections of traffic growth (1.5 percent/year) and the most
probable estimates of maintenance costs after 1997. The economic rate of return for the
periodic road maintenance in the SAR was estimated at 32.8 percent but costs were
underestimated and traffic growth forecasts were too optimistic. The actual economic
rate of return for the investments made under the routine road maintenance program could
not be assessed due to lack of traffic data.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
43.   During the completion mission, GOC committed that adequate funds for road
maintenance will be transferred to FER and to improving FER performance, in particular
by setting up a management committee for FER. with road and transport user
participation.   The next IDA  operation will also contribute to preserve the
accomplishments achieved under Project implementation, particularly by helping GOC to
reform FER.
44.  In December 1996, the Bank and the Borrower identified and started discussions
on the preparation of a new operation, the Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project.
This Project will focus on three priority sectors: (i) transport, (ii) water, and (iii) urban.
The Project is an integral part of a multi-donor financed program in the Comoros, and
supports the development objectives of the larger program. The main program objective
is to improve living conditions and stimulate econornic growth, while preserving the
environment and public investments in basic infrastructure. The specific objectives of the
project are: (i) maintain road infrastructure and open up isolated villages; (ii) improve
the safety of road and maritime transport; (iii) establish rapid maritime transport links to
increase inter-island exchange; (iv) establish sustainable water use guidelines and
significantly increase water coverage rates for populations of the three islands by 2,002;
and (v) improve management of transport, water and urban infrastructure through public
awareness campaigns, stakeholder participation, cosl--recovery-measures and targeted
support to public sector institutions. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) is planned
to be submitted to the Board for approval in Septembre 1999.
G. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
45.   The following lessons can be learned from the Highway Maintenance Project:
(i)   There is a necessity for better up-front preparation and better
understanding of a project in order to have the costs estimates as accurate
as possible and the figures carefully verified prior to submission of the
Credit to the Board for approval. 'It could be preferable to delay
presentation to the Board than be confronted later with a situation in which
the Credit amount is insufficient to imiplement the Project. Otherwise,
12



Project Implementation Assessment                                             13
there is a need for more flexible lending instruments when the problems
are perceived. An alternative approach in project implementation could
be a request for supplemental financing.
(ii)   Capacity building takes place more effectively when a technical training
program is meticulously designed according to country and agency
specific conditions and needs, and candidates for training are carefully
selected according to their level of education and profiles, as well as,
interests and expectations.
(iii) For a small country as Comoros, a small technical assistance program is
more effective. In addition, it is important to select consultants efficiently
and have their work completely integrated into that of the national teams.
(iv)   In Comoros, during project appraisal and the first stage of project
implementation, it is important to carry out procurement workshops for
high level Comorian Government officials. In addition, for major civil
works contracts, the procurement process should be as advanced as
possible, before the Project becomes effective, in order to avoid long
delays between effectiveness and disbursement.
(v)   In  a framework  of political instability  and  constant changes in
Government as is the case of Comoros, the continuity of the national team
of the project is crucial for a successful implementation of the Project.
13






PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial     Partial      Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                x
Sector policies                                  x
Financial objectives              x
Institutional development         x
Physical objectives               x
Poverty reduction                 x
Gender issues                                                                 x
Other social objectives           x        _             __X_X_X
Environmental objectives          x
Public sector management          x
Private sector development        x
Other (specify)                                      . _                      x
B. Project Sustainability                        Likely    |  Unlikely      Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                              Highly      Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                                 x
Preparation Assistance                                         x
Appraisal                                                      x
Supervision                                                    x
D. Borrower Performance                          Highly      Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                                 x
Preparation Assistance                                         x
Appraisal                                                      x
Supervision                                                    x
E. Assessment of Outcome           Highly      Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Highly
Satisfactory                              Unsatisfactory
I x_            _     _    _      _



16                                          ICR - Comoros: Highway Maintenance Project
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                   Purpose                Year of Approval     Status
Preceding Operations
First Highway Project    To assist GOC in strengthening road      1979          Completed
(Cr. 852-COM)          administration and to upgrade and
expand the main road network.
Second Highway Project  To improve the condition of the existing  1982         Completed
(Cr. 1188-COM)         road network, ameliorate accessibility
to isolated areas and increase the road
maintenance capability of the Ministry
of Equipment and the Environment.
Following Operations
Infrastructure, Water and To improve living conditions and        1999           Under
Environment Project    stimulate economic growth and preserve  (scheduled)     preparation
environment and public infrastructure
investments.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned        Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)          October 1989       October 1989
Preparation                                        November 1989    November 1989
Appraisal                                            March 1990       September 1990
Negotiations                                          May 1990        December 1990
Board Presentation                                    June 1990       January 22, 1991
Signing                                                                March 1, 1991
Effectiveness                                        March 1991        March 2, 1992
Midterm Review
Project Completion                                  June 30, 1995      June 30, 1997
Loan/Credit Closing                               December 31, 1995 December 31, 1997
16



Project Implementation Assessment                                                        17
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY 92   FY 93   FY 94   FY 95   FY 96   FY 97   FY 98
Appraisal
Estimate          0.6      1.8      3.6      5.2      5.8      6.6      6.6
Actual            0.0      0.5      1.0      1.9      6.0      6.2      6.5
Actual as %
of Estimate       0%      28%      29%      36%      104%     93%      98%
Date of Final Disbursement: February 4, 1998
17



18                                          ICR - Comoros: Highway Maintenance Project
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
SAR Estimate
Key Indicators              or Revised*      Revised**          Actual
Periodic Maintenance of Roads
Core Program                               Number of Kms  Number of Kms  Number of Kms
RNI (Moroni - Mitsamiouli)                  36              38               33
RN2 (Moroni - Foumboni)                    47               48               43
RN21 (Mutsamudu - Domoni)                   34              33               27
RN23 (Domoni - Mremani)                     15              15               15
RN24 (Mrdmani - Mramani)                    9               14                4
RN31 (Fomboni - Nioumachoua)                33              31               31
Subtotal                     174              179             153
Additional Program                         Number of Kms  Number of K ms  Number of Kms
RN4B (Oichili - Chomoni)                    6                0                0
RN22 (Page - Pouzini)                       4                0                4
RN32 (Fomboni-Miringoni)                   27                0                0
Urban Roads                                 15               0                2
Regional Roads                              20              10               10
Subtotal                     72               10               16
Total (Core + Additional)            246              189             169
Routine Maintenance of Roads                 Number of Kms                    Number of Kms
Grand Comore - National Network            151                               212
Grand Comore - Regional Network            48                                31
Anjouan - National Network                 128                               102
Anjouan Regional Network                   21                                48
Moheli                                     114                               85
Total                      462                               478
(*) Amendment to DCA of February 22, 1993.
(**) Supervision mission of January 1994.
18



Project Implementation Assessment                                                        19
Table 5B: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators             SAR estimate        Actual
Reconstruction of Bridges
PK 10.55 RN2                               Yes             Yes
PK 10.80 RN2                               Yes             Yes
PK 11.45 RN2                               Yes             Yes
PK 23.45 RN2                               Yes             Yes
PK 08.70 RN21                              Yes             Yes
PK 23.40 RN21                              Yes             Yes
PK 25.70 RN21                              Yes             Yes
PK01.60 RN22                               Yes             Yes
PK 05.35 RN31                              Yes             Yes
PK 19.10 RN31                              Yes             Yes
PK 20.90 RN31                              Yes             Yes
PK 25.50 RN31                             Non              Yes
PK 00.00 RN3 (widening)                   Non              Yes
Total                       12              14
Rehabilitation of Bridges                       Number           Number
RN2                                        13               17
RN3                                         6                6
RN21                                        7                7
RN22                                       12               12
RN31                                        6                6
RN32                                       12               12
Total                       56              60
Acquisition of Equipment                        Number           Number
Liaison Vehicle                             4               10
Dump Truck                                  5                1
Tar Melting Machine                         2                2
Spreading Machine                           2                1
Agricultural Tractor                        1                0
Cold Tar Coating Machine                    1                0
Chippings Spreading Truck                   1               0
Heavy Compacter                             2                0
Manual Compacter                            3                3
Concrete Mixer                              1                3
Compressor                                  2               0
19



20                                          ICR - Comoros: Highway Maintenance Project
Table 5C: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators             SAR estimate       Actual
Rehabilitation of Equipment                    Number           Number
Bulldozer                                  4                4
Loader                                     3                3
Grader                                     3                2
Dump Truck                                 7                6
Rock Crusher                               2                1
Compacter                                  3                3
Compressor                                 4                3
Water-Tank Truck                           3                1
Hydraulic Showel                           I                I
Agricultural Tractor                       I                0
Technical Assistance to DGTP                 Staff Months     Staff Months
Highway Engineer                           36              58
Accountant                                 36              36
Expert on Equipment Maintenance            36              50
Engineer for Short-Term Support            0               15
Total                      108             159
Technical Training (Comoros)                   Number           Number
Engineers                                  3                4
Mechanicians                               9                12
Stock Controllers                          6                3
Accountant                                 0                1
Subtotal                     18              20
Theoretical Training (Comoros)
Work Supervisors                           0                6
Accounting                                 0                4
Subtotal                     0               10
Training Abroad
Engineers                                                   7
Supervisors                                                 3
Field Training (Madagascar)                                 6
Mechanicians                                                2
Site Foremen                                                3
Laboratory Technicians                                      I
Mechanical Engineer                                         I
Surveyor                                                    I
Administrator                                               1
Computer Operator                                           I
Accountants                                                 3
Subtotal                     4               29
Total                      22               59
20



Project Implementation Assessment                                                                 21
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study           Purpose as defined at Appraisal/Redefined    Status       Impact of Study
Road Widening and    To review the road characteristics and design  Postponed.   Studies to be carried
Upgrading Studies    appropriate upgrading operations for the existing          out under PPF funding
(Feasibility and     roads because of the increase in tourism activity         of the next infrastructure
Engineering studies)   and the high risk of accidents.                            and environment
operation
Study of the Port    To prepare a master plan for the operation and  Canceled.    Study financed by the
and Maritime Sector    development of the maritime sector in Comoros.           Islamic Development
Bank (IsDB) under
other arrangements.
Study of the Air     To prepare a development strategy for Air Comore   Canceled.  Study financed by
Transport Sector     and assess the implications of the infrastructure            FAC under other
development plan of Comoros Airport.                          arrangements.
Study on the         To identify the measures required to develop   Canceled.     Study financed by
Development of Labor- labor-based contractors within the context of               UNDP under other
Based Contractors    road maintenance works.                                        arrangements.
Study on the         To identify appropriate policies and infrastructure    Completed.  GOC adopted a strategy
Development of an    needs that could support the development of an             for the tourism sector
Environmentally      environmentally sustainable tourism.                      based on study findings.
Sustainable Tourism
Urban Development    To provide maps of main Comorian cities and   Completed.  Maps of main Comorian
Study                prepare an Urban Master Plan for Moroni.                    cities and an Urban
Master Plan for Moroni
provided to GOC
Study on the         To assess the feasibility of privatizing the   Canceled.    Study not carried out
Autonomous           regional workshops.                                         due to UNDP budget
Management of                                                                   constraints and planned
the Regional                                                                   to be carried out under
PPF funding of the next
infrastructure and
environment operation
21



22                                           ICR - Comoros: Highway Maintenance Project
Table 7: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Project Components          Appraisal Estimates                   Actual
Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign     Total
I Periodic Maintenance           1.19       3.47      4.66       1.15       4.32       5.47
Core Program                 0.71      2.01       2.72       0.98      3.85       4.83
Additional Programn          0.44      1.32       1.76       0.11      0.36       0.47
Road Marking                 0.04      0.14       0.18       0.06      0.11       0.17
2 Routine Maintenance            1.14       1.50       2.64      2.00       2.67       4.67
Equipement                   0.05       1.34      1.39       0.06       1.88      1.94
Force Account                0.82      0.01       0.83       1.25      0.25       1.50
Contracting out              0.27      0.15       0.42       0.69      0.54       1.23
3 Institutional Support          0.24       1.08       1.32      0.22       1.48       1.70
Technical Assistance         0.23      0.91       1.14       0.20       1.24      1.44
Training                     0.01      0.17       0,18       0.02      0.24       0.26
4 Studies                        0.16       0.24       0.40      0.05       0.22       0.27
5 Contigencies                   0.67       1.57       2.24        -          -         -
Total             3.39       7.87      11.26      3.42       8.69      12.11
Table 8: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                  Appraisal Estimates                    Actual
Local    Foreign      ToiF    Local    Foreign    'Total
IDA Credit                     1.06       5.50       6.56       1.05       5.45       6.50
UNDP                           0.13       0.56       0.69       0.02       0.14       0.16
FAC                            0.29       1.68       1.97       0.41       1.82       2.23
Government                     1.91       0.13       2.C4       1.94       1.04       2.98
WFP                                                             0.24                  0.24
Total               3.39       7.87      11.26       3.66       8.45       12.11
22



Project Implementation Assessment                                                        23
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Periodic Road Maintenance Investments
(FC million)
Project                 Without       Net
Year        Costs      Benefits     Project    Benefits
1994        (447)        0           102        (345)
1995        (894)        154         102        (638)
1996       (1,043)      414          102        (526)
1997        (596)       614          102         120
1998        (68)        623          102         657
1999        (68)        633          102         667
2000        (68)         642         102         676
2001         (68)       434          102         468
2002         (68)       440          102         474
2003         (68)        402         102         436
2004        (68)         409         102         442
2005        (68)         369         102         403
2006        (68)         374         102         408
2007        (68)         333         102         367
2008        (68)         338         102         372
NPV @ 10%                  1,151
IRR                        23.3%
SAR estimates            NPV @ 10%                   2,670
IRR                        32.8%
23



24                                            ICR- Comoros: Highway Maintenance Project
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement
Section  Covenant Status  Fulfillment     Description of Covenant            Comments
Type               Date
2.02.(b)    M       C      Continuous  Open and maintain            The account has been
a Special Account.           opened and maintained.
3.01(b)    F       NC       Apr-30    GOC to quarterly maintain     "Caisse d'avance" not
Aug-31    a "caisse d'avance" to DGTP   implemented
Dec-31    of FC 40 million for road
of each year.  maintenance.
4.01 (b)    M       C        Feb-28     Have accounts audited for each  No audit reports are
of each year.  fiscal year.               outstanding.
4.02(a)    P        C       Oct-15     GOC to submit its thiree-year    PIP submitted and discussed
of each year.  investment and maintenance    every year.
program
4.02(b)    P       CP    Continuous  GOC to inform IDA of any       GOC awarded three contracts
investment in transport sector   for approximately $4 million
of the equivalent of         without informing IDA. GOC
US$400,000 or more          canceled later one of the
contracts.
4.03(b)    F       CD    Continuous  Annual budgetary allocation    Current annual allocation is
for road maintenance no less    of USD580,000 equivalent,
than the equivalent of       but arrears often accumulate.
US$500,000 during project
lifetime.
Key to Covenant Type         1Key to (Covenant Status
F = Financial     P = Policy            C = Covenant complied with    CP = Complied with partially
M   Management   T = Technical          CD = Complied with after delay NC = Not complied with
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage                 Planned                ]Revised              Actual
Project Cycle       Weeks   US$ '000   Weeks   US$ '000   Weeks   US$ '000
Through Appraisal           -          -           -          -         4.6        10.3
Appraisal-Board             -          -           -          -         9.4        22.4
Board-Effectiveness         -          -           -          -         1.4        9.4
Supervision                 -          -           -          -        53.7       126.9
Completion                 11.1       14.2         -          -         11.1       14.2
Total              -          -           -          -         80.2      183.2
24



Project Implementation Assessment                                                                       25
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of      Month/ Number Days  Specialized Staff    Performance Rating               Types of
Project Cycle     Year       of      in         skills       Implement. Development   Problems
Persons Field    represented         Status      Objectives
Through Appraisal
Identification
Preparation
Pre-appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Appraisal          Oct-89      3            HIE, RA, TE
Post-Appraisal     Sep-90      2            EC, HE
Pre-Board          May-91      I            HE
Pre-effectiveness
Supervision
Supervision I      Oct-92      2       12  HE, HE                   I             2       PP
Supervision 2      Mar-93      1       8   HE                       1             2       PP
Supervision 3      Jan-94      3       11  HE, HE, TE               1             2       PP
Supervision 4      Oct-94      2       12  TE, HE                   S             S
Supervision 5      Aug-95      1       12  HE                       S             S       CLC
Supervision 6      Nov-95      1       16  HE                      HS             S       CLC
Supervision 7      May-96      1       14  HE                       S             S
Supervision 8      Dec-96      1       7   IS                       S             S
Completion           Sep-97     2       4   HE, FA                   S             S
Key to specialized staff skills
EN = Engineer
EC = Economist                        FA = Financial Analyst                 HE = Highway Engineer
IS = Infrastructure Specialist        TE = Transport Economist               RA = Research Assistant
Key to performance rating
I = Problem Free   2 = Moderate Problems     3 = Major Problems              4 = Major Problems. Corrective
action to be taken
HS = Highly Satisfactory     S = Satisfactory   U = Unsatisfactory           HU = Highly Unsatisfactory
Key to Problems
AF = Availability of Funds            PMP = Project Management Performance    SP = Study Progress
CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants   PP = Procurement Progress            TP = Training Progress
FP = Financial Performance            TAP = Technical Assistance Progress
25



APPENDICE A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIHQE
DES COMORES
AIDE MEMOIRE
TROISIEME PROJET D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIER (Cr. 2207-COM)
FUTUR PROJET INFRASTRUCTURE, EAU ET ENVIRONNEMENT
Mission de la Banque Mondiale
1.    Une mission de la Banque Mondiale, composee de MM. Abdelmoula Ghzala et
Philippe de Naurois, a sejourn aux Comores du 22 au 25 septembre 1997, en vue de
superviser le Troisieme Projet d'Entretien Routier (Credit 2207-COM) et de faire le point sur
1'etat d'avancement des activites preparatoires du futur projet Infrastructure, Eau et
Environnement.. Les travaux de la mission ont ete menes en etroite collaboration avec les
cadres de la Direction Generale des Travaux Publics (DGTP), ainsi qu'avec le conseiller
Technique et Coordonnateur du projet d'Entretien Routier. La mission les remercie pour leur
participation et leur precieuse assistance, et remercie S.E. le Ministre de l'Amrnagement du
Territoire pour les fructueux echanges.
2.    La mission a e,alement coordonne avec les autres bailleurs de fonds impliques dans les
secteurs concernes et les remercie pour leur collaboration. Le contenu du present Aide-
Memoire sera confirmr, complete ou modifie par une correspondance officielle du siege de la
Banque Mondiale, apres retour de la mission a Washington.
RESUME DES CONCLUSIONS ET RECOMMANDATIONS. DE LA MISSION':
A- Le Troisieme Proiet d'Entretien Routier (Credit 2207-COM)
3.    Avancement des travaux. La reception definitive des travaux d'entretien periodique par
l'entreprise Colas a ete prononcee en avril 1997 en Grande Comore et Moheli. Compte tenu
de la situation socio-politique qui prevaut, la reprise de certains travaux na pas pu etre
completee, et consequemment la reception n'a pas encore ete prononcee a Anjouan. Des que
la situation le permettra, les traversees de Domoni et Mirontsy et les travaux a realiser par la
DRTP seront completes (et ce avant le 3 1 decembre 1997, pour etre eligible au financement
de l'IDA) et permettront alors de prononcer la reception des travaux a Anjouan. La mission
attire toutefois l'attention de l'Administration sur la necessite de proceder sans tarder a
l'entretien courant des routes qui ont fait l'objet d'un entretien periode et a une meilleure
organisation de l'entretien courant en multipliant les contrats aux PME locales et aux
tacherons. Ceci en vue de sauvegarder le patrimoine routier constitue au cours des divers
projets routiers.
Page: I



4.    Assistance technique. La mission s'est entretenue avec l'Administration et la
Cooperation Francaise sur la necessite de maintenir l'assistance technique en place au delA du
31 decembre 1997, dans un premier temps pour une duree supplementaire d'un an. Ceci
permettra de cl6turer de maniere satisfaisante le projet et de preparer le futur programme
Infrastructure, Environnement qui implique tous les bailleurs de fonds concernes par le
secteur.
5.    Etudes. La mission a revu le rapport de l'etude du plan de developpement urbain de
Moroni et a transmis a l'Administration ses commentaiires qui devront &re integr6s dans la
version finale du rapport. Compte tenu des retards pris dans le lancement de la consultation
pour l'etude d'elargissement et de deviation de certains tron,ons routiers, il a ete entendu avec
l'Administration que cette etude sera financee par le PPF du futur projet Infrastructure, Eau et
Environnement. La mission a revu le dossier de consultation de cette etude et a transmis la
non objection de la Banque mondiale pour le lancement de cette consultation dans les
meilleurs delais.
6.    Formation.  La mission a revu les propositions de l'Administration quant au
programme de formation A mener jusqu'au 31 decembre 1997 et a donne la non objection de
la Banque mondiale pour les derniers stages de formation a financer sur le Credit.
7.    Audit des comptes du Projet. L'audit des comptes 1996 a bien et transmis a la
Banque mondiale pour avis. La Banque a transmis ses commentaires detailles sur le rapport le
9 septembre  1997. Certaines lacunes relevees par les auditeurs dans leur rapport
contreviennent aux dispositions de l'Accord de Credit. Les principales lacunes qui doivent etre
adressees sont resumees ci-dessous:
0 quant a la presentation des comptes et du rapport: (i) I'auditeur doit emettre son opinion
quant a la conformite de l'execution du projet avec les lois et reglementations en vigueur
ainsi qu'avec les diverses dispositions, conditionalites ( en particulier celles prevues A
l'Article IV), regles et procedures prevues A l'Accord de Credit; (ii) la presentation des
comptes et le rapport d'audit devront desormais se conformer aux dispositions du 'Manuel
de Comptabilit6 G6n6rale, Information Financiere et Audit- FARAH' dont deux
exemplaires (un exemplaire A transmettre aux auditeurs) ont ete remis A l'Adrninistration.
Ce manuel remplace le Guide edite en avril 1994 par le Departement des Pays des Grands
Lacs et de l'Ocean Indien;
* quant au contenu du rapport et aux opinions de l'auditeur: (i) la comptabilite du projet
n'est pas tenue de fagon a permettre la presentation des etats financiers recommandee par
la Banque mondiale, (ii) I'auditeur n'a pas ete en mesure d'emettre une opinion sur la
situation financiere des Regies, compte tenu des defaillances constatees au niveau des
procedures de suivi des recettes provenant des prestations; (iii) certaines majeures
recommandations de l'auditeur sur les procedures de controle interne n'ont toujours pas
ete suivies et les actions correctives n'ont toujours pas ete prises.
8.    Une note du DGTP au personnel concerne des TP, suite a une reunion tenue pour
analyser les commentaires de la Banque sur le rapport d'audit des comptes clos au 31
decembre 1996, a ete transmise A la mission pour examen. Cette note constitue la base du Plan
d'Action, couvrant la periode du 15 septembre 1997 au 15 mars 1998, qui doit etre transmis a
Page   2



la Banque mondiale pour le 31 octobre 1997 au plus tard, et doit organiser la mise en oeuvre
des recommandations du rapport d'audit des comptes 1996 en precisant pour chaque action
proposee: le ou les responsables charges de leur execution, les moyens a mettre en oeuvre, et
les delais dans lesquels les actions correctives devront etre prises.
9.    Pour l'audit des comptes du projet clos au 31 decembre 1997, les termes de reference
des auditeurs devront etre revus pour inclure, une opinion  quant a la conformite de
l'execution du projet avec les lois et reglementations en vigueur ainsi qu'avec les diverses
dispositions, conditionalites, regles et procedures prevues a l'Accord de Credit et une opinion
separee sur le compte du Fonds d'Entretien Routier. Ces termes de reference devront aussi
prevoir l'audit des comptes du PPF et du don japonais PHRD au 31 decembre 1997.
10.   Aspects economiques et sociaux. Le projet a permis la creation sur les cinq dernieres
annees, 1993 a 1997, de plus de quinze PME et quelque 150 tacherons actifs dans le sous-
secteur de 1'entretien routier. En termes de creation d'emplois A travers le projet, les emplois
generes sont tel que suit:
fNmbre -moyend'em pis locaux- erme-s--. 
maintenus.par-9annee.        .. 1993    1994   197
P.arl.P.N  ;;- -..              . -.:: : .    48      77    453    362    302
Thcheros.                                     96      66     166    172      60
- .ar-     g e e tr.ee-  .    :                 0       0     200     163    (P.M.)
F:.INnan-emeint Fac ..........  c.(pontsrepari(:+ ~05  85    103  (P.M.)  220
TOTAL:         :             149      228  1 922 J 697  f 582
11.   Par ailleurs, suite aux travaux d'assainissement et drainage executes dans le cadre du
projet, celui-ci a egalement permis I' amelioration des conditions de vie des populations de
Nioumachoua, Wanani, Fomboni, Djoiezi et Bandar-Essalam dans l'ile de Moh6li, et des
populations de Mirontsi et Bazimini dans l'ile d'Anjouan.
12.   Aspects financiers. La mission a fait le point sur la situation financiere du projet. Le
reliquat estime libre pour engagement nouveau a et estime A 150.000 US$. Une reallocation
du Credit par categorie sera necessaire d'ici la date de cl6ture. La mission a convenu avec
l'Administration que celle-ci enverra A la Banque mondiale ( pour le 15 octobre 1997), le point
detaille de la situation financiere en DTS et en FC, ainsi qu'une proposition de reallocation des
fonds du Credit par Categories. Cette proposition de reallocation devra prendre en compte les
engagements nouveaux (a realiser avant le 31 decembre 1997), sur lesquels I'Administration et
a mission se sont entendus. Ces engagements nouveaux portent sur la dotation de la DGTP de
moyens de traitement de l'information et de transport, lui permettant d'assurer dans de
meilleur conditions sa mission ainsi que la preparation du futur programme Infrastructure et
Environnement.
13.   Au 15 septembre 1997, le credit IDA etait engage a 98 % et les depenses pour chacun
des partenaires etaient d'environ .
Page: 3;



Budget total         En Paiement           Pourcentage
* IDA                         6,758,000 $           6,471,700 $        95.8%
.          . FAC             2,560,000 $           2.508,800  $       98.0%
**PNUD                         151,924 $            150,405 $         99.0%
* Gouvt          ... 3, 118,500 $                 3,087,300 $        99.0%
(Note:. le PNUD a reduit sa contribution initiale de 122.000 $
l Ie FAC a renouvele le contrat d'assistance technique pour 2 ans
. Ie budget du Gvt a ete revise pour tenir compte de la prolongation du projet pour 2 ans
14.   Cl6ture du projet et rapport d'achevement. Apres deux extensions, la date de cl6ture
du projet a ete fixee au 31 decembre 1997. Conformeiment aux procedures de la Banque
mondiale, un rapport d'achevement  du projet sera prepare conjointement par la Banque
mondiale et le Gouvernement. La mission a remis a l'Administration, une lettre annon,ant la
cl6ture du Credit et les modalites de preparation du rapport d'achnvement du projet, ainsi que
les lignes directrices pour la partie a preparer par l'Administration. La mission s'est mise
d'accord avec l'Administration sur les principales dates etapes du processus, a savoir:
*  transmission a l'Administration de la version provisoire, preparee par la Banque mondiale:
debut mars 1998;
*  revue par l'Administration et transmission de la partie preparee par I'Administration: debut
avril 1998;
*  rapport final d'achevement du projet: mi-mai 1998.
15.   Conformrment aux procedures de decaissements de la Banque mondiale, tout nouveau
d6caissement au dela de la date du 31 decembre 1997, sera effectue pour les demandes de
retrait de fonds recues au siege de la Banque mondiale ,i Washington au plus tard le 31 mars
1998 au titre des depenses eligibles engagg,es avant le 31 decembre 1997 ( c.a.d les paiements
effectues ou dus pour les biens fournis, les travaux realises et les services rendus avant le 3 1
decembre 1997). Apres que les decaissements au titre des demandes de retrait de fonds recues
auront ete effectuees, les fonds du credit qui n'auront pas et retires seront annules.
B. Futur Proiet Infrastructures. Eau et Environnement
Calendrier de preparation du projet
16.   Compte tenu des delais administratifs dans la signature et la mise en vigueur du PHRD
et du PPF ( qui n'ont 6te re,us a Washington qu'au mois d'aoat 1997) et de la situation socio-
politique dans le pays, la preparation du projet a accuse cles retards importants par rapport aux
dates prevues lors de la mission d'identification de decembre 1996. Le calendrier revise de
Page: 4



preparation du projet qui prevoirait a ce stade ci, la presentation a l'approbation du Conseil
d'Administration de la Banque Mondiale au mois de juin 1999, est le suivant:
- Mission d'identification                      decembre 1996
- Mission de suivi                              septembre 1997
- Mission de pre-evaluation                     juin/juillet 1998
- Mission d'6valuation/n6gociations              mars/avril 1999
- Presentation en Conseil d'Administration de l'IDA   juin 1999
Preparation du projet
17.   La qualite de preparation du projet est critique pour faciliter sa conception, une bonne
mise en place et un bon deroulement. La strategie qui sera adoptee pour la preparation du
projet propose consiste a ne finaliser I'accord de credit qu'une fois les etudes preparatoires
achevees et que le projet est prat a debourser immediatement apres sa mise en vigueur. Le don
japonais (PHRD) de 630.000 US $ au profit des Comores en vue de financer une partie des
etudes preparatoires prevues, est entre en vigueur, ainsi qu'une Facilite de Preparation de
Projet de l'IDA (PPF), d'un montant de 630.000 US $.
18.   La mission a revu avec la DGTP, les etudes preparatoires prevues et les principaux
axes des termes de reference qui devront etre prepares au cours des prochaines semaines avec
I'appui d'un consultant, en cours de recrutement. Ces etudes sont principalement les suivantes:
 Sur financement PHRD:
- Etude de faisabilite;
- Etude d'impact sur l'environnement;
- Etudes d6taillees de conception et preparation des documents d'appel d'offres, et
mise a jour de la faisabilite;
* Revision code de l'urbanisme,
- Elaboration du code de la construction;
- Elaboration du code maritime et autres textes de reglementation maritime;
- Etude d'amelioration de la circulation et securite routiere.
* Sur financement PPF:
- Preparation des termes de reference des diverses etudes prevues;
- Etude d'elargissement et de deviation de certains troncons routiers;
- Etude comportementale et sociale (habitudes de population);
- Etude institutionnelle et recouvrement des couits;
Calendrier d' execution des etudes
19.   En vue de respecter le calendrier de preparation du projet tel que donne ci-dessus, le
calendrier suivant d'execution des etudes a entreprendre en priorite, devrait atre respecte:
- Termes de reference                  novembre 1997
- Appels aux consultations             decembre 1997
Page



- Recrutement des consultants           mi-f'evrier 1998
- Rapports preliminaires                mi-juin 1998
- Rapports finaux                       mi-octobre 1998
- Documents d'appel d'offres            mars 1999
Le calendrier d'execution des etudes est joint en annexe.
20.   En vue de rattraper les retards accumules dans la pr6paration du projet et de lancer
dans les plus brefs delais les consultations pour les etudes preparatoires, la mission a donn6
son accord de principe pour passer un contrat (sous financement PPF) au consultant qui
preparera les termes de reference et les dossiers de consultation pour les diverses etudes
prevues dans le cadre du projet. l'Administration devra soumettre a la Banque mondiale le
contrat signe du consultant et les annexes afferentes.
C - Strat6zie des transvorts et PIP
21.   La mission rappelle que la version du PEP 1997/99 devrait etre mise a jour pour tenir
compte des programmes d'investissements prevus et transmise a l'IDA avant decembre 1997
pour revue conformement aux termes de l'Accord de Creddit.
D - Divers
22.   En vue d'assurer la continuite des services comptables pour la DGTP et pour aider A la
preparation du futur projet, la mission a donne sa non objection pour reconduire pour une
duree d'un an, sur financement du PPF, les sevices du consultant national qui assure les
services comptables. Ces services sont estimes a un montant total de FC 2,400,000 (environ
US$ 6,500) pour l'annee, excluant toutes taxes.
Fait a Moroni, le 24 septembre 1997
_   >. --
Abdelmoula Ghzala
Banque Mondiale
---------------.                                                      . .--
Page: 6



APPENDICE B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



REPUBLIQUE FEDERALE ISLAMIQUE DES COMORES
MINISTERE DE L'AMP-NAGEMENT D1U TERRITQTRFLE 
DE L'URBANISME ET DU LOGEMENT              =1hL;ILEC3EWk
TROISIEME PROTIT D'ENTRETIEN ROUTIE         RIL2ar_D#
RAPPORT DE FIN DE PROTET                  o pi Prame r#rGLnlCR/TESWColOgAftPr
JUNO 11998
I - INTRODUCTION
Le reseau routier des Comores est, en comparaison avec d'autres pays en voie
de developpement, relativement convenable pour ce qui concerne la desserte
des localites dans les trois iles.
Certes, il serait utile que la capacite des routes soit augment6e sur certains
tronions dans le voisinage de Moroni, et, quelques zones sont encore
relativement inaccessibles. Leur raccordement au r6seau pourrait presenter
des avantages economiques et sociauy, mais, en regle gdnerale, c'est surrout
1'entretien qui doit avoir la priorite afin de sauvegarder un investissement
de pres de 600 km de routes rev4tues d'une valeur actuelle d'environ 25
milliards de Francs Comoriens (60 Millions de US $).
Avant la realisation du projet, le revetement de nombre de ces routes etaient
d'un age tel qu'une ddgradation rapide les menaiait. Elles devaient
imperativement recevoir un entretien periodique. De nombreux nids de
poule et 1'erosion des accotements generalisee constituait un serieux
problexme de s6curit( compte tenu de 1'-troitesse des route-.
La preparation du Troisieme Projet d'Entretien Routier, qui fair suite aux deux
premiers projets acheves en 1987, a eu lieu des 1989 par une Mission
d'identification du projet qui s'est rendue A Moroni du 10 au 17 juillet 1989.
Une Mission de la Banque Mondiale de preparation du projet s'est deroulee du
24 octobre au 6 novembre 1989. Une seconde Mission de la Banque Mondiale
pour la preparation du projet, s'est deroulee du 24 au 28/9/90.
La Banque octroie aux Autorites Comoriennes un credit de developpement
(A.I.D.) de 4,6 Millions de D.T.S. le ler Mars 1991. La mise en vigueur du credit
est intervenue en avril 1992 et la date de cl6ture du projet le 31 / 12 / 97.
Diverses et continuelles missions de supervision de la Banque Mondiale ont
ete maintenues entre les deux dates..
Le projet a diuL, pour des raisons qui seront expUquees plus loin, repousser par
deux fois la date de cl6ture du projet qui etait initialement fixee au 30 juin
1995.
Ce rapport d'ach!vement redige par l'emprunteur s'attache a mettre en
exergue les points forts de ce projet ainsi que les difficultes rencontrres au
cours de sa mise en oeuvre, ce qui implique que les objectifs n'ont pas tous
ete pleinement atteints.
II faut souligner que les rapports de travail entre la Banque et 1'emprunteur
ont ete tres satisfaisants et que les amenagements necessaires A la bonne
rnalisation du projet ont pu etre realises grAce A une bonne comprehension
des problemes et a une forte volonte d'aboutir A des solutions acceptables.



II - LES OB TECTIFS DU PROrTET
Les objectifs du projet 6taient d'empicher la detdrioration du reseau routier
revetu, d'amdliorer la sdcurit6 routiere et de renforcer les capacites
d'entretien et de planification de la Direction G44ndrale des Travaux Publics.
La particularit6 de ce projet consistait en la participation de plusieurs
bailleurs de fonds A la r6alisation de ces objectifs.
C'est ainsi qu'aux 4,6 Millions de DTS octroyAs par I.D.A. sont venus s'ajouter
les fonds ext6rieurs du PNIJD A hauteur de 690 000 US $ (ramenes A 260 000 US
$ puis al54 320 US $) et ceux de la Coopdration franwaise A hauteur de 7
Millions de FRF pour la convention FAC n' 185 CD 92 auxquels il faut ajouter
la prise en charge d'un assistant technique, coordonnateur du projet entre
1992 et 1998.
I1 convient de preciser que les Comores ont participe A travers le fonds
d'Entretien Routier au financement de ce projet qui comprenait
principalement:
- l'entretien routier (entretien periodique de 226 km et entretien
courant de 467 km de routes et amenagement de ponts).
I'am6lioration de la sdcurit6 routiere (signalisation verticale et
horizontale)
-un appui institutionnel pour la supervision: des travaux, de la
comptabilitt, de I'atelier mecanique et des capacit6s de planification
ainsi que la formation d'agents sdlectionn6s.
- des etudes diverses.
III - EXECLTION DU PROTET PAR COMPOSANTE
III - 1 Entretien  Routier
III .1 .1   Entretien  D&iodinue
Le projet prevoyait la rdalisation de 1'entretierk periodique sur environ 226
km de routes rev(nues dont, la r6fection du revdtement sur quelque 187 km de
routes grAce A une seule couche d'enduit superficiel, le rechargement des
accotements et la reparation des bordures de chauss6es (6paufrures) sur
quelques 22 km de routes etc.
a) D1s la rxalisation de l'etude d'actualisation du rapport d'evaluation par un
consultant, dans le but de pr6parer les D. C. E.), il est apparu que les fonds
seraient insuffisants pour realiser le programme prevu.
En effet, l'estimation des travaux d'entretien correspondant a la partie A 1 du
projet avait 6tk chiffree en mai 1993 A 3 186 093 290 KMF et la partie A 2 du
projet a 1 598 665 825 KMF soit un total de 4 785 Millions de francs Comoriens
alors que les crndits prevus etaient de l'ordre de 930 Millions de francs
comoriens, soit cinq fois moindres.
CeTte grande difference peut paraitre surprenante, mais elle s'explique:
- par une degradation rapide de certains itineraires entre la date de la
mission d'evaluation de la Banque (1989) et Ilestimation SECMO-O1 (mai
1993), soit pres de quatre ans plus tard.



- par une conception quelque peu differente de I'ampleur des travaux
d'entretien periodique qui a tenu davantage compte de la necessite
d'am6liorer l'assainissement de ces routes afin de prolonger leur
duree de vie.
b) Des choix ont du etre effectues pour r6duire les coets en supprimant
quelques itineraires et en reportant sur les regies des Travaux Publics un
certain nombre de travaux d'entretien qui auraient normalement dui etre
confies a l'entreprise.
Ceci a eu pour inconvenient majeur de differer les travaux d'entretien
pQriodiques de la plupart des routes pr6vues au programme additionnel sans
pour autant que les T. P. puissent en assurer un entretien satisfaisant
puisque leurs moyens techniques et financiers dtaient en grande partie
mobilises sur les travaux du programme principal. Par consequent ces routes
se sont degradees et necessitent maintenant un entretien p0riodique qul sera
plus co(iteux que celui qui aurait dua dtre realise en temps opportun.
Par ailleurs, l'entreprise etait devenue tributaire, sur certains troncons, de
l'avancement des travaux preparatoires (deflashage, nids de poule, fosses et
accotements) qui 1'execution a dte transf6ree aux Directions Regionales des
Travaux Publics (DRTP). Des adaptations ont frequemment dui dtre realisees
afin de ne pas bloquer l'avancement des travaux confies a 1'entreprise. ce qui
aurait entraine des reclamations de sa part et une augmentation des coats.
Pour eviter ces retards, certains travaux ont di 6tre rdintdgres dans le
march6 de l'entreprise parce qu'ils n'ont pas pu etre realises A temps par les
D. R. T. P. (diflashage a Anjouan, accotement et deflashage en Grande Comore
par exemple).
Lors de l'4valuation du projet, il n'avait 4tA pr6vu qu'une seule couche
d'enduit superficiel sur 187 km. L'etude d'actualisation rdalisee par le
consultant est parti de cette hypothese et n'a pas suffisamment pris en
compte la necessite de renforcer certains troncons. C'est ainsi que des
mesures de d6flexion, r6alisdes a la demande de la DGTP, ont demontre qu'il
convenait de recharger certaines zones en couche de base, ce qui impliquait
l'obligation de realiser un revAtement complet comprenant une
impregnation et deux couches d'enduit.
La route RN. 31 Fomboni/Nioumachoua (MOHPLU) ainsi que certains tronqons
A ANJOUAN et en GRANDE COMORE ont dfz -tre confortes de cette faion, ce qui
a entraine un cotlt kilometrique multiplie entre 3 et 4 dans ces zones.
c) Pour 1'ensemble de ces raisons, un avenant au marche a porte le montant
des travaux r6alis6s au 31/12/97, a la charge de IDA, de 1 482 796 230 KMF a
1 604 463 696 KMF, soit une augmentation de 8,2 96.
d) A noter qu'en raisQn de la situation politique dans l'ile d'Anjouan, les
travaux d'entretien periodique de la traversee de la vile de DOMONI (R.N. 23)
n'ont pu etre entrepris par l'entreprise. En effet, elle a dei cesser son activite
en juillet 97 pour ne la reprendre qu'a partir du mois de f6vrier 98. Ces
travaux, d'un couit d'environ 23 M. de KMF n'ont pu dtre realises auparavant
car tributaires des travaux d'assainissement de la viUle de DOMONI.
e) L'experience de ce projet a pernis de constater que les depassements des
codits avaient pour cause une sous estimation lors des e4tudes. Ces ecarts entre
l'estimation et les co0ts de realisation auraient pu etre reduits si des etudes
geotechniques avaient ete realisees dans les zones douteuses.



III - 1. 2   Entretien  courant
III- 1.2 a)  Tn                 e pronage.
Le projet prevoyait de confier progressivement une partie de plus en plus
importante des travaux d'entretien courant ;k des entreprises. Pour ce faire la
participation de Ia Banque augmentait en valeur au cours des trois premieres
annees du projet tout en diminuant en pourcentage dans sa participation
dans les depenses: 80 %, puis 60 % la seconde ann4e pour se limiter a 40 % la
troisieme annee.
En raison du retard dans le d6marrage du projet, la premiere ann6e
consideree est 1993. En effet, ce n'est qu'a la fin du premier semestre 1993
que le consultant a remis son rapport permettant de definir ce qui sera
confi6 a la grande entreprise, aux P.M.E et aux tAcherons et ce qui sera
excute en regie par les Travaux Publics.
Avant la realisation de ce 3 eme projet, en dehors des chantiers importants
confies a de grandes entreprises, les travaux d'entretien etaient
exclusivement realises en regie par les Travaux Publics.
X1 s'est donc agit de convaincre les agents des DRTP du bien fonde de cette
"petite revolution" et de les preparer a. un nouveau metier qui consiste a
,fvaluer les travaux, a les contractualiser et a en contrcler leur execution au
lieu de les rdaliser en regie. Ces travaux en regie etaient realises sans
v6ritable programmation ni estimation des moyens a mettre en oeuvre.
Le 3 eme Projet a permis de faire evoluer les cadres moyens des T.P. du travail
d'executant ak celui de controleur de travaux et de favoriser la creation
d'entreprises et de tacherons (P.M.E.). Ceci est tres intrressant pour le
d6veloppement durable des Comores sous reserve qu'une disponibilitL
continue des credits permette de maintenir en vie ces P.M.E..
Le nombre d'emplois locaux permanents du secteur prive induit par le projet,
repris dans le rapport de la Banque montre a suffisance l'importance de ce
secteur d'activite, qui etait devenu en 1995 le plus important pourvoyeur
d'emplois prive (922 rien que dans le cadre de ce projet) et pourrait au cours
de la prochaine decennie etre confirme dans ce r6le moteur pour le
d6veloppement du Pays.
A noter que le projet de rehabilitation de l'itindraire Mutsamudu - Sima -
Pomoni (ANJOUAN) finance par le F.E.D. a permis la creation d'environ 300
emplois a partir de juin 1996 jusqu'a. juillet 97, date de suspension des travaux
en raison des (v6nements d'ANJOUAN.
On a constat6 que le nomabre d'emplois de ce secteur est tres disparate suivant
les annees.S'il etait tres important en 1995, eu dgard au marcbh du travail aux
Comores, on n'a malheureusement pas pu mainEenir une activite satisfaisante
des P.M.E. et des tAcherons dans les annaes suivantes.
Une amelioration des possibilites financieres du FER, telle que demand&e par
la Banque depuis 1994, qui devrait porter les credits i un minimum de 30 M
KMF par mois au lieu des 22 M KMF actuels, devrair permettre de creer dans le
secteur des tAcherons et des P.M.E. environ 200 emplois permanents. Ceci sous
entend que cet accroissement des ressources soir reserve aux ddpenses pour
F'entretien courant confi6es aux tAcherons.



III - 1.2.b) Travaux en r62ie
Les DRTP se sont mobilisees de fawon tres inegales pour ce projet aussi bien
dans le temps que geographiquement. D'une faqon generale, on a constate
que la DRTP de Grande Comore a ett celle qui, de 1992 a 1996, s'est le momns
mobilisee pour 1'entretien routier. Ses moyens ont malheureusement souvent
ete affectes a d'autres tAches que celles de l'entretien routier. II a meme fallu
faire appel au concours des DRTP d'Anjouan et de Moheli (en materiel et en
personnel) pour realiser une partie des travaux de preparation des chaussees
qui devaient etre imperativement realises avant le passage de l'Entreprise
COLAS.
A ANJOUAN, la situation n'etait pas bonne jusqu'A la nomination du Directeur
actuel. Cette DRTP a commence a se mobiliser A partir d'avril 95 et son activit4
est alors devenue satisfaisante.. Depuis juillet 97, en raison des evenements
politiques, cette DRTP, pratiquement sans ressource,  ne peut plus
entreprendre normalement les travaux d'entretien courant. Cette situation
est preoccupante car, cette ile connaft d'importants problemes d'erosion
necessitant un entretien plus important qu'en Grande Comore.
Le suivi analytique des coats a demontre qu'il vaut mieux confier les travaux
d'entretien courant, tel que curage des fosses, elagage, entretien des
accotements etc. a des tAcherons et que les P.M. . sont plus appropriees pour
rOaliser les petits travaux de maSonnerie que les DRTP.
Par consequent, il est avantageux que seuls les travaux necessitant un
materiel dont ne disposent pas les P.M.E. (point a temps, degagement des
eboulements, entretien des routes non revetues, etc.) continuent A etre
realises par les DRTP tant quelles disposeront d'un parc materiel suffisant.
III - 1.3  Intervention sur les yonts (FAC)
a) R(maration des ponts (55 ponts ont 6t6 concernes)
Afin de promouvoir les P.M.E, les travaux de maconnerie, de technicit(
limit4e, onit et confi#s, apres appel d'offres, a des PME La plupart, de ces PME
nouvellement creees, n'avaient que peu d'experience des marches publics.
Quant aux cadres des T. P. charges de contr6ler ces travaux, ils avaient eux
aussi un reel besoin de formation dans ce domaine.
Des stages a la DDE de la Reunion organises en 1995 leur ont permis
d'acqudrir de bonnes bases sur ce travail.
La reparation des tabliers des ouvrages, necessitant l'emploi de techniques
sophistiquees utilisees pour la premi&re fois aux Comores, a ete confi6e, apres
appel d'offres, A 1' entreprise COLAS. Un r6el transfert de Technologie a pu
s'effectuer entre la DDE de la Reunion, l'entreprise et les contr6leurs des T.P..
principalement en ge qui concerne les b6tons projet4s, l'utilisation de
mortiers speciaux et la r6alisation de lI'tanchditd des tabliers des ponts.
b) Reconstruction des Ponts (14 ponts)
Ces travaux, confies apres appel d'offres A l'entreprise COLAS ou ete realises
dans de bonnes conditions et des economies, realisees en cours de chantier,
ont permis de reconstruire deux petits ouvrages supplementaires.
Pour 1'ensemble de ce projet FAC, les travaux ont et4 exAcutds sans
depassement des credits.



III - 1.4   Causes du retard dans  e
- mise en vigueur du credit en avril 92 alors que l'accord de credit avait
ete signd' en mars 1991, soit plus d'un an apr(s, ce qui justifie deiA le
report de la date de cl6ture d'environ 12 mois.
- le delai d'execution du projet etait principalement conditionne par
lVexecution des travaux d'entretien pCriodique confies A 1'entreprise.
Or le demarrage de ceux-ci etaient eux memes conditionnes par
l'actualisation de l'evaluatlon et la lpreparation des dossiers de
consultation des entreprises.
Le bureau d'etudes, recrute de, gre A gre, avait et6 consult6 pour
remettre son offre des le 12 mai 1992, en raison de ses reponses
tardives, ce n'est que le 8 novembre qu'ilL a remis le projet de contrat A
la DGTP. Le marche n'a pu etre notifie que le 22 janvier 1993. On peut
estimer a eaviron sept mois le ddrapage par rapport A un
chronogramme acceptable.
- Coompte tenu des grandes difficultos connues pour rester dans
l'enveloppe dcu projet pour ces travaux, les dossiers de consultation,
qui auraient dfa dtre fournis par la SECMO-O1 fln avril 1993, ont 6t6
acheves beaucoup plus tard puisque les D. C. E: n'ont pu 6tre expedies
aux entreprises preselectionndes que! fin fevrier 1994. On peut
estimer A six mois le retard sur ce point
- par aiiUleurs on peut estimer que cinq mois ont aussi ete perdus entre la
remise des off.res des entreprises (le 5 avril 94) et la non objection de
la Banque sur le choix de l'attributaire du marche apr6s modification
de l'analyse par le Gouvernement en date du 6 octobre 94.
- la suspension g6n6rale des d6boursements des credits IDA aux Comores,
en raison du retard dans le service de la dette du Gouvernement, a
freine le projet entre fin juillet 96 et fm novembre, soit sur 4 mois.
Sans tcenir compte d'autres elments, dont l"impact est nettement moins
important, on constate que le cumul des retards citCs ci-dessus depasse les 30
mois correspondant A l'ecart entre la date de cl6ture nitidale (30/12/95) et la
date de cldture effective du projet (31/12/97).
III - 2    Entretien materiel. achat dctiuement et fournitures
a) RMhabilitation et entretien du mat4riel des T:ra. Publics
Le projet prevoyait la rehabilitation d'une partie du mat6riel des T.P., en
particulier celui qui est destine A l'encretiert routier (34 engins sur uxi parc
de 67). Un appel d'offres avait dte lanc6 pour' trouver un partenaire pour
assister les T.P. a effectuer la remise en eta, de ce materiel, assurer la
fourniture de pieces ddtach6es sur deux ans et .liorer les performances du
personnel par des actions de formation.
Les performances du titulaire n'ont pas donne toute satisfaction A la DGTP en
raison de retards importants enregistres dans la rChabilitation de certains
engins et d'une insuffisance pour la formation. Le personnel du titulaire
avait la qualification requise en tant que "mecanicien" mais insuffisante en
tant que "formateurs".



Du cote des T.P., le niveau des mecaniciens permanents ne permettait sans
doute pas, pour certains, de suivre le niveau des cours rhdoriques qui leur
auraient permis de se perfectionner reellement.
La gestion des ateliers n'a pas ete uniforme dans les trois DRTP. Par exemple,
on constare en Grande Comore la disparition d'une bonne partie de l'outillage
acquis alors qu'A Moheli il n'y a eu que peu de manquants,
Le probleme du management des parcs materiel et en particulier des ateliers
de reparation resie un point faible des DRTP sur lequel il sera necessaire de
prevoir des r4formes.
A F'achevement du projet on peut estimer A environ 70 96 le taux de
disponibilitA du mat6riel qui a ete r6habilit ou acquis depuis 1993.
Cependant la situation est en cours de degradation en raison du manque de
moyens financiers pour rdaliser un entretien normal des engins. Il convient
egalemenr de souligner le vieillissement du matEriel dont la date
d'acquisition depasse pour plus de 80 96 d'entre eux les 12 ans.
b) Achat de mat6riel T.P. et 60ui2ement en Bureautigue.
L'acquisition de matEriel neuf de travaux publics a Ete limlte au strict
miniimum pour permettre aux DRTP d'assurer }'entretien courant des routes.
La DGTP grace aux possibilites offertes par le Projet (AID + FAC) a eu la
possibilite de s'equiper convenablement aussi bien en vehicules de liaison
qu'en materiel de bureau et en particulier en materiel informatique.
La DGTP tient a rappeler qu'avant 1992 elle ne disposait d'aucun ordinateur n i
de personnel forme a leur utilisation. Elle tient a souHigner que cet effort
d'informatisation a ameliorE sensiblement les conditions de travail des
ingenieurs et leur a permis, au flu de ces quatre dermiares annees, de devenir
plus performants dais la gestion de projets.
III - 3    Services de consultants - Inudes
a) =ude "entretien idriodigue"
n1 a dEj& eet fait Etat du contrat de consultant pour l'etude d'actualisation de
l'evaluation du projet et d'assistance d'appoint pour les travaux d'entretien
periodique confid au bureau SECMO-O0 (Cf paragaphes III .1.1 et m . 1.4.).
b) netude luftructures. Tourisme,       em_=.
Avec l'appui du consultant HELIOS, une r6flexion sur la croissance
Economique des Comores basee sur le developpement du tourisme et les
implications dans le secteur des infrastructures et la protection et la mise en
valeur de l'environnement, a pu etre elabor6e.
La dEclaration de politique g6Enrale de developpement du Tourisme, a ere
adoptee et reste k mettre en oeuvre par le Gouvernement.
Le furur projet, en cours de preparation, "Infrastructure, Eau et
Environnement" tient compte des recommandations de cette Etude.
c) -tude d'Urbanisme (P.D.U. de Moroni)
Cette ltude, conflee au Cabinet "BETURE CONSEL;" a permis, non seulement de
disposer d'une cartographie des principales localitEs des Comores



(inexistantes auparavant), mais surtout de r6aliser un Plan Directeur
d'Urbanisme de l'agglomeration de MORONI.
Les problemes d'assainissexnent du centre ville ont ete tudi6s et un projet de
drainage a et6 realise au niveau A.P.S. Cette etude doit permettre au
Gouvernetnert et aux bailleurs de fonds de definir le cadre de leurs
prochaines interventions.
d) L'ttude d'elargissement de certains tronqons de route et de contournement
de quelques villages, a e!e reportee, elle est actuellement financee sur le
P.P.F. du projet "Infrastructure, Eau et Environnement".
e) L'tude sur la onrivatisation de Ia gestion des Varcs des Travaux Publics, qui
devair etre fixnancee par le PNUD, n'a pu etre realisee. Les fonds du PFNUD
ayants 6t6 utilises pour la preparation de l'dlection presidentielle. n serait
souhaitable que cette etude soit financee sur le PPF du projet
"Infrastructures, Eau et Environnement".
III - 4    Formation du versonnel
La DGTP a et& particulierement sensible A la nicessitr d'entreprendre des
actions de formation pour ses cadres suprieurs ex ses adjoints techniques.
Pour les Parcs, la formation a surtout ete realisee pour les mecaniciens.
L'assistance du PNUD a pernis la mise A disposition d'un VNU entre aofit 92 et
aouit 95 pour ameliorer la gestion administrative et comptable des Travaux
Publics. A noter que pour ce qui concerne le PNSUD, l'6tude sur l'amelioration
du systeme de gestion des parcs et ateliers des DRTP nta pas et financ4e.
Le Coordonnateur du Projet, mis a disposition par la Cooperation francaise a
permis d'elaborer le plan de formation dont a beneficie le personnel des
Travaux Public entre 1993 et 1997. Par ailleurs, il a transmis son experience
aux cadres et ingenieurs de la DGTP pour ce qui est de la gestion des marches
publics, du controle des Eravaux etc.
Le concours de plusieurs bailleurs de foncls a pet-mis de r6aliser ce
programme soutenu par la Banque, la Cooperation Francaise, et dans une
moindre mesure le PNUD (3 stages de courte duree) et l'Union Europeenne (2
stages de courte duree).
Au cours de ces cinq derni6res annees le personnel suivant a bdn4fici6 au
moins une fois d'actions de formation continue:
- La totalirt des ingenieurs (soit 8) non compris celui recrutr en 97.
- Plus de la moitie des Adjoints Techniques des DRTP et de la DGTP
soit 9 d'entre eux (en principe les plus mdritmxts)
- La totalirt du personnel du service Administratif et financier (6 agents).
- Les Chefs de parcs ou leurs adjoints ainsi que des mecaniciens,
electriciens etc. (soft 6 agents en dehors des Comores et douze agents
en formation sur place par H. FRAISE).
Ces actions de formation ont ete b4n(fiques, il faudra les poursuivre car la
formation du personnel doit etre continue mais evolutive. II convient
toutefois de veiller A ce que cette formation soil: reservee aux agents les plus
serieux afin que le gain soit reel pour les Travaux Publics.



IV    ENSEIGNEMENTS A TIRER DE L'EXP&RENCE DU PROJET
Le Gouvernement et la DGTP ont degraisse les effectifs des Travaux Publics en
1991 (avant le demarrage du projet) en les reduisant de pres de 400 agents.
Les effectifs qui etaient de 671 agents debut 91 sont passes k 296 agents en
1992, pour se reduire a 231 agents au 31/12/97 dont setlement 68 payes par la
F.O.P. Soit une diminution de 440 agents entre 1991 et 1997.
CeTte reduction s'est effectuee sans nuire a. l'efficacite des T.P. mais au
contraire en la renforcant grace au transfert des travaux d'entretien
courant, precedemment effectues en rdgie, vers des tacherons et des P.M.E.
Grzlce aux actions de formation, les T.P sont devenus:
- plus performants en gestion de projets (infor-natique, inventaires,
planification etc.)
- plus performant en supervision et controle des travaux sur le terrain.
- plus performant pour la reparation des equipements des T.P., ce qui
devrait faciliter le passage a une autonomie de gestion des parcs (ou a
une privatisation de la gestion).
Une preparation de projet plus affinee, en realisant les etudes de faisabilite
avant d'arreter le contenu du credit, devrait permettre d'eviter les surprises
au niveau des colats et de contenir les delais d'execution sans dtrapage
important.
V    CONCLUSIONS
V - 1 Avis sur l'inforrnation statistiaue du Rarnort de la Banciue
La partie statistique du rapport de la Banque n'appelle pas de commentaire
particulier. Elle montre que ce projet etait economiquement interessant pour
la R.F.I. des Comores et qu'il a Cte reafise de faion satisfaisante.
V- 2 Commentaires sur l'analvse de la Banaue
Les commentaires de la Banque sont dans l'ensemble pertinents et pour la
plupart notre analyse est en concordance. Les points qui nous semblent les
plus importants, dans le but d'ameliorer les performances des deux parties
lors d'un futur projet sont les suivants:
- une meilleure preparation des projets devraient permettre
d'ameliorer l'adequation entre les crrdits alloues et le programme
prevu et d'eviter les retards dans leur execution.
- i serait trs utile de rdduire les d61ais entre I'Avaluation du projet, sa
mise en vigueur et son debut reel d'ex6cution. Ceci afin de limiter
l'importance des degradations des infrastructures concernees.
- une approche multi-bailleurs des besoins du pays est necessaire afin
que la programmation des diff4rents projets prenne en compte le
fait qu'il faut eviter autant que faire se peut les periodes de forte
activite puis de recession dans les diff6rents secteurs de l'dconomie
er en particulier dans celui du B.T.P. qui est un des principaux
createur d'emplois mais peut devenir un pourvoyeur de ch6meurs.



- L'amxlioration des performances pour la gestion de ce secreur passe
par la n6cessiti d'avoir une structure alleg6e, qui pourra suivre la
totalit du secteur (multi-bailleurs) et qui ne sera pas trop
dependante des differentes influences possibles. Une autonomie
financi&re et de gestion est donc emine-mment souhaitable.
- Le plan de formation a eu des impacts rres positifs sur l'amelioration
de la capacitd de la DGTP. La formation est d'autant plus efficace
lorsqu'elle est definie par une assistanace technique, bien integrde
dans les equipes nationales, qui connait avec precision les besoins
prioritaires et les motivations des candidats. Cette m6thodologie doit
etre poursuivie dans les futurs projets.
V - 3 Ivaluation de l'action de la Bangue
Ainsi qu'il a t indiqu6 pr&cddement, le point: faible est incontestablement
l'insuffisance de preparation du projet qui a conduit a une sous estimation
des coOts.
Cette insuffisance a Ot prise en compte par la Banque pour la preparation du
projet "Infrastructures, Eau et Environnement" pour lequel les etudes
prdvues devraient permetrre une excellente preparation du projet.
Les autres difficultes rencontrees avec la Banque au cours de ce projet
n'dtaient pas de grande importance. On peut toutefois noter:
- qu'une am6lioration des delais devrair drreu possible enitre la demande de
reapprovisionnement du compte special el: l'arriv&e des fonds.
- les communications entre la Banique et l'emprunteur ne sont pas assez
rapides. Les transmissions de dossiers, meme expedies par courrier
express, ne sont pas fiables. II serait utile que la Banque, des que
possible, aide le projet a s'affilier aux services d'INTERNET.
V - 4 evaluation des Derformances du Minist6re de 1'A. T. U. L et de la DGTP
Le maintien d'une equipe coh4rente au niveau de la DGTP a ete un facteur
d6terminent A la bonne marche de ce projet.
Les diff6rents Ministres, sous la tutelle desquels s'est ddroule le projet, ont
toujours soutenu la Banque et la DGTP aupres des plus haures Autorites du
Pays. Ceci a permis k plusieurs reprises de cLebloquer des situations qui
semblaient figees et qui auraient dt( prejudiciables au Projer.
V - 5 Oualitd des relations entre Ia Banque et le MiTUL
Le relations ont ete tout A fait satisfaisantes tout au long de 1'ex4curion du
projet, ce qui a permis de trouver des solutionLs aux difficult6s rencontrees
dans des dalais raisonnables et dans l'int&r& du projet. Les relations actuelles
sont bonnes et toujours constructives.
Le ui4e l'Amfnagement du Territoire,
,*  ;' Ftirtismet   Log,ement,
W t ~~TAMOU



APPENDICE C
MAPS



COMOROS                                                              I                                              |mime
ANJOUAN
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT                                                                Hajoho
ROAD SYSTEM
b A         ~~~Harembo   j
<                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~MUTSA UD  Jorntsi  OKDdron Bandabeli\
Bim iim\  Ko m b Col De   Ongon
_~~~~ Soimoi                                                      BaziminlP
lVlilemberil   ngoueni                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~simbe    Dziani  OBambao
Mt. N'Tingui                     M'Romagi
ROADS:                                                                          ngoni
Surfaced National - Periodic and Routine Maintenance                                                      Ajaho        moni
Surfaced Regional - Periodic and Routine Maintenance                       moni                 Ouzi
-     Surfaced National - Routine M4aintenance                                                                   Oijtsa   M 4'Ro saandzeni
-1   Surfaced Regional - Routine Maintenance                                                                Ad
Unsurfaced National                                                                 o
-S     Surfaced Regional                                                                            ngani               M'  Hankornbe
'    Bridge or Culvert                                                                                         Gu
0   Towns                                                                                                        Dziann
,,0 5 \ 35 TANZANIA  Grand  44         48                                               0      2            6      8                           i 
CoMore                                                                            Ki LOMETEKS
fi MAI(AR, JANT s
o ' t> ) ~~~~~40         i     44 a_ X3a f.  
C _________________                                 ____________________________A________,________Chiro_   A



COMOROS
Hoanl 
MOH ELI
'            tg ~~~~<\,M~~  'Batse                                                                   MHL
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Kmba   N'Gamaroumbo            >>.'FOMBONI                                              ROAD SYSTEM
Chiconi'O
Bangoma    >,
Miringoni                                                     x2
Djoiezi';
0 0 0 '>9i~~Ouallah  2; :    :  
}  0   ) \<  M'B;oinifouingue  Ziroudan         4.,   a                   . Hagnamoida
|-                    j  N'Drondoni                                              Si   '   RR 02       Kanani r
-Moihani
Nioumachoua                                 PW0sambia                                    ltsamia
'/2/                            ~~~~~~~Hagnengee
. /.
0       2        4        6        8        10
KILOMETERS
ROADS:
Surfaced National - Periodic and Routine Maintenance                ____
Surfaced National - Routine Maintenance                         :36 TANZANIA                    Grand  44           48'
Unsurfaced National                                                                            omAr/Anuai1-
Surfaced Regional                                                                   I           C  ;  L   MattM tj
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MZMIt                                                                                                   X. 



iRRD 22137
Bango[-                               COMOROS
GRANDE COMORE
Mitsamic-uli               ilemaniIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Fassi              41.         R6122                                     ROAD  SYSTEM
Djomani   M'ChnKoua                      Chezani       Hantsindzi
RR 106       Helendje
-               me aoueni                    Hadjambou
N'Tsaoueni        Moidja             RR 128 Moidj
. R ol           Dimmbenadju     .- Itsandzeni         Surfaced National - Periodic and Routine
Domoni D~ E2omoni        BambadJani  Bouni              '       Maintenance
i   /   M'Benif                   Surfaced National - Periodic and Routine
l SMagoudjou                     Z                      Maintenance with Road Markings
MI'Noungou                             Surfaced Regional - Periodic and Routine
Maintenance
ievan          Heroumbili                             Surfaced National - Routine Maintenance
Hahaia            n
Surfaced Regional- Routine Maintenance
J EIStBibavoud'                                          with Road Markings
Surfaced Regional
Vanamboin(! I     Vanadjou        MNTsamdou                                    Surfaced Regional with Road Markings
\ I _ De~~~~epot Ge 
Dzhdou           Koimbaj,   g   adje
Unsurfaced Regional
Bandamadj                       ajBridge or culvert
Itsandra    O1eiaoueni                           Sidjo
(> t 1 \- . o~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Towns
MORN               ..                                              .
Idjikounzi
/   zz,l  t \>M'Vouni                   Tsangadijou
Iconi         Mkazi                        Kartala
OVo svouni                    2361 m.
Moindzaza    09  Boboni                                       Pidjani
Mdz   ndzaza   Boude Adjou.
r ;Bandamadji
- Nioumadzaha                         Tsinimoipanga
X   \  I 11  Nioumbadjou 
Sal;mani      117. D joumoichongo
Mitso dje
so-  M *^MDjoyezi                         M
~~~~~~~~~~~BaTsnmchngo                                                          -            KNKiolurhanizagha
jpphgs.,p ee~b                        S[gn                                ourani
ura onerr,   rn   in                                                            e
XMemi~  r and                                                    Go ngou ueMal
su           ~~~ccepence ot fXs,,
/  4  36 TANZANIA    rI  _ Ifoundadjou  Jouroveni
a~~~~~rn
LaK 9  ;        ~       < Ccmoret,                                                            AmborniClindini
EKE, l1g                       Moheli  Anjoanot             12'-
' CL      7MOZAMQUE rCOMORS  M                       r
^   \        ~~~40'          44'            40'
JULY 1 990



