Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C.2 207- co'i
Report No. 8766-COM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
December 26, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution nd may be and by recpits only In dhe peiforuzeaof |
their offica duties. Its conents may not odtwse be disclosed withou Wodd Bank autorozftion



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit              -         Comorian Franc (FC)
US$1                       G         FC 250 (December 1990)
The Comoros are part of the CFA zone
Weights and Measures
1 kilometer (km)                 0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)   -    0.386 sq.mile
Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms
AfDB      African DevelopmenttBank
AfDF      African Development Fund
DGTP      Direction Generale des Travaux Publics (General Directorate of
Public Works)
DRTP      Direction Regionale des Travaux Publics (Regional Directorate of
Public Works)
EEC       European Economic Community
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Aid Fund)
EDF       European Development Fund
FER       Fonds d'Entretien Routier (Road Maintenance Fund)
GOC       Government of Comoros
ILS       Instrument Landing System
MEE       Ministere  de  l'Equipement,   de  l'Energie,   des  Postes  et
Telecommunicatons (Ministry of Equipment, Energy, Postal and
Communications Services)
NPV       Net Present Value
OPEC      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR       Project Completion Report
PEP       Public Expenditure Program
RN        Route Nationale (National Road)
RR        Route Regionale (Regional Road)
SCC       Societe Comorienne de Cabotage (Comorian Shipping Company)
SCH       Societe Comorienne des Hydrocarbures (Comorian Fuel Company)
TOR       Terms of Reference
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
VOC       Vehicle Operating Cost
vpd       Vehicles per day
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONOROS
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Cr%d±t and Project Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . .  .             (i)-(iii)
.I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
A.    Geographic and Economic Setting  . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.    The Transport Sector . .   . . . ...                           2
(i)    The Transport Network . . .                            2
(ii)   Transport Policy Issues and Constraints   . .    3
C.    The Highway Sector   . . . . . .         .*.     *             5
(i)    The Road Network  . . . . . . . . . . . ...            5
(ii)   Road Use  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
(iii)  Organizational Structure, Staffing, Training           7
(iv)   Financing and Road User Charges . . . . .  . o    8
(v)    Planning  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
(vi)   Engineering, Construction and Maintenance   .   10
D.    Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Sector  . . .   12
II.    THE PROJECT                                                          13
A.    Justification and Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . .   13
B.    Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
C.    Cost Estimates . ........ . -  ........   16
D.    Financing  . . .          * ..  * *  *  **  **  *             17
E.    Implementation and Procurement   . . . . . . . . . .   18
F.    Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . *. . . . . .*                19
G.    Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements  . .   21
H.    Environmental Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
I.    Poverty Alleviation Aspects  . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
III.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ...................    22
A.    Benefits and Beneficiaries . . . ........  ..   22
B.    Economic Analysis  .. . ....... .. . . . . -                  23
C.    Sensitivity and Risks  . . . . . ..........    24
IV.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . .   25
This report is based on the findings of two missions which visited Comoros* n October/November 1989 and
September 1990; sembers of the respective missions were (1) J. J. Raoul (Highway Engineer); J. But
(Research Assistant) and S. Thorns (Transport Economist, Consultant) and (11) A. Bel lreau (Principal
Economist) and A. Labeau (Highway Engineer),  im. A. de Lova and Mesrs. S. Bostrom and E. Sebellin
ossisted In preparing the report. Mr. P. Morrie was Lead Advisor for the projet. Mr. M. alonc and
Mr. F. Aguirre-Sacass ore the managing Division Chief and the Department Director, respectively, for the
operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



V. Annexs
1-1. Expenditures in the Highway Subsector
1-2. Public Investment Program
II. Design Standards of Roads
111-1. Program of Periodic Maintenanze of Paved Roads and Bridgoes -
List of Roads - Costs
111-2. Program of Routine Maintenance of Paved Roads - List of Roads -
Costs
IV-1. List of Road Equipment Aquisition
IV-2. List of existing Road Equipment
V-1. TORs of Technical Assistance in DGTP
V-2. Training Plan
VI. TORe
1. Planning and Study Unit
2.  Road Widening and Upgrading Studies
3.  Maritime Sector Study
4. Air Transport Study
5.  Development of labor-based contractors
VII. Economic Analysis
1.  Estimated Vehicle Operating Costs
2. Summary Table of the Economic Evaluation of the Road Project
VIII. Progress Reporting Requirements
IX. Project Implementation Schedule
X. Supervision Plan
XI. Global Financing Plan
XII. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
VI.  Moav
IBID 22135
IBRD 22136
IBRD 22137



- l -
COMOROS
HIGHWAY 9AINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit and Pro1ect Summary
sorrower:       Government of the Federal Islamic Republic of Comoros
Beneficiarl:   Ministry of Equipment, Energy, Postal and Tolecoamunications
Services (MEE)
MAount:         SDR 4.6 million (US$6.6 million)
Terms:          Standard IDA Terms
Proiect Obiectives:
The project's objectives are to: (i; stem the deterioration of the
paved road network about half of which already needs periodic
maintenance (Including bridges), (ii) improve road safety; and
(iii) continue the efforts started under the first and second
highway projects to strengthen the government's road maintenance
operations, increase the private sector participation and establish
appropriate road planning and management.
Prolect Descri,tions
The proposed project would consist of:
(i) a 3-year road maintenance program for (a) the periodic
maintenance by contractors covering a total of about 226 km of
paved roads; (b) the Improvement and reconstruction of unsafe
bridges and retaining walls by contractors; (c) the routine
maintenance of the entire paved road network (467 km) by force
account and gradually by contractors; (d) the repair of the earth
road network to keep it open to traffic;
(ii) improvement of road safety through road marking and signing;
(iii) institutional support to the General Public Works Directorate
(DGTP) including (a) technical assistance to help implement the
physical components of the project; (b) assistance in creating a
planning and study unit; and (c) training.
Whereas most of the project-financed works would be contracted out
to either domestic or foreign contractors, the project would also
finance spare parts and the partial renewal of critical maintenance
equipment to be utilized in force account operations.
Works in (i) above comprise a core program which will be totally
financed by external funds (IDA mainly) and an additional program
to be financed partly by IDA and partly by GOC which would be
undertaken solely as and when local funding is made available.



- il -
Benefits:
Periodic and routine maintenance of paved roads will lower
transport costs and prevent deterioration which would result in the
need for premature reconstruction or rehabilitation. The repair of
earth roads and bridges would avoid the cost of road closures,
reduce transport costs and increase the reliability of service.
The project also envisages the repair of road drainage facilities,
which should reduce erosion and flood risks. With the assistance
of technical experts, the project will develop and enforce
standards for limiting the potential negative impact of road works
on the environment. Maintenance of the paved road network will
ensure easy access to and from markets which will facilitate the
distribution of agricultural inputs and outputs and encourage
agricultural production. The labor-intensive routine maintenance
works will also provide employment for the rural and urban poor.
Risks:
The risks involved are (i) the ability of GOC to provide its
financial contribution to the project end (il) the ability of the
DGTP to implement the project. These risks would be mintw;zed
through (i) adjustment of a portion of the program (addit...' al
program) in line with the demonstrated financial capacity of the
government, and (ii) recourse to contractors for the major road
works and, technical assistance to compensate for the staffing
weaknesses of DGTP in monitoring contractors and organizing works
by force account.
Prolect Cost:
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.3 million
equivalent with foreign costs of about US$7.9 million and local
costs of US$3.4 million. The detailed cost and financing plan are
in the following table.



(iii)
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN I!
(US$ MILLION)
Local Foreign Total ForeJgn
A - THREE YEARS ROAD PROGRAM
I - PERIODIC MAINTENANCE (UNDER CONTRACT)       1.18     3.47     4.66       75X
Core program :                          0.71     2.61     2.72       ?4X
- Periodic maintenafne of roads       6.62     1.55    2.07        75%
- Brtdges and retaining wal.a         0.19    0.46      0.65       7SX
Additional Program :                    0.44     1.32      1.76      76X
(Periodic maintonance of roads)
Road Marking                            O.04     0.14      0.18      80X
II - ROUTINE MAINTENANCE
1.14     1.5W     2.04      sox
Equipment spare parts, mat.             9.95     1.4       1.89    lOX
Force account (Wages,fuel,fixed costs) 0.82      0.01     0.83       80X
Routine maintenance under contract      0.27     0.15      0.42      35%
8.   WSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
I -  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                       0.28     0.91      1.14     8on
II - TRAINING                                   0.01     0.17     0.18       9SX
Fellowships                             0.00    0.14      0.14      100X
Training in Comoros                     0.01    0.03       0.04      80X
C -  STUDIES                                            6.18     0.24      0.40      6ox
TOTAL (CONTINGENCIES EXCLuDED)                          2.71      6.29     9.91      JOX
Physical contingencies 19%                              0.27      0.83    0.90
Price contingencles 25X                                 0.41    0.94       l.8s
GLOBAL COST                                             8.89      7.87    11.26      7OX
Local  Foreign   Totel    Share
IDA             1.8      5.5.0    6.67     s8%
UNDP            0.13    0.56      6.69      OX
Finaneing Plan                    FAC             0.29     1.68      1.97     17X
Government      1.91    0.13      2.04     18%
Total           8.39     7.87    11.26    109%
1/ Costs are net of taxes which are estimated at FC 4.2 million (US$13,000 equivalent).



MED-RAL ISLANIC REPUBLIC OF CCIOROS
DIGEWAY WAINTEWNACE PROJECT
I. TUE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geoaraphic and Economic Settizs
1.01    The Comoros archipelago is located at about equal distance between
Madagascar and Tanzania at the northern end of the Mozambique Channel. The
Federal Islamic Republic of Comoros consists of three main islands: Grandt
Comore, Anjouan and Moheli, with a total lar4 area of 1,861 km2. Mayotte,
the fourth main island of the archipelago, has remained under French
administration. The islands are volcanic in origin and are characterized by
rugged topography and steep, rocky coastlines.   Rich soils, a tropical
climate and a six-month rainy season, produce a luxuriant vegetation.
1.02    The Republic has a populatioa (1989) of around 456,000 with a growth
rate of 3.37Z. Population density is hlgh and the pressure on agricultural
land is intense.   Deforestation and soil erosion are becoming serious
problems, especially on Anjouan which has a population density on
agricultural land of over 500 persons/km2. Incomes are low: (per capita GNP
of around US$460) and with high unemploymernt, widespread malnutrition and
inadequate medical facilities.
1.03    The Comoros is predominantly a rural econorq, highly dependent on
external trade and assistance. More than 35 percent of GDP is derived from
agriculture and 25 percent from trade. Agriculture provides over 701 of
employment and almost all export earnings. The economy is highly dependent
on three export commodities -- vanilla, ylang-ylang, and cloves -- facing a
volatile world market. Because of rudimentary agricultural practices and an
inadequate marketing system, food production is insufficient to meet local
requirements and the country has been importing increasing quantities of rice
and meat. The manufacturing sector, which contributes less than 5 percent
to GDP, consists primarily of the processing of export crops and a few small
factories supplying the domestic market. Tourism is still at an incipient
stage.
1.04    GDP growth declined from over 4Z in the early 1980s to 0.4% in 1989,
reflecting a reduction in aid-financed construction. The Comoros is still
highly dependent on foreign aid to balance an acute current account deficit
(around 202 of GDP in recent years), provide investment and support public
reaurrent expenditure. As a consequence of the surge in public investment
ii. the early 1980s, total external debt rose rapidly from US$68 million in
1982 to US$162 million at the end of  1989.   Scheduled debt service
obligations were estimated to be about 232 of export earnings in 1989.
Because of the public finance difficulties, domestic and external arrears are
accumulating and by end-1989, they reached US$21 million and US$29 million,
respectively.
1.05    The size, resource base and isolation of Comoros limit its potential
for increased economic growth.  With a program of government austerity,
diversification of exports, re-orientation of agricultural production and



considerable foreign assistance, In ths form of new funds and debt relief,
a moderate GDP growth of 2.5S to 3X a year could be foreseen during the next
five-year period.
B. The Transort Sector
(i) The Transport Network
1.06    The geography of the Comoros inevitably imposes severe problems for
both domestic and International transport. The islands are mountainous and
the rugged terrain makes road construction expensive. The volcanic soils and
the heavy rainfall result in the rapid deterioration of low cost unpaved
roads. Shipping is essential for both domestic and international trade but
the rocky coastlines provide virtually no natural harbors.  The limited
volume of International trade and the country's isolation from the main
shipping routes severely restrict the frequency of scheduled shipping
services.
1.07    Since independence, substantial improvements have been made to both
the size and quality of the transport infrastructure. The road network has
been extended on all the islands and most areas are now either connected to
the network or within reasonable walking distance. A deepwater port has been
constructed on Anjouan to handle liner shipping and improved maritime
facilities are being provided on Grande Comore. The international airport on
Grande Comore can handle wide-bodied aircraft and the Comoros is served by
both regional and intercontinental flights.  In most respects the infra-
structure is now adequate and priority mast be given to its maintenance.
Ports and Shipping
1.08    The maritime sector plays a vital role in both international and
domestic trade. Conference line ships provide regular monthly service but
bulk imports such as rice, cement and petroleum products are brought by
infrequent international or regional charter vessels. Inter-island transport
is provided by the Ylang-Ylang, a 400 mt roll-on-roll-off vessel landing
craft tank (LCT) recently purchased by the Societe Comorienne de Cabotage
(SCC), the Choungui, a 250 mt I-eacher recently built by a Belgian company,
and a fleet of small motorized vedettes and sailing schooners which have a
total capacity of about 560 mt.  The Ylang-Ylang, the Choungui and the
smaller boats also carry passengers.
1.09    Port  infrastructure  has  been  Improved  considerably  since
independence.   A deepwater port has been constructed at Mutsamudu, on
Anjouan, replacing the need for lighterage. Mutsamudu is intended as the
entry port and distribution center.   Container handling is, however,
cumbersome and more appropriate equipment is required. Facilities are also
being improved at Moroni, on Grande Comore. When completed the port of
Moroni will be able to handle ships of 1500 mt alongside. Larger ships, such
as those carrying rice, will still be worked at mooring.



1.10    Moheli, the smallest Island, has no conventional port.  Its limited
traffic is carried by the small vedettes and schooners which are beached at
Fomboni. The new Choungui, which Is designed to meet the shallow-draft
landing conditions of Noheli, is expected to provide regular traffic with
Moheli.
Civil Aviation
1.11    The  international  airport  at  Hahaya,  on  Grande  Comore,  was
constructed in 1974 and has since been extended to handle wide-bodied
aircraft. International and regional airlines now provide regular services
to Europe, Eastern and Southern Africa, and other islands in the Indian
Ocean. International air passenger traffic has increased since 1980 at an
average annual rate of 12.82 and there has also been a marked- increase in
air-freight to around 1,500 tons per annum.
1.12    Air transport is of considerable domestic importance. Passengers can
be carried by sea but services are either irregular, slow or, during certain
,eriods of the year, hazardous. Air Comores provides regular services to
both Anjouan and Moheli using its F27 and carried 28,000 passengers in 1988.
The flight time between the islands is short and the utilization of the F27
is limited; nevertheless, the company recovers fully allocated costs on these
domestic routes. The airport on Anjouan, the second most populous island,
is located between the sea and a mountain; it can only be used under visual
flight rules without any prospect for improvement.
Roads and Road Transport
1.13    Conditions in the highway sector are described in Section C.
(ii) Transport Policy Issues and Constraints
1.14    The Comoros inherited a rudimentary infrastructure at independence
and it was inevitable that a significant proportion of investment would be
allocated to its development. Considerable improvements have been made and,
in general,  the Comoros now has an adequate transport network.   The
Government still proposes, however, further substantial investment in
additional transport facilities. In view of the financial constraints and
the pressing needs in other sectors of the economy, careful consideration
must be given to the priority of such projects (see para. 4.01 (a)).
1.15    Coordination between transport modes is not a major problem.  Road
transport provides intra-island movement and inter-island freight is carried
by sea. Passengers are carried between the islands by both air and sea but,
given the substantial differences in the price and quality of service, there
is little effective competition between the modes. The main policy issues
are consequently found within each transport sub-sector.   This should
simplify transport plannirg with the director general of public works
responsible for roads and other infrastructure and the Ministry of Transport
responsible for the maritime and aviation sectors operations. However, a



- 4 -
technically stronger Ministry of Transport, able to co-ordinate activities
in the sectors nominally under Its authority, would be advantageous. An
improved mechanism for overall review of investment plans and budgets is also
needed (see paras. 1.32 and 4.01 (a), (A) and (k)).
The Hibhway Sector
1.16    In comparison to other least-developed countries the Comoros has now
a well developed road network. Additional road capacity may be required on
short sections around the capital, Moroni, but In general maintenance rather
than construction is the priority (para 4.01 (h)). In the past, several
projects with limited ecoromic justification have been constructed with
extra-budgetary funds. Such funds must be included within the budget as
coordinated road planning is essential If maximmt benefit J8 to be obtained
from the limited resources available (para 1.31). A few areas are still
relatively inaccessible and there may be potential economic and social
benefits from connecting these areas. However, construction costs are high,
potential b.mefits limited and the dangers of further environmental
degradation significant. Under these conditions any new road construction
should only be considered as part of an integrated project covering both
economic development (para. 4.01 (a) and (i)) and environmental protection
(para. 2.21).
The Maritime Sector
1.17    An efficient, low cost maritime sector is essential for the economic
development and integration of the Comoros.   The sector has received
substantial investment and it is essential that the economy obtains the full
benefits. A number of important issues need to be resolved:
-  the utilizatior  f available shipping capacitys the new LCT, the
Ylang-Ylang and the small ship sector
-  the most cost-effective means of improving access to Moheli
-  the appropriate level of cost recovery in the ports
-  a clear definition of the roles of each organization involved in
port operations.
To assist the government in resolving these issues a co-ordinated study of
the ports and shipping sector is proposed (para 2.09).   Draft terms of
reference for the study are given in Annex VI-3.
Civil Aviation
1.18    The government is proposing a number of improvements to Hahaya
Airport, including extensions to the parking apron and an aircraft hangar.
While some additional facilities may be justified, Immediate replacement of
the Instrument Landing System (ILS), Installed in 1974, must have absolute
priority. In terms of strategic planning, the development of domestic air
transportation and the role of Air Comores should be assessed. The F27 is
relatively old but with sufficient maintenance should be serviceable for
several more years. It is not, however, clear whether the F27 is ideal for



-5-
the present and future domestic air transport needs. A smaller aircraft,
making mor. frequent f£iShts between the Islands, might provide a more
desirable service, especially if tourism expands to Anjousa and Hoheli. The
use of smaller aircraft might also avoid additional investment on Anjouna.
Proposed terms of reference for a study of Air Comores and domestic aviation
proposed under the project (para. 2.09) are attached in Anvex VI-4.
C. aTe lishwav Sector
(i) The Road Network
1.19    The road network has been improved substantially since independence.
The develo,ulent of the network is shown in Table 1.1. Since 1978 there has
been no change in the sixe of the classified network but the proportion of
paved roads has increased from 461 to 64X. Most paved roads are 4 metors
wide or narrower, so that even on the most densely used sections around
Moroni vehicles normally reduce speed when passing on-coming vehicles.
Table 1.1: DEVELOPMENT OF THE ROAD NETWORK, 1972-1987
(km)
Grande Comore      Aniouan          Moheli           Total
Paved Total     Paved Total      Pavad Total     Paved Total
1972       125   261        79   134          3    88        207   483
1978       201   392        106   240        34   102        341   735
1983       226   392        140   240        60   102        426   735
1987       248   392        158   240        60   102        467   735
Percentage
of total    53    53         34    33        13    14        100   100
1.20    The pavement condition of the paved network is still relatively good
even on those roads not re-sealed under the second highvay projecc.  There
are potholes but a more general feature is substantial erosion of the road
shoulders, a serious problem for already narrow single-lane roads. Miny of
these roias are now of such an age that rapid deterioration would occur
without a resealing. The condition of the unpaved network Is generally poor,
reflecting the difficulties of maintenance: poor soil conditions, steep
gradients and heavy rainfall. It Is generally agreed that normal maintenance
of unpaved roads is not cost-effective in t.he Comoros (para. 1.34) and
expenditure should be limited in most cases to maintaining basic motorized
access.



-6-
(ii) Road Use
Road Transport
1.21    Accurate  statistics  on  the vehicle  fleet  are  not  avallable.
Estimates can be made on the basis of new vehicle registrations and assumed
vehicle survival rates but government vehicles are exempted from registration
and these may account for 202 to 302 of the fleet.   Overall there are
probably 4,000 - 5,000 vehicles on the Comoros:
Cars and taxis      2 600 - 2 900
Pick-up trucks      1 050 - 1 150
Trucks                350 -   450
There are 100 - 150 vehicles on Moheli and 1,000 - 1,200 vehicles on Anjouan.
The majority of vehicles, about 3,000, are found on the largest island,
Grande Comore.
1.22    There are relatively few trucks and they are almost entirely two-
axle. A vehicle asleload limit of 8 tons was introduced in 1979 but is not
entorced. Paved roads and bridges have thus been constructed with limited
strength. Recently vehicles with the potential for much higher axleloads
have been imported and this trend, unless controlled, could result in
significant road and bridge damage.  During negotiations, the government
submitted a proposal of revised regulations to prohibit the import of heavy
vehicles in excess of 10 tons axle load. This proposal was discussed and
finalized and the government gave assurance that it would be put into
effectiveness by June 30, 1991 (para. 4.02(f)) 1/. These new regulations
remain in line with the actual engineering standards, because of the low
traffic (para. 1.34).
1.23    Except for a few mini-buses on Grande Comoze and Anjouan there is no
organized mass passenger transport. Public transport is provided by shared
taxis in the urban areas and by pick-up trucks elsewhere. Trucks are mainly
operated by the construction industry although small general cargo fleets
serve the ports of Moroni and Mutsamudu. Except for port-related movements
most goods ttansport is provided by pick-up trucks, normally carrying both
passengers and freight.
Road Traffic Flows
1.24    Efforts have been made in recent years to collect traffic flow
information but the results have not been particularly good. Consequently
orders of magnitude rather than precise estimates must be used in transport
planning and analysis. Daily traffic flows In the immediate vicinity of
Moroni are probably in excess of 2,000 vehicles. Elsewhore, traffic flows
are very much lower and are well within the capacity of the single lane
network, as shown in Table 1.2.
1/ Design of bridge rehabilitation and reconstruction will also take into
account the above new regulations of lOT.



Table 1.2:  APPROXIMATE TRAFFIC FLOWSs MAIN ROAD NETWORK
(vehiclestday)
Grande Coir-    West Coast:  Moroni - Airport        1000
Elsewhere          300 - 500
East Coast:  N. of Itaikoudi    150 - 200
S. of Itsikoudi       100
East - West  ( RN 4               200 - 300
Aniouan          Musamudu - Domoni                  200 - 250
Domoni   - Kohani                    1O0
Kohani   - Moja                       20
Moja     - Sima                       50
Sima     - Mutsamudu              100 - 250
Moheli           Fomboni - Nioumachoua               30 - 60
Fomboni - Miringoni                50 - 100
(iii) Organizational Structure, Staffing and Training
Oranizational Structure
1.25    The Ministry of Equipment, Energy, Postal and Telecommunications
Services (MEE) is in charge of all public works through its General
Directorate for Public Works (DGTP).   DGTP administers the road network
including urban streets, with the exception of a limited necwork of feeder
roads which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development. It
establishes construction, improvement and maintenance programs, prepares
economic and engineering studies generally with consultant assistance,
manages contracts for civil works and procurement of equipment, organizes and
supervises force account operations and workshopsl and runs the soils and
materials laboratory. MEE is also responsible for the enforcement of vehicle
regulations and for vehicle registration and inspection. DGTP performs its
functions through three regional directorates (one DRTP for each island),
each of which operates its own equipment and workshop.
1.26    The existing highway organization follows the recommendations of a
consultants' study financed under the first highway project. Technical
assistance experts financed under the first and second highway projects
assisted the government in establishing the procedures for and operations of
the DGTP and the DRTPs. The procedures for cost accounting and for
procurement, storage and maintainance of equipment appears to be operating
in a ststainable way more than two years after the departure of the technical
assistance which helped develop them. Ov the other hand, the procedures which
were developed for programming, budgeting and traffic counting have not been
used since completion of the second highway project. Programming of works
is done on an ad hoc basis, subject to budget availability, and traffic
counts are no longer carried out systematically.



-8-
Staff in
1.27    DGTP has a total of about 679 staff of which 239 are regular civil
servants and the rest are temporary staff. The distribution of staff in the
3 DRTPs is highly uneven, with an overstaffing in Anjousn and an
understaffing in Grande Comore. DGTP has 63 engineers and technicians (of
which three engineers have graduated recently) which would normally suffice
to run its routine maintenance operations. However, several key senior staff
lack the skills required to coordinate, program, supervise and control the
civil works envisaged under the project. Therefore, DGTP will revise the
assignments of some of its higher level staff to ensure that over the project
implementation period responsibilities are given to staff with appropriate
skills. Increasing recourse to the private sector for maintenance works as
envisaged under the proposed project would relieve DGTP's burden of work
execution and allow it to concentrate on its management tasks. To assist
DGTP in shifting its efforts to these managerial tasks, a limited amount of
technical assistance will be needed to help implement the project and train
its staff in these areas, such as programming of works and procurement
procedures (para. 1.28). The technical assistance component of two previous
IDA-financed highway projects had limited impact (para 1.41-42) because of
delays in providing qualified local counterparts. It is expected that this
problem will be minimized since, unlike the other two projects, the proposed
project will not emphasize force account, but control functions, which can
be performed by the existing staff (particularly new recruits) in DGTP.
Trainina
1.28    The Comoros has no higher education facilities for staff in road-
related specialties; the limited size of the road network and the small
number of experts needed do not warrant a specialized training facility.
Higher-level staff, mostly engineers, laboratory technicians and workshop
managers, have been trained abroad and subsequently on-the-job by engineering
consultants and civil works contractors. Thn firsc and second highway
projects followed this pattern by providing assistance to train Comorian
staff. Since most staff, including road technicians, foremen, operators,
skilled laborers, administrators and mechanics, have had some training in
road maintenance, equipment repair and workshop management, they have
acquired the basic skills required to execute their tasks. In fact, since
the early 1980s all maintenance units have been managed in the field by
Comorians. However, DGTP staff are still weak in programming, budgeting and
in organizing and carrying out the maintenance of equipment. In addition,
DGTP's experience in contract management is seriously deficient. Therefore,
the proposed project would assist DGTP in contract management, and continue
to assist in the planning of maintenance activities, equipment maintenance
and on-the-job training of DGTP staff in these areas (para. 2.08).
(iv) Financing and Road User Charges
1.29    Government expenditures in the road sector have been largely funded
by external donors until 1987. Roads construction works have been financed
by bilateral aid (Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and France) and multilateral agencies



- 9 -
(AfDF, IDA, OPEC and EDF). Road expenditures averaged PC 2400 million
(US$9.6 million) per year from 1982 to 1987 of which 85S were financed
externally. The government's direct contribution from general revenue has
averaged 101, but, in the past, profits from the parastatal petroleum
monopoly, SocietS Comorienne des Hydrocarbures (SCH), have also been used for
some road construction. It is estimated that since 1987, when the latest
major road construction was completed, road expenditures have averaged FC 780
million (US$3.1 million) per year of which roughly FC 300 million (US$1.2
million) were financed locally.   With the completion of the basic road
infrastructure, total spending in the sector should stabilize close to that
level. The government will give priority to maintenance rather than new
construction in allocating funds to the road sector (para. 4.02 (a)).
1.30    Government revenue is generated for the road sector through specific
taxes on fuels - FC 13/litre for gasoline and FC 15/litre for diesel - which
are allocated to the Fonds d'Entretien Routier (FER). Potential FER revenues
are estimated at around PC 170 million, well below the annualized routine and
periodic maintenance costs of FC 800 - 1,000 million. The funding of FER is
inadequate and its effectiveness is further reduced by the irregular nature
of the deposits.   During negotiations,  assurance was  given that the
government will take all necessary measures to ensure that sufficient funds,
mainly generated by tax revenues on fuel, shall be transferred to the FER.
These funds shall not be less than the equivalent of $500,000 in 1989 dollars
(i.e. $680,000 in December 1990 dollars or FC 170 million) during execution
of the project (para. 4.02(c)).  A Road Maintenance Fund account will be
opened at the Central Bank and will be operated like a revolving fund with
an initial deposit of FC 40 millions. At the beginning of each quarter, this
account will be replenished up to FC 40 millions by the Treasury; fuel taxes
accruing to the Road Maintenance Fund will allow the Treasury to recover the
quarterly advances. DGTP will be authorized to withdraw from this account
to cover project related expenditures (para. 4.01 (a)).
1.31    Total revenue from road users is, however, greater than the FER.  If
all taxes on fuel related to road transport are considered, the total revenue
amounts to about PC 300 million. This estimate excludes the profits made by
3CH which are now being transferred to the Treasury.   Inclusion of SCH
profits apportioned to fuel used in road transport activities would increase
total road-user revenue by about FC 800 million. Overall, the budgetary
allocation to the road sector represented about 51 of total budgetary
expenditures and around 271 of fuel and transport-related revenues in 1987-
89.
(v) Planning
1.32    National planning is the responsibility of the Ministry of Planning
together with the Ministry of Finance. DGTP does not have a planning group
at the present time and much of its activities are based on consultants'
recommendations coordinated with the help of French technical assistance
(which, however, was discontinued in November 1989). Adequate planning and
programming in the sector have been adversely affected by the implementation
of unbudgeted projects from 1987 to 1989.   More systematic planning is
necessary and the creation of a small planning group (Planning and Studies
Unit) , based around existing personnel, is proposed (paras. 2.08 (ii) and



- 10-
4.01 (d)). It ts expected that with some overseas training and, poss_bly,
some limited technical assistance this group will be able to undertake small
feasibility studies, monitor others and undertake the traffic data collection
which is basic to rational planning. Moreover, a three-year investment and
maintenance program for the transport sector would be updated and submitted
annually to IDA for its review and comments and the comments would be taken
into account by government before approving the program (para. 4.02 (a)).
Under the same assurances, the government will not undertake or order from
any entity or contractor any public investment over US$400,000 equivalent
which is not part of the approved three-year investment and maintenance
program for the transport sector (para. 4.02 (b)).
(vi) Entineering. Construction and Maintenance
Engineering
1.33    DGTP's studies and program section is responsible for the initiation
and execution of feasibility and detailed engineering studies, and carries
out preliminary investigations for minor road and bridge design. A laboratory
for soils and materials testing, established under the first highway project,
assists MEE in performing these functions as well as works supervision.
Feasibility and engineering studies for larger projects exceed the section's
capacity and are therefore carried out by foreign consultants. There are no
domestic consulting firms, except for a local agency of a medium sized French
consulting firm.
1.34    Engineering standards follow French design practices and take into
account traffic volume, maximum axle load (8 t), topographic conditions,
available construction materials and safety requirements (Annex II).
Alignments of Improved roads generally follow existing tracks to m4nimize
earthworks and to take advantage of existing drainage structures. Due to the
rugged topography, curves are sharp and 10 curves per km are frequent, slopes
are as steep as 102 on paved roads and considerably steeper on earth and
gravel roads which makes them extremely difficult to maintain. The width of
earth roads generally is less than 3.0 m, while the width of gravel and paved
roads ranges from 3.5 m for older to 5.5 m for newer roads. Paved surfaces
consist of a double bituminous treatment on a 10-15 cm granular base.
Retaining walls are mostly of masonry whereas bridges, all of which are short
spans, are designed in concrete.
Construction
1.35    Road construction in the Comoros is difficult and expensive. The
terrain is rugged with steep gradieats, and the * ;oblem is compounded by
adverse soil conditions and torrential rains. In addition, mobilization costs
are high relative to the small size of the works. Nearly all equipment,
materials and higher-level technical staff must be imported.
1.36    Traditionally for major road projects, MEE has employed foreign
contractors following suitable prequalification and tendering procedures.
Equipment can be imported duty-free on a temporary basis, and remittances
abroad by contractors are not restricted. Supervision of works is carried out
by. DGTP with the assistance of consultants. In 1986 a local private



- 11-
contracting company owned by Comorian nationals was set up to carry out small
projects initially as a subcontractor for foreign firms. Gradually the
company ocquired the skills, equipment and experience necessary to carry out
earthmoving and bituminous pavement works through subcontracts with larger
firms, direct contracts with government parastatals and private customers.
The government has ordered several new construction, rehabilitation and
resealing works from this contractor which havo been paid for from the budget
and sometimes from extrabudgetary resources (para. 1.29). This company is
now able to compete with foreign contractors for virtually any road contract
in the country. Therefore, it is essential, for prices to remain as low as
possible, that government encourage appropriate competition for work
contracts between the local firm and foreign contractors (para. 2.14).
Maintenance
1.37    The  first  and second highway projects provided the necessary
assistance to resurrect road maintenance operations which had collapsed
completely when France withdrew its experts and other aid at independence.
The DGTP was set up and given responsibility for the maintenance of all main
roads through its three DRTPs (paras. 1.25-26). Technical experts financed
under the projects helped re-establish maintenance procedures andi operations
and provided executive support for carrying out a road maintenance program
and train local staff. Comorian staff gained the basic skills required and
have since taken over most positions which had been filled by technical
assistance experts (para. 1.27-28)
1.38    Maintenance of paved and gravel roads and improvement works on earth
roads were carried out under both projects by patching/resealing and
improvement units assigned to each island and by routine maintenance gangs.
Equipment for these units was provided by the projects and subsequently by
a Japanese equipment grant in 1987. Maintenance of the equipment was and is
still carried out on each island in DRTP's workshop built and equipped under
the first highway project. During the second highway project, it was decided
to transfer the paved road resurfacing activities to contractors after
considering to have them done by force account and realising that DGTP would
not be able to handle this task in addition to its other activities. A
substantial part of the equipment provided to DGTP is still in operation or
could be repaired at a reasonable cost. A list of such equipment is provided
in Annex IV-2. The proposed project would provide financing for spare parts
to repair existing equipment, replacement of selected itms and assistance
by a mechanical expert for the maintenance of the equipment used In force
account operations (para. 2.05).
1.39    Since the completion of the second highway project in 1987 DGTP's
activities have suffered from a severe lack of funding because the FER
resources were appropriated at times by the Treasury and only a small portion
of them were made available on time to DGTP. This has resulted in increasing
delays in payments of contracted staff and constraints for procurement of
supplies for DGTP. Consequently, DGTP's maintenance operations have been
severely disrupted and little work is presently being carried out. As a way
to tap additional resources, DGTP rents its equipment and subcontracts its
quarries to the private sector.



- 12-
1.40    During the same period a local private contractor owned by Comorian
nationals has developed the capacity to execute various activities. Under
the proposed project, it is envisaged to contract out major road and bridge
maintenance vorks on a competitive basis, to gradually introduce the
contracting out of routine maintenance works to small and medium contractors,
and to limit force account operations to routine maintenance, patching of
paved roads and to curative interventions to keep the unpaved roads open to
traffic (paras. 2.13-14).
D. Previous Bank Groui Involvement in the Sector
1.41    The Bank group began lending operations in the Comoros with the first
highway project (Credit 852-COM, US$5 million) which became effective January
29, 1979.  The project included (i) construction of 20.4 km of road and
reconstruction of 0.7 km of main road on Anjouan, (1i) establishment and
operation of maintenance and improvement units, (ii.) Improvement of three
workshops and establishment of a soils laboratory, procurement of equipment,
and on-the-job and overseas training of personnel, and (iv) feasibility and
eangineering studies. The project completion report (No. 4873) of December
30, 1983, concluded that, although the road construction component was
completed satisfactorily, the road improvement and maintenance program was
only partially successful. Problems arose because of: (i) delays in setting
up an adequate public institution for roads; (ii) shortage of local funds due
to slow replenishment of the Road Fund; (iii) shortage of qualified local
counterparts; and (iv) delays in the ordering and delivery of equipment. The
lessons learned from this project were that (i) adequate lead time is
required to set up a functioning public entity and train its staff (the
project three-year-horizon was clearly too optimistic); and (i_) an
appropriate cofinmacing agreement should be arranged prior to credit
effectiveness, when project Implementation is fully dependent on timely
ordering and deVlvery of equipment to be financed from other sources.
1.42    The Bank also co-financed the second highway (maintenance) project
(Credit 1188-COM, US$6.3 million) whicel became effective February 12, 1982.
The project included (i) improvement of 186 km of earth roads to all-weather
standard, (ii) resealing of 240 km of paved roads, (li,) routine maintenance
of improved roads and the paved network, (iv) roorgauisation and strengthen-
Ing of the road units, (v) training and fellowships, and (vi) a study of road
maintenance needs. The present proposed project is largely the result of the
road maintenance study. The PCR, dated March 19, 1990, rates the road works
resulting from this project as satisfactory, given the low levels of
available skills and the weak institutional capacity. However, it does not
consider the institution building component a success, judging from the
insignificant achievement left in place at project completion which could
barely justify the effort undertaken for that particular component. The most
important lesson learned from this project is that future designs of road
maintenance projects with their mix of civil works, technical assistance and
training should address realistically the existing constraints with regard
to local financing capability and local institutional capacity.   Project
objectives should be formulated in the context of these constraints and,
given the present state of institution building in the Comoros, should be set
in a time horizon of at least ten years. The design of the proposed project
has taken these recommendations into account (paras. 2.04-08).



- 13 -
II - THE PROJECT
A. Justification and Objectives
Justification
2.01    Low cost, reliable road transport is essential for the economic and
social development of Comoros.   In view of the rugged coastline and sea
conditions, during certain seasons of the year, shipping would be an
inadequate substitute,  even for the coastal areas.   An adequate road
infrastructure is a necessary condition for the development and maintenance
of economic activity, particularly agriculture, and providing the rural
population with access to markets and educational, medical and administrative
services. International tourism has started with a development on Grande
Comore. If the industry is to expand, diversify and increase its benefit to
the domestic economy, better Internal transport will be necessary.
2.02    C, isderable investments have been made since independene (Annex I-
1) to expand and improve the quality of the road network. The Bank through
the two previous highway projects provided assistance tc the government,
particularly for road maintenance and institutional support to the road
maintenance organization (paras 1.41-42). The proposed highway maintenance
project will continue the maintenance effort started during the previous
projects and will especially focus on periodic maintenance of paved roads and
bridges.
Obi ectives
2.03    The proposed project is aimed at: (i) steming the deterioration of
the paved road network about half of which is already in serious need of
periodic maintenance; (ii) improving road safety; (iii) ensuring continued
access to markets to and from isolated rural areas; (iv) continuing the
efforts started under the first and second highway projects to strengthen the
government's road maintenance operations and establish appropriate road
planning and budgeting with help from technical assistance; and (v) promoting
private sector development in the area of road maintenance works.
B - Proiect Descriition
2.04    The proposed project consists of:
(i) A three-year road maintenance program for (a) the periodic maintenance
on a total   of about 226 km paved  roads,  (b)  the  improvement and
reconstruction of unsafe bridges and retaining w8118 , (c) the routine
maintenance of the entire paved network and (d) repairs on the earth road
network;
($$) Improvement of traffic safety through road marking and signing;
(iii)Institutional support to DGTP including (a) technical assistance to
help DGTP implement the project, (b) assistance in creating a planning and
study unit, and (c) training for its staff; and



- 14 -
(iv) Road-widening studies, transport sector studies and a study on the
promotion of labor-based methods in contracted out routine road maintenance
works.
Three-Year Prosram for Maintenance ODerations
2.05    The proposed project covers a three-year road maintenance program
(1992-1994). The program includess
(i)   periodic maintenance on 226 km of paved roads to be executed by
contractors. The proposed works involve (a) the partial resealing of 187 km
of paved roads with a single surface dressing (the roads to be resealed are
listed in Annex III-1)g (b) the regravelling of shoulders; (c) the repair of
pavement edges on about 22 km of roads to restore the pavement width which
has eroded (its original range was 5 m to 4.5 m depending on the road
traffic);
(ii) improvement and reconstruction of bridges and retaining walls to be
carried out by contractors. Bridges are an integral part of the road network
which is based on a ring road around each island.  The Improvement and
reconstruction of unsafe bridges and retaining walls consists basically of
repairing abutments and decks of about 8 bridges and repairing of about 5
retaining walls (Annex III-1);
(iii) routine maintenance of 467 km of paved roads which involves filling
potholes, keeping the carriageway sides to their original width, cleaning
shoulders, clearing brush, cleaning drainage structures and maintaining
retaining walls and bridges (Annex III-2). These works will be carried out
partly by force account and progressively by contractors under the
supervision of DGTP engineers. It is intended that by the end of the project
Implementation period, about 50 percent of the routine maintenance work will
be carried out by contractor. To carry out the work by force account, the
following gangs will be needed: (a) three patching units (one for each
island), (b) 10 bush clearing units (5 in Grande Comore, 3 in Anjouan, 2 in
Moheli), (c) 5 drainage units (2 in Grande Comore, 2 in Anjouan, 1 In Moheli)
whose main function will be to clean the ditches and drainage structures, (d)
3 shoulder reconstruction units (one in each island) whose main function Is
to restore the carriageway sides to their original width.  The proposed
project would finance the various inputs needed for the force account works,
including the purchase of office equipment, road equipment, spare parts and
materials and the contract cost of contracted out works.
(iv) periodic interventions to keep the earth road network open, which
consist of spot regraveling, local reconstruction of dit_hes and restoration
of bridges when needed. Each island will be provided with a small mechanized
unit (list of equipment acquisition in Annex IV-1).
2.06    Works in (i) and (ii) above are divided into a core program which
will be totally financed by external funds (mainly IDA and FAC) and an
additional program to be financed partly by IDA and partly by GOC according
to the availability of local funds (Annex III-1). Every year, from 1992,
this additional program of periodic maintenance will be contracted out
according to the available local counterpart combined with the corresponding



- 15 -
IDA credit (701).   This local counterpart will be sized up during the
preparation of the annual program of activities and corresponding budget
allocations will be submitted to IDA (para. 4.02 (c)). On the same basis,
contracted out routine maintenance works under (iii) above, will be executed
according to the available local counterpart combined with the corresponding
IDA credits.   In that latter case, IDA credits will be reloased on a
decreasing basis (802, 602, 402) depending on the year of works execution
(1992t 1993, 1994).
Improvement of Road Safety
2.07    The proposed project would include (i) the purchase and installation
by DGTP crews of traffic signs at locations which present a special hazard
to traffic and ($i) the marking of pavement on the main travelled paved roads
(about 96 km), both by contractors (for roads subject to periodie maintenance
under contract) and by DGTP crews (for all other roads).
Institutional Suoiort
2.08    The Institutional support component of the proposed project would
consist oft
(i) Technical assistance to assist DGTP in Implementing the project.
Because of the limited  scope of the works by force account and the
availability of recently hired Comorian engineers who strengthen the DGTP and
DRTP staffing, the technical assistance will be limited to 3 positions.
Altogether the proposed project provides 108 man-months of technical
assistance to assist the goverrment in continuing to build HEE's road
maintenance capacity. The tochnical absistance will include the following
personnel:
(a) a highway engineor with international experience assigned to assist
and advise DGTP in force account works and to help manage and supervise
periodic maintenance work under contract.
(b)an accountant to assist DGTP in administrative and financial
management of the project.
(c)a chief mechanic (or posslbly 1 chief mechanic and 2 mechanics,
depending on UNDP's level of funding) who will train local mechanical
and workshop staff and help organize and execute equipment maintenance
works.
All technical assistants will also provide on-the-job training to local
staff. Terms of reference for technical assistance are described in Annex V-
1.
(ii) Creation of a planning and studies unit within DGTP Which would be
responsible for: (a) preparing road maintenance budgets and programs; (b)
organizing and monitoring feasibility, detailed design and various sectoral
studies to be carried out by external consultants; (c) monitoring procurement
procedures; (d) establishing and keeping a minimal road database; and (e)
preparing progress reports. This planning and studies unlt would be glven
a permanent legal status and be adequately staffed prior to credlt



- 16 -
effectiveness (pars. 4.01 (d)). The staffing and detailed terms of reference
of this unit are described in Annex VI-1.   In addition to that, the
Government will provide DGTP with appropriate offices In Moroni, namely by
assigning It the whole building that It presently shares with other
goverumnent units (para. 4.01 (c)).
(iII) formal training to complement the on-the-job training given by the
technical assistance; the project will provide (a) overseas training for same
executive staff before the works start up in order to nake them fully
operational when ne¢4,d and (b) experts for short training missions (2 man-
months in total). A training plan Is described In Annex V-2.
Studies
2.09    The project vould provide consultant services oft (i) 14 man-months
for studies on road widening and upgrading, a study of the maritime transport
sector and a study of the air transport sector; (il) 3 man-months to
establish the planning and study unit in DGTP and tr&in its staff; (III) 3
man-bonths for spot interventions, the need for which is expected to arise
during the project Implementation; and (iv) 3 ma-month  for study on the
promotion of labor-based methods for contracted out road maintenance works.
Outline terms of reference for these studies are presented in Annex VI-2 to
5.
C. Cost Estimates
2.10    The total cost net of taxes of the project Is estimated at US$11.3
million equivalent, with a foreign component of US$7.9 million equivalent or
702 of the total cost. Cost estimates are given in November 1989 prices.
Physical contingencies of 102 have been included. Price contingencies are
based on recent estimates of inflation rates of 51 p.a. during the period
1989-94. Costs as given in Table 2.1 are net of taxes. Taxos for locally
procured goods are estimated at about US$13,000 equivalent.



- 17 -
Table 2.1: Cost estimates 21
JSS *11 IIetn        iC million
Loael  reilan   Tt.I  Loai Foegin  Total  i Fo.
A - 7R815 Yetf 60* PF0RA"*
I - PTi0IC t5INVVWX4C (1UN5 CNRACTM )    1.18   8.47   4.6   298.9  868.0  1168.9   755
Core prgrs                     0.71   2.01   2.72  17.0 s02.s  67r.8   745
- Periodic santenano of ra    0.82   1.85   2.07  12.1  887.8  81.4   78
- Bride end retaining wells   0.19   0.46   0.6s   47.9  115.2  1632.   785
Additoenal Progra              0.44   1.82   1.76  109.8  82.5  489.4   7i5
(Periodti srinngens* of road.)
Road Marking                   0.04   0.14   0.18    s.o   86.0   45.0   o0n
1.14   1.80   2.4   284.0  87.7  659.8   59
Equipment opara parts* at.     0.05   1.84   1.30    1.8 884.9  846.4   1OOli
F. account (Wages, tuel, fixed ooste)  0.82   0.01   0.68  204.8    3.8  200.9  30S
Routine maintennee und;r contract    0.27   0.1S   0,42   67.8   87.3  105.1   3855
S. VSTIUTIONAL SUPPOT
I -  TAICAL ASSTSTANCE               0.28   0.91   1.14   54.8 6 21.2  264.0    sox
1  TRAININ                           0.01   0.17   0.18    2.0   42.1   44.1   9SX
Fel leowhliCp                  0.00   0.14   0.14    0.0   84.0   84.0   100
Trining in Cew...              0.01   0.05   0.04    2.0    0.1   10.1   601
C - STIWIE                                  0.18   0.24   0.40   40.0   60.0  100.0   6on
TTAL (glNGSV8=0 SCCWU)                      2.71   6.29   9.01  678.7 I1.0  2881.7   701
Ph'yical contingencies 101                  0.27   0.68   0.90   87.9   17.8  225.2
Price contingfeci.. 25i                     0.41   0.94   1.SS  101.8  286.0  887.6
GLOBAL COST                                 8.39   7.67   1.26  848.4  1966.8  214.     70
2.11      Cost  estimates  are  based  on  data  provided  by  DGTP  and/or  by  a
consultant's study which have been reviewed and found reasonable.  They have
been  derived  as  follows:  (i)  for  equipment,  spare  parts,  materials  and
supplies  and  for  works,  estimates  are  based  on  recent  bid  prices  and
quotations in the Comoros; unit cost estimates are given in Annex III for
works and Annex IV-I for equipment, (ii) cost of wages and salaries reflect
current Government pay scales, (iii) the man-month cost of technical
assistance and consultant services has been estimated in line with those of
similar services in Comoros, (iv) the cost of fellowships is based on the
current cost of overseas training in Europe and includes tuition,
subsistence, travel and insurance. A physical contingency allowance of 10%
for all project components has been included in the overall coit estimates.
D. Financing
2.12      The proposed IDA Credit of US$6.6 million plus parallel cofinancing
of US$2.66 million to be confirmed by other sources (UNDP, FAC) will finance
lOOZ of the foret.n cost except fuel directly purchased by DOTP and 412 of
the local cost of the project net of taxes. The government will finance the
remaining local cost plus fuel directly purchased by DOTP, which excluding
2! Costs are net of taxes which are estimated at FC 4.2 million
(US$ 13,000 equivalent).



- 18 -
taxes amounts to US$2 milliou equivalent, or about 182 of total cost or about
US$680,000 per year. Specifically, the government would finance all salaries
of its permanent staff and temporary road maintenance Otaff, all office
recurrent costs, fuel, lubricants and aggregates for force account works,
and a portion of local costs of works under contract (142 of total costs on
average). UNDP would finance part of the technical assistance, training and
fellowships for about US$690,000, FAC would finance part of the technical
aosistance and equipment supply, majority of bridge works, and road safety
supplies for about US$1.97 million whereas IDA would finance an average 712
of the costs of works under contract 31, selected equipment Items, the
remaining spare parts and materials for force account operations, training
and the remaining technical assistance and studies. The global financing
plan showing the contribution of each co-financier is given in Annex XI.
E. ipalementation and Procurement
2.13    The project will be Implemented by MEE through DGTP.  The project
implementation schedule for major activities is shown in Annex IX.
Experience, both in Comoros and elsewhere, has led to a certain re-
orientation of maintenance organization with an Increased emphasis on private
sector participation in road maintenance. Paved road routine maintenance
will be carried out on a yearly basis both by DGTP maintenance brigades and
under contract by small or very small contractors as explained in pata. 2.05
(iii).   Earth road operations will be carried out by DGTP maintenance
brigades on a curative basis as explained in para 2.05 (iv).  Periodic
maintenance of paved roads including resurfacing, shoulders and bridges
repair will be carried out under contract under the supervision of DGTP
engineers (para 2.05 (i) and (11)). Contractors will also carry out the
routine maintenance backlog on the roads subject to periodic maintenance.
The technical assistant (highway engineer) will assist DGTP staff in the
development and execution of the program, in the supervision of contractors
and in procurement procedures. Reporting requirements for procurement are
defined in para. 2.20 and Annex VIII.
31 IDA will finance (i) 1002 of the cost of works in the core periodic
maintenance program, (1i) 702 of the cost of works in the additional
periodic maintenance program and (iii) part of the cost of contracted out
routine maintenance works on a decremental basis over a 3-year period, 802
during the first year, 60% during the second year and 402 during the third
year.



Table 2.2s 2 PROCUESNT AUMIGEMEN S 1I
-:                             USS_mmilli                                   .
Total
Prgle   EleMent     ICX          m           ISJLSher  NA              Co
Clvil orks          4.9         0.95         9.4               l .0J/ 7.17
(4.90)      (9.3)       (9.1)                     (4.48
VehIcla, EquIpment,   1.7                    0.22                      1.92
materials a Supplies   (1.90)                (9.1)                     (1.15
ConeuNant Service                                          1.93 5/     1.98
(0.:6)      (09.86
Training & Fellowships                                    0.28         0.28
(0.1)       (0.1)
Total                0.5         0.95         9.62         2.18  1.03  11.20
(6.13)      (0.8)       (0.2)        (6.96)       (6.57
"I Thi fgure In parenthesis ere amunts financod by IDA.
Force account works: Includes OGTP staff salaries.
/i IDA guide Ines (August 1981) will be applied for US86.85 millon. The remaining consultant
services to be financed by other donors will be procured under their respective guideties.
However, Terms of Reference would also be reviewed by IDA.
2.14     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 2.2 above.  Major
civil works for the maintenance of paved roads totalling about US$4.8 million
will be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the 1985 Bank Group Guidelines after suitable pro-qualification. Works will
be grouped into suitable lots and procured on a yearly basis (one or three
lot(s) for each island and each years 1 in Moheli, 3 in Anjouan and 3 in
Grande Comore). Major bridge works will also be procured under ICB. Local
contractors will be eligible for domestic preference of 7.52 for contracts
awarded under ICB.   Smaller contracts for works including contracted out
routine maintenance work are not likely to attract foreign contractors,
moreover these are spaced in time and therefore would be subjected to LCB
which has been reviewed and found acceptable. LCB procedures will however
include public opening, clarity of evaluation criteria, award to the lowest
bidder and foreign bidders will not be procluded from participation. These
contracts amounting to less than $100,000 each and totaling no more than
$400,000 would be subject to competitive bidding advertised locally. Small
contract for works, especially routine maintenance works amounting to less
than $20,000 and totaling no more than $100,000 may be subject to local
shopping on the basis of a minimum of 3 bids.  All prequalification and
bidding documents as well as all contract awards would be subject to prior
approval by IDA.
2.15     Equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies would be grouped into
suitable lots and procured through ICB, generally on a year-by-year basis.
A domestic preference of 152 or duties whichever is less, would be available
to local manufacturers for ICB procurement. Minor items of equipments, spare
parts, materials and supplies in lots of less than $20,000 and totaling no
more than US$100,OOO may be procured from suppliers on the basis of a minimum
of 3 quotations obtained locally or abroad in accordance with the Bank Group
Guidelines  for  Procurement.    IDA-financed  consultants  for  technical
assistance, studies and supervision will be selected following the 1981 Bank



- 20 -
Group Guidelines; terms of reference and conditions of employment would be
discussed  and  agreed upon during  negotiations.    Before  awarding the
fellowships, the Government would furnish a detailed training program to IDA
for  approval.    The program would  include the  qualifications  of  the
candidates, types and costs of training as well as the training institutions
and an indication of assignments to be given to the trainees on their return
to Comoros.
2.16     All contracts for procurement of civil works and equipment and
materials exceeding $50,000 and all consultancy contracts will be subject to
prior review by IDA.
F. Disbursements
2.17     The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 4.6 million (US$6.6 million) would
be disbursed on the following basiss
Mi)           100l   of total expenditures for civil works carried out
under contract for the core program (pars. 2.05-06) of
periodic maintenance of paved roads and bridges;
(i1)           702 of total expenditures for civil works carried out
under contract for the additional program (pars. 2.05-
06) of periodic maintenance of paved roads;
(tii)           801, 60S and 402 of the routine maintenance works (para.
2.05 (iii)) carried out under contracts respectively in
years 1, 2 and 3 of project implementation;
(iv)           1001 of total expenditures (except fuel) for equipment,
vehicles, spare parts, materials and supplies for road
maintenance by force account and for office equipment;
(v)           1002 of total expenditures for consultant services
including technical assistance and studies; and
(vi)           1001 of foreign and 802 of local expenditures for
training and fellowships.
All disbursements will be fully documented.   In the case of
prefinancing from government counterpart funds, the reimbursement requests
should not be less than US$50,000 equivalent. To ensure prompt availability
of funds for the project, a Special Account would be established in US
dollars at the Central Bank, with an initial deposit of US$500,000 to be made
by IDA at credit effectiveness, representing about three months of
expenditures for the project.  The Special Account would be used to pay all
expenditures of the project except those for which direct payment is
requested.   Requests for replenishment of the Special Account would be
submitted to IDA when needed.  A revolving fund (caisse d'avance) will be
used by DGTP to ensure regular transfers of local counterpart allocations
coming from the FER (para. 4.01(a)).



- 21 -
2.18     The estimated schedule of disbursements, given on table 2.3, ti
based on the disbursement profiles for projeecs in Comoros and takes into
consideration the initial deposit of US$500,000 at credit effectiveness.
Table 2.8   tet   gte ibeplw
Bank Group Fiscal Year                            Cumulative DOieuremnte
and Semester Ending   Per Semester         At end of Someer      as X of totl
1992
December 81, 1991            100                  10                  1.6
June 80, 1992                s00                  see                 9.0
1993
December 31, 1M              450                 1O6                  10.0
June 80, 1993                760                1ow                  27.0
1994
December 81, 1998           860                  266W                 40.9
June 80, 1904                950                8a0m                  6C.O
1995
Dcoember 81, 19S4            66                  44W0                 07.0
June 80, 1990                700                S510                  76.0
1996
December 31, 1995            Soo                 5759                 07.0
June 89, 106                 850                 s100                 92.0
1997
December 31, 1996           g8m                  6400                 97.1
June 80, 1907                200                 eew                 19.9
G. Accountina. Auditina and Re!orting Reouirements
2.19     Project accounts will be maintained by DGTP in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, to record all project revenues and
expenditures, assets and liabilities. Separate accounts will be kept for
each component and will be available for inspection by the Association during
project supervision. Project accounts will be audited annually in accordance
with international auditing guidelines by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association. The auditor's report together with the project accounts and
a management letter will be submitted to the Association not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.02(d)).
2.20     Every year, concurrently with the preparation &'. the annual budget,
DGTP will prepare a detailed road maintenance work program for the following
year, taking into consideration the overall maintenance targets set for the
program period and likely budgetary allocations  (para. 4.02(c)).   This
program will describe the type of activities to be carried out by each
brigade and by contractors; indicate the eastmated output of the contractors
and of the brigades by major equipment, equipment utilization, and the
estimated input of fu,l and lubricants, materials and spare parts.   To



- 22 -
establish the work program on a sound basis, DGTP will introduce an
appropriate permanent road condition inventory system based on the progress
reporting requirements described in Annex VIII.   Subsequent annual work
programs will be furnished to the Association and other donors for their
comments by October 31 of each year and vill be finalized upon determination
of the final budget taking into consideration comments received.
2.21     Progress of implementation will be reported by DGTP using the same
indicators used to prepare the work program.   DGTP will also prepare a
quarterly Progress Report showing progress on procurement, targets and main
achievements by major activity and explaining significant discrepancies. An
annual Lnplementation report will consolidate this information and provide
details on inputs used to execute the program, productivity developments and
unit costs of the various activities (Annex VIII). A mid-term review will
also take place in order to re-assess the appropiateness of the project's
priorities and adjust them if necessary and to verify the effectiveness of
the local funding for the mnon-core' project components (para. 2.06), as well
as to confirm the overall adherence to project objectives. The Borrower will
prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) submitted in a form satisfactory
to the Association not later than six months after the closing date. The
foregoing, detailed in Annex VIII, was discussed and agreed upon at
negotiations and is part of the covenants in the Credit Agreement under
Section 9.06 of the General Conditions applicable to Development Credit
Agreement (para. 4.02 (e)).
H. Environmental Aspects
2.22     An asse3sment was made at the project appraisal stage of the
potential environmental Impact of the proposed project as well as of
environmental issues to be included in future sectoral, feasibility or
engineering studies in the road sector In Comoros. The project will have a
positive impact on the environment by repairing road drainage which is
currently in bad shape and therefore increases erosion and flooding risks.
Otherwise, road works will follow the existing alignment and will have no
effect on current land use. Road safety was identified as an issue and has
been specifically addressed through a project component. Concerning future
studies, feasibility studies should cover such environmental issues as
erosion resulting from road drainage as well as from changes in land use
patterns. In future road widening feasibility studies, potential relocation
impacts will have to be considered. As for detailed engineering studies, the
project will develop and help apply standards for limiting the potential
adverse impact of road works on the environment. Terms of reference for
project financed road studies as described in Annex VI-2 will address
environmental issues. Technical asistance to DGTP will assist in developing
a local capacity to evaluate the potential environmental impact of road works
carried out by force account and to design appropriate remedies (see TORs in
Annex V). In addition, suitable safeguards will be incorporated in bidding
documents and contracts to minimize potential environmental damage caused by
road works, especially regarding drainage facilities and erosion.



- 23 -
I. Povertv Alleviation Aspects
2.23     By keeping the road network steadily open, and therefore by avoiding
the temporary isolation of some rural areas after the rainy seasons, the
project will have a beneficial impact on the rural poor, since the cost of
providing their basic needs would be reduced. Since a significant amount of
works over the entire paved network requires labor-intensive routine
maintenance, the project would contribute to poverty alleviation through
employment generation for contracted out routine maintenance works.  The
project also includes a study on the promotion of these labor-based methods
for contracted out routine maintenance works. The periodic road maintenance
activities will also help sustain the level of overall construction activity,
which would enhance employment in the sector.



- 24 -
III- ECONOMIC EVALU&TION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
3.01     The condition of the paved road network on the Comoros is generally
fair to good. There are certain sections of road, Sima-Pomoni on Anjouan for
example, where the road pavement has already deteriorated badly but these
sections are the exception.   The basic objectives of the project are to
Improve the condition of these deteriorated sections and to safeguara the
rest of the network from similar deterioration through remedial routine
maintenance and where necessary periodic maintenance. The principal benefits
of the project are, therefore, the reduction of present and future vehicle
operating costs and the avoidance of more costly road rehabilitation or
reconstruction in the future. The immediate beneficiaries of the project
will thus be vehicle owners and operators.   Road transport is, however,
dominated by small operators and most of the benefits will spread to the
general population through lower outlays on transport. Maintenance of the
paved road network will ensure easy access to and from markets which will
facilitate the distribution of agricultural inputs and outputs and indirectly
encourage agricultural production. The labor-intensive methods of routine
maintenance will also provide employment for the rural and urban poor.
3.02     The project also includes the repair of a number of bridges on
Grande Comore and Anjouan. The effect of the unplanned breaking down of
these bridges, probably during the rainy season, would be widespread
disruption in the transport system and probably a significant increase in
repair costs. The precise benefits of the planned repair of bridges have not
been quantified but they are likely to be considerably higher than the costs.
3.03     Previous projects have included routine and periodic maintenance of
unpaved roads. Experience has shown that the benefits of these activities
are shortlived and the expenditure is not cost-effective in the Comoros
(para. 1.34).   The proposed project includes a small component for the
maintenance of access on unpaved roads. Routine maintenance brigades would
be equipped to undertake emergency repairs to reopen earthlgravel roads or
avoid their closure. These interventions will maintain access to rural areas
not presently served by the paved road network.
3.04     Road accidents are a major concern, and the project will help to
increase road safety by restoring the full carriageway width on many roads
as well as providing road marking and road signs. Increased road safety will
benefit both vehicle users and pedestrians.
B. Economic Analysis
3.05     Costs and benefits have been calculated for (a) the petiodic
maintenance of 226 km of paved roads, i.e.t 187 km of national roads, 24 km
of regional roads and 15 km of urban streets and (b) remedial routine
maintenance of the remaining paved road network (241 km), including minor
elements of periodic maintenance. The economic benefits of bridge repairs,
emergency repairs for unpaved roads and road safety measures have not been



- 25 .
calculated but they are expected to be substantial. Overall the project
generates an economic rate of return of 23.81 and a net present value of FC
2,483 million. These estimates are based on lifetimo investments of 15 years
and 2-4Z traffic growth (Amnex VII).
Periodic Road Maintenance
3.06     The direct costs of periodic maintenance for selected road sections
(pars. 2.05 (i)) account for 402 of total project costs.  A substantial
proportion of the technical assistance component would be concerned with the
preparation and supervision of contracts Lor periodic maintenance, and much
of the TA costs can also be attributed to this part of the project. The
costs for the 'with project' case include (i) the cost of periodic
maintenance undertaken by contract at the start of the project; (ii) a share
of the equipment costs purchased under the project for routine maintenance
and (iii) subsequent routine maintenance costs for the remaining period
considered for comparison. It is assumed that virtually no maintenance would
be carried out in the 'without project' case.   The quantified project
benefits are the reduction in vehicle operating costs which result from the
Improved pavement conditions. The level of cost reduction varies according
to the road section from approximately 1OZ for the heavily trafficked RN1 and
RN2 on Grande Comore to 301 for the seriously deteriorated Sima-Pomoni
section of the RN23. Restoration of the road shoulders will also effectively
increase the operating width of the roads and assist in Improving road
safety, but subsequent benefits have not been quantified.
3.07     This project component, including allocated technical assistance and
DGTP staff costs, generates an economic rate of return of 32.8X and a NPV of
FC 2,670 million, assuming the opportunity cost of capital on the Comoros is
10. Rates of return for individual road links vary considerably, depending
mainly on the level of traffic flows. This is reflected in the returns for
periodic maintenance on each of the Islands. Roads generate an average ERR,
based on direct costs, of 68.1% on Grande Comore, of 24.9% on Anjouan and
11.21 on Moheli.
Routine Maintenance
3.08     Routine  maintenance  (para.  2.05  (iii)),  including  remedial
maintenance for those roads not receiving periodic maintenance, accounts for
231 of total project costs. The project costs include (i) a large component
of equipment and spares for the DGTP road maintenance brigades; (ii)
operating costs for equipment over the three-year project period; (iv)
bitumen and other maintenance materials and (v) labor costs for the project
period. The principal project benefits will be derived from reduced vehicle
operating costs resulting from the stabilization of pavement conditions
during the project period and a reduced rate of road deterioration
thereafter. On Moheli extensive remedial work will be undertaken on the RN32
and an initial reduction in vehicle operating costs of 10% is expected.
3.09     Investment in remedial routine maintenance, including allocated
technical assistance and DGTP costs, on roads not covered by the periodic
maintenance component is expected to generate an economic rate of return of
14.11 and an NPV of FC 160 million, assuming a 101 opportunity cost of
capital.



- 26 -
C. Sefsitivity and Risk8
Sensitivity
3.10     Periodic Maintenance.       This project component is moderately
sensitive to changes in project costs and benefits. An increase in periodic
maintenance costs of 252 would reduce the ERR to 272 while a reduction in
vehicle operating costs savings of 152 would reduce the rate of return to
28%.
3.11     Routine and Remedial Maintenance.   This component has much lower
quantified economic returns than periodic maintenance and is also sensitive
to changes in the levels of costs and benefits. A 252 increase in
routine and remedial costs or a 152 reduction in vehicle operating cost
benefits would reduce the rate of return to 112, only slightly higher than
the 10% cost of capital assumed in the analysis.
3.12     Total Proiect.    Overall the project is relatively sensitive to
possible changes in the levels of costs and benefits.  An increase of 252 in
project costs and a reduction of 252 in project benefits would reduce the ERR
from 23.8 to 13.82.
Risks
3.13     While the project is designed to reduce as much as possible risks
associated with inplementation, the possibility nevertheless exists that
implementation could be delayed due to DGTP's managerial and supervisory
capacity and insufficient local funding.   However, these risks would be
minimized by a) the recourse to contractors to carry out major works, and a
provision of technical assistance to assist DGTP in monitoring contractors
and organizing works by force account and b) the limited financial effort
which is required from government on a yearly basis and which is below the
level of local funds from various sources that government has allocated to
roads over the period 1987-89 (paras. 1.31 and 2.12). The risk of project
disruption resulting from potential failure to provide local counterpart
funding will be alleviated for the periodic maintenance program which is 1002
externally financed (para. 2.06). The additional program of periodic road
maintenance will be undertaken solely if adequate local counterpart funding
is available (paras. 2.06 and 4.02 (c)). Moreover, the local contribution
to the project would be generated through an adequate user cost recovery
scheme, e.g. a tax on petroleum products combined with a revolving fund
(para. 4.01 (a)).
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.01     (i) Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)      Promulgation of the new regulations establishing Road Maintenance
Fund as finalized during the negotiations (para. 1.30);
(b)      Revision of the assignments of some higher level staff of DGTP and
DRTP's and reduction of the temporary staff to 290 positions (para.
1.27);
(c)      Arrangement to provide DGTP with appropriate offices in Moroni
(para. 2.08 (ii));



- 27 -
(4)      Creation within DOTP of a planning and studies unit adequate'y
staffed (para. 2.08 II));
(e)      Effective presence in Moroni of the technical assistant financed by
FAC (para. 2.08 I)).
4.02     Conditions during Proiect Implementation
(a)      The sliding three-year investment and maintenance program for the
transport sector will be submitted annually to IDA by October 15,
for its review and comments (paras. 1.29 and 1.32);
(b)      The Government will not undertake or order from any entity or
contractor any public investment for the transport sector over
US$400,000 equivalent which is not part of the approved three-year
investment and maintenance program (para. 1.32);
(c)      By October 15 of each year, the government will consult with IDA on
the program of activities (para. 2.20) and budget allocations for
the road sector for the following year. The total budget (including
PER resources) for the road sector in 1992 will be at least US$2.0
million equivalent in 1989 terms; this amount will not be lower in
real terms in subsequent years. The amount of counterpart funding
will not be lower than US$500,000 (1989 dollars) during project
Implementation and be commaitted to the execution of the additional
program of periodic maintenance and the routine maintenance program
(para. 2.05 and 2.06).
(d)      The project accounts including the Special Account will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; the government
will ensure that submission to IDA of the project's accounts
together with the auditor's report and management letter be made
within six months after the end of the fiscal year (para. 2.19);
(e)      The terms and timetable for progress reporting will be followed
(paras. 2.19-20-21);
(f)      The government will promulgate by June 1991 new regulations, as
agreed during negotiations, prohibiting imports of heavy vehicles
and will subsequently adopt and enforce them (para. 1.22).
(ii$) At Completion of the Proiect
(a)      Preparation by the Borrower of a Project Completion Report in a
format suitable to IDA no later than six months after the project
closing date which is December 31, 1995 (para. 2.20).
4.03     Subject to assurances and agreements on the items in paras. 4.01 and
4.02, the proposed project would qualify for an IDA Credit of SDR 4.6 million
(US$6.6 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms.



- 28 -
Annx I-1
COIOROS
HIGHWAY MAINTENIANCE PROJECT
Expenses In the highway sector
( millions of FC)
Expenses per donor and sort of works 1982-1989
1982    198       1984     1986    1I80      1987     1968   1M9
Governmet               99      161  8t7          2        821               .*561  d8t
(FER)                  (14)     (56)    (18)    (107)    (145)    (107)    (2209) *(140)
IDA                    818      881      685      019      164        9        9        a
DAfB                     a      S10      970     1410        O      454         9       9
FACeB                    9 O      O                 9 O    119      299        27       O
Other                 2275      521     2452      505        9        4         O       a
Toe I                 2692     1648     4085     2835     1588      969      079      767
Maintenance and        821    lo2      1947     2119     158S      884       144     140
rehabilitatlon
Construction          2871      641     2788      716        0      020       589     047
* estiete
*e does not include a technical assiotant trom 1962 to 1989.
Souroc : Mission de prdparation d un projot d'eatretien routter, Jul let 1989.
MlstAr. des Finene", Jullet 1989.



- 29 -
Annex I-2
COMOROS
HIGHWAY MANITENANCE PROJECT
TENTATIVE PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM (TRANSPORT SECTOR)
(M*o FC)
1990 1991  1992   1993
Highway Sector
Highway Maintenance Project                     -   932   932    932
Rural Roads Improvement                          -   247   247    247
Koni-Djodjo Region Improvement                  756  756   756    -
Maritime Sector
Completion of Moroni Harbour                  1343 1343   -       _
Belgium Boat                                   640   -    -       _
Air Sector
Hayaya Airport - ILS                           300  300   - _
Studies
Maritime Sector Study                            -    41   -      -
Air Sector Study                                 -    -    -       30
Total                                                  3039 3619  1935   1209
IDA        -   500   500    500
GOC        -   180   190    190
FENU       -   247   247    247
Financing                 FED       2099 2099   756    -
FAC       300  380    80      80
AGCD      640   -    -       -
UNDP       -   125   125    125
Other?     -    88    37      67
Sources   B BCEOM, Rapport d'Achevement du Deuxieme Projet Routier, June 86.
Second Highway Project, PCR, August 89.
Mission de Preparation d'un Projet d'Entretien Routier, July 89.



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 1
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A. Design Standard of Paved Roads
Design Speed (km/h)                          50
Minimum Horizontal Radius (m)                30 (12)11
Minimum Vertical Radiuss Concave (m)          700
Convex (m)          500
Maximum Gradient (%)                          10.5
Maximum Superelevation (Z)                    7
Pavement Width (m)                           5.0 (3-5)
Formation Width (m)                          6.0 (4.5)
Maximum Widening of Pavement in Curves (m)   2.5
Cross Falls Pavement (2)                     2
Shoulders (Z)                    3
Side Slope: Embankment (horizontal/vertical) 3.2
Cut                              1/2, (1/6)2/
Pavement Type: Sub-base                      14 cm of selected materials
Base                          15-25 cm of crushed stone
Surface                       Double Bituminous Surfsce
Treatment
Width of Structures same as Roadway Width
B. Design Standard of Gravel Roads
Design Speed (km/h)                          40
Minimum Horizontal Radius (m)                20 (10)11
Maximum Gradient (x)                          12
Maximum Superelevation (2)                   8
Road Width (m)                               4.5
Cross Fallt  Gravel Surface (S)              3
Shoulder (Z)                    4
Side Slope: Embankment (horizontal/vertical) 3/2
Cut                              1.2 (116)2/
Road Structures Base                         10 cm of selected materials
Surface                      15 cm crushed stone
Width of Structures same as Roadway Width
1/ () refers to exceptional circumstances.
21 In rock formation
Sources: SECMO, 1978; BCEOM, 1980.



- 31 -
Annex III - 1
Page 1 of 3
COMOROS
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Program of Periodic Maintenance
I. List of Roads and Bridges - Quantities of Work
BElTRETIEN fPR0IDZE alW6 CWRE
me      NG        IJe   TOTAL CC
L~uur               km       a1        47         6         69
Bord  d Chau.              1S00      8000      1000      5S00
T.rr_aaa nt         dm                                       0
Debrwasml 1ha9.     km       71        94         12       177
EntrStion Fo..      ke                                       0
Accolaeaumt.        m2  1IB0        60000      1000      74000
Nid. de Paul*       Oa      100       100                  200
aflacl.a"           m2    7000       4000      150      128
Raprime   Chmua-     ma     700      1O0       SOO       2200
EndutS t  oaoua  md                           2S000      28000
eOMrIB PERI0OIZ" ANJOUAN
i.ongur                   MN21 RN   8-P  R23+24   TOTAL AN
|lnu  ur             km      29        211        iS        S7
lordu do C0u         d    1000                  800       1800
Masonflerlo          ml                78                   75
Torresomant         Ms                                       0
Debrou_mi lmng     km      a8         8S        81        124
Entrotlon FoD.   km          20        8S        16         90
Acoottomnto         ml   90                   8000      12000
Ntd. de Pulo        ml                S00        80        J50
Difchr C             12                        8000       8000
R  *de chu    M2             1500       200      1700
Endut IMonocouch    u2              680500    7?000    15800
0ORE15 PERZIDIE iSOEJ
RF1
L.agueur            km       81
Bord, de ChauO.    la    8000
Macomnsrto          me
Torra_nmmt          me    800
ibbrouatlhlo        km       s
Entrotton F..       km       80
Acctto.o,t.        ml    9000
Nid. de Paut.       m2      800
Dlachag            all
Rapria  do Ch*ug.   ml    1000
Induit imoaicouch*   ml  128000
P9TS
Moroni-Foumbont  Pk 10.580                Rconatrection
Pk 2882   0            Rdlobi I itation  bu.
Pk 2114J0              Reonstruction  pas._.
Pk 4 .280              R.oootruotian  panaa
iuteaauduDomont  Pont do Pa"m             Reconotrution  tablir
Pont do Saba.          Reconstruction
Sim4-1t__audu    Pont de Pagi             Recoestruction
Pk  8.800              Racoratruction
Founbonl4iUringoni                        Kure d  couUt&    nt
W4R              Pk 44.078               R.bb I itation
A dditional proras - pro,gr   addittonn-l (Cf p     8)



- 32 -
Annex ITI - 1
Page 2 of 3
II List of Roads - CoSt8s
rod do Chia... ale FC  8.0       0.0      2.0      11.0
Feconesrie      *ie PC  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
To? r_n         *le FC  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
0.brou iul    ml. FC  ^8I        2.4      0.8      4.4
Lntr t. Fen  . i te PC  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Aoottesnt       *F C 89.0    14.0         2.0    17.0
Nida de Poulo     Ft FC  0.0     0.0      0.0       1.2
i0lrh           ale PC  7.0      4.0      1.5      12.8
RoprI.. . Chaummie PC  8.8       5.0      2.5      11.0
=ldt0 hawcaachuc.* a  PC  0.0    0.0     15.0      25.0
Total er S.q.l.  ale PC 84.5   1tt8.es5   88.90   26.73
Total    Route   el: PC         S8.5               8.5
QnErlE  P      _UOM    ti
mma   Am 5"P i*24         NMi    TOTAL AN
8ord da Choose" *lo FC  2.0      0.0      0.6               2.0
M.enwwl  rt-l     e P*C  0.0     2.0      0.0               2.0
Torra_t         sl PC  0.0       0.0      0.0               0.0
Ds&eb   t       ale PC  1.5      0.9      0.8                8.1
EanWelan F r     o FC  1.1      10.0      0.6               19.9
Aceetteamn.    *ml. PC 28.4      0.0      7.0               81.2
Nid. do Pul-   *leo FC  0.0      8.0      0.8               8.8
Defd!           ale PC  0.0      0.0      8.0               8.0
iRpel   CIsmuo gole PC  0.0      7.5      1.0               8.5
Itdult i,eeuch. el* FC  0.0    144.9    75.0               219.9
Tdu=           e1  r i i 27.es    174.S  e0.2s e.
Totsl   ar leC $P5.0    22.0                      #*e       76.
m0iErwM4 PIR100S MCEL1
RN1
8er" 4d Chats.. I*t PC  0.00
maeonnrt-       *to PC  0.00
T.evuoo.smt     esle PC  0.00
Debroossallg.  isle PC  1.80
tastlo           I isle FC  1.0
A.,ttesw t.     i1l Fr  25.40
Mido do P.oul.    io PC  1.40
Def loch.*.     al* FC  0.00
Repriod. Cugole PC  8.00
|13idult i_~eho ale PFC 126.00
I.t.tl par Route ile FC 170.85
Rie.ptulotiln par pewst  - Coats (sn *io FC)   Lenuour do r_se,.
10VW4  7015 Mt          Mt            24.0 io
Bards do Cht.          19.       1.0
N.enn.rl,               2.0      0.0          15105         7.9 Isi
Terr_o~nt               *.0      0.0           5126         2.1 Iw
D.rea.al las.           9.0      0.0          Rl5            5.9 ka
Rotreti.o Fen.         21.0      1.4          n51o0          2.7 km
_eoettemss~           .282.2      2           MM22M         0.8 ik
Nid de Poulo0                    0..0              *
Deflsghoo              15.5      8.6          R Urbain      15.0 km  .
R ol do ar u eh o      24.S      0.0
Siduit _fnouct.      a80.o    10.0            mu1            2.0 km
-FM           2.9 kO
SQl21 214     8.4 ik
Nn t..6    4.7 hi
* a additional pregro
mio  FC                       Total    Core              Addnl
Total National R.                     724.6   516.4   208.2
Total Bridges                         163.1   163.1              _
Total Urban R.                        101.5          -        101.5
Total R"gional R.                     129.7          -        129.7
Total Periodic Maint.   1118.9   679.5   439.4



- 33 -
Annex 111-1
Page 3 of 3
Comoros
Highway Maintenance Project
iProgrammes prioritaire et additionnel i
fl  Core and additional programs      U
I Prograna_ prioritaire - Core program
Routes        Longueurs (km)         Finsaceur
RK1                 35.6               IDA
R12                 47.0               IDA
1N23 Adda- Domoni   12 .3              IDA
1N24                 3                 IDA
RN21                29                 IDA
1N31               31                  IDA
PONT RN2 PK 44.075                     IDA
PONT RN2 divers                        FAC
PONT RN21                              FAC
PONT RN23 SIma-Pomoni                  FAC
PONT RN22                              FAC
II Program. additiornel - Additional program
Routes        Longueurs (km)
____________________________
RN4B                6
RN23 Sime-Pomoni    23
ROUTES URBAINES     15
ROUTES REGIONALES   24
Financement s IDA 702, Gouvernement 302.
III Mrueqzg" et signalisations financement FAC
Legende : RN - Route Nationale



- 34 -
Annex 111-2
COMOROS
Highway maintenance Project
Program of routine maintenance
List of roads - quantities and costs
-WO caw                                                             -VA                          __
FReomau National CC           M4A  3m1  we8  M44  SliM  m45   1)            TAL OC 34
LtnUur                   k1    8.7          5.0  8.7  5.0  17.0 Wo   |  18.8
Bard. de OwCu",           SO   200  100  20  88O                               6
Ilconneris                as                      12    20  180                290
Torra_eont                as                      S00                          8
Doebrou.sallg              km    22          92   512   80   102  124           42
RstreFlen     e           km      1          91    tl    2                     100
Acootteaute               .8    80         4000  9000                         800
Hide de Pul.              an   100                400   80         800         85o
OD tl" lack82   400  175                          100                          675
i.eri 2 a~alu.e       .8a2              80     0o                          SW
(1) RN 1.2 41 pour uns  ange w gulemt Iar on, rout.. dlv*net
recvoir un entrtien perodq.
QaNDE COMM
R   Mt   RIR   Mt   IIR   IR   RR   AN   Mt               Totnl Mt
Ra..u Rielional QC          101  100  118  118  le   17   1tO   112  119  a2              C
Longuer                   km   6.8  8.8  1.0  2.0  8.8   8.5  1.0  2.2   1.8  1e.6   46.8
gode de Cbu_  e                        sO   so 1  80          S     S 100   so   so   s0   100   so  60
HBonnri-                   d3          20                60   eo           is                 
Debroumi I laog           km  49.0 40.8  8.0  12.0  21.6  88.0 o     .o  18.2  7.8  38.2  28.4
mtr.ti;n Posses           km      a    6      1    2            1          1    1           17
NHi  de Paul*             r2                 So   so           90         15   S0          ISO
DelF achag                .8                10o  1O   100  170  200  100  100              870
(2) RR 105  22l0 pleut ar am. routes doivent
reol r un entret;e  ioie.
R_eau Notional                  of   RN   RN
22  2A  28+24  (M) tl  4
LAngueur                  km   19.0  6.0 e.  .  6.7.0      127.9
Berda  de Clate           Ma  e68           800              1180
Naconneri.                as    80          1l0               150
D0brouaill                km  114.0 86.0 215.4 184.0        499.4
Entretien F..             km    40    8   47                   90
Acc wtteAat.              RR                400               400
Nid- do Poule             D2   100   20   180   75            845
Deflabhage                ea   8S          1045              1895
(a) RN 21.22A.2,24.28 Sl-?emnI pour ue annen
"oul,mnit car a" route. dolvent rocvalr
U. ntr ti;n periodique.
NJOWN
Reseau Regional                 RR   Mt  1R  1P   RR   RR                    T1T*AL ANJOAN
201  207  210  211  02 20             (4)
Larnusur                  km    1.9  8.8  1.0  8.2  1.6  0.4  0.8             20.5
Debr_;ou.illne            km   11.4  19.8  10.6  19.2  9.8  2.4  16.6         s09.
Entr*tien Faome           km      8    10    7    iS   18 i                   5 6.
Oflch go                  n2   seo                                             so
(4) RR 202 2024 Four une anne. _ulemat car aeo routee dolvent
reevolr un mitretien Poiodue.
N 82 N81 ToTAL M
Lonaur                    k-   26.5 S0.5  87.0
Bar" d0 hw u_r-           *2   lSO          ISO
nSod. dd Chasm                              eee80 1
Noaconnerle               ea   666          686
Terr..aeenXt              as  78S0         7880
DebroueaaIllaO           km   189   61  2S0
Entretien F_on.           km    75           7S
Accottment                Ea   1800        1800
Dlf laa                   .2   10 0       1000
___ B    MaconITerra Debr Fosse Accot Nid. 1IaJR.deC CEd.NC
kmn  .8   .8   km   km   wa    .a   .8   mg   .8
Amrt, materiel  86  9470  980  042  98o0  1080  1           298
Plea             10 1685  180  140  1700   105  200   82
Pneu              28  480   46   40  800    80   88   14
Bitum            600    0    0    0    0   800  0O 800
AWgreate         216 2700    0    0    0    100  900  106
Corb. Lubrif.     20 S      550  470 8800   590  650  160
Diver, mteriru     6 U1680   40    0200  200    8
Perronnel Eat    80  1000 l  108 4800 6800    87  224   1S
Pereonnel FER     70  1260  146 11200 27000    86  418   88
Petit outi age   40  1800    0  80O  4000    24  200   20
rTotaO 2    8                     000800   26001 600  1000 8000  1000D



- 35 -
Annex IV- 1
HIGHWAY MAINTENUNCE PROJECT
COMOROS
LIST OF ROAD EQUIPMENT AQUISITION
UNIT PRICE   COST
EQUIPMENT                  QUANTITY  (FC Mio)  (FC Mio)
Liaison Vehicle                   4          3        12
Dump Truck                        5         12        60
Tar Melting Machine               2         20        40
Spreading Machine                 2         18       36
Agricultural Tractor              1         13        13
Cold Tar Coating Machine          1        4.5      4.5
Chippings Spreading Truck         1         17        17
Heavy Compacter                   2         18        36
Manual Compacter                  3        5.5      16.5
Concrete Mixer                    1          3         3
Compressor                        2          6        12
Total Cost                                          250



- 36 -
Annexe IV-2
Ccmores
Projet d'Entretien Routier
Materiel existant
Designation du materiel                Total        Gd Coo.       Anjouan       Mohe lI
1) Vehicules de liuison
Renault $                                     2            1             1
Renault 15                                    8            1 1
luuzu TT Pickup                               a            1   1        1             1
2) Materiel de terrasement                     _  _
Tracteur a chains. CAT D8L                    2            1            1
Tractcur a chains CAT 059                     1            1
Tracteur sur pneus CAT 814                    2            1                          1
Nivel_us. CAT 1420                            2            1                          1
-Nlv l uc CAT 12Ga                                          
Chargeur sur pneus CAT 930
Chargeur our pnous CAT 920                    4            2            1 1           1
Poll hydraulique NF IUW                     2            1   1             1        1
8) Materiel miss en oeuvre bitums 
Enrobeur a frold ERMONT                       2                         1   1         1
Epandsuse sur camion $95l      1              1            1 I
Point a temp our cmionl|                      1                 I            1        1
4) Materiel de tranpert
Camlon bsnne 5 am  Snavie SM                 1                              1        1
Camion bnn6,6S aI  usuzu                     6            2   1                      1
Tracteur Latil + remorque 1St                 1            1 I               1
Tracteur Lati I * rsmrque 2ft                 1                         1
Tracteur rout.  suzu + remorqu 45t            1                         1
6) Cosions divr r
Comlon *tat. rsrvics Savie  J8S              1            1!
Caion grawilloneur SUB                        1            1
Cmion Citsrns S851 Zsusu                     4            1            2             1
0) Materiel de coupactags 
Co.pacteur Sakail SV91                                     1
Compacteur Iourd s. pnsus Alber. PF2          1            1
Coepacteur lourd Albaret VA1I)P               1                        1
Compacteur Ioger vibrant Somag                2                         1            1
Compecteur legsr vibrant Alberet              1                         1
7) Comprouecur d'air/remorque
Comprssnur Atls Copec  XA59                   1                1                      1
Compressur Kom atu 75601/an                   a            1            1   1         1
8) Materiel de concasuags                                                    I
Station Richior St/h                          2                 I1   1                1
Station Bergeud 49t/h                         1            1   I



- 37 -
Annexe V-1
Page 1
Comores
Proiet d'Entretien Routier
Termes de Reference de l'Assistance TechniQue a 1. DGTP
Les besoins prioritaires sont lee suivants :
1.   INGEIE&UR SPECIALI TM EN ENETIEX ROUTIE' Charge du suivi des
travaux executes sous par l'Entreprise.
Profils   Ingenieur ayant au molns 10 annees d'experience dans lea travaux
routiers, particulierement dans les domaaines de l'entretien et
des travaux d'enduisage bitumineux.
Experience de controle des travaux reallses par l'Entreprise
sous contrat d'au moins 3 ens, cette experience devant couvrir
la passation des marches, le controle de chantier, la
preparation des decomptes pour paiement de lentreprise et la
reception des travaux.
Maltrise de la langue franscise requise.
Fonctionsa      I1 sera charge des
-    Pr;parer les dossiers d'appel d'offre pour les travaux
devolus aux entreprisest
-    Suivre l'excution des march;s de travaux et leur qualite
et preparer tous ordres de service aux entreprisos;
-    Former le personnel local pour le controle de travaux de
par chantier, y compris le controle de laboratoire;
-    Preparer les attachments et les situations mensuelles;
-    Rediger les compte-rendu mensuels;
-    Conseiller le DGTP, pour l'organ$sation et la programmation
des travaux en regie.
Base a Moroni, il devra passer en moyenne trois fois par mois sur
chaque chantier d'entreprise en cours. Il sera assiste par un jeune cadre
national dan. chaque Ile, dont il assurera la formation et auxquel il
deleguera certaines responsabilites a bien definir.
Dur;e du mandat: 3 annees.
2.   MECANICIDN OU CHEF MECANICIEN ITINERANT
Profil:        Mecanicien de chantier ou d'atelier ayant une bonne
formation de base et une experiesnce d'au molns 10 anxies du
materiel de T.P.



- 38 -
Annexe V-1
Paoe 2
Personalite ouverte et meneur d'hounes.
Maitrise de la langue francsise requise.
Fonctionss     I1 sera charge de:
-    Former sur le tas lea micaniciens de la DGTP ainsi quo les
magasiniers;
-    Preparer les commandes de pilces de rechange et
fournitures;
-    Etablir la planification de l'entretien du matiriel et en
assurer l'exicution;
-   Assister le personnel Comorien a etablir le diagnostic des
paimes, les commandes de depannage et les reparations;
-   Veiller a la bonne tenue des carnets de bords, pieces de
saisie de la comptabilite analytiques des bons de sortie de
magasin;
-    Effectuer lui-moem  certaines riparations difficiles;
-    Pr'parer des compte-rendu mensuels d'activites.
Duree du mandat: 3 ameies
Base a Moroni avec visites ; Anjouan et Mohell chaque mots svil n'y a pas
de macaniciens sur ces iles.  See homologues seront les responsables de
parcs regionaux.
Besois optionnels:  un second mecanicien avec profil et fonctions
semblables pour 2 ans a Anjouan et un troiseme m&eanicien pour 1 an a
Moheli.
3.   CRAMGE DE GESTION ADMINXSTRATIVI ST FINANCIIRE
Profil:        Comptable dipl&om  avec 5 a 6 annees d'exp;rience
professionnelle pr;alables pourrait etre recrut;
localement.
Fonctions      I1 sere charg; de la comptabilite du projet d'entretien
routier solon 1le ragles requises par les billeurs de
fonds;
-    Suivi des engagements des depenses (regie et entreprise) et
de leur conformit; avec le budget previsionnel;
-    Traitement des factures;



- 39 -
Annexe V-1
Pafte 3
Preparation des documents de paiement;
Preparat$on des demandes de retrait de fonds;
Suivi des paiements effectues par le bailleur de fonds, sur
compte du projet ou sur budget local;
Comptabilisation des couts des differentes composantes du
projet;
Liaison entre chantiers et bureaux d'etudes de la DGTP pour
quo la compatabilite analytique et le suivi des prix puisse
etre effectivement realises.
E-tablissement d'un bilan annuel et du bilan final du
Proj3t.
Basse a Moroni.
Duree du mandat:    3 anines.



- 40 -
Annexe V-2
COMORES
Prolet d'entretien routier
Prorarme de formation
1.  Dans le cadre du renforcement institutionnel, le projet prevoit qu'une
formation soit dispensee & des agents de la DGTP. Cette formation so
decompose en une formation pratique, sur le terrain, et une formation
theorique.
2.   Formation pratiaue s elle eat du ressort des assistants techniques dont
elle constitue une des missions (voir termes de r'efirence).
(i) l'ingenieur routier est charge en particulier d'assurer la
formation du personnel local au controle des travaux de chantier, y compris
le contrAole de laboratoire. Son objectif est de former 3 ingenieurs.
(ii)  le  mecanicien  ou  chef  mecanicien  itinerant,  recrute
localement, est charge de former sur le tas les mecaniciens de la DGTP, 3
par ;le, ainsi que lea magasiniers,2 par Ile.
Si l financement du PNUD le permet, un mecanicien sera recrute pour chaque
iie.
3.  Formation theorique : son but eat de completer la formation pratique des
assistants technques, et a deux composantes.
(i) formation a l'etranger trois ou quatre cadres de la DGTP avant
le demarrage du projet de facon a lea rendre pleinement op;rationnels pour
le projet. 8 mois de formation au total sont prevus. Cette partie pourrait
etre essentiellement financee dans le cadre d'un prAt de pr;f_nancement (PPF)
de l'IDA si la partie comorienne en faisait la demande et si l'IDA y
consentait.
(ii) venue aux Comores d'experts formateurs pour de courtes duroes
(2 hommes-mois au total) comme cela a dj3a ete fait pour la formation
mecanique.



- 41 -
Anne  VI-1
Page 1 of 2
CONOROS
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for
the Planning and Studies Unit
1.         The Planning and Studies Unit (PSU) to be created under the
project within the Ministere de l'Equipement (DGTP) will play a key role in
planning road activities and preparing adecquate road sector policies in the
future. Its role is summarized as follows.
Plannint:
2.         The objectives of the unit will be to:
-i)   Collect, update and compile any data required to implement a
continuous road planning mechanism in the country which includes (a)
cartography, (b) traffic counts and road use, (c) roads condition, (d)
engineering data on structures, (e) accidents statistics, (f) vehicle
registration statistics, and (g) unit costs prices for road works;
(ii) Coordinate actions undertaken by DGTP's services and the national
laboratory;
(iII) Collect, update and compile data required for programming of building
R water supply and civil works which are DGTP's responsibility;
(iv) Plan and follow up on road activities, including (a) preparing road
maintenance budgets and programs; (b) monitoring procurement procedures; and
(c) coordinating all interventions on the road network 4ncluding road
maintenance and intervention for public utilities;
(v)   Create and maintain files for all activities on the road network and
other activities undertaken by DGTP; and prepare progress reports; and
(vi) Collect data on the environmental Impact of road transport, road works
and the impact of urban development on road use.



- 42 -
Annex VI-1
Page 2 of 2
Studies:
3.         The main activities of the unit will be to:
(i)    carry out preliminary studies,  preliminary designs;
(ii)   carry out small studies;
(iii) prepare terms of reference and letters of invitation for the selection
of consulting firms, evaluate proposals and prepare contracts;
(iv) monitor progress on studies executed by consulting firms, and prepare
payment documents;
(iv)   draft bidding documents for works and supplies; and
(v)    follow up on management and consumption of budgets.
4.         The PSU will be part of DGTP. It will be staffed adequately with
1 engineer, 2 technicians, 1 draftsman and secretaries. The project will
provide 3 man-months of technical assistance (from an engineer with
extensive experience in road studies and road planning and familiar with
contract management of road works) to set up PSU and provide additional
training to its staff.
5.         Offices will be provided for this unit in the building presently
occupied by DGTP. The project will finance office equipment for the unit.
DGTP will provide a liaison vehicle to the unit. DGTP will finance its
operating costs including fuel, vehicle operating costs and field trips.



- 43 -                          Annex VI-2
Page 1 of 2
COMOROS
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for
Road widening and uparading studies
I. Obiectives
1.   MEE  intends  to  undertake  a  feasibility  study  and  subsequently
engineering studies if required for the improvement and widening of RNl and
RN2 namely because of the increase in tourism activity and the current high
risk of accidents. Those roads carry respectively an average of about 600 and
650 vpd. Their original pavement width was 5m to 4.5m. They will receive
periodic maintenance under the proposed project and, particularly, the
pavement which is presently torn on its edges will be restored to its
original width. The feasibility and technical studies necessary to decide on
the appropriateness of and define further works for these roads are described
hereunder.
2.   The  objectives  of  the  studies  are:  (a)  to  review  the  road
characteristics - and especially the pavement width - to withstand present
and future traffic conditions; (b) to design appropriate upgrading operations
for the different roads having taken into account the impact on road safety
and existing physical constraints; (c) to examin tne economic feasibility of
such works, including costs related to possible population relocation; and
(d) carry out engineering studies for roads sections requiring economically
justified improvement and widening.
II. Studies
3.   Feasibility Study.  The objective of the feasibility study is to define
the optimum technical solutions based on economic and environment analysis
for the improvement andlor widening of the two roads. The final choice will
be made based on a comparison of alternatives including: (i) scope of
construction to be undertaken; (il) technical characteristics to be given to
various road sections; (iii) costs, including all costs related to possible
relocation of people living on the road sides; and (iv) net present value and
economic rate of return of each alternatives. The study will include:
(a) Traffic.   Additional traffic counts should be carried out on the
selected road sections. The following vehicles types should be considered:
heavy trucks (greater than a 5 tons load) and buses, light trucks, vans and
pick-ups, cars and mopeds and non motorized vehicles. The traffic study will
also focus on the vehicles loading. Traffic forecasts should be established
with the help of origin-destination surveys of typical users of the existing
network.



- 44 -
Annex VI-2
Page 2 of 2
(b) Road safety.   The study will analyze the road safety situation on
the considered roads as well as the impact of works envisaged on future
safety. The consultant will (i) collect any data available on vehicle and
pedestrian accidents; (ii) estimate the cost of accidents; and (ii) evaluate
the consequences of road widening on road safety (especially on increased
vehicle speed and therefore on pedestrian security) in terms of costs.
(c) Road transport Costs.   For each technical solution considered, the
additional costs of routine and periodic maintenance will be included, as
well as the cost of construction. The interrelationship between traffic,
safety, VOC, construction and maintenance costs will be considered.
(d) Economic evaluation.   For each alternative considered,  total
transport costs (net of taxes, and including all VOC, accidents costs),
during the economic life of the proposed investment (15-20 years), as well
as the costs of investments and maintenance shall be considered. The
objective is to determine the optimum technical characteristics as well as
timing of the investment. The environmental and social (e.g.associated with
relocation) effects will be examined, and the consultants sh-tl1 recommend
appropriate measures to minimize any adverse effects.  The varirus solutions
will be compared to a reference solution, which is defined as the continued
use of the existing road which would receive adequate maintenace. The NPV
using a 10% discount rate and the ERR will be calculated for each
alternative, as well as the first year return (comparison of costs to
benefits the first year after completion). An appropriate sensitivity
analysis will be performed to account for uncertainty in any of the cost and
benefits parameters entering in the calculation. Any possible interdependence
among the variables should be considered.
4.   Engineeringt study.   Additional engineering studies would be undertaken
to the extent that the feasibility study would have shown that
improvement/widening road works are required. Consultants should then
undertake all pertinent topographic and soil surveys, and prepare all
drawings and bidding documents required.
6.   Qualifications and Job description.  The feasibility study is estimated
to about 4 man-months. The consultant team would include: a highway engineer
with good experience in road works in tropical countries (2.5 m-m) assisted
by a transport economist (1 m-m) and a road safety expert (0.5 m-m).



- 45 -
Annex VI-3
Page 1 of 6
TERMS OF REFERENCE: STUDY OF THE PORT AND MARITIME SECTOR
1.   Background
The Comores are an isolated group of islands in the Indian Ocean,
possessing relatively few natural resources and thus relying on the
importation of essential commodities. The problems of isolation are
compounded by the small size of the economy and consequently the limited
tonnage of overseas trade which limits the service provided to the islands
by the regular liner services.
An adequate port infrastructure is essential to handle the Comores'
international traffic. Unfortunately the difficulties are exacerbated by
the fragmented nature of the country, comprising three islands with
different levels of development and potential. Conventional port
facilities are either available or are being constructed in the two largest
islands but the smallest island, Moheli, has no such facilities and is
dependant on supplies being delivered by small boat. It is, however,
Moheli which has the greatest potential for increasing production of
foodstuffs and reducing the Comores' dependence on imported rice and to a
lesser extent flour.
2.   Present Structure of the Sector
2.1 Ports
The Government has adopted a policy of concentrating the movement of all
liner services at the Port of Mutsamudu on Anjouan and supplying the other
islands by small coastal vessels. For conventional container traffic this
is essential as the present port of Moroni, where almost all vessels are
served by lighterage, has not the facilities to handle such traffic.  The
policy may also have benefits for the economy by reducing the overall
turnaround time of liners serving the islands and thus leading to some
reduction in liner rates. Often, however, some of the benefits are share
by the other countries served by the conference. For liner traffic
destined for Grande Comore, probably over 60%, the situation results in
doubling handling and an additional maritime section.
Much of the traffic destined for the Comores does not, however, use the
liner trades but arrives on charter, fuel and rice, or on regional
shipping, cement. This traffic goes direct to the final port of
destination and as this traffie accounts for the bulk of imports the total
volume of cargo transhipped at Mutsamudu is relatively limited. Most
cargo, at the present time, arriving for Grande Comore is lightered from
ships anchored off the port of Moroni. The lighterage operation is
undertaken on subcontract to the handling company by individual using small
wooden boutres.



- 46 -
Annex VI-3
Page 2 of 6
2.2 Shipping
International shipping is undertaken by either charter or the conference
lines and the Comores plays no part in these operations. Inter-island
shipping is important for both passengers and freight, cargo transhipped at
Mutsasmudu and for inter-island trade.
Inter-island dry cargo traffic was, until 1987, moved by the Kuwait when it
sank. Recently a secondhand LCT, the Ylang Ylang, has been purchased with
finance supplied by the Caisse Centrale and is operated by the Societe
Comorienne du Cabotage. The Ylang Ylang has a capacity of about 400 tonnes
and a limited number of passongers. It is too soon to establish the
e2erating and financial performance of this vesels.
In addition to the Yland Ylang there are also a number of motorised
vedettes and sail boutres which operate between the islands. According to
the statistics of the Ministry of transport these smaller ships have a
combined total capacity of 560 metric tonnes and 360 passengers. These
small vessels are presently the only means of supplying Moheli and the
service that they provide is regularly interrupted during periods of bad
weather. The vessels do appear adapted to the economic and social
tesources of the islands and provide opportunities for local entrepreneurs.
3.   Developments in the Sector
3.1 Ports
lmprovements to the Ports of Moroni are under construction and, when
completed will allow direct quay access to ships of 1000- 1500 metric
tonnes. This improvement will be of benefit to inter-island traffic and
perhaps to regional trades but is unlikely to affect the present system of
lighterage used for large consignments of rice and cement. Indeed it is
possible that by reducing the overall demand for lighterage the supply of
boutres will be reduced and the speed of unloading bulk consignments will
be reduced or the costs increased. In addition to the ne- quay, storage
facilites and cargo handling equipment are to be improved.
It is also proposed that additional handling equipment, better adapted to
the needs of handling conventional TEU containers, will be provided to the
Port of Mutsamudu. Dredging of the port will be also necessary in view of
the material brought into the port by the river, a problem which is likely
to intensify unless erosion on the mountains of Anjouan can be controlled.
A conventional port for the island of Moheli has also being proposed to
assure the regular supply of inter-island passenger and freight traffic.  A
facility, estimated to cost approximately 2000 million CF, is proposed at
Fomboni. The port would have the capacity to handle both LCT and
conventional coastal shipping with a draft of up to 4 meters. The annual
running costs of the port have been estimated at approximately 25 million
CF.



- 47 -
Annex VI-3
Page 3 of 6
3.2 Shipping
A new LCT is currently under construction in Belgium for the Comores,
financed by a loan from the Belgian Government. The ship has been designed
to meet the requirements of inter-island traff;.c movements in the Comores
with capacity to move dry cargo, petroleum products and passengers.
Overall the ship should have an operating capacity of about 250 metric
tonnes. More particularly the ship has a draft of only 1.5 metres and thus
existing LCT, operated by SCC, is too great to meet the operating
restrictions.
The new vessel should be in operation by the end of 1990 but there still
appears to be an element of uncertainty regarding its ownership and
exploitation. More particularly no economic or financial studies have been
undertaken to establish the market for the services offered by the vessel,
the pricing of its services and its likely financial performance. Direct
comparison with the shipping operated prior to 1987 cannot be taken as an
accurate guide to future performance given the existing operation of the
Ylang Ylang.
4.   Proposed Study
4.1 Major Issues
Considerable resources have been allocated to the port and marine sector
and further investments are underway or are proposed. The Comores has a
small economy and limited transport demands and It is essential that
maximum effective utilisation is made of the existing capacity available or
committed to reduce the need for additional investments and minimize or
eliminate the demands on the Government's recurrent budget. A number of
important issues need to be resolved in the sector to achieve this overall
objective.
(a) Utilisation of the effective capacity: once the two LCT are in
operation their potential annual capacity will be very considerable.
Assuming two rotations per week for a 48 week operating year the
maximum capacity in each direction will be over 60,000 tonnes. In
addition there is also the existing capacity of the vedettes and
boutres. In total the capacity seems well in excess of existing
inter-island traffic demand. It is, however, possible that actual
movements are underestimated, given the difficulty of monitoring the
traffic handled by local shipping. There is a definite need to
determine the most cost-effective roles for each sector of the
shipping industry and the potential for capturing a share of the
present traffic presently carried by regional carriers, particularly
cement traffic from East Africa.



- 48 -
Annex VI-3
Page 4 of 6
(b)  Operation of the Belgium financed LCT, the vessel is expected to
arrive during 1990 but operation and financial planning appears not
to have been undertaken. The management of the vessel, the market
orientation of the vessel and the pricing of its services need to be
resolved as a matter of priority.
(c)  Port facilities on Moheli: a conventional port has been proposed for
Fomboni, the capital of the island. The new LCT has the capability
to serve Moheli but using the beach in the vicinity of Mioumochoua,
gooeds and passengers with a trip and in Fomboni would, therefore,
have to made a 30 km road journey in addition to the sea voyage. A
survey is necessary to assess the necessity for minimum cost
facilities to ensure all-season access to Moheli and the cost of
providing sea access direct to Fomboni.
(d) Cost recovery in the sector: considerable investment has been made in
the port and maritime sector and much of the investment has to be
amortised. The extent to which the sector can contribute to the
amortisation of these loans must be established and the appropriate
pricing policies defined. The responsibilities of the participants
in the sector and the Government need to be clearly established
through transparent contrat-plan. These contrat-plan need to cover
not only ECOPOR but also SONOCOR, SOCOMA and SCC especially if the
latter is given the concession to operate the new LCT.
4.2 Terms of Refurence for the Study
The basic objective of the study is to prepare a master plan from the
operation and development of the maritime sector in the Comores. In detail
the study will:
(i) Establish the present demand pattern for shipping movements and
likel1v future growth in each of the sectors:
International
Regional
Inter-island
(ii) Determine the potential impact of the new Port of Moroui on
shipping movements and the extent to which the shipping capacity
available to the Comores can be economically utilised for
regional transport.



- 49 -
Annex VI-3
Page 5 of 6
(iii)Establish the probable economic and financial operating costs
and user costs (including tLe risks of loss and damaged for each
of the principal shipping groups in the Comoress
Ylang Ylang
New LCT
Vedettes and Boutres
(iv) Assess the respective roles for each of the shipping groups in
the light of their costs and present end forecast future demand
patterns to regional shipping serving both the Comores and
neighboring territories.
(v) In the light of (iv) and the operating cost and capacity
characteristics of the new vessels, prepare a detailed
operating, pricing and financial plan for the exploitation of
the aew vessel, designed to achieve full economic utilisation
and maximise the financial benefits. In addition establish in
detail the appropriate conditions to be agreed for any operating
concession with a third party.
(vi) Assess the operating conditions for the new vessel at Moheli and
determine the need for and feasibility of minimum cost
infrastructure to permit reliable all-season access to
Nioumchoua and/or Fomboni. The assessment would take into
account not only the costs of the investment but also the
probable location of demand and production centres and the
consequent costs of land transport.
(vii)Determine the likely financial position for the ports of Moroni
and Mutsamudu under existing organisational and tariff
structures. Assess the realistic potential for generating at
least partial cost recovery for the outstanding loan repayments
and the most appropriate pricing policies to be introduced to
generate such cost recovery.
(viii) Prepare detailed proposals for contracts between the government
and the main participants in the sector. Such proposals will
clearly establish the responsibilities and obligations of each
of the participants within the sector and with the government of
the Comores.
4.3 Timing and Resources
In view of the probable introduction of the new vessel into service at the
end of 1990 the study should be mounted during 1990. It is expected that
the study should be completed within a 3/4 month period by a team
consisting of the following expertise



- 50 -
Annex VI-3
Page 6 of 6
Economist           4 mm
Financial Analyst   1 mm
Port Engineer        1 mm
Shipping Expert     3 mm
Some local funds for surveying the operations of the smaller shipping
sector would also be expected to assess the potential demand for the types
of service that the new vessels will be able to provide.



- 51 -
Annex VI-4
Page 1 of 3
STUDY OF THE AIR TRANSPORT SECTOR
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
Air transport has expanded rapidly in the Comoros; in recent years
international passenger traffic has increased at an average annual rate of
over 12£ and domestic traffic at about 5X. Tourism is beginning and
increasing passenger flows may be expected in the future.
International passenger traffic is largely assured by foreign carriers
while domestic inter-island traffic is almost entirely carried by Air
Comoros. At the present time there is one small charter air-taxi and very
little private aviation.
Each of the islands is regularly served by Air Comores, using its Fokker
P27. The international airport is located on Grande Comore and domestic
airports are located on Anjouan and Moheli. The runway on Anjouan is
poorly sited and there are suggestions that the airport could be
classified. The international airport is operated by an parastatal company
while the other domestic airports are operated directly by the Government.
Sector Issues
In the medium term at least, it is highly Improbable that the Comores
should enter into the long distance international air transport industry.
The role of Air Comores must be conceived as a domestic and possibly
regional carrier, serving other islands in the area and possibly also East
Africa.
In developing its air transport potential in the domestic and regional
market the Comores are faced with a number of issues which need to be
resolved:
-    the operating future of the present Fokker F27, the aircraft has
flown about 30,000 hours but more particularly has recorded a
very large number of landings and take-offs. The operating life
of the aircraft might, therefore, be presumed to be rather
shorter than would be normally be expected. As the aircraft
ages increasing maintenance must be expected.
-    the type of aircraft bet suited to the markets likely to be
served by Air Comoros. Domestic flights are of very short
duration and the Fokker may not be ideally suited to fulfill
both domestics and regional roles. Air Comoros could
potentially lose some traffic if the preceived quality inter-
land passenger sea transport improves with the new vessel
expected in 1990, this could prove an attractive for lower
income passengers or those with considerable luggage.



- 52 -
Annex YI-4
Page 2 of 3
-    airport facilities for Air Comore are limited and the Fokker has
to be maintained out in the open. The maintenance hangar
proposed under the PIP may not be an imuediate priority but If
the fleet increases some further infrastructure for the company
may be desirable.
-    the future of the airport at Ouani could help to determine the
aircraft chosen to either add to the fleet or replace the
existing Fokker.
Terms of Reference
(i)  Make a detailed examination of the actual and potential markets
domestic, tourism, regional etc. with which Air Comore could
operate, determining
- present size and future growth of the markets
- characteristics and needs of the market
- revenue potential for each of the markets
- actual and potential competitors in the markets
(iI) Review the suitability of the present Fokker F27 to meet the
actual and potential market demands.
(iii)Review the operational and cost characteristics of aircraft
potentially suited to meet the market demands.
(iv) Prepare forecasts of potential future demand for Air Comore on
the basis of different assumptions regarding which markets it
decides to enter.
(v)  On the basis of the demand forecast formulate operating
scenarios formulate alternative fleet configurations to meet Air
Comore's potential market.
(vi) Evaluate the financial implication for Air Comore of the
different market scenatios and fleet configuration.
(vii)Assess the present operating and financial performance of Air
comore and develop a short term business plan for the company
with the basic aim of improving financial performance and
generating additional resources for development. The plan
should recommend, if necessary, changes to pricing policies,
market orientation, management and market informati*n systems
etc.
(viii)Draw up a medium-term development plan for Air Comore, covering
the next 10 years, detailing the types of aircraft required, the
timing of additional or replacement aircraft, the need for
additional maintenance and other infrastructure for Air Comore,
the financing requirements, the financial implications of the



- 53 -
Annex VI-4
Page 3 of 3
strategy and the type and cost of technical assistance
necessary.
(ix) Assess the implications of the development plan for the Airport
infrastructure of the Comores.
Timing and Resources
The study is necessary but has less of a priority than the study of the
Maritime Sector. There is, for example, not great urgency to take a
decision on a replacement for the Fokker.
Eight man-months of consultancy services are tentatively proposed for the
study. The areas of expertise required would seem to be as follows:
(i) Air transport economist, with extensive experience of tourism
development: 3 months.
(ii) Civil aviation expert, with extensive experience of small
company operations: 2 months
(iii)Additional short term expertise in areas such as aircraft
maintenance, management information systems, airport
infrastructure etc.: 3 months.



- 54 -
Annex VI - 5
Page 1 of 3
STUDY ON DEVELOPMENT OF
LABOR-BASED CONTRACTORS
These terms of reference relate to the assignment of a consultant to work
with the Government of Comoros General Directorate of Public Works to identify
the measures required to develop Labor-Based Contractors within the context of
the Highway Maintenance Project.
The consultant should carry out the following tasks:
1.   Analyze existing contracting procedures
An analysis of the existing procedures for contractors and contractor-
client relationships with outline recommendations for such modifications
as may be necessary to promote the effective use of labor-based
contracting.
This analysis shall include but not be limited to:
Mi)     Conditions   of   contract,   pre-qualifications   and   bonding
arrangements; it may be necessary to recommend the development of
specific conditions tailored to small scale contractors working
with limited financial and administrative capacity, and limited
previous road experience except for that provided by the proposed
training program.
(ii)    Disbursement and payment procedures such that timely payment of
the labor force can be secure3, this should include the potential
for streamlining financial procedures at regional level and the
possibility of the involvement of the banking system, in pre-
financing monthly operations.
(iii) Availability and procurement procedures for key items of
equipment, hand tools and materials. Many such items may not
currently be owned by the target group of contractors, or be
readily available on the local market. Recommendations should be
made for an appropriate procedure whereby the training project
could assist in this area.
(iv)    Investigate and make recommendations for training in business
accounting and administration if considered necessary.
(v)    Make recommendations for the procedures in developing unit rates
for the different construction activities, and suitable indices
for regular rate revision.



- 55 -
Annex VI - 5
Page 2 of 3
2.      Assess the Potential Work Load for Contractors
Examine the potential for utilizing contractors in the areas prior
identified as best suited  for labor-based techniques.   Assess the
availability and standard of existing contractors and select (a) target
area(s) for a pilot phase of traininp and supporting contractors.
Based on the Routine Maintenance Program in the target area(s), devise an
outline work program for the rehabilitation and maintenance of identified
roads, having a time scale and scope that will be within the planned
capacity of the DGTP to award and supervise, and within the likely
capacity of local contractors to Implement.
A phased approach should be used such that the results of the initial
pilot phase can be assessed in the target area(s) before extending the
program to any other areas where labor-based techniques are deemed
suitable.
3.      Outline Traininft Program
To propose the outline of a training program in the techniques of labor-
based construction and maintenance, that can create and sustain a
sufficient number of contracting organizations to undertake the work
program Identified under 2.
4.      General
The consultant should make recommendations which will provide the basis to:
- develop, test and introduce alternative systems, spocifications and
design standards of road rehabilitation and maintenance suitable for
Implementation and control through labor-based contracts;
- develop, test and introduce administrative and organizational
procedures (payment, recruitment, supervision, monitoring and control)
suited to maintaining productivity and quality control when using
large scale casual labor-force;
- develop, test and introduce management and remuneration systems which
encourage the cost effective and profitable application of labor-based
techniques;
- develop, test and introduce contract procedures for the tendering,
award and administration of labor-based road rehabilitation and
maintenance contracts;
- train the management and key staff of the selected contracting
organizations;
- train the key regional staff in contract supervision and
administration;



- 56 -
Annex VI - 5
Page 3 of 3
ensure that contractors have access to the financial and physical
resources required to implement the works.
The consultants proposals for the program shall includes
-   a proposed implementation program in bar chart form for training and
for the letting and tmplementation of rehabilitation and maintenance
contracts;
-   job descriptions for all proposed technical assistance staff if
required;
-   details of all project equipment and training facilities required for
implementation of the training program;
-   details of specialists consultancies if required;
-   details of Government of Comoros counterpart staff and other agreed
Government of Comoros inputs to the program;
-   details of light equipment and hand tools required to resource trained
contractors (if required);
- a project budget for the items specified, split by Government of
Comoros and Donor contribution.



- 57 -
Amnex VII-l
COMOROS
Highway Maintenance Project
Vehicle Operating Costs
(FC  km)
Paved Roads
Condition                  Good   Fair   Bad
Passenger Car        20.0%  91.3  103.8  123.0
Pick-up Trucks       68.0%  96.9  106.7  125.2
Trucks               12.0% 169.8  192.8  230.9
Average VOC                104.5  116.5  137.4



Annex VII-20
COMOROS
Highway Maintenance Project
ECONOMttIC EVALUARTION
(Sumary)
Type of clivl works:          Perlodic maintenanc of paved rood.    (404 km)                 Routine mintennce
Road                                RHI   RN2   MG48  R21 RN28 SP RN23+24 6181    Route   Vole            rande Anjouvf Mobell
Rdlonasion  Urb.ion     C~r.
Ln"th (km)                           86    47       6      29   23   16        81       25       16       121       78       27
Traffic In I8  t(pd)                on      6      T7    26    75   76         Be       46      26        112       so      4S
Beeft, first .Year                 161   38X    121    40X   15X   OX          0X       OX      28X       18x       9X      4%
Economic Rate of Rurn
r) ..o".etimte                     119X   on      18X    6X   2Xl 117         l11      VS       80        268      16o      OX
b) Sonsit)vityz
(1) Traffic growh  (OX/on)       116X   50X   12X    64X  22X   1X           101    1i1        88X       21X      16x      4X
(11) Cot: (16                     1ilX    57X   12X    621 26X   161          11o      151      851       241      16x      4X
i1 Coelned (i)hali)               101 SSX    111    661261    91               OX      141      8         21g      14S      8s
a) Economic rnt of retrn of tho projet             28.611



- 59 -
Annex VIII
Page 1 of 3
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
Nishywa Maintonance Prolect
PRO5  REPORTING REQURUD        S
Prolect Progress Reports
1.        The Borrower will prepare quarterly and annual progress reports to
be submitted to the Association. The quarterly report will be submitted not
later than one month after the end of the period and the annual report three
months after the end of the year.
2.        The progress reports shall contain the information described below:
(a) the physical progress accomplished to the date of report and during
the reporting period including:
(i) the main activities to be programmed and monitored (both force
account and under contract, to be shown separately): paved
road   maintenance    (m2),    gravelling    (m3),    spot
improvementslearth works (m3), surface grading (km), manual
maintenance (km and m3 of selective material), culvert
maintenance (units) and bridge maintenance (units).
(ii) the inputs required/used to achieve the activity targets by
brigade or unit include personnel (by qualification),
equipment (units and utilization), fuel (liters), spare parts
(FC) and materials (m3).
(iii) efficiency indicators such as availability rates (in %) and
utilization rates (in hours or km) of major equipment
categories (graders, bulldozers, trucks, pick-ups, loaders).
The combination of input and output indicators will also
provide measures of productivity and unit costs;
(iv) workshop activity indicators such as repairs by major type,
overhauls by major type and spare parts consumption (FBu);
(v) training indicators such as number of trainees and average
length of training for both standard training sessions and
special training seminars; and,
(vi)  other  key  information  which  is  not  provided  by  the
quantitative indicators;
(b) progress on procurement of goods, materials, equipment and services
(status  of  procedure,  contracts,  Implementation  rates  of
contracts);



- 60 -
Annex VII}
Page 2 of 3
tc)  progress on procurement of civil works  (number of contracts,
amounts, rate of completion, payments);
(d) actual or expected deviations from the Implementation schedule;
(e)  information on difficulties encountered and unforeseen events which
have a bearing on the implementation of the program;
(f)  explanation as to deviations from the targets set and description
of the corrective measures which have been taken or are being
prepared;
(g)  expected changes in the completion date of the project;
(h)  information  on  key  staff  changes  in  DGTP,  consultants  or
contractors;
(i)  financial information on the execution of the budget or on budget
revision;
(j)  financial information on each project component indicating the
or.iginal estimated cost, the revised cost If appropriate, the
actual expenditure, the planned expenditures, and the actual and
planned withdrawals from the Credit Account; and,
(k) status of action on each covenant of the Credit Agreement.
Project Completion Resort
3.        The Borrower will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to be
submitted to the Association not later than six months after the closing
date.
4.        The primary objective of the PCR is to reinforce the self-
evaluation capacity by the Borrower and the Association's operating
departments and to facilitate dissemination of lessons learned through the
project. The PCR will examine and assess:
(a) the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Credit Agreement and whether
the Association could have been more helpful;s
(b) the results that can be expected from the project, as compared
with expectations at appraisal and whether the original
expectations were realistic; and,
(c) whether in retrospect the project was worth doing or could
have done better.



- 61 -
Annex VIII
Page 3 of 3
5.        For those components of the project for which a rate of return was
estimated during appraisal, the PCR should contain a new estimate of the
return the project is now likely to yield and analyze the reasons for
physical or economic deviations. However, the new rate of return calculation
should be as simple as possible under the circumstances and should absorb
only a minor portion of the time devoted to the preparation of the PCR. An
tnnex with the relevant information supporting this analysis should be
included.
6.        The basic documents to be referred to are:
- credit application
- preappraisal report and project brief
- staff appraisal report (SAR)
- Credit Agreement document and supplementary letters
- supervision reports
- quarterly and annual progress reports
- correspondence files
- miscellaneous evaluation reports.



16-Dec-U0                               COMORO$ - Highway Maintenance Project -
02:66t6g PM                   ~~~~~Project Iuapleu.etation Schedule.
1991        1       1992         1       10939                1994 
I --------I---------    --I- ------                                    --I--    -   -I- I--   -               1_ _
iltem             gActivity    ~ Action by  11121   3   4111   21814  11                         2   814111   213141
I-                            ------ -I--I--   -----------l-I----I-I------I----I----I-I-I-1
icredit           iSigning               *              5i          jI              I         I    I               I    I     
IEf -- - - - - -I              -     -    - -I--1 _I -- -- -                           ----I   -   --   ----
IRoutin  Mant.   I                 IForce      I      I      iIIlll                                                           
Paved Road        Work*           lAccount    I--I----I ---l-I--I- --1I-1--I-I1-l------
lContractoraI    I    I    I      IIl lI                      ll    I    I    I
I EquiPmn         fprep.               -------                    1                      I    I    I            I        
Parts       ~~Eval. &Award  1vt/IDA    I       I     I    I    I--                                                       
------1 --       ---I-----
IPterodlc Maint.  IPre,. of Bid.  IConaultOL               
IPaved Roads      IDocuiments      II               I    I     I1 111i                                              
1Orende Cmore    JPr*p. B.C.       IContract4esi     I    I                 i      -      i     i     -       i     i     II
jRt4 1,2;         lEvel. &Award  iGvt/IOA    I    I         I          I      I     I_I       I    I    I--  
IRN 49 + RR + RUrbjWorka           I Contractrer    I    I                                                                        I
IPeriodle Maint.  !Prep. oBId. Consult/Gvtl         *,                 ,*,  
IPaved Roads      1Docuwmsts                   I    III-                                                                      
Anjousn,RR 28.24, Prep. B.C.      icontractersj    I          I I---!           I                                 I    I    I     I
RR 202 A.RN4 21,A; Eval. & Award  jOvt/IDA   ___I                     II---I- I---I---I-                                      
RHt 28 i-P        'Works           Cotaor   III---
1Paved Roads       Document.sosltOv
mobollPrep.  .C.         jContractorsl    I    1                     lii
RANS I1Eval. &AwardlGv=/DA    I                     I    II                                          I            II
I                  Woek"Carcesi                     I~- -                           ~     I  
iBridgs           IProp. of Bid   jConsult/aftI                 -            i       iIIll
Retaining         IDocumants      'otatr'           I    I    I     I                                                         
Walls             jProp. B.C.      ContractorsI                                                         I    I         I    I 
IEval. A Award   ovt/IA     I    f     I    I    I    I     -    -    I    I                
W~orks          CoatractoralI               I    I    I    IIIs--                      
~Technical         Propositi7m   Zoslt
Assisance  vel.A Awad  Jvt/lDA



- 63 -
Annex X
Page I of 2
CQMOROS
HIGHWAY MAITENANCE PROJECT
Supervision Plan 
1.   IDA's Supervision 2nput into Koy Activities.  The staff input
indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs
for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence,
etc. (estimated for this project to require five staff-weeks during the
first project year, three staff-weeks per year during the two following
project years, and two staff-weeks per year thereafter).
2.   Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)  Progress Reports are to be submitted as follows
(i)  in the form as indicated in Annex .
(ii) at the end of each quarter no later than one month later
and at the end of each year before March 31 the following
year;
(iii)by DGTP with assistance from the project TA;
(b) Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility
of the Director General of DGTP.
(c) DGTP will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA
supervision missions, and for providing information required by
missions.  Missions wi' norma:'y travel to the tb:ee -sEands
and be accompanied by the Director General of DGTP or his
deputy.
(d) Mission briefing meetings on arrival, and wrap-up meetings will
normally be chaired by the Director General of DGTP.



- 64 -
Page 2 of 2
Table:  IDA Supervistotn Ipu  inrLto Key Activities
The following assumes project to become effective on or about March 1991
Approximate
otet.                                                               Expect<d S ill                  Staff Input
(monthly/year)                Activity                               Requlremente                   (staff-weeks)
2-3/91                  Superistoen Mission                           EngInear!ngo                    2.0
(Project Launch Workshop)                    Procurement
Assist in Prparration of                     Training
Training Program.
7-9/91                  Supervision Mi;sion                           Engineering                     2.0
(to revi.w start-up, and                     Economics
implem.ntation of organ;-
gational arrangement,
s-lection of consultants
and coinccie with preparation
of annual work plant and
budget).
16-12/91                Two Supervsiaon MissI;on                     Engineering/                     2x1.S
and                     (to review start-up and                      Procurement
2-4-/92                 procur ent matters),
9-11/92                 Supervision s  lMson                         Eng;neerin9/                     2.0
(to review progross In                       Procurement
.works, studies, TA and colncide
with preparation of annual                   Economics
work plan and budget).
2-4/93            '     Supervesion Mitsson                          Eng;neering/                     2.0
(to review progress)                        Procurement
Environment
8-8/93                  Supervision  itssion                         Engineering                      1.0
(to roview progress)
Years 93, 94, 95        Sam. pattern as for 9/92 to 8/93             Engineering/                     3x4.0
Three supervislon missions per year          Procurement
(including one at th- end of                 Economics
1996 or early 1990 to prepare
PCR).
Mid-term revlew meeting to be hold
by February 1, 1994.



CaNaAN : Hlggay iiint namc. Project   (e Iliont at dollar.)   Glba tifitancing pion
PC/S.     28
IDA              afermonmt of Cono               PWNUD   PIUD             iW        FAC
Is Pm.       IIII
Loca  Foreign   Totl          gm    Lical Foeign   Total          i La  Foreign   Total    Local Fonrign   Total    Local horoign   Total
A - 7ii  71*8 ROAD PROgWI                                                                                                                                          I 
I - PERUDIC wUwiC1 M= CWiRAT)                   1.1P    8.47    4.t0 1   781   7831   0.84    2.64    8.8     0.80    0.09    0.86 i   0.00    0.0e    0.00     0.18    0.84    0.70
1,___,____.___  ._.                       - I        _-                   I
Cor program s                           0.71    2.01    2.72 I   74t   79111   0.84    1.61    2.15    0.06    0.00    0.06 I                        I   0.11    0.40    0.12
- ioritl _ 3tewnae of roed"           0.82    1.86    2.07 1   73  1011  0.82    1. 88    2 
- eriodi  and retlaning gall         0.19    0.4t   0.0   I   7i1          05st   02.0              0.0    0.00    0.06                               0.11    0.40    0.12
Additional Prorm s                      0.44    1.82    1.76 i   781   70#i   0.00    1.28    1.23 i   0.44    0.09    0.88 i                        i
(Periodic mntInaceof romdl)                                  I            I                        I                       I
iad Marking                             0.04    0.14    0.18 i    No0   oiI                        i   0.00    0.00    0.00 I                        i   0.04    0.14    0.1*
it - ROuTDE  AI                                                     I            I                        i 
1.14    1.80    2.64 1   69    481   0.11    1.02    1.18     1.06    0.01    1.04 I                       I   0.00    0.48    0.46
---I~~ -- -- ------- ------ I -- ------,--I- ----
Equipment pera ports* _mt.              0.06    1.84    1.89    100t   67ml   0.05    0e    0.92 1   0.00    0.00    0.00 I                         I   0.00    0.46    0.46
Force account (aog.. fool *  fix cota)  0.82    0.01    0.8e  I   8as *3  I   0.00    0.00    0.00 I   0.82    0.01    0.8e  I
Routine mintnne undr cntrat             0.27    0.18    0.42 I   as81   a0wl   O.oS    0.1    0.21 a   0.21    0.00    0.21                         I
il. INFrt AL sLrtTI                                                                     I                        I                        I                        I
I -  TI20WAL ASSWANCE                          0.28    0.91    1.14     s o0t   8911   0.07    0.29    0.a6   0.00    0.00    0.00,    0.07    0.29    0.ao     0.06    0.88    0.42
_ _ ~~~~I                              _1                                    I_ I_II 
XI -TR*M                                       0.01    0.17    0.11 I    83 9*  wi   0.01    0.06    0.07 I   0.00    0.00    0.00 I   0.00    0.11    0.11 1   0.00    0.0o    0.00  1
_ _ _ _ _ _   I  _ _  I   _ _ _ _ _ _  _ I  _ _ _ _ ,__ I           . -  I 
ellehips                                0.00    0.4    0.14 I  1003  201w  0.00    0.0o    0.06                                 O.ao    0.11    0.11 1                         r
Training in Comoroa                     0.01    0.08    0.04     SOB   "11I  0.01    0.0o    0.04 I   0.00    0.00    0.00 j                                                  t
c - 2W1U                                               0.16    0.24    0.40     603   SJoI   0.18    0.19    0.82 i   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.08    0.06    0.06 i
~~~~I                          I--_  _                  I           __I                            -     __ I 
T0iAL     i        iUU)                                2.71    8.29    0.01     703  8ssil   o.8s    4.40    6.28 I   1.88    0.10    1.68    0.10    O.4    0.44    o   0.28    1.84    1.86
PlhyIecnl contingencies as                             0.27    0.68    0.90 1            I   0.03    0.44    0.18 I   0.18    0.01    0.16     0.01    0.04    0.06    0.02    0.18    o.16
Price ontlngenciee 213                                 0.41    0.94    1.2S I            I   0.18    O."t   0.79 1   0.83   0.0a2    0.24 I   0.02    0.07    0.06     0.04    0.20    0.24
GLOwBL COs!                                            6.89    7.87   11.296 1   703   831   1.06    5.80    6.87 1   1.91    0.18    2.04 1   0.18    0.5t    0.09 1   0.29    1.68    1.97
_                              I_1_ I                                                                       _
(a tc)        2S6.8M5  lS76.17 1041.72   477.82   81.e8  809.20
*                                    Financing of routine maintenan
I under contree 3 finnIng MA            aerae" MA fin. for rou. awint.
Year 1                                   15.0   80.0o                  12.0t       under contrat
Yesr 2                                  ao.ati   0.Otl                  lB.0as
Year 8                                  60.01t  40.0t                   20.0ti
Coateactore/ltal an the Welole project  S 81.7Y                         80.03                                                                                            14



- 66 -
Annez XII
Page 1 of 1
COOROS
#inhwavs maintenance Pro1ect
Selected Documeats and Data Available in Proiect File
1.   Mission aide memoirs by J.J.Raoul dated June 8, 1988
2.   Mission aide memoire by J.J.Raoul dated July 17, 1989
3.   Appraisal mission aide memoire dated November  .1989.
4.   Study Report by BCEOMs 'Etude Diagnostique de 1'Entretien Routier aux
Comores* and Annexes. 1988
5.  Report by S. Thomas: "Investment Proposed in the Transport Sector'.
November 1989.
6.   Mission Aide-M4moire by A. Ballereau and A. Labeau, dated September
28,1990.
7.   Proces-Verbal of the negotiations, dated December 6, 1990.



-   .                -       ~~~~~~~CO)M O R OS                        jrlmiUme  k
ANJOUAN
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
.~~~~~~~Srm N'on -                   't N  AbO     -to t%am *
_            _,                                                       i  ,        F_b   1
9o~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :'j..: 
_ _ _ _c_ _'.__ _ _ _  _a_)- -1*
~~~~~~~O., - ° M_  Wdcldef_ U ';
3. . ,gW     .~                             o                          4   . a,,  
.   ;,         g_                         ~~~       ~     ~~~~~~     ~ ~~~~~~              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ,,Z    : -/l



RD 22136
~~,) ;U-                                    *    -fi
'4     1   P 1 9  0
j        i                       ~~~~IlilXo
,UL 1990



lOW 2211
COMO0ROS
GRANDE COMORE
.1t;G"WAY MAIINTENANCE PROJECT
ROAD SYSTEM
~~~ los ~~~~~~~~suraced Nationtal -Piediod  and Roustine
MUAM Maintenance
m                    S~~~~~~~~urfacedI National - Periodic a'id Ro'itne
Maintna"  with Road Markgs
m.Nou              1               !Fferlbenl n!Surfaced Regional - Periodic and Routine
Maintenance
.~bl                   issms Su rfaced National - Routirne Mainteanc
Surfaced Reggional- Routinire Maintenance
.witI Road Makiwngs
Surfaced Regional
h  +  _  Surkaed Reonal with Road Markintp
-  .   t  .UnSurfaced Regional
v-    Bridge oc culvet
k=d  ~      [bue                KdpAaa
M _  runl   xo        ~~~2361 m.                  t
.oWe Awdjou   J    )
-   \  jNoumad                         lb~~~~~~~~IMnimolpanga    \           
'   '   \  ONIawnbadpWj- 
k  \)M    ~'Djoyezl                      Moho
e  N          e F   R f   " ' Q  A WA .4 
JULY 1990



