Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2207 COM
(Highway Maintenance Project)
between
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 1, 1991
CREDIT NUMBER 2207 COM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 1, 1991, between FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from United Nations Development Program 
(UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount equivalent to $690,000 to assist in 
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNDP 
Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and UNDP;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation 
(FAC) a grant (the FAC Grant) to assist in the carrying out of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the FAC Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and FAC; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the  context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"DGTP" means the Direction Generale des Travaux Publics within the 
Borrower's Ministry of Equipment, Energy, Postal and Telecommunication Services;
(b)
"DRTP" means the Direction Regionale des Travaux Publics within the 
Borrower's Ministry of Equipment, Energy and Postal and Telecommunication Services;
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d)
"FC" means the currency of the Borrower; and
 
(e)
"Road Maintenance Fund" means the fund to be established by law in 
accordance with Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
4,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the  proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association  as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  3
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing March 15, 2001, and ending September 15, 2030. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on September 15, 2010, shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through DGTP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
For the purpose of making available the funds to be contributed by the 
Borrower out of its own resources for road maintenance, the Borrower shall maintain a 
Page  4
caisse d'avance in the
name of DGTP under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and replenish 
such caisse d'avance, quarterly, up to an amount of 40 million FC.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain 
within DGTP, DRTP and the planning unit referred to in Section 6.01 (a) adequately 
qualified staff in sufficient
numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than 6 months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) By October 15 of each year during execution of the Project, 
the Borrower shall submit to the Association for its review and comment its three-year 
Page  5
draft investment and maintenance program for the transport sector.
(b)
The Borrower shall, in preparing the final version of such program, take 
into due account the comments made by the Association.
(c)
No investment estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more shall 
be initiated during any fiscal year during execution of the Project, unless such 
investment has been included
in the respective investment and maintenance program referred to in subparagraph (a) 
above or it has been explicitly approved by the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) By October 15 of each year during execution of the Project, 
the Borrower shall consult with the Association on the budgetary allocation for the 
road sector for the following year.
(b)
The budgetary allocation for road maintenance shall not be less than the 
equivalent of $500,000 in 1989 dollars during any given year during execution of the 
Project.
(c)
The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that all funds 
needed for the purpose of the provision of subparagraph (b) above shall be transferred 
into the Road Maintenance Fund.
Section 4.04. By June 30, 1991, the Borrower shall issue and publish revised 
regulations to prohibit the import of heavy vehicles in excess of 10 tons axle load 
and, thereafter, take all measures necessary to enforce such regulations.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the UNDP Grant and FAC Grant made 
to the Borrower for 
the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the UNDP Grant 
Agreement or the FAC Agreement.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, or termination is not caused by 
the failure of the Borrower to 
perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has established, and adequately staffed, a road planning 
unit within DGTP with a permanent legal status; 
(b)
the Borrower has provided appropriate offices for DGTP; 
 
(c)
the Borrower has revised the assignments of higher level staff within 
DGTP and DRTP and of execution level staff in DRTP in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association and reduced the temporary staff of DRTP to 290 staff positions;
(d)
the Borrower has established a caisse d'avance for DGTP under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association in conformity with the provisions of 
Page  6
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and has deposited 40 million FC into such caisse 
d'avance;
(e)
the Borrower has promulgated a law, establishing the Road Maintenance 
Fund; such law to be satisfactory to the Association; and
(f)
the technical assistant financed by FAC has taken his position in Moroni.
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministcre des Finances, du Budget,
   de l'Economie et du Plan
Moroni
Telex:
245
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC),
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
By /s/ Amini Ali Moumin
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) (a) Works under            1,481,000        100%
        Part A.1 of
        the Project
    (b) Works under              849,000        70%
        Part A.2 of
        the Project
    (c) Routine main-
        tenance works
        carried out by
        contractors
        during the
        years:
        (i) 1992                  35,000        80%
       (ii) 1993                  52,000        60%
      (iii) 1994                  58,000        40%
(2) Vehicles,                    636,000        100%
    equipment,
    materials and
    supplies
(3) Consultants'                 469,000        100%
    services
(4) Training and        
      46,000         100% of foreign
    fellowships                                 expenditures and
                                                80% of local
                                                expenditures
(5) Unallocated                  974,000
                                ________
         TOTAL                 4,600,000
                               =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to preserve the paved road network from 
deterioration, to improve road safety and to strengthen the Borrower's road 
maintenance and planning capability.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Road Maintenance
 
1.
Periodic maintenance on about 158 km of paved roads, including resealing of 
about 47 km of paved roads with a single surface dressing, regraveling of shoulders, 
repair of pavement edges and improvement of bridges (Core Program as set forth in 
paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Schedule).
2.
Periodic maintenance on about 68 km of paved roads, including resealing of about 
53 km of paved roads with a single surface dressing, regravelling of shoulders and 
repair of pavement edges (Additional Program as set forth in paragraph 2 of the Annex 
to this Schedule).
3.
Routine maintenance of about 467 km of roads. 
 
Part B:
Improvement of Road Safety
 
1.
Acquisition and installation of traffic signs needed for selected locations.
 
2.
Marking of the main road network (about 96 km).
 
Part C:
Institutional Support
 
1.
Strengthening of the work supervision, accounting, mechanical workshop, and 
planning capability of DGTP.
2.
Training, including training overseas, of selected DGTP staff. 
 
Part D:
Studies
 
(i)
on road widening and upgrading;
 
(ii)
for the establishment of the road study and planning unit in DGTP; 
and
(iii)
on the promotion of road maintenance performed through labor-based 
methods 
under contract and such other subjects as agreed upon 
by the Borrower and the 
Association.
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
ANNEX
1.
Core Program
 
      Roads                               Length
      RN1                                 35.6
      RN2                                 47.0
      RN25 Adda-Domoni                    12.3
      RN24                                 3
      RN21                                29
      RN31                                31
Page  9
2.
Additional Program
 
      Roads                               Length
      RN4B                                 6
      RN23 Sima-Pomoni                    23
      Urban Roads                         15
      Regional Roads                      24
______________________________________________________
RN = National Road
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for major civil works for the maintenance 
of paved roads under Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Comoros may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$20,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be 
procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
2.
Contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000, may be procured on the basis of local 
competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.
Contracts for minor works estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations of at least three local 
contractors.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
Page  10
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the preparation of studies in the transport 
subsectors, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
Page  11
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Page  12
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
