Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24222-GU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
June 7, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 30, 2002)
Currency Unit = Quetzal
Q1 = US$0.123
US$1 = 8.133
FISCAL YEAR
2003 -- 2005
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANGUAT            Central Bank of Guatemala (Banco de Guatemala)
CAS          =     Country Assistance Strategy
CIS          =     Credit Information System
FATF         =     Financial Action Task Force
FOPA         =     Government Deposit Insurance (Fondo para la Protecci6n del
Ahorro)
FFCB         =     Bank Capitalization Fund (Fondo Fiduciario de Capitalizaci6n
Bancaria)
FSAL         =     Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSAP         =     Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSTAL              =     Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
GDP          =     Gross Domestic Product
ICB          =     International Competitive Bidding
IDB          =     Inter American Development Bank
IMF          =     International Monetary Fund
LCS          =     Least Cost Selection
LSP                Letter of Sector Policy
MB           =     Monetary Board
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NPL          =     Non Performing Loans
OPP          =     Operational Principles and Procedures
PCU          =     Project Coordination Unit
QCBS         =     Quality and Cost Based Selection
SB           =     Superintendency of Banks
SPV          =     Special Purpose Vehicle
UNDP         =     United Nations Development Program
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Jose de Luna Martinez



GUATEMALA
FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  9
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      11
3. Benefits and target population                                                     12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                13
4. Indications of borrower commitrnent and ownership                                  14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           15
2. Financial                                                                          15
3. Technical                                                                          15
4. Institutional                                                                      16
5. Environmental                                                                      16
6. Social                                                                             16
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 18



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     17
2. Critical risks                                                                     18
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     19
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            19
2. Other?                                                                             19
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         20
Anmexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          21
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    25
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         27
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           28
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Eaming Project Entities, or Financial Summary     29
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    30
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                         35
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     39
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   40
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  41
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            43



GUATEMALA
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFF
Date: June 7, 2002                               Team Leader: Jose De Luna Martinez
Country Manager/Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo    Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P076853                              Sector(s): FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme(s): Financial Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
r,ojecth^F¢i,n,a nSiggD,a,,,t9      - . . .         2 c
[X iLoan     [ Credit     [ I Grant   [ ]Guarantee     [ 3 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 5.0
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: 1 Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Initial choice of Interest-rate basis:
Type of repayment schedule:
[XI Fixed at Commitment, with the following repayment method (choose one): level
[ I Linked to Disbursement
BORROWER                                                     0.90           0.00         0.90
IBRD                                                         5.00           0.00          5.00
Total:                                                       5.90           0.00          5.90
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
Responsible agency: CENTRAL BANK AND SUPERINTENDENCY OF BANKS
Superintendency of Banks
Address: 9a. Avenida 22-00 Zona 1, Guatemala. C.A. 01001
Contact Person: Mr. Hugo Daniel Figueroa Estrada
Tel: 502-232-0001           Fax: 502-2325301           Email: hfigueroa@sib.gob.gt
Estimated Disbursements I Bank FY/US$m):
w:A.V;   ',  A.@O, § .i F_-i ,            .       t--4 ,_- Lb .' t 'I i  I IM-i
Annual      1.85      2.63      0.52
Cumulative     1.85      4.48      5.00
Project implementation period: Sept. 2002-Dec. 2004
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
OCS PAD Fan R. Wd MM



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Government of Guatemala has recently undertaken important legislative reforms in the
financial sector, and has requested assistance from the Bank and the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) to support implementation of those reforms. Bank assistance to the financial sector
reforms will be provided through a US$150 million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL)
and this Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan (FSTAL).
Recognizing that the financial system was an area of high vulnerability for the economy, the
Government prepared a program of reforms, including legislation, to support the creation of a
modem, stronger and better functioning banking sector, able to improve and expand its
intermediating functions and to withstand shocks. The proposed FSTAL will provide technical
assistance to support the irnplementation of the Government's financial sector reform program
supported' by the FSAL. The FSTAL will provide assistance for (i) closing and liquidating
insolvent banks, (ii) recapitalizing weak but viable institutions, (iii) strengthening overall financial
regulation and supervision, and (iv) fostering market discipline and competition among financial
intermediaries. These actions are designed to help the authorities to prevent a major banking
crisis, minimize the use of fiscal resources for bank restructuring, and establish a new legal,
regulatory and institutional framework for the sound and efficient development of the financial
system. In the medium term, these reforms are expected to widen the access of financial services
to the overall population and, thus, contribute to alleviate poverty and support economic growth.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
I . Closure of insolvent banks.
2. Transfer of assets and liabilities of insolvent banks to other financial institutions.
3. Establishment of the Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization (FFCB).
4. Recapitalization of weak but viable banks.
5. Establishment of a Credit Information System (credit bureau).
6. Draft of new laws on secured transactions, non-bank financial institutions, insurance
companies, and collective investment vehicles.
7. Draft and implementation of new accounting rules
8. Adoption of a better legal framework for 'rapid debt collection
9. Establishment of the Special Unit Against Money Laundering within the Superintendency of
Banks (SB).
10. Modernization of the payment system for large transactions.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 24235-GU Date of latest CAS discussion: Scheduled June 25, 2002
The proposed Guatemala FSTAL and the FSAL are being presented to the Board concurrently
with a Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report (Report No. 24235-GU).
- 2 -



The assistance strategy for Guatemala outlined in the previous, 1998 CAS (Report No.
18036-GU) had the following objectives: build social cohesion and strengthen participatory
decision making, reduce poverty and exclusion, rise economic growth, and maintain
macroeconomic stability. The 1998 CAS acknowledged the leading role of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) and IDB in terms of providing support to the Government for financial
sector legal and regulatory reform, and encouraged the Bank to monitor the evolution of the
financial system and, as needed, complement the work of the other agencies, in particular with
respect to the supervision of the financial system and its capacity to support investment in
competitive productive activities. The rapid deterioration of the banks' financial situation in
Guatemala due to inadequate lending practices and weak regulation and supervision had not been
contemplated at the time of the 1998 CAS.
In response to an emerging crisis, the Bank, at the Government's request and in coordination with
other multilateral agencies, including the IDB and the IMF, has provided assistance to design the
overall scheme for the resolution of the country's weak and insolvent banks and draft the required
legal and regulatory reforms to strengthen the financial system. The Bank has provided strong
support through technical advisory services following recommendations of the FSAP carried out
in early 2001. The Government then formally requested support from the IDB and the Bank to
support implementation of its financial sector reform program.
A CAS for FY03-05 is under preparation and will be presented for consideration by the Executive
Directors in FY03. In the interim, the CAS Progress Report provides an update on the World
Bank Group's assistance strategy that takes into account the important financial sector reforms
being put in place by Guatemala, and the Government's macroeconomic program that is being
supported by an IMF Stand-by. In other areas, the assistance strategie's objectives for FY02-04
presented in the Progress Report remain broadly consistent with those presented in the FY98
CAS.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Guatemalan financial sector is an area of high vulnerability for the Guatemalan economy. A
number of banks suffer from liquidity and solvency problems and remain in operation thanks to
continuous assistance from the Central Bank of Guatemala (BANGUAT). The real situation of
the financial system is obscured by the fact that a large number of institutions, representing
approximately 50% of the system in terms of assets, is not regulated. Even in the regulated sector,
information is not adequate due to poor accounting practices.
Official figures show that non-performing loans (NPLs) in the banking system amounted to 9% of
all loans by March 2002. It is presumed that the real level of NPLs in the financial system is
larger since NPLs may have been transferred to the unregulated off-shore segment. If the NPLs
were provisioned adequately, a number of banks would present severe capital shortfalls. A recent
review of the banking sector shows that six out of 34 regulated banks are affected by chronic
liquidity and solvency problems. Three of them had, in early 2002, outstanding liabilities with the
BANGUAT that amounted to several times their book capital. Another one, a larger bank
affected by chronic illiquidity, relies on public sector deposits (including deposits from the Social
Security System). It is likely that the unregulated financial institutions are suffering more acute
- 3 -



problems than their regulated counterparts.
The financial problems faced by Guatemalan banks are the result of multiple causes, including
political interference in the central bank, poor legal and regulatory framework, weak supervision,
inadequate lending practices, weak risk management capacity within banks, and weak market
discipline. Specific weaknesses in Guatemala's financial system, prior to the recent enactment of a
new legal and regulatory framework, included the following:
Central bank
*   multiplicity of objectives.
*   lack of political, operational, and financial autonomy.
* lack of accountability and transparency in the conduction of monetary policy.
*   weak financial situation.
*   excessive use of the lender of last resort facility.
*   deficient payment system.
Prudential regulation and supervision
*   lack of operational and financial autonomy of the SB.
*   deficient loan classification and provisioning rules.
*   inadequate accounting and disclosure practices.
*   insufficient powers of the SB to supervise and enforce prudential regulations.
* lack of adequate prudential rules for off-shores and non-bank financial institutions.
Weak legal, institutional and judicial framework
*   weak legal basis for bank intervention, rehabilitation, restructuring and closure.
*   poor judicial procedures for rapid debt collection.
*   weak credit culture.
*   inadequate legal framework for secured transactions.
*   weak anti-money laundering legislation.
With assistance from the international financial institutions (IMF, IDB, and the Bank), the
Government has defined a comprehensive program to address the issues listed above. The
program involves the following: (i) comprehensive legal and regulatory reforms to improve the
framework for monetary and financial policy and recapitalize the central bank; (ii) the
strengthening of prudential regulation and supervision; and  (iii) the regularization of
undercapitalized banks and the resolution of distressed banks via liquidation, mergers or sales.
(i) Framework for monetary policy and financial policy and recapitalization of the Central
Bank
Four major financial sector laws have been recently approved by Congress in Guatemala: (i) a
Cental Bank Law (Ley Orgdnica del Banco de Guatemala); (ii) a Monetary Law (Ley
- 4 -



Monetaria); (iii) a Banking and Financial Groups Law (Ley de Bancos y Grupos Financieros);
and (iv) a Financial Supervision Law (Ley de Supervisi6n Financiera).
The new Central Bank Law grants political and financial autonomy to the central bank and makes
the bank more transparent and accountable, requiring its senior officials to inform Congress and
the public about the evolution of monetary policy, as well as exchange and credit policies.
Furthermore, it introduces the Central Bank's obligation to disclose periodically its financial
situation. This law establishes the maintenance of price stability as the main objective of
BANGUAT, substituting the "developmental approach" of the previous legislation. It also refines
the instruments of monetary policy and establishes better mechanisms for the treatment of
deficiencies in bank reserves. The law also limits BANGUAT's lender of last resort function, while
improving the reserve requirement rules.
BANGUAT will be audited in 2002 by the SB, assisted, if deemed necessary, by external auditors.
The audit will reveal the magnitude of BANGUAT's accumulated losses, as well as the
adjustments required in its balance sheet to restore its long term solvency. The Central Bank is
expected to be recapitalized thereafter.
As part of the efforts to strengthen the Central Bank, the payment system will be modernized.
Since most of the transactions and payments in Guatemala are made through checks, the
authorities have given priority to the automation of the Checks Clearing Center. This involves the
purchase of appropriate hardware and software and the issuing of norms that will regulate the
electronic clearing and settlement. The expectation is that the electronic clearing of checks will be
in place in 2002. Subsequently, BANGUAT authorities contemplate the implementation of a
payment system for high value transactions, which are the ones that pose the highest systemic risk
for BANGUAT. BANGUAT authorities have requested technical assistance from the Bank to
help it to comply with the disclosure requirements contained in the new laws and upgrade the
payment system for large transactions.
The new Monetary Law guarantees the free convertibility of the currency and the free movement
of capitals, in line with the Law of Free Acceptance of Foreign Currency, approved in December
2000.
(ii) Strengthening of prudential regulation and supervision
The new Banking and Financial Groups Law and the Financial Supervision Law strengthen the
legal basis for effective financial sector regulation and supervision. Among other issues, the laws
introduce tough licensing requirements for new financial institutions, foster consolidated
supervision, adopt intenational standards on capital requirements and other prudential ratios,
improve corporate governance and transparency, create a limited deposit insurance, establish
efficient mechanisms for bank resolution, and improve law enforcement by strengthening the
powers and autonomy of the SB.
As part of the efforts to strengthen prudential regulation and supervision, a Money Laundering
Law (Ley Contra el Lavado de Dinero y otros Activos) was approved by Congress in October
- 5-



2001 and became effective on December 17, 2001. This new law contains the relevant elements
required in a statutory provision to prevent and deter money laundering activities, namely it: (i)
makes money laundering a crime and provides for appropriate sanctions; (ii) creates a Specific
Unit Against Money Laundering within the SB (Intendencia de Verificaci6n Especial); (iii)
provides for reporting, collection, and analysis of suspicious or unusual transactions (in excess of
US$10,000); (iv) authorizes the freezing and seizing of assets reasonably suspected to be
proceeds of crime; and (v) authorizes the sharing of such information with other jurisdictions and
cross border legal assistance in prosecuting money laundering crimes, including collecting
evidence and extraditing accused criminals.
Authorities are aware that additional amendments to financial sector legislation and/or issuance of
new laws are needed to strengthen the legal framework of the financial sector. Since more than
50 percent of Guatemala's financial system remains unregulated, creating serious risks to the
overall economy, a new Non-Bank Financial Intermediaries Law is urgently needed. The new law
should set the minimum regulatory and supervisory requirements for this type of financial
intermediaries, including conditions for entering and exiting the market, solvency requirements
and sanctions to be applied for not complying with the law.
A new Insurance Law is also needed. Authorities have agreed with the Bank that a new
Insurance Law should have the following characteristics. It should: (i) reaffirm the principle that
insurance companies will be under the supervisory authority of the SB; (ii) incorporate the
principle of consolidated supervision; (iii) establish a regime of sanctions against risky practices;
(iv) follow international supervision standards (issued by the International Association of
Insurance Supervisors); (v) allow local insurance firms to operate abroad and allow foreign firms
to operate in Guatemala; (vi) define clearly the functions and responsibilities of the insurance
intermediaries; (vii) establish norms for corporate governance; (viii) redefine the insurance
market; (ix) actualize the solvency parameters of insurance companies; (x) make information more
transparent; and (xi) establish an orderly market exit mechanism.
Another important law that would contribute to reduce constraints in access to credit faced by
some groups of the economy is a Secured Transactions Law. The Guatemalan authorities
recognize that such a law would facilitate the use of movable guarantees such as inventory, cattle,
equipment, inventories and receivables, opening access to credit to groups that only have this type
of guarantees. The use of movable guarantees requires the constitution of a registrar. The new
law would norm the form in which movable guarantees can be used, reduce the cost of registering
these type of guarantees and modernize and transform the process of accepting, registering,
controlling and executing movable guarantees.
Guatemalan authorities have requested technical assistance from the Bank, as well as other
international organizations, to draft the three new laws described above, but most importantly, to
help them implement the new legislation. The IDB is preparing a US$900,000 grant facility to
assist the authorities in drafting all prudential regulations required to enforce the new Bank
Supervision Law, including rules on capital requirements, loan classification and provisioning,
limits to connected lending, external auditors, internal controls etc. The IDB is also expected to
finance technical assistance to strengthen off-site and consolidated supervision in Guatemala. As
-6 -



explained in the following sections, under the FSTAL, the Bank would finance technical
assistance in most of the remaining areas, including the establishment of a national credit bureau;
draft new laws on secured transactions, non-bank financial institutions, insurance companies and
collective investment vehicles; update of accounting principles; improvement of legal framework
for debt recovery; and strengthening the Special Unit Against Money Laundering.
(iii) Resolution of distressed banks
The Government's financial sector reform program involves the regularization/resolution of a
number of weak and insolvent banks and financial institutions. In early 2001, the authorities
intervened and suspended the equity and administrative rights of the shareholders of three small
banks: Promotor, Metropolitano and Empresarial, which accounted for about 6.5% of total
deposits in the system. These banks have been sent to judicial liquidation, under the provisions of
the previous banking legislation.
The weak situation of other financial institutions in Guatemala will become more evident when the
new legislation enters into force and the banks have to apply the new classification and
provisioning norms and the information is collected on a consolidated basis. Authorities are
committed to restructure/resolve insolvent institutions, while rehabilitating weak but viable banks,
using principles of rapid and transparent decisions, minimizing the use of fiscal resources, and
implementing least cost solutions.
The costs of closing and resolving insolvent banks, and recapitalizing weak but viable institutions
is estimated at between US$400 and US$600 million. It is expected that a large part of this cost
would be borne by the banks' shareholders. The allocation of Government funds to support bank
restructuring will be ruled by the new Banking Law, as well as the operating rules of the Fiduciary
Fund for Bank Capitalization (FFCB).
I
Guatemalan authorities have agreed to undertake a comprehensive examination of the banks in the
system to assess the need for additional actions to strengthen their balance sheets and the
possibilities for a consolidation of the banking system through mergers and acquisitions. To this
effect, private banks will be classified independently using the SUPER classification scheme,
which uses a number of rating parameters measuring, inter alia, liquidity, solvency, capital
adequacy, portfolio quality and provisioning, profitability, and operational efficiency. (The
detailed methodology used for this classification would be agreed with the Bank). The capital
shortfall estimations would be made based on information on a consolidated basis, in;cluding
off-shore entities.
The new banking legislation drastically limits the BANGUAT's ability to continue providing funds
to distressed banks for their recapitalization, restructuring or closure. At the same time, it
provides a wide framework and several options to restructure distressed banks including:
regularization plans (in case of capital deficiency) proposed by the bank and approved by the SB,
suspension of operations, transfer of assets and liabilities of a failed bank to other financial
institutions, and liquidation. To support and speed up the process of bank restructuring,
authorities have decided to establish the FFCB.
-7 -



Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization (FFCB)
The FFCB would be created as a trust fund outside the balance of BANGUAT. It would provide
subordinated credits or take equity positions for the following three purposes:
a) Capitalization of banks in the context of regularization plans approved by the SB and
BANGUAT.
Banks with regularization plans approved by the SB could receive loans from the FFCB. These
banks should have adjusted their accounts according to new prudential regulations. The eligibility
requirement would be strict with respect to the initial level of tier-one capital. FFCB assistance
would be provided on a matching basis (1:1 ratio), with additional ownership capital. Moreover,
the recipient bank would agree to undergo an institutional diagnosis and to prepare an institutional
development plan approved and monitored by the SB.
b) Capitalization of banks in the context of mergers or acquisitions, according to plans
approved by the SB and BANGUA T
Banks that voluntarily enter in a process of strengthening or mergers and acquisitions could
receive assistance from the FFCB. To prevent a failed merger, the SB would require that merging
banks redress shortfalls in capital requirements, that management is suitable, and that the merged
entity has a strong business base. The shareholders of banks that receive FFCB assistance for
voluntary restructuring, mergers and acquisitions, would have to make capital contributions in a
ratio of 0.6:1. In these cases, the FFCB funds would go to the acquiring or resulting bank. Banks
that undergo voluntary restructuring should have adjusted their accounts according to the new
prudential regulations and have a plan approved by the SB.
c) Capitalization of banks that participate as acquirers of deposits in the context of the
process of bank closure and resolution according to the Banking and Financial Groups Law
The bank resolution scheme in the new Banking Law provides for the transfer of assets and
liabilities of a failed bank to other institutions. The liabilities (deposits) would be assumed by a
solvent bank. To circumvent the problems associated with due diligence practices, the transfer of
assets will be made through an special purpose vehicle (SPV) for the securitization of the assets.
The SPV would charge a fee for managing the assets and issue participations. The institution that
assumes the deposits will receive in exchange participations in the SPV.
The FFCB would be funded by the Ministry of Public Finance from extemal loans, budgetary or
other resources, and recuperation of the loans it makes and/or sale of the instruments that it
acquires in its operations. It would be managed by an Executive Committee composed of
representatives of BANGUAT, the Ministry of Public Finance, and the SB. The FFCB would use
three types of instruments to capitalize banks, all of which could be counted as Tier 2 capital: (i)
subscription of preferred shares without voting rights; (ii) purchase by the FFCB of a
subordinated bond issued by the participating bank convertible into equity; and (iii) the granting of
- 8-



a subordinated loan to a recipient bank. The FFCB would operate following Operational
Principles and Procedures agreed with the Bank.
At the request of Guatemalan authorities, this loan would finance extensive technical assistance
for the rapid and orderly resolution of distressed banks in Guatemala, as well as the capitalization
of weak but viable financial institutions.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed loan would assist the Guatemalan authorities to implement the financial sector
reform program agreed under the framework of the FSAL. The reformn program addresses the
weaknesses of the financial sector described above and will help prevent a deep banking crisis
which could disrupt the overall Guatemalan economy, undermining economic and social stability.
This loan would finance technical assistance to carry out the following actions:
(i) close and liquidate insolvent banks,
(ii) establish and operate the FFCB,
(iii) strengthen the SB
(iv) build up capacity to prevent and deter money laundering
(v) strengthen the BANGUAT
The main strategic choice related to the division of areas of technical assistance activities to be
financed by the Bank and the IDB (described in section 2 above).
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
This loan has 6 components:
1) Rapid exit and resolution of insolvent banks: Under this component, the loan would finance technical
assistance to the SB to:
* Establish qualitative and quantitative benchmarks to assess the solvency and viability of banks.
* Design templates to prepare and evaluate bank's rehabilitation plans.
* Design legal and financial instruments to carry out the transfer of liabilities from insolvent banks to
solvent banks.
* Transfer assets from insolvent banks to a special trust.
* Establish mechanisms to compensate institutions acquiring assets and liabilities from insolvent banks.
* Manage and sell remaining assets of insolvent banks rapidly.
* Establish mechanisms for payment of depositors of insolvent banks.
2 Establishment and operation of the Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization: The loan would finance
technical assistance to assist BANGUAT to establish and put in operation the FFCB, including:
* Assess the banks' capitalization requirements.
*   Design fnancial instruments to capitalize weak but viable banks.
-9-



*   Draft legal and operating documents for the operation of the FFCB.
*   Formulate policies and strategies to sell FFCB's participations in financial institutions.
*   Monitor evolution of capitalized banks.
*   Audit the FFCB.
*   Establish a plan to close the FFCB once its goals have been achieved.
3. Strengthening of the Superintendency of Banks: This component would finance technical assistance to
establish a Credit Information System (credit bureau) to centralize, organize and maintain information of
debtors of financial institutions operating in Guatemala. The loan would also finance the acquisition of
software and hardware for the operation of the credit bureau. This should encourage the establishment of
better lending practices in Guatemala, reducing the amount of future NPLs loans and improving the
efficiency of the overall financial system.
Other activities to be financed under this component include:
*   Review and update of the draft law on secured transactions.
*   Draft a new law on non-bank financial institutions, improving the legal framework of this sector in
accordance with best international standards.
* Draft a new law for collective investment vehicles (mutual funds and investment firms).
*   Update accounting principles and disclosure practices for all type of financial intermediaries.
*   Review and propose amendments to existing legislation to improve the legal framework for debt
recovery.
*   A new legal framework for off-shore entities.
*   Draft a new law for insurance companies.
*   Assist the SB to determine BANGUATs capital requirement to cover its accumulated losses.
This component would complement the technical assistance to be provided by IDB which aims at financing
the drafting of new prudential regulations as well as strengthening off-site and consolidated supervision.
4. Anti-money laundering: This component would finance technical assistance to strengthen the Special
Unit Against Money Launndering to prevent and sanction money laundering activities. The new unit is
already operating within the SB. The loan would also finance the acquisition of hardware and software
required for the unit's operation, as well as the training of the unit's staff, and the development of new
supervisory tools to detect money laundering activities.
5. Strengthening of the central bank: The loan would finance the acquisition of hardware and software to
modernize the payment system for large financial transactions. The loan would also finance technical
assistance to assist BANGUAT to adopt international accounting standards and the formulation of a
strategy for the long term development of Guatemala's financial system.
6. Project Management Unit: This component would fnance technical assistance for the adequate and
efficient utilization and monitoring of the different components of this loan.
Please see Annex I and 2 for a detailed description and for a detailed cost breakdown.
- 10-



~~~.*r-,. :              2         .<Sector  z  -C~t      '.-4 f   ,fi naV     X   ank
1. Rapid exit and resolution of  Financial Sector      0.30        5.1      0.30       6.0
insolvent banks                  Development
2. Establishment and operation of the  Financial Sector  1.33     22.5      1.33      26.6
FFCB                             Development
3. Strengthening of the SB       Financial Sector       2.41      40.8      1.51      30.2
Development
4. Strengthening of anti-money    Financial Sector      0.71      12.0      0.71       14.2
laundering                       Development
5. Strengthening of BANGUAT      Financial Sector       0.86      14.6      0.86      17.2
Development
6. Project Coordination Unit     Institutional          0.24       4.1      0.24       4.8
Development
Total Project Costs                    5.85      99.2      4.95      99.0
Front-end fee                     0.05       0.8      0.05        1.0
Total Financing Required                     5.90     100.0       5.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The FSTAL would finance technical assistance to support the implementation of Guatemala's financial
sector reform program which involves: (i) modernization of the financial sector legal and regulatory
framework with the recent enactment of a package of five new financial sector laws; (ii) a program of bank
regularization that would help capitalize weak but solvent banks, promote the consolidation of the system
through mergers and acquisitions, and facilitate the closure of insolvent banks; and (iii) strengthening the
institutional capability of BANGUAT and the SB to implement the new legal and regulatory framework
and the bank regularization/consolidation program.
Although important financial sector laws have been approved, additional legal reforms are needed. The
FSTAL would finance technical assistance to draft new legislation with regard to secured transactions,
non-bank financial institutions, insurance companies, and collective investment vehicles, all of which
constitute an important segment of Guatemala's financial system.
The loan would also contribute to improve the effectiveness of the institutions responsible for the regulation
and supervision of Guatemala's financial sector, providing training to their staff, upgrading their IT
infrastructure, and providing them with some of the technical tools needed to fulfill their goals.
Recognizing that Guatemala might become vulnerable to money laundering activities, given the openness of
its financial system and the large number of unregulated financial institutions operating in the country, the
FSTAL would finance technical assistance to strengthen the FIU within the SB, including the acquisition
of specialized equipment and staff training.
Finally, this FSTAL aims at strengthening Guatemala's credit culture and market discipline by financing
the establishment of a credit bureau, the review of the overall legal framework for debt collection and
-11 -



recovery, and the update of accounting rules and disclosure practices, bringing them into compliance with
best international practices. All these reforms are expected to lay the ground for the sound and efficient
development of Guatemala's financial system.
3. Benefits and target population:
If not promptly resolved, existing weaknesses in the Guatemalan financial sector may lead to a
major banking crisis, undermining the country's economic and social stability. The proposed
FSAL and this FSTAL would assist the Guatemalan authorities to implement a very ambitious
program of legal, regulatory and institutional reforms aimed at strengthening the financial system
and avoiding a banking crisis. A sound financial system will also offer better savings, investment,
and credit instruments to a larger segment of the population under competitive conditions; and, in
the longer run, contribute to maintain macroeconomic stability and foster economic development.
Ultimately, the proposed FSTAL would benefit all users of financial services in Guatemala,
including depositors, creditors, investors, firms and households.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The government agencies beneficiaries of this loan would be the Superintendency of Banks (SB)
and the Bank of Guatemala (BANGUAT). Detailed implementation arrangements are described
in Annex 6.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Besides a lending operation, other alternatives were considered and discussed with the
Government, including the hiring of specific consulting services by BANGUAT and the SB. After
careful review of existing alternatives, the Government and the Bank concluded that given the
magnitude of Guatemala's financial sector reform program agreed under the FSAL, and the urgent
need to help the banks to adapt to the new regulatory requirements, a technical assistance loan
constituted the best instrument to ensure the rapid implementation of the reform program.
The Government has limitations to hire with its own resources the consulting services required to
implement rapidly the reforms agreed under the FSAL. It faces fiscal constraints, along with tight
budgetary procedures, to hire foreign consultants. This could imply delays in the implementation
of the proposed reforms, affecting the credibility of the overall financial sector reform program.
The Government requested the FSTAL not only because it would ensure rapid availability of
funds to finance technical assistance and equipment, but also because the FSTAL would help it to
ensure transparency, fairness, and competitiveness in the selection and hiring of consultants, given
the Bank's strict procurement procedures and financial management practices.
- 12 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project               (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-flnanced proJects o_nly
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                               Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Financial Sector Reform         FSAL of US$150 million to be
presented to the Board together
with the FSTAL
Other development agencies
IMF                             US$100 million Stand-by
program
IDB                             US$200 million Structural
Adjustment Loan
IDB                             US$0.9 million FOMIN facility
for technical assistance
IP/DO Ratngs: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Recent banking crises in other Latin American countries have been extremely expensive. Their
fiscal cost alone has represented on average 20 to 30 percent of a country's GDP, reducing future
social spending and adding an enormous burden to public finances. Banking crises have caused
major social setbacks, in particular because the real value of savings and investments declines
rapidly during a crisis. Moreover, during a banldng crisis banks tend to refrain from providing new
credit causing a slowdown of overall economic activity.
Authorities should act rapidly to prevent a major crisis. In other countries, financial authorities
have frequently failed to prevent a crisis for several reasons, including a poor diagnosis of bank
problems and existing losses, lack of a comprehensive strategy to deal with a crisis, weak
implementation capacity among financial authorities, unwillingness to dismantle vested interests,
etc.
The proposed operation aims at assisting Guatemalan authorities to address the financial sector
problems promptly. The operation is based on a comprehensive diagnosis of the problems and
vulnerabilities of the Guatemalan financial sector carried out by the IMF and the WB as part of
the FSAP in late 2000. The Government is intent upon addressing the problems faced by the
country's financial sector. Technical assistance will be required to implement most of the measures
discussed above.
International experience shows that the cost of policy mistakes can be rapidly magnified in today's
financial markets. Guatemalan authorities have not had the experience of addressing financial
- 13 -



sector vulnerabilities in the past, and eventual mistakes can be avoided through prompt technical
assistance. The proposed operation takes into account best international practices on crisis
resolution. It was formulated in order to maximize transparency in the use of public funds to
support bank restructuring, minimize moral hazard problems by providing support only to weak
but viable institutions, forcing private shareholders to inject capital into their banks or face
dilution, speed up the resolution of assets, foster an orderly repayment of deposits, and solve the
problems as rapidly as possible.
Bank experience with financial sector reform programs in many countries shows that
congressional approval of new financial sector laws is not sufficient to ensure their effective
implementation. The effective implementation of a new legal framework requires the early
enactment of specific regulations and the strengthening of the government agencies in charge of
implementing the new laws. Bank experience in financial sector reforms also shows that the
adoption of international standards with respect to bank prudential regulations, including capital
adequacy levels and accounting norms, can reveal that many banks in the system are
undercapitalized or insolvent. If many banks are affected or fail, the reforms could be reversed.
In these circumstances, it becomes necessary to have a mechanism that would help strengthen the
capital position of weak but solvent banks, and assist in the least cost resolution of insolvent
banks, and do this in as expeditiously as possible.
The FSTAL has been designed taking these lessons into consideration. It would finance technical
assistance and equipment to strengthen the capabilities of BANGUAT and the SB to implement
the new legal and regulatory framework and to create and operate the FFCB, to handle the
capitalization and consolidation of banks, as well as the closure of insolvent banks.
Bank experience with TA loans involving more than one beneficiary agency shows the need for
implementation arrangements that ensure the effective coordination of these agencies. To ensure
effective coordination between BANGUAT and the SB, the two beneficiary agencies of the
FSTAL, it has been agreed that the PIU will operate under the oversight of an executive
committee composed of high level representatives of both agencies. Moreover, the PIU will have
to consult with the technical teams of the two agencies for the preparation of terms of reference,
the selection of consultants, and the specifications for the acquisition of equipment and software.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The government of Guatemala is strongly committed to carry out the financial sector reforms
envisioned in the FSAL and supported by this technical assistance operation. The five financial
sector laws supported by the FSAL have been already enacted (as of June 2, 2002) and a number
of regulations to implement these laws have been issued.  Senior government officials from
Guatemala have urged the Bank to present the proposed project to the Board at the earliest
possible date to help them in the implementation of these laws, as well as in the establishment of
the FFCB to support its program of bank regularization/consolidation.
There is clear recognition on the part of the Government that external financial and advisory
assistance is required to implement the financial sector reform program. The authorities of
BANGUAT and the SB have contributed actively to the preparation of the project, providing
- 14 -



inputs at all stages of the process.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added of Bank support for this project comes from the Bank's international experience
in the design of financial sector reforms and assistance strategies. In the context of post FSAP
advisory services, and as part of the preparation of the FSAL, the Bank has already provided
valuable assistance in the drafting of the recently enacted financial sector laws and in the
establishment of the basic operating principles and procedures of the FFCB. Further Bank
assistance through this FSTAL would contribute to the effective implementation of the new legal
and regulatory framework and the establishment of a mechanism to handle the capitalization and
resolution of banks. Also, Bank support for Guatemala's financial sector reforms is likely to
strengthen intemational confidence in the Govemment's capability to avoid a banking crisis and
implement effective anti money laundering regulations.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit   NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Given the character of this operation, a quantitative economic and financial analysis would not be
the appropriate tool to assess the significance of this project. The pace and deepness of the
reforms envisioned in this operation will determine the ultimate economic benefits of this loan.
In the short term, this loan will encourage financial authorities to recognize the true dimension of
existing losses and problems in Guatemala's financial system. Once new prudential regulations are
enforced, several financial institutions will prove to have bigger financial problems than what they
report today. Authorities will inevitably have to finance partially the cost of restructuring insolvent
financial institutions and support weak but viable banks. Banks' private shareholders are expected
to bear most of the costs of rehabilitating their banks. Otherwise, they will be forced to lose
control and ownership of their financial institutions.
If the project is carried out successfully, this project will contribute to restore the soundness of the
financial system. A sound financial system would help to provide financial services to an
increasing segment of households and enterprises in Guatemala, resulting in higher economic
growth and welfare in the medium and long terms.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Same as above.
Fiscal Impact:
Not Applicable.
3. Technical:
The technical merits of the broad project components have been reviewed by Bank staff and are
- 15-



considered to be sound. Technical assessment will continue throughout the project preparation
and implementation.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The beneficiary agencies of this loan are BANGUAT and the SB. Both agencies have agreed to
establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to manage the loan, that will be working under the
supervision of senior officials of SB.
4.2 Project management:
The PIU will be integrated by staff from both beneficiary agencies. Detailed description of the
composition of the PIU is available in Annex 6.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement issues have been discussed with the beneficiary agencies. A detailed description of
arrangements is presented in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The SB will be responsible for project financial management (FM). A Bank-conducted review of
the FM systems of the SB found these adequate for the purpose of implementing the project.
Details of the FM, audit and disbursement arrangements are in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for enviromnental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Not applicable.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The measures to be supported by this operation would have important social implications, as they
would reduce the vulnerability of Guatemala to a financial crisis, such as those suffered by other
- 16 -



developing countries in the last decade. Just a small reduction in the risk of a banking crisis
would have a significant social impact in terms of reducing the potential negative effects on
poverty that a banking crisis would produce, as evidenced by the negative effects of banking crisis
on poverty levels in other countries. A banking system less vulnerable to crisis is better able to
sustain growth and, therefore, reduce poverty. Also, greater access to credit by small and
medium enterprises would create more job opportunities, an important objective in a country with
high rates of under employment (42%), one of the lowest per capita incomes in the region, and
where about 56 percent of the population is below the poverty level.
6.2 Participatory Approach- How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Not applicable.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not applicable.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Not applicable.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followin safeg  plicies apl to the roject?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         0 Yes * No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  O Yes S No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 O Yes m   No
Involuntary Resettement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 437, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects In International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Reforms in the financial sector of Guatemala are being supported by the international donor
community, as well as the international financial institutions, including the IMF, the Bank, and the
IDB. The proposed project has been designed to support the implementation of financial sector
reforms envisioned in the FSAL.
- 17 -



This is a complex operation and the project faces risks of delayed or partial implementation. Many
factors, beyond the government's control, could affect the implementation schedule of the project.
Changes and amendments to the new laws, for example, could be done by the legislative power in
the future, distorting the purpose of the reforms supported by this TA loan. Possible risks that
might affect the implementation of the project are discussed in the following section.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             RIsk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Congress might introduce amendments to     M         Authorities are drafting prudential norms to
new financial sector legislation, changing           allow rapid enforcement of new legislation.
the envisioned framework for bank                    Clear and detailed prudential norms will make
restructuring.                                       further amendments to financial sector
legislation less necessary.
Lack of transparency in the operation of   M         The TA loan would support extensive
the FFCB and extreme complexity in its               consultant's services to establish detailed
operation.                                           manuals, norms and regulations to ensure
transparent decision-making. The loan would
also finance the audit of the FFCB's operations.
Depositors of insolvent banks might         S        The TA loan would finance transfer of assets
experience delays in receiving their                 and liabilities from insolvent banks to solvent
deposits back.                                       institutions. Moreover, deposits would be
protected according to the limits set in the new
financial sector legislation. Small depositors are
not expected to suffer any losses.
Significant delays in the adoption of new  M         Authorities are actively engaged in working with
supervisory tools to prevent money                   regulators of other countries to develop and
laundering activities.                               adopt new supervisory tools to prevent money
laundering.
Delay in the implementation of a new        S        The acquisition of new hardware and software is
payment system for large transactions.               expected to homogenize all existing systems in
Guatemala, but possible delays are unavoidable.
From Components to Outputs
Lack or coordination among financial       M         Proper implementation agreements will be made
agencies responsible for bank                        in the TA loan.
restructuring
Banks' shareholders not willing to use the  M        Previous consultation process with private
resources of the FFCB.                               banks on the operating rules for the FFCB and
design of tough rules for institutions not able to
comply with existing prudential requirements.
Delays in the review and drafting of new   M         Authorities have presented a realistic calendar to
pieces of financial sector legislation.              draft new laws.
Banks having problems to adopt rapidly      S        A consultation process with financial
new accounting rules                                 intermediaries and representatives of accounting
associations will be done to discuss new
- 18 -



accounting rules.
Different view regarding the long term      S         Relevant government agencies are expected to
strategy to foster the development of                 participate in all phases of the elaboration of the
Guatemala's financial system.                         long term strategy.
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The legal and regulatory reforms supported by this operation have been approved by Congress with a
two-thirds majority and had support from banling sector representatives. Financial support to be provided
by the FFCB for the capitalization or liquidation of specific banks could prove controversial. However,
controversial aspects should be limited, because the FFCB will operate under the oversight of an Executive
Committee integrated by high level representatives of the three agencies responsible for financial sector
policies: the Ministry of Public Finance, BANGUAT and the SB.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
1. Authorities will complete integration of the Project Coordination Unit in a manner acceptable to the
Bank, appointing the person responsible to head it.
2. An Operational Manual for the Project Coordination Unit will be prepared and submitted for Bank
approval.3.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Imnplementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 19 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
/ose De Luna Martinez             Danny M. Leipziger               D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
-20-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GUATEMALA: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
.~~bj~jve~ . ~    ca~r     ,   -e-    ~      '. ...                    . W
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve economic           Sound macroeconomic       Aggregate macroeconomic    Stable political environment
management to maintain    fundamentals.              data                      and strong commitment of
stability and foster growth.  Capacity to absorb internal                      authorities to continue the
and external shocks.                                 implementation of structural
Sound and efficient financial                        reforms.
system.
Modernize the public sector to Accountability, transparency, Reports on evolution of  Feasible plan to continue
make it more efficient at  and effectiveness of public  economy and financial sector. reforming public sector
essential tasks.          sector agencies.                                     agencies responsible for bank
regulation and supervision.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Assist the authorities of  1. Closure of insolvent   Biannually review of progress. Competence and continued
Guatemala to restore the      banks                                            motivation of key senior
soundness of the financial  2. Transfer of assets and  Yearly monitoring of relevant government officials
system.                       liabilities of insolvent  statistics and information.
banks to other financial
institutions
3. Establishment of the
Fiduciary Fund for Bank
Capitalization
4. Recapitalization of weak
but viable banks
5. Establishment of a credit
bureau.
6. Draft new laws on
secured transactions,
non-bank financial
institutions, insurance
companies, and collective
investment vehicles.
7. Adoption of new
accounting rules.
8. Design a better legal
framework for rapid debt
collection.
9. The Special Unit Against
Money Laundering
operating efficiently
10. Modernization of the
payment system for large
transactions.
- 21 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Rapid exit and resolution of Closure and resolution of  Progress reports   Congress will not amend new
insolvent banks           insolvent banks and financial                       financial sector legislation
institutions.                                       and will not change the
framework for bank
restructuring.
2. Establishment and      Establishment and operation  Progress reports        The FFCB will operate with
operation of the FFCB     of the FFCB                                         transparency and authorities
will carry out complex
financial operations
adequately.
Depositors of failed banks will
not experience delays in
receiving their deposits back.
3. Strengthening of the   Establishment of a credit                           Commitment of authorities to
Superintendency of Banks  bureau; draft of new laws on                        carry out proposed reforms.
secured transactions,
non-bank financial
institutions, insurance
companies and collective
investment vehicles;
strengthening of off-site and
consolidated supervision
(financed by the IDB);
update of accounting
principles and disclosure
practices for financial
institutions, new supervisory
Manual for offshore entities.
4. Anti-money laundering  Strengthen the Special Unit                         No delays to develop
Against Money Laundering                            supervisory tools to detect and
prevent money laundering
activities.
5. Strengthening of the   Modernization of the payment                        Rapid and adequate
Central Bank              system for large transactions,                      homogenization of existing
strategy for the long term                          technological platforms that
development of Guatemala's                          support the current payment
financial system, and adoption                      system.
of new accounting standards
at the central bank.
6. Adequate implementation  Establishment and operation                       Strong commitnent from
of the overall project    of the Project Management                           financial authorities
Unit
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Rapid exit and resolution  US$300,000
-22 -



of insolvent banks
Assess the financial situation                       Project supervision in the  Authorities will proceed
of individual banks, transfer                        field, action plans submitted  according to the agreed
assets and liabilities from                          and reviewed.             schedule.
insolvent banks to solvent
institutions, liquidate                                                        Adequate coordination among
remaining assets rapidly,                                                      involved financial agencies,
repay deposits, and conduct                                                    and no major financial shocks
the overall exit of insolvent                                                  during implementation period
financial institutions rapidly.
2. Establishment and      US$1,335,000
operation of the Fund for
Bank Capitalization
Establish and put in operation                       Project supervision in the  No delays to establish the
the FFCB, design financial                           field, action plans submitted  FFCB.
instruments to capitalize                            and reviewed.             Banks' shareholders will use
weak but viable banks,                                                         the resources of the FFCB.
formulate sound investment
policies, monitor the evolution
of capitalized banks,
formulate policies and
strategies to sell the FFCB's
participations in financial
institutions, and audit the
FFCB's operations.
US$1,509,000
3. Strengthening of
Superintendency of Banks
Establish the credit bureau                          Progress reports          Strong cooperation of private
banks.
Draft law on secured lending                         Draft of the new laws     Realistic time frame to
as well as law for the                                                         prepare new laws or amend
insurance industry, including                                                  existing ones.
two new supervisory manuals
for insurance companies and
off-shore entities, respectively.
Review and improve legal                             Draft with amendments to  Conduct comprehensive study
framework for debt recovery                          relevant laws             in foreseen schedule.
Draft new legal framework for                        Draft of law amendments   Amendments will result in a
non-bank financial  -                                                          new legal framework for all
institutions                                                                   non-bank financial
institutions.
Draft new law for collective                         Draft of the new law      Adequate discussions with
investment vehicles (mutual                                                    representatives of financial
funds and investment firms)                                                    institutions
Improve accounting rules and                         New accounting rules      Adequate consultation process
disclosure practices                                                           with relevant parties
(representatives of financial
institutions and accounting
bodies).
4. Anti-money laundering  US$706,000
-23-



Develop new supervisory tools Long term commitment of
to prevent money laundering  financial authorities and
and upgrade systems of the  adequate coordination with
New Special Unit Against  donors financing assistance in
Money Laundering          this area.
5. Strengthen the central  US$860,000.
bank
Elaborate strategy to foster the                    Progress reports and final  Participation of and adequate
development of the country's                        document                   coordination among financial
financial system                                                               authorities
Strengthen the payment                              Progress reports          Adequate coordination with
system                                                                        other financial institutions for
the rapid implementation of
the new software.
Assist BANGUAT to adopt                             Progress reports          Adequate coordination with
best international practices in                                               the IMF
accounting and information
disclosure.
6. Project Coordination Unit                        Regular reports           Commitment from authorities.
- 24 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GUATEMALA Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
By Component:
Project Component I - US$0.30 million
Rapid Exit of Insolvent banks
Under this component, the loan would fmance technical assistance to the SB to carry out the following
activities:
* Develop quantitative and qualitative tools to determine which banks are viable and which are not,
including templates to prepare and assess banks' rehabilitation plans.
* Develop and implement legal mechanisms and financial instrument to:
a) Transfer liabilities of insolvent banks to sound banks.
b) Transfer assets of insolvent banks to a special mtust.
c) Transfer assets and liabilities of insolvent banks to solvent banks.
d) Manage and resolution of trusts.
* Carry out the inventory, administration and sale of assets (not transferred to a special trust), as well as
payment of other liabilities (not transferred to other banks).
Project Component 2 - US$1.33 million
Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization:
Under this component, the loan would finance the following activities:
*   Advisory services to BANGUAT in all aspects related to the design, establishment, operation and
closure of the FFCB.
*   Advisory services to BANGUAT to:
a) estimate banks' capital requirements.
b) draft legal documents to establish and operate the FFCB.
c) draft the Operating Manuals for the FFCB's operation.
d) develop guidelines for the management and use of FFCB's funds.
*   Acquisition of hardware and software for the FFCB.
* Advisory services to design strategies to sell FFCB's assets.
*   Advisory services to draft the legal documents for the constitution and operation of the FFCB (Decree
of creation, rules for FFCB's operations, contracts with banking institutions and bank eligibility rules).
*   Advisory services to sell FFCB's equity participation as well as any other form of investnent in banks,
and assist the authorities to close the FFCB when its purposes have been accomplished.
*   Training FFCB staff.
*   Assistance to BANGUAT to monitor the operations of the FFCB.
*   Annual audit of the FFCB.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.51 million
Strengthening of the Superintendency of Banks
Under this component, the loan will finance the following activities:
- 25 -



*   Advisory services for the establishment of credit information system (credit bureau).
*   Acquisition of hardware and software for the credit bureau and training of staff to operate it.
*   Advisory services to review and amend the Secured Transactions Law.
*   Advisory services to review and modemize the legal regime for debt recovery, including foreclosure
and execution of guarantees.
*   Advisory services to update the legal framework for non-bank financial institutions.
*   Advisory services to modemize the legal framework for mutual fund companies.
*   Advisory services to review existing accounting standards for financial institutions and adopt
international standards, including training to the staff of the SB.
*   Advisory services to develop new supervisory manual for off-shore entities.
*   Advisory services to prepare a new law for the insurance industry.
*   Advisory services to determine BANGUAT's capital requirements to cover its accumulated losses.
Project Component 4 - US$0.71 million
Anti-Money Laundering
Under this component, the loan will finance the following activities:
*   Advisory services to strengthen surveillance tools and methodologies of the Special Unit Against
Money-Laundering.
*   Acquisition of hardware and software for the Special Unit Against Money Laundering.
*   Training of the staff of the Special Unit in the use of new tools and methodologies to prevent and
identify money-laundering activities.
Project Component 5 - US$0.86 million
Strengthen the Central Bank of Guatemala
Under this component, the loan will finance the following activities:
* Advisory services to draft a strategy for the medium and long term development of Guatemala's
fnancial system.
*   Advisory services to strengthen the payment system, including acquisition of new hardware and
software.
*   Assistance to BANGUAT to adopt new accounting rules and disclosure standards.
*   Training of BANGUAT staff.
Project Component 6 - US$0.24 million
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
Under this component, the loan will finance the following activities:
* Administration of the FSTAL.
*   Audit of the loan accounts.
*   Training to PCU staff in Bank procedures on procurement, financial management and disbursements.
-26-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GUATEMALA: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
-^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                  _Pl ion
-           ~~~~             ~~. ocak, :Id,"~    -- oi
1. Rapid exit and resolution of insolvent banks           0.00         0.30         0.30
2. Establishment and operation of the FFCB                0.00         1.33         1.33
3. Strengthening of the SB                                0.90         1.51         2.41
4. Strengthening of anti-money laundering                 0.00         0.71         0.71
5. Strengthening of BANGUAT                               0.00         0.86         0.86
6. Project Coordinating Unit                              0.00         0.24         0.24
Total Baseline Cost                                       0.90         4.95         5.85
Physical Contingencies                                   0.00         0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                      0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs'              0.90         4.95         5.85
Front-end fee                    0.05         0.05
Total Financing Required               0.90         5.00         5.90
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 5.9 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 84 75% of total
project cost net of taxes
- 27 -



Annex 4
GUATEMALA Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Not Applicable
- 28 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GUATEMALA Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
Years Ending
Year T Fn  Year 2 a2Yea    I 5   2  Year 4 0  Year 5 00Year 6 0  Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs    2625000.0  2623000.0  532000.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs     2625000.0 2623000.0  532000.0    0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Front-endfee  50000.0      0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Financing      2675000.0  2623000.0  532000.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA           1775000.0 2623000.0  532000.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Govemment           900000.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Central               0-0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Provincial            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Co-financiers            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
User Fees/Beneficlarles    0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing 2675000.0  2623000.0  532000.0  0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Project amounts to US$5,900,000 dollars.
The Bank will finance US$5,000,000 and the Government will finance US$900,000 (received from
IDB-FOMIN).
- 29 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
GUATEMALA Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
Procurement
Procurement for the proposed project shall be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in
September 1999, January 1999 and March 2002), and the provisions stipulated in the Loan
Agreement.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The paragraphs below provide information on the methods to be used for the procurement of
goods, consultant services and training. Table A summarizes the procurement methods and the
estimated amounts for each method, and Table B summarizes the threshold contract values for the
use of each method. The project does not envisage financing of work services. The project
comprises the following six components: Component 1: Rapid exit and resolution of insolvent
banks; Component 2: Establishment and operation of the Fund for Bank Capitalization;
Component 3: Strengthening of the Superintendence of Banks; Component 4: Anti-money
laundering; Component 5: Strengthening of the Central Bank; and 6: Project Management Unit.
Procurement of Goods
Goods financed under this project include the purchase of hardware, software, licences and
related services for components 2, 3, 4, and 5, and are estimated at approximately $1.5 million
equivalent. Procurement of goods estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent and above will be
procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures and using the Bank's
standard bidding documents. Contracts which cannot be grouped in contracts larger than an
estimated cost of $150,000 equivalent may be procured using National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed to with the Bank. Goods and
equipment contracts estimated to cost $25,000 and less per contract many be procured using
shopping procedures. The following service contracts under Component 3 and 4, may be
purchased directly from suppliers holding proprietary rights or patents of original equipment, if
needed: (a) ORACLE software licences for two processors: ORACLE Server Enterprise Edition
and ORACLE IAS, related technical support and updates, (b) other licenses, updates, and related
technical support.
Consultant Services and Training
Due to the characteristics of this TA Loan, as per its six components mentioned above, the bulk
of procurement will be focused on consulting services: legal, advisory, banking restructuring,
banking strengthening, banking supervision, auditing, as well as training. The estimated amount
for consultant services is $2.7 million.
- 30 -



Firms: Few large contracts costing an estimate of $200,000 equivalent and above per contract are
expected during the life of the project, where the preferred selection method would be Quality and
Cost Based Selection (QCBS). Contracts with firms above the equivalent of $100,000 would be
procured using QCBS procedures. Contracts costing an estimate of $100,000 equivalent or
below would generally be procured following Consultant Qualification (CQ) procedures. Small
and simple contracts such as auditing services, and other small consultant services below a
threshold of $100,000 equivalent would be procured using Least Cost (LCS) procedures. The
estimated aggregate amount of contracts with firms is $1.3 million. A footnote under Table A
provides the breakdown of the total consultant services.
Individual Consultants: A number of specialized national or international consultant services, for
which teams of personnel are not required and for which the experience and qualifications of the
individual are the paramount requirement, would be provided competitively by individual
consultants selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment, through comparison of
at least three candidates among those who expressed interest in the assignment or have been
approached directly by the borrower.  Selection of all individual consultants shall follow
procedures established in Section V, paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines as
revised March 2002. The aggregate amount for individual consulting services is expected to be
approximnately $1.6.
Training activities will be in-several cases included within other consulting contracts, but there will
also be some other stand-alone training activities for staff of BANGUAT and Superintendence of
Banks (SB) under the various project components which are estimated at $420,000.
Procurement Capacity Assessment
A procurement capacity assessment of the government agency which will execute the activities of
the proposed Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan (FSTAL) was carried out in May 2002.
While the beneficiaries under this operation are Superintendence of Banks (SB) and Bank of
Guatemala (BANGUAT), Superintendence of Banks (SB) will be the implementing agency. The
PIU consists of one Director (full-time), one Assistant (full-time), one legal advisor (part-time),
one internal auditor (part-time), and two technical teams: one from the SB and one from
BANGUAT. The PIU will, at the same time, be headed by an Executive Committee from
authorities of both Superintendence of Banks and BANGUAT.
The assessment of the Superintendence of Banks (SB) revealed that it does not have the capacity
to carry out the procurement function for this loan. The SB does not have an established
procurement unit, it only has one staff in the Financial Department who coordinates the hiring of
the consultants and the needed purchases.  Preparation of procurement documents and
identification of consultants are largely performed by the department or unit requiring the
services, with the final decision on the consultant selection or purchase coming from a committee
consisting of generally three staff. SB has limited experience in contracting firms as it generally
hires individual consultants of small values. While some staff are acquainted in procurement using
the Procurement Law (Ley de Contrataciones del Estado) and its regulatory Decree (Reglamento
a la Ley de Contrataciones del Estado), they are unfamiliar with procurement under the Bank
- 31 -



Guidelines.
To remedy the lack of experience in the procurement area, the Guatemalan authorities have
decided to hire UNDP to act as its procurement agent. UNDP services will be paid with the
government's own funds. UNDP is equipped with 90 staffand has currently 10 Bank projects for
which it is the procurement agent. A procurement capacity assessment of UNDP was conducted
in September 2001 for the Guatemala-Integrated Financial Management Il Technical Assistance
loan and its capacity to undertake the procurement function was rated excellent. UNDP is
assisting the PIUs for the SIAFI, II and III projects. UNDP staff in Guatemala are very
knowledgeable of World Bank rules and the added work of this loan is not seen as a problem for
UNDP to continue to perform its work well. In view of the many consultants to be hired for this
project as well as the major purchases of hardware and software, it is essential that UNDP
provides support for this project.
The PIU will, through the technical teams be in charge of producing TORs and will coordinate the
hiring of consultants and the purchase of hardware and software with UNDP. The government
will set clear responsibilities and working procedures with UNDP once a formal contract
satisfactory to the Bank is established. All this is a condition of effectiveness. The agreement will
state that procurement procedures under the project will strictly conform to Bank policies,
including the use of Bank standard documents.
A mission should visit Guatemala every six months to assess any shortcomings and to take the
necessary immediate measures to overcome them.
A procurement plan for project implementation has just been finalized and has been the basis for
the preparation of this Annex 6. This procurement plan will be updated every six months with a
detailed procurement schedule for the following year.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                       0.00          0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)
2. Goods                        0.85          0.35        0.34       0.00       1.54
(0.85)        (0.35)      (0.34)      (0.00)    (1.54)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00        2.99       0.00       2.99
(0.00)        (0.00)      (2.99)     (0.00)     (2.99)
4. Operating Costs             0.00           0.00        0.00        0.00      0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)
5. Front-end fee               0.00          0.00         0.05       0.00       0.05
(0.00)        (0.00)      (0.05)      (0.00)    (0.05)
6. Training                    0.00           0.00        0.42       0.00       0.42
-32 -



(0.00)           (0.00)        (0.42)        (0.00)      (0.42)
Total                              0.85             0.35          3.80          0.00        5.00
(0.85)           (0.35)        (3.80)        (0.00)       (5.00)
u Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
/ Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, direct contracting for some software/licences.
Breakdown of consultant selection include:
QCBS: for an estimated amount of $750,000; LCS for an estimated amount of $400,000; CQ for an estimated
amount of $250,000; and individual consultants for an estimated amount of $1.5 million. Consultant Services
include the hiring of two contracted staff of the PIU as well as auditing.
- 33 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
-                            - *61~ -  t       6'tib           0
1. Works                       N/A                    N/A                     N/A
2. Goods                       >150                   ICB                     ALL
>25-150                 NCB                 First Two
<25                 Shopping                 First Two
3. Services
Firms                          >100                   QCBS                    ALL
<100                 CQ, LCS                TOR only
Individuals                    > 50           According to Section V of  All (TOR, Draft Contract,
Consultant Guidelines as        CV)
revised March 2002
<50           According to Section V of  Review of TOR only
Consultant Guidelines as
revised March 2002
4. Miscellaneous
S. Miscellaneous,
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  4.4 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-34-



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
GUATEMALA: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Because of the technical assistance loan amount ("small operation"), simple nature and relatively
low number of transactions, the project FM assessment was conducted in accordance with the
Guidelines to Staff on FM for LILs. Such decision was made after consultation with OPCFM.
Implementing entity & staffing
Under an agreement with the Bank of Guatemala, the Superintendency of Banks (SB), through its
Department of Finance and Services (DFS), will perform the relevant FM functions.
Under the DFS Director, the Chief of Finance oversees an experienced team in charge of
Accounting, Cash Operations, Fixed Assets and others, all with written position descriptions.
There is a total of 9 staff in the department, including the Chief of Finance.
Funds Flow
Loan funds will be disbursed to UNDP through a Special Account at BANGUAT. Whenever
BANGUAT receives the loan funds, it will immediately transfer them to UNDP, keeping no
balance in corresponding Special Account.
Total advances to UNDP at any given time would not exceed the authorized amount to be
specified by the Loan Department. For replenishment of the advance, the SB will prepare monthly
(in any case, no more than quarterly) requests for reimbursement of expenditures made.
Counterpart funds would be paid out of the SB's "cuenta corriente", i.e. the bank account used
for nornal purchases and consultancies.
Accounting
The Accounting Department of the SB will maintain the accounts for the project in accordance
with its own accounting system and procedures, which contain the following features:
(a) Internal control arrangements aimed at ensuring that every transaction is duly authorized and
properly recorded, including ex-post reviews by SB's Internal Audit Department;
(b) application of consistent accounting procedures for documenting, recording, and reporting its
financial transactions;
(c) a chart of accounts and a coding system that allows meaningful summarization of financial
transactions for financial reporting purposes;
(d) the use of an asset register and subsidiary records for receivables and payables;
(e) monthly closing of accounts, reconciliations of bank accounts and statements, and
- 35 -



preparation of financial statements for management; and
(f) production of annual audited financial statements.
The systems will be supplemented by project-specific procedures, specifically for preparing its
financial statements which will be a subset of accounts opened specifically for the project in SB's
chart of accounts. These procedures have been discussed and agreed, and will be documented in
an annex to the project's Operational Manual.
Financial reporting and monitoring
For Bank purposes, the semi-annual financial statements will include: (i) Statement of Sources
and Uses of Funds (with expenditures classified by budgetary line and/or disbursement category);
and (ii) Uses of Funds by Project Activities (including budget comparison). These project financial
statements, along with the physical progress and procurement sections of the Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs), will be submitted to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of
each semester. FMRs will be used for monitoring, not disbursement, purposes.
The FMR format will be based on Sample V of Annex A to the FMR Guidelines.
For Bank purposes, the annual financial statements will include: (i) Statement of Sources and
Uses of Funds; (ii) Uses of Funds by Project Activities; and (iii) the schedule of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) presented during the year in support of Withdrawal Applications.
2. Audit Arrangements
Annual project financial statements will be audited in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing, by an independent firm and in accordance with terms of reference (TORs) both
acceptable to the Bank. The format for the TORs has been discussed. The audit opinions would
cover at least the project financial statements and Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
The audifors would perform at least one interim visit per year. After each interim and annual visit,
a memorandum on internal controls ("management letter") would be produced, and a copy would
be submitted to the Bank.
The SB will appoint the auditors within three months after loan effectiveness, with an annual
contract to be renewed during the first quarter of each subsequent year. Expenditures in respect
of audit fees will be financed with project funds under the consultants' services category.
The DFS would prepare an action plan to address any issues and recommendations contained in
the audit reports. The action plan and follow-up activities would be communicated to the Bank.
- 36 -



The table below summarizes audit requirements:
Audit Report              Due Date
Project financial statements  6 months after the end of the reporting period (coincides with CY)
SOE                       same as above
Special Accounts          same as above
Financial Management Action Plan
The following activities were agreed in order to strengthen project-specific FM arrangements:
Action                        Responsible Entity         Completion Date
1. Formulate and approve adequate SB/Junta Monetaria    Before commencement of each
budget for loan and counterpart                          year of project implementation.
funding required for the Project.
2. Finalize FM section of the OM, SB                     To be included in Operating.
including format for Financial                           Manual.
Monitoring Reports (FMRs).
3. Submit audit TORs and short lis SB                    Before first disbursement.
of firms for approval.
4. Appoint the extemal auditors.  SB                     Not later than 3 months after
effectiveness.
5. Provide WB training to SB staff. WB/SB                Not later than 3 months after
effectiveness.
6. Perforn physical inventories, at  SB, with the participation of  Ongoing through project
least annually, of the project's  the external auditors  implementation
register of assets.           _
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Method and allocation of loan proceeds (see Table C). The proposed loan would be disbursed
over an implementation period of about two and a half years; the loan closing date would be June
30, 2005. Disbursements would be in accordance with guidelines set out in the World Bank's
Disbursement Handbook (i.e., transaction-based disbursement procedures).
Disbursements would be made against the following categories of expenditure:
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
rp~e          pit _                  _
1. Goods                                  1.54            100% of goods procured through the
services of a tax-exempt procurement
agent
2. Consultant Services                    2.92           100% of services procured through the
services of a tax-exempt procurement
agent
- 37 -



3. Training                             0.42          100% of services procured through the
services of a tax-exempt procurement
agent
4. Fees for audits                      0.07          100% of services procured through the
services of a tax-exempt procurement
agent
Total Project Costs                     4.95
Front-end fee       0.05                      100%
Total                                   5.00
Retroactive financing. Eligible expenditures can be financed for a maximum of US$500,000 for
a period of up to 12 months before the loan signing date.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Loan withdrawal applications can be supported by SOEs for expenditures relating to contracts
that are not subject to the Bank's prior review (see Table B). Reimbursement of other
expenditures would require submittal to the Bank of full supporting documentation.
Documents in support of SOEs must be maintained by the SB at least until one year after the
Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last loan withdrawal was made.
Such documents must be available to review by the external auditors and Bank staff at all time.
- 38 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GUATEMALA: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
p OjertS6hedule -.     -     ' _   t                   <                   'r *1- +-ctu,,aind>.r,--' c'al
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      5                           7
First Bank mission (identification)             11/01/2002                   11/01/2002
Appraisal mission departure                     02/01/2002                  06/01/2002
Negotiations                                    03/01/2002                  06/04/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   04/01/2002                  09/01/2002
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                                    Speciality
Jose de Luna Martinez             Task Manager
Mariluz Cortes                    Overall consistency of the TA loan with the SAL
Eduardo Somensatto                Resident Representative in Guatemala
Romelia Schneider                 Procurement
Manuel Vargas                     Financial Management
Juan Carlos Alvarez               Legal Issues
Suzana Abbott                     Operational Issues
Monica C. Rojas                   Disbursement Issues
Marie Khoury                      Disbursement Issues
Ricardo Tejada                    Loan terms
- 39 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
GUATEMALA. Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
A. Project Implementation Plan
Matrix with detailed project implementation plan.
Global procurement plan
Consultants procurement plan
Goods procurement plan
General Procurement Notice
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Financial Management Assessment
C. Other
Clearance to proceed to negotiations from the following units:
Procurement
Financial Management
Legal
*Including electronic files
-40 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GUATEMALA: Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Oiginal Amount In US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA                        Cancel.    Undisb.     Orig   Frm Revd
P066175       2002 GT INTEGRATED FINANCIAL MNGT III -TA           29 75      0 00                          0.00     29 75      000       0 00
P048652       2001 GT- UNIVERSALIZATION OF BASIC EDUCATION        62.16      0 00                          0.00     6218       814       000
P055084       2001 COMPETnVENESS                                  20.30      0 00                          0 00     20 30      0 00      000
P049386       1999 GTWRECONSTRUCTION & LOCAL DEV                  30 00      0 00                          0 00     22.61     16.28      000
P040198       1999 GT/FIS II                                      50 00      0 00                          0 00      0.86    -1106       0 00
P049616       1999 LAND ADMINISTRATION (APL)                      31 00      0 00                          0 00     22.69     15 93      0.00
P054462       1999 LAND FUND (APL)                                23 00      000                           0.00     16.03      8 68      0 00
P047039       1999 GT JUDICIAL REFORM                             3300       000                           000      23.62     1096       0.00
P048657       1998 GT INTEG FIN MGMT II                           15 70      0 00                          0 00      0.44      0 44      0.00
P048654       1998 GT TAX ADMIN TAL                               28.20      000                           000      1849      18.49      000
P035737       1998 RURAL & MAIN ROADS                             66 70      0 00                          0.00     28 44      9 74      0.00
P048756       1997 PRV PRTCPTN INFR TA                            13 00      0 00                          0 00      6 85      6 85      0 00
P007223       1997 GT- BASIC EDUCATION REFORM                     33 00      0 00                          0.00      2 09     40.07      0 00
Total.     435.81       0 00                         0.00     254.34      8439      0 00
- 41 -



GUATEMALA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Parfic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1994                Fabrigas                      1.50    0.00    1.00    0.00     1.50    0.00    1.00    0.00
2000                Frutera                       7.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    7.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
1998                LaFragua                     18.95    0.00    0.00    0.00    18.95    0.00    0.00    0.00
0/97                Orzunil                      12.20    1.17    0.00    13.08   12.20    1.17    0.00    13.08
1996                Pantaleon                     8.75    0.00    0.00    0.00     8.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Vigua                          2.06    0.00    0.00    0.00     2.06    0.00    0.00    0 00
Total Portfolio:        50.46    1.17     1.00   13.08    50.46    1.17    1.00   13.08
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
-42 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GUATEMALA Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
Latn    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Amerks     nmddle-
Gustunab     & C   L    hcoe        Deveopnunt dbmond
2000
Populton, mid-yearW ( ons                              11.4       S1      2.04z                   Le expectancy
GNI per caDta (Als mad, US$I                          1,690     30680     1.140
GNI (Afts mend USS b     nW)                           19.2     1,895     2.327
Average annual growdh 1994.0
PopuWlon N%                                             2.6       1.6       1.0
Laborforce/IG)                                          3.3       2.3       1.3     GN I                             Gross
Most recent esUtima  (labst yea avafable. 1994081                               +_enrollment
Povaty t of ooooLon below national oov.t.v on)
Urban population f% oftolopLiaf/on)                     40         7S        42
Ut.eb     blt  6wa,)                                    68         70        69Z 
Inhnt mortalty (Dow 1.000  ve btWs)                    40         30        32
Child rmalnutrdon %C ofdWrmunder51                      24          9        11           Accessto improved water source
Access to an mroved water souce% oo poopuion)           92        8a         80
Iliteracy (1 of popuLton ae 1S+)                        31         12        15
Gross prmary enrorlment 1% ofwlooa   pOopu/aton)        88        113       114              GuatemaIa
Male                                                  93          _       116e       -     Lowerml  e4.come grup
Female                                                83         ..       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
190      1990       1999      2000
Economic rafts,
GDP (USS bglfins)                             7.9       7.7      18.2      19.0
Gross domestc Investment/GOP                 15.9      13.6      17.A       16.
Exports of goods en serves/GOP               22.2      21.0      19.0      20.0                     Tade
Gross domestic savirg/GDP                    131        9.8       9.0       8.9
Gross national savIngs/GDP                   13.9      10.0      11.9      12.3
Cumrnt account balancerG"P                    2.1      -3.9       48        *4 5     Domestlc                    Invsmnt
Interest payments/GOP                         O        1.2       0.7       1.0
Total debt/GDP                                15.0     40.3      25.5      23.5     savIs
Total debt servIceexpolts                     7.7      12.4      11.7       8.0
Present value of debttGP                        ..       ..      24.0         _
Prasent value of debtlexpots                    ..       ..     108.7
Indlebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04                     1
(average annual arorh)
GDP                                  0.8      4.1       3.8       3.3       3.5               Guatemala
GDP perceptta                       -1.7      iA        1.1       0.6       0.4             LowermWidb4toomeg o9    p
Exports of goods and serAIces       -1.8      6.2       4.6       4A        4.9
_~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Grwth of bnestment and GDP (%)
% of GDP) J
AwIculure                                    24.8      25.9      23.0      22.8
Industry                                     22.0      19.8      20.2      199       20 .
Manufacturng                                16.6     15.1       13A       13.2                      /        \
Services                                     53.2      54.3      56.8      57.2      o1     2
Pvate consumpton                             78.9      83.6      84.7      84.2             as _W
General govenmnent conumpion                  8.0       6.6       6.3       8.9
Imports of aoods and servIes                 24.9      24.8      27A       27.9                -     DI         0DP
1980490  1990-00       19"9      2000      Giwth of xpts and Impots (16
/averap annual Wwvth)                                                               3
AgrIcuture                                    1.2       2.8       2.1       2A      3
Industry                                     40.2       4.3       4.9       18      20o
Manufacturing                                0.0      2.8        2.5       2.0     10
Services                                      0.9       4.7       4.3       4.1
Pdvate consumpUon                             1.1       42        3.6       32       o
General govemmervt cosumpion                  2.6       s.O       7B6       Oa      ro                       "
Gross domestc Investme                        -1.8      5.8       -20       -2.5                  EZrQdP         h
Importsofgoodsandse.rvle                      1.7       8.9       0.7       1.0
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators In the country (In bold) compared wIth s In rouP average, If data are missng, fte diamond wIl
be incomp4ete.
-43 -



Guatemala
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
p1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation(%)
Dtomvtstc pricess1
(% change)                                                                        T
Consumer pdces                              10 8    41.2       4.9      5.8     10
Implict GDP deflator                        10 0    40.5       5.0      5 5
Government fnance
(% of GDP, Includes cunrent grants)                                             o
Current revenue                                .     7.9      10.3     10.3            ss    9e    97   Sa     99
Current budget balance                         .     -0.9      2.2      1.6                  GDP deflator  a  CPI
Overall surplus/defIct                         .    -2.8      -3.4     -2.4
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ mllionts)
Total exports (fob)                           ,,   1,248     2,776    3,082     7soo
Coffee                                      ..     316       587      569
Sugar                                        .     153       188      280
Manufactures                                       365       932     1,034
Total Imports (cf)                            ..   1,649     4,560    5.820
Food                                               210       960     1,241
Fuel and energy                                    280       322      545
Capital qoods                                      406      1,436    1,616       o
Export price Index (1995=100)                 ..     82        85        80           94   95  95   07    9   99   00
Importdp1celndex(1995=100)                    .      94        90        87                  Eaxports    *tmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    ..       87        94       92
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ mllllons)
Exportsof oodsandservkces                 1.731    1,612     3,461    3,840     0
Imports of goods and services             1,959    1,892     5,010    5.358
Resource balance                           -228     -280    -1,549    -1,519
Net income                                  -45 -195          -181     -184     21111111
Netcurrenttransfers                         109      176       715      840
Current account balance                    -165     -299    -1,015     -863
Financing Items (net)                       -93     394       890     1,588
Changes In net reserves                     258      -95       125     -725
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)      467     291      1,083    1,808
Conversion rate (DEC, loca#US$)             1.0      45        7A       78
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                  Compositlon of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,180    3,080     4,650    4.471
IBRD                                      144     293       258       296                G 471  A298
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
Total debt service                          145     214        469      358
IBRD                                       15       9        30        34         F 617
IDA                                         0       0         0         0
ComposIton of net resource flows
Official grants                            14      69        68        70
Official credItors                        116      79        170       41                                 D 2.126
PrIvate creditors                         -20       -4      -57       313          E 961
Forelqn diret investnment                 111      48        155      228
PordblIo equity                             0       0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                17      30         23       20     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              39      17        70        51     B-IDA    D-Othermultilateral  F-Private
Prncipal repayments                         4       5         15       13     C-IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                  35       11       55        38
Interest payments                          11       4         16       21
Net transfers                              24       8        40        17
Development Economics                                                                                           9/13/01
- 44 -






I






IMAGING
Report No.:          24222   GU
Type:      PAD



