ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                          AWorld Frec of Poverty
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/09/2002                               24180
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: GUATEMALA                              Project ID: P076853
Project: Guatemala Financial Sector Technical   Task Team Leader: Jose De Luna Martinez
Assistance Loan
Authorized to Appraise Date: May 3, 2002        IBRD Amount ($m): 5.00
Bank Approval: July 2, 2002                    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: BFR                              Sector: FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  Theme: FINANCIAL SECTOR
Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
This Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan (FSTAL) is being prepared to support the
implementation of a US$ 150 million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), currently under
preparation. Both loans will support major financial sector reforms in Guatemala. The
Guatemalan financial system is in a fragile condition, with several financial institutions facing
liquidity and/or solvency problems. This loan aims at providing technical assistance to the
Guatemalan financial authorities to restore the soundness of the financial system by (i) closing
and liquidating insolvent banks, (ii) recapitalizing weak but viable institutions, (iii) strengthening
overall financial regulation and supervision, and (iv) fostering market discipline and competition
among financial intermediaries. These actions will help authorities to prevent a major banking
crisis, minimize the use of fiscal resources for bank restructuring, and establish a new legal,
regulatory and institutional framework for the sound and efficient development of the financial
system. In the medium term, these reforms are expected to widen the access of financial services
to the overall population and, thus, contribute to alleviate poverty and support economic growth.
I.A.3. Project Description:
This loan has 6 components:
1) Rapid exit and resolution of insolvent banks: Under this component, the loan would finance
technical assistance to assess the financial situation of individual banks, analyze the feasibility of
restructuring options (minimizing the use of fiscal resources and limiting disruptions to the overall
financial system), develop mechanisms to transfer assets and liabilities from insolvent banks to solvent



2
ISDS
institutions, liquidate remaining assets rapidly, repay deposits, and conduct the overall exit of insolvent
financial institutions rapidly.
2 Establishment and operation of the Fund for Bank Capitalization: The loan would finance
technical assistance to establish the operating rules of the Fund, formulate sound investment policies,
assess rehabilitation plans proposed by the banks' shareholders, assess possible mergers among financial
institutions, select best financial instrument to capitalize weak but viable banks, monitor the evolution of
capitalized banks, formulate policies and strategies to sell the Fund's participations in financial
institutions, audit the Fund's operations, and establish a plan to close the Fund once its goals have been
achieved.
3. Strengthening of the Superintendency of Banks: This component would finance technical assistance
to establish a national credit bureau to centralize, organize and maintain all the information of debtors of
financial institutions operating in Guatemala. The loan would also finance the acquisition of software and
hardware for the operation of the credit bureau. This should encourage the establishment of better
lending practices in Guatemala, reducing the amount of future non-performing loans and improving the
efficiency of the overall financial system.
Other activities to be financed under this component include:
* review and update of the draft law on secured transactions
* draft a new laws on non-bank financial institutions, improving the legal framework of this sector in
accordance with best international standards
*   draft a new law for insurance companies and collective investment vehicles.
* update accounting principles and disclosure practices for all type of financial intermediaries.
*   review and propose amendments to existing legislation to improve the legal framework for debt
recovery.
This component would complement the technical assistance to be provided by the Inter-American
Development Bank which aims at financing the drafting of new prudential regulations as well as
strengthen off-site and consolidated supervision.
4. Anti-money laundering: This component would finance technical assistance to establish a Special
Unit Against Money Laundering to prevent and sanction money laundering activities. The new unit
would be operating within the Superintendency of Banks. The loan would also finance the acquisition of
hardware and software required for the unit's operation, as well as the training of the unit's staff.
5. Strengthening of the central bank: The loan would finance the acquisition of hardware and software
to modernize the payment system for large transactions. The loan would also finance technical assistance
to conduct an audit of the central bank in order to establish the magnitude of its financial problems and
required capital. It is expected that the central bank would be capitalized thereafter. The loan would also
finance the formulation of a strategy for the long term development of Guatemala's financial system.
6. Project Management Unit: This last component would finance technical assistance for the adequate
and efficient utilization and monitoring of the different components of this loan.
Please see Annex 1 and 2 for a detailed description and for a detailed cost breakdown.
Components:



3
ISDS
1. Rapid exit and resolution of insolvent banks
2. Establishment and operation of the Fund for Bank Capitalization
3. Strengthening of the Superintendency of Banks
4. Anti-money laundering
5. Strengthening of the Banco de Guatemala (BANGUAT)
6. Project Coordination Unit
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                 Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                       Yes * No      TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                          Yes * No      TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                  Yes * No       TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                    Yes * No      TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      Yes * No      TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          Yes 0 No    _ TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Yes * No      TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                    Yes * No      TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*              Yes * No      TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)            Yes * No      TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.



4
ISDS
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
lI.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Wlll be defined during PAD preparation
Will be defined during PAD preparation
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Not applicable
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/A nalysis/Management Plan:        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan.                                      Expected      Actual



5
ISDS
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                   Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Jose De Luna Martinez                        May 02, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                          May 07, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Femando Montes-Negret                        May 08, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         FEEDBACK       SrrE MAP       SHOWCASE



