Report No. PID11184
Project Name                     Guatemala-Guatemala Financial (@) ...
Sector Technical Assistance Loan
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Financial Sector Development
Project ID                       GTPE76853
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA
Implementing Agency
CENTRAL BANK AND SUPERINTENDENCY
OF BANKS
Banco de Guatemala
Address: 7a. Avenida 22-01 Zona 1,
Guatemala, Guatemala
Contact Person: Mr. Jose Alfredo
Blanco, Subgerente, erea Econ6mica
Tel: 502-238 1546
Fax: 502-232 8509
Email: jabv@banguat.gob.gt
Superintendency of Banks
Address: 9a. Avenida 22-00 Zona 1,
Guatemala. C.A. 01001
Contact Person: Mr. Hugo Daniel
Figueroa Estrada
Tel: 502-232-0001
Fax: 502-2325301
Email: hfigueroa@sib.gob.gt
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 3, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date              May 3, 2002
Bank Approval Date               July 2, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The Guatemalan financial system is in a vulnerable situation. A number of
banks suffer from liquidity and solvency problems and remain in operation
thanks to continuous assistance from the Central Bank of Guatemala
(BANGUAT). The real situation of the financial system is obscured by the
fact that a large number of institutions, representing approximately 50t
of the system in terms of assets, is not regulated. Even in the regulated
sector, information is not adequate due to poor accounting practices.
Official figures show that non-performing loans (NPLs) in the banking
system amounted to 14.9w of all loans by mid-2000. It is presumed that the
real level of NPLs in the financial system is larger since NPLs may have
been transferred to the unregulated off-shore segment. If the NPLs loans
were provisioned adequately, a number of banks would present severe
capital shortfalls. A recent review of the banking sector shows that six
out of 34 regulated banks are affected by chronic liquidity and solvency
problems.  Five of them (representing about 10t of total deposits) had, at
the end of 2000, outstanding liabilities with the BANGUAT that amounted to



several times their book capital. The sixth one, a larger bank affected
by chronic illiquidity, relies on public sector deposits (including
deposits from the Social Security System-IGSS). It is likely that the
unregulated financial institutions are suffering more acute problems than
their regulated counterparts.The financial problems faced by Guatemalan
banks are the result of multiple causes, including political interference
in the central bank, poor regulation and supervision, inadequate lending
practices, weak risk management capacity within banks, and weak market
discipline. Specific weaknesses in the financial system in Guatemala
include:Central bankmultiplicity of objectiveslack of political,
operational, and financial autonomy of the central banklack of
accountability and transparency in the conduction of monetary policyweak
financial situationexcessive use of the lender of last resort
facilitydeficient payment system Prudential regulation and supervisionlack
of political, operational and financial autonomy of the regulatordeficient
loan classification and provisioning rulesinadequate accounting and
disclosure practicesinsufficient powers of the Superintendency of Banks to
supervise and enforce prudential regulationslack of adequate prudential
rules for off-shores and non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs).Weak
legal, institutional and judicial framework weak legal basis for bank
intervention, rehabilitation, restructuring and closurepoor judicial
procedures for rapid debt collection.weak credit cultureinadequate legal
framework for secured transactionsweak anti-money laundering legislation
Authorities are aware of the vulnerabilities of the financial system. With
the assistance of the international financial institutions (IMF, IDB, and
WB), the current administration has defined a comprehensive program to
address the above described problems. The program involves the following:
(i) a comprehensive legal and regulatory reforms to improve the framework
for monetary and financial policy and recapitalize the central bank; (ii)
the strengthening of prudential regulation and supervision; and (iii) the
resolution of distressed banks via liquidation, mergers or sales.(i)
Framework for monetary policy and financial policy and recapitalization of
central bankThe first phase of the Government's efforts in the legislative
front have resulted in the presentation to Congress, on September 10,
2001, of four major pieces of monetary and financial sector legislation:
(i) Central Bank draft law (Ley Organica del Banco de Guatemala), (ii)
Monetary draft law (Ley Monetaria), (iii) Banking and Financial Groups
draft law (Ley de Bancos y Grupos Financieros), and (iv) Banking
Supervision draft law (Ley de Supervisi6n Bancaria). Approval of these
laws is expected for early 2002. The basic norms and regulations to
implement the new legislation are expected to be submitted to Congress 30
days prior to the entry into effect of the new legislation. The proposed
Central Bank Law grants political and financial autonomy to the central
bank and makes the bank more transparent and accountable, requiring
central bank's senior officials to inform elected officials and the
public about the evolution of monetary policy, as well as exchange and
credit policies. Furthermore, it introduces the obligation of the central
bank to periodically disclose its financial situation. This law
establishes the maintenance of price stability as the main objective of
BANGUAT, substituting the "developmental "approach" of existing
legislation. It also refines the instruments of monetary policy and
establish better mechanisms for the treatment of deficiencies in bank
reserves. The law also limits the lender of last resort function of the
central bank, while improving the reserve requirement rules. The new Draft
Monetary Law guarantees the free convertibility of the currency and the
-2 -



free movement of capitals, in line with the Law of Free Acceptance of
Foreign Currency, approved in December 2000. The central bank will be
audited in 2003 by the Superintendency of Banks, assisted, if deemed
necessary, by external auditors. The audit will reveal the magnitude of
the central bank's accumulated losses as well as the adjustments required
in its balance sheet to restore its long term solvency. The central bank
is expected to be recapitalized thereafter. As part of the efforts to
strengthen the central bank, the payment system will be modernized. Since
most of the transactions and payments in Guatemala are made through
checks, the authorities have given priority to the automation of the
Checks Clearing Center. This involves the purchase of appropriate hardware
and software and the issuing of norms that will regulate the electronic
clearing and settlement. The expectation is that the electronic clearing
of checks will be in place by early 2002. Subsequently, central bank
authorities contemplate the implementation of a payment system for high
value transactions, which are the most important from the point of view of
the systemic risk for the central bank for large transactions. Central
bank authorities have requested technical assistance from the World Bank
to help it to comply with the disclosure requirements contained in the
proposed laws and upgrade the payment system for large transactions, given
its systemic importance. (ii) Strengthening of prudential regulation and
supervisionThe proposed Banking and Financial Groups draft law and the
Banking Supervision draft law strengthen the legal basis for effective
financial regulation and supervision. Among other issues, the laws
introduce tough licensing requirements for new financial institutions,
foster consolidated supervision, adopt international standards on capital
requirements and other prudential ratios, improve corporate governance and
transparency, create a limited deposit insurance, establish efficient
mechanisms for bank resolution, and improve law enforcement by
strengthening the powers and autonomy of the Superintendency of Banks. As
part of the efforts to strengthen prudential regulation and supervision,
a Money Laundering Law was approved by Congress in October 2001 and
became effective on December 17, 2001. This new law contains the relevant
elements required in a statutory provision to prevent and deter money
laundering activities, namely, (i) makes money laundering a crime and
provides for appropriate sanctions; (ii) creates a Specific Unit Against
Money Laundering within the SB ("Intendencia de Verificaci6n Especial");
(iii) provides for reporting, collection, and analysis of suspicious or
unusual transactions (in excess of US$10,000); (iv) authorizes the
freezing and seizing of assets reasonably suspected to be proceeds of
crime; and (v) authorizes the sharing of such information with other
jurisdictions; and cross border legal assistance in prosecuting money
laundering crimes, including collecting evidence and extraditing accused
criminals. Authorities are aware that additional amendments to financial
sector legislation and/or issuance of new laws are needed to strengthen
the legal framework of the financial sector. Since more than 50t of
Guatemala's financial system remains unregulated, creating serious risks
to the overall economy, a new Non-Bank Financial Intermediaries Law is
urgently needed. The new law should set the minimum regulatory and
supervisory requirements for this type of financial intermediaries,
including conditions for entering and exiting the market, solvency
requirements and sanctions to be applied for not complying with the law. A
new Insurance Law is also needed. Authorities have agreed with the World
Bank that the new insurance law should have the following characteristics:
(i) reaffirm the principle that insurance companies will be under the
-3 -



supervisory authority of the SB; (ii) incorporate the principle of
consolidated supervision; (iii) establish a regime of sanctions against
risky practices; (iv) follow international supervision standards (issued
by the International Association of Insurance Supervisors); (v) allow
local insurance firms to operate abroad and allow foreign firms to operate
in Guatemala; (vi) define clearly the functions and responsibilities of
the insurance intermediaries; (vii) establish norms for corporate
governance; (viii) redefine the insurance market; (ix) actualize the
solvency parameters of insurance companies; (x) make information more
transparent; and (xi) establish an orderly market exit mechanism.Another
important law that would contribute to reduce the constrains that some
groups of the economy have to access credit is the Secured Transactions
Law. The Guatemalan authorities recognize that such a law would
facilitate the use of movable guarantees such as inventory, cattle,
equipment, inventories and receivables, opening access to credit to groups
that only have this type of guarantees. This use of movable guarantees
require the constitution of a registrar. The new law would norm the form
in which movable guarantees can be used, reduce the cost of registering
these type of guarantees and modernize and transform the process of
accepting, registering, controlling and executing movable
guarantees.Guatemalan authorities have requested technical assistance from
the World Bank, as well as other international organizations, to draft the
new laws, but most importantly, help to them implement and enforce them.
The IDB is preparing a US$900,000 facility to assist authorities to draft
all prudential regulations required to enforce the new Bank Supervision
Law, including rules on capital requirements, loan classification and
provisioning, limits to connected lending, external auditors, internal
controls etc. The IDB is also expected to finance technical assistance to
strengthen off-site and consolidated supervision in Guatemala. As
explained in the following sections, the WB is expected to finance
technical assistance in most of the remaining areas through this FSTAL,
including the establishment of a national credit bureau; new draft laws on
secured transactions, non-bank financial institutions, insurance companies
and collective investment vehicles; update of accounting principles;
improvement of legal framework for debt recovery; and establishment of the
Special Unit Against Money Laundering. (iii) resolution of distressed
banksThe Government's financial sector reform program involves the rapid
regularization/resolution of a number of weak and insolvent banks and
financial institutions. In early 2001, the authorities intervened and
suspended the equity and administrative rights of the shareholders of
three small banks: Promotor, Metropolitano and Empresarial, which
accounted for about 6.5w of total deposits in the system. These banks have
been sent to judicial liquidation, under the provisions of the current
banking legislation. The Guatemalan authorities intend to intervene two
other insolvent banks under the current banking legislation and proceed
with their liquidation. The weak situation of other financial institutions
in Guatemala will become clear when the new legislation enters into force
and the banks have to apply the new classification and provisioning norms
and the information is collected on a consolidated basis. Authorities are
committed to restructure/resolve insolvent institutions, while
rehabilitating weak but viable banks, using principles of rapid and
transparent decisions, minimizing the use of fiscal resources, and
implementing least cost solutions. As shown in the following two tables,
the costs of closing and resolving insolvent banks, and recapitalizing
weak but viable institutions is estimated at US $1.1 billion dollars. It
- 4 -



is expected that the large part of this cost would be borne by the banks'
shareholders. The allocation of government's funds to support bank
restructuring will be ruled by the new Banking Law, as well as the
operating rules of the Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization. Estimated
Cost of Liquidating and Resolving Insolvent Banking InstitutionsCategories
of BanksNet Cost on Q millionNet Cost in US$ millionCommentsl. Banks to be
liquidated or resolved under existing banking laws (including
off-shore)2,763.0350.7Five banks with total assets of US$570 million2.
Banks to be liquidated under new law557.072.8Four banks with assets of
US$400 millionTotal3320.0423.5Source: Bank staff estimatesEstimated
Capital Needs of Weak but Viable Banks under the New LegislationCategories
of BanksNet Cost on Q millionNet Cost in US$ millionCommentsl. Banks in
categories 1 to 3 that require additional capital3,110.0393.7Includes 22
banks with total assets of US$6,350 2. Off-shore
subsidiaries2,800354.4Total5,910.0748.lMost of the capital should be
provided by banks' shareholdersSource: Bank staff estimatesGuatemalan
authorities have agreed to undertake a comprehensive examination of the
banks in the system to assess their need for additional actions to
strengthen their balance sheets and the possibilities for a consolidation
of the banking system through mergers and acquisitions. To this effect,
private banks will be independently classified using the SUPER
classification scheme, which uses a number of rating parameters measuring,
inter alia, liquidity, solvency, capital adequacy, portfolio quality and
provisioning, profitability, and operational efficiency. (The detailed
methodology used for this classification would be agreed with the Bank).
The capital shortfall estimations would be made based on information on a
consolidated basis, including off-shore entities. The new banking
legislation drastically limits the ability of BANGUAT to continue
providing funds to distressed banks to recapitalize, restructure or close
them. At the same time, it provides a wide framework and several options
to restructure distressed banks including: regularization plans (in case
of capital deficiency) proposed by the bank and approved by the SB,
suspension of operations, transfer of assets and liabilities of a failed
bank to other financial institutions, and liquidation. To support and
speed up the process of bank restructuring, authorities have decided to
establish the Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization.Fiduciary Fund for
Bank Capitalization (FFCB)The FFCB would be created as a trust fund
outside of the balance of BANGUAT. It would provide subordinated credits
for the following three purposes:a) The capitalization of banks in the
context of regularization plans approved by the SB and BANGUAT. Banks
with regularization plans approved by the SB could receive loans from the
FFCB. These banks should have adjusted their accounts according to new
prudential regulations. The eligibility requirement would be strict with
respect to the initial level of tier-one capital. FFCB assistance would
be provided at least, on a matching basis (1:1 ratio), with additional
ownership capital. Moreover, the recipient bank would agree to undergo an
institutional diagnosis and to prepare a business and institutional
development plan approved and monitored by the SB. b)The capitalization
of banks in the context of mergers or acquisitions, according to plans
approved by the SB and BANGUATBanks that voluntarily enter in a process of
strengthening or mergers and acquisitions could receive assistance from
the FFCB. To prevent a failed merger, the SB would require that merging
banks redress shortfalls in capital requirements, that management is
suitable, and that the merged entity has a strong business base. The
shareholders of banks that receive FFCB assistance for voluntary
- 5 -



restructuring, mergers and acquisitions, would have to make capital
contributions in a ratio of 0.6:1. In these cases, the FFCB funds would
go to the acquiring or resulting bank. Banks that undergo voluntary
restructuring should have adjusted their accounts according to the new
prudential regulations and have a business plan approved by the SB.c)The
capitalization of banks that participate as acquirers of deposits in the
context of the process of bank closure and resolution according to the
Banking LawThe bank resolution scheme in the new Banking Law provides for
the transfer of assets and liabilities of a failed bank to other
institutions. The liabilities (deposits) would be assumed by a solvent
bank. To circumvent the problems associated with due diligence practices,
the transfer of assets is made through an special purpose vehicle (SPV)
for the securitization of the assets. The SPV would charge a fee for
managing the assets and issue participations. The institution that assumes
the deposits receives in exchange participations in the SPV.     The FFCB
would be funded by the Ministry of Public Finance from external loans and
budgetary or other resources. It would be managed by a Bank
Capitalization Commission (BCC) composed of representatives of BANGUAT,
the Ministry of Public Finance, and the SB. The FFCB would provide two
types of loan to the participating banks, both of which could be counted
as Tier 2 capital: (i) the granting of a subordinated loan by the FFCB to
a recipient bank; and (ii) the purchase by the FFCB of a subordinated bond
issued by the participating bank. At the request of Guatemalan
authorities, this loan will finance extensive technical assistance for the
rapid and orderly resolution of distressed banks in Guatemala, as well as
the capitalization of weak but viable financial institutions.
2. Objectives
The Guatemalan financial system is in a fragile condition, with several
financial institutions facing liquidity and/or solvency problems. This
loan aims at providing technical assistance to the Guatemalan financial
authorities to restore the soundness of the financial system by (i)
closing and liquidating insolvent banks, (ii) recapitalizing weak but
viable institutions, (iii) strengthening overall financial regulation and
supervision, and (iv) fostering market discipline and competition among
financial intermediaries. These actions will help authorities to prevent a
major banking crisis, minimize the use of fiscal resources for bank
restructuring, and establish a new legal, regulatory and institutional
framework for the sound and efficient development of the financial system.
In the medium term, these reforms are expected to widen the access of
financial services to the overall population and, thus, contribute to
alleviate poverty and support economic growth. This Financial Sector
Technical Assistance Loan (FSTAL) is being prepared to support the
implementation of a US$ 150 million Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(FSAL), currently under preparation. Both loans will support major
financial sector reforms in Guatemala in the areas described below.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
With the proposed operation, the World Bank would add enormous value to
solve the financial sector problems in Guatemala by: (a) raising
international confidence in the Government's program to close and resolve
insolvent financial institutions, (b) drawing on its international
experience in the design of sectorial reforms and assistance strategies,
(c) assisting in the identification of international consultants with
specialized expertise in the appropriate project component areas, and (d)
- 6 -



building up capacity to prevent money laundering, an area in which
Guatemala requires enormous assistance given its large number of
non-regulated off-shore financial institutions. The proposed operation
would help Guatemala to maintain economic stability and continue the
implementation of structural reforms to promote long-term economic growth.
This loan constitutes an important component of a comprehensive effort of
the World Bank and other international financial institutions to support
financial sector reforms in Guatemala. As noted in sections D.2 above,
other major lending operations are currently under preparation by the
World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank. This loan has been
prepared in coordination with the IDB.
4. Description
This loan has 6 components: 1) Rapid exit and resolution of insolvent
banks: Under this component, the loan would finance technical assistance
to assess the financial situation of individual banks, analyze the
feasibility of restructuring options (minimizing the use of fiscal
resources and limiting disruptions to the overall financial system),
develop mechanisms to transfer assets and liabilities from insolvent banks
to solvent institutions, liquidate remaining assets rapidly, repay
deposits, and conduct the overall exit of insolvent financial institutions
rapidly. 2 Establishment and operation of the Fund for Bank
Capitalization: The loan would finance technical assistance to establish
the operating rules of the Fund, formulate sound investment policies,
assess rehabilitation plans proposed by the banks' shareholders, assess
possible mergers among financial institutions, select best financial
instrument to capitalize weak but viable banks, monitor the evolution of
capitalized banks, formulate policies and strategies to sell the Fund's
participations in financial institutions, audit the Fund's operations, and
establish a plan to close the Fund once its goals have been achieved. 3.
Strengthening of the Superintendency of Banks: This component would
finance technical assistance to establish a national credit bureau to
centralize, organize and maintain all the information of debtors of
financial institutions operating in Guatemala. The loan would also finance
the acquisition of software and hardware for the operation of the credit
bureau. This should encourage the establishment of better lending
practices in Guatemala, reducing the amount of future non-performing loans
and improving the efficiency of the overall financial system. Other
activities to be financed under this component include: review and update
of the draft law on secured transactionsdraft a new laws on non-bank
financial institutions, improving the legal framework of this sector in
accordance with best international standardsdraft a new law for insurance
companies and collective investment vehicles.update accounting principles
and disclosure practices for all type of financial intermediaries.review
and propose amendments to existing legislation to improve the legal
framework for debt recovery. This component would complement the
technical assistance to be provided by the Inter-American Development Bank
which aims at financing the drafting of new prudential regulations as well
as strengthen off-site and consolidated supervision. 4. Anti-money
laundering: This component would finance technical assistance to establish
a Special Unit Against Money Laundering to prevent and sanction money
laundering activities. The new unit would be operating within the
Superintendency of Banks. The loan would also finance the acquisition of
hardware and software required for the unit's operation, as well as the
training of the unit's staff. 5. Strengthening of the central bank: The
- 7 -



loan would finance the acquisition of hardware and software to modernize
the payment system for large transactions. The loan would also finance
technical assistance to conduct an audit of the central bank in order to
establish the magnitude of its financial problems and required capital. It
is expected that the central bank would be capitalized thereafter. The
loan would also finance the formulation of a strategy for the long term
development of Guatemala's financial system. 6. Project Management Unit:
This last component would finance technical assistance for the adequate
and efficient utilization and monitoring of the different components of
this loan. Please see Annex 1 and 2 for a detailed description and for a
detailed cost breakdown.
1. Rapid exit and resolution of insolvent banks
2. Establishment and operation of the Fund for Bank Capitalization
3. Strengthening of the Superintendency of Banks
4. Anti-money laundering
5. Strengthening of the Banco de Guatemala (BANGUAT)
6. Project Coordination Unit
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                  $0.90
IBRD                     $5.00
IDA
Total Project Cost       $5.90
6. Implementation
The government agencies beneficiaries of this loan will be the
Superintendency of Banks (SB) and the Bank of Guatemala (BANGUAT). The
Fund of Savings Protection (FOPA), which will established once the new
financial sector legislation is approved, might be eligible to receive the
technical assistance envisioned in this loan. Detailed implementation
arrangements will be discussed with the authorities in the following
stages of the preparation of this project.This loan is expected to be
presented to the WB Board together with the Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan for Guatemala. An important condition for Board presentation of both
loans is the enactment of the four fundamental financial laws submitted to
the Guatemalan Congress on September 10, 2001: Central Bank Law, Monetary
Law, Banking and Financial Groups Law, and Banking Supervision Law.
7. Sustainability
Reforms in the financial sector of Guatemala are being supported by the
international donor community, as well as the international financial
institutions, including the IMF, the World Bank, and the IDB. The proposed
project has been designed to support the implementation of financial
sector reforms envisioned in the Financial Sector Structural Adjustment
Loan (currently under preparation). This is a complex operation and the
project faces risks of delayed or partial implementation. Many factors,
beyond the government's control, could affect the implementation schedule
of the project. Changes and amendments to the proposed draft laws, for
example, could be done by the legislative power in the future, distorting
the purpose of the reforms advocated by this TA loan. Possible risks that
might affect the implementation of the project are discussed in the
following section.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
- 8-



Recent banking crises in other Latin American countries have been
extremely expensive. Their fiscal cost alone has represented on average 20
to 30t of a country's GDP, reducing future social spending and adding an
enormous burden to public finances. Banking crises have caused major
social setbacks, in particular because the real of value of savings and
investments declines rapidly during a crisis. Moreover, during a banking
crisis, banks tend to refrain from providing new credit causing a slowdown
of overall economic activity. Authorities should act rapidly to prevent a
major crisis. In other countries, financial authorities have frequently
failed to prevent a crisis for several reasons, including a poor
diagnostic of bank problems and existing losses, lack of a comprehensive
strategy to deal with a crisis, weak implementation capacity among
financial authorities, unwillingness to dismantle vested interests, etc.
The proposed operation aims at assisting Guatemalan authorities to address
the financial sector problems promptly. The operation is based on a
comprehensive diagnostic of the problems and vulnerabilities of the
Guatemalan financial sector carried out by the IMF and the WB as part of
the Financial Sector Assessment Program in late 2000. Authorities are well
informed about the problems faced by the country's financial sector and
willing to address them. A strategy has been formulated by the government,
with the advice of the international financial institutions on how to
address the financial sector problems. Technical assistance will be
required to implement most of the measures discussed above problems.
Guatemalan authorities have not had the experience of addressing financial
sector vulnerabilities in the past. Many eventual mistakes can be avoided
through prompt technical assistance. International experience shows that
the cost of policy mistakes can be rapidly magnified in today's financial
markets. The proposed operation takes into account best international
practices on crisis resolution. It was formulated in order to maximize
transparency in the use of public funds to support bank restructuring,
minimize moral hazard problems by providing support only to weak but
viable institutions, forcing private shareholders to inject capital into
their banks or face dilution, speed up the resolution of assets, foster an
orderly repayment of deposits, and solve the problems as rapidly as
possible.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Not applicable.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jose De Luna Martinez
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-0367
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
9



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:       (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 10 -



