Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7129-GU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated December 13, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7129-GU 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 13, 2002, between THE REPUBLIC OF 
GUATEMALA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower is carrying out a program to reform its banking sector as 
described in the letter from the Borrower to the Bank dated May 20, 2002 (the Program); 
and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) “BANGUAT” 
means 
Banco de Guatemala
,
the Borrower’s Central 
Bank; 
 
(b) 
“Bridge Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of, and elsewhere in, this Agreement; 
 
(c) “FFCB” 
means 
Fondo Fiduci
ario de Capitalización Bancaria
,
a
trust 
fund to be established within, and administered by, BANGUAT; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Project monitoring evaluation indicators; 
 
(f) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.06 (a) 
of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(h) “SB” 
means 
S
uperintendencia de Bancos,
 the Borrower’s 
Superintendency of Banks; and 
 
(i) 
“UNDP Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.07 (a) 
of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million 
Dollars ($5,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BANGUAT on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(ii) 
payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank and the Borrower, the interest rate basis applicable to 
consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate is equal to 
$5,000,000 shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and 
of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(d) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through the PCU, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, legal and 
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan; and 
 
(c) 
carry out an in-depth review (the mid-term review), jointly with the 
Bank, on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project. 
 
Section 3.04.  Throughout the course of the Project implementation, the 
Borrower shall maintain a Project coordination unit within SB.  The Borrower shall 
ensure that the PCU is at all times, during the implementation of the Project, headed by a 
Project coordinator (the Project Coordinator) and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, 
all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank with functions and 
responsibilities as set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about February 15 of each year during the implementation of the Project 
a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of 
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by April 15 of each year during the 
implementation of the Project or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Bank’s 
views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall, without limitation to the other provisions of 
this Agreement, carry out the Project in accordance with an operational manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank and to be prepared by the PCU, said manual to include specific 
rules and procedures for Project implementation; and 
 
(b) 
the Operational Manual may be amended by the Borrower from time to 
time, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to facilitate continued Project implementation.  
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.07.  (a) For the purposes of providing assistance to the Borrower in the 
procurement of goods and services under the Project, the Borrower may enter into an 
agreement with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the UNDP 
Agreement), including, inter alia, UNDP’s 
obligation to maintain, on behalf of the Borrower, records and accounts adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of the Project, in order to enable the 
Borrower to comply with its obligations under Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its 
obligations under the UNDP agreement in such a manner as to 
protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and 
 
(ii) 
except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, waive, terminate or fail to 
enforce the UNDP Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested including as part of the 
information to be provided in each said report, a management 
letter concerning the Recipient’s internal controls; and 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress regarding 
obligations set out in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall and furnish 
to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the planned and actual uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; and thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
45 days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
UNDP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
UNDP Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
that the PCU has been properly staffed as set forth in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
that the Operational Manual has been issued and put into effect. 
 
Section 6.02. The date March 13, 2003 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas 
8a Avenida y 21 Calle 
 
Centro Cívico, 
 
Zona 1, Guatemala 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
MINFIP 
 
9207 MINFIO GU 
(502) 230-0333 
Guatemala, Guatemala 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
By /s/ Eduardo Weymann 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ David de Ferranti 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
1,535,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures; 
 
for local expenditures  
 
please see paragraph 
 
4
of
this Schedule 
 
(2) 
Consultants' services 
2,995,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 and 
fees 
for 
audits 
 
 
expenditures; 
 
referred to in Section 
 
 
for local expenditures  
 
4.01 (b) of this Agreement 
 
 
please see paragraph 
 
5
of
this Schedule 
 
(3) 
Training 
420,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures; 
 
for local expenditures  
 
please see paragraph 
 
6
of
this Schedule 
 
(4) 
Front-end fee 
50,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(5) 
Premia for Interest  
0 
Amount due under 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
 
Section 2.09 (d) of this 
 Rate 
Collars 
 
Agreement 
 
_______ 
 
TOTAL 5,000,000
Page  13
-
12
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “training” means the non-consultant expenditures incurred by 
the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, 
including reasonable travel costs and per diem of trainees, rental of facilities and 
equipment, and training materials. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) Categories (1), (2) and (3) (either as advances to UNDP or for 
reimbursement made to UNDP) unless the UNDP Agreement has been signed by the 
parties thereto; and (b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $500,000, 
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 
of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures within twelve months 
prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The percentage of local expenditures for goods to be financed by the Bank shall 
be: (a) 100% in case of goods procured through the services of a tax-exempt procurement 
agent; or (b) 88% in case of all other goods. 
 
5. 
The percentage of local expenditures for consultant services and audit fees to be 
financed by the Bank shall be: (a) 100% in case of services procured through the services 
of a tax-exempt procurement agent; or (b) 80% in case of all other services. 
 
6. 
The percentage of local expenditures for training activities to be financed by the 
Bank shall be: (a) 100% in case of services procured through the services of a tax-exempt 
procurement agent; or (b) 80% in case of all other services 
 
7. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) contracts for goods costing 
less than $150,000 equivalent each; (b) contracts for consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (c) contracts for individual consultants costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; and (d) training, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower with the implementation of 
the necessary actions to carry out the Program. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Exit and Resolution of Insolvent Banks
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to the SB to: (a) establish benchmarks 
to carry out a financial assessment of selected banks of the Borrower’s banking sector; 
(b) design templates to prepare and assess bank rehabilitation plans. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance to the SB to develop legal and financial 
instruments to: (a) transfer assets and liabilities from insolvent to solvent banks; (b) to 
compensate banks acquiring assets and liabilities of insolvent banks; (c) liquidate 
remaining assets of insolvent banks rapidly. 
 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance to establish mechanisms to repay 
insolvent bank depositors. 
 
Part B
:
Establishment of FFCB
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment as necessary to 
establish FFCB, including technical assistance to: (a) assess banking institutions’ 
capitalization requirements; (b) assess potential mergers among banking institutions; (c) 
draft operating rules for FFCB; (d) formulate strategies to sell FFCB’s participations in 
banking institutions; (e) monitor capitalized banking institutions’ performance; (f) audit 
FFCB; and (g) design a plan to close FFCB once its goals have been achieved. 
 
Part C:
Strengthening of SB
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment as necessary to: (a) 
strengthen SB through the establishment of a national credit bureau; (b) draft a proposed 
new law on secured transactions (
Ley de Garantías Mobiliarias)
;
(c) review and propose 
the necessary amendments to improve the legal framework on debt recovery; (d) draft a 
proposed new legal framework on non-bank financial institutions; (e) draft a proposed 
new law for insurance companies and collective investment vehicles (mutual funds and 
investment firms); (f) implement updated accounting principles and disclosure practices 
for all type of financial intermediaries; (g) design and implement a supervision manual 
Page  15
-
14
-
for off-
shore entities; and (h) carry out an assessment of BANGUAT’s capital 
requirements to cover its accrued losses. 
 
Part D
:
Anti-Money Laundering
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment as necessary to assist 
the Borrower with the implementation of its new anti-money laundering law (
Ley Contra 
el Lavado de Dinero u Otros Activos,
 dated December 17, 2001) through the 
strengthening of the special unit established within SB to prevent and sanction money 
laundering activities. 
 
Part E
:
Strengthening of BANGUAT
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment as necessary to: (a) 
design a strategy for the medium- and long-term development of the Borrower’s financial 
system; (b) modernize the Borrower’s payment system for large financial transactions; 
and (c) implement international accounting standards. 
 
Part F:
Project Coordination
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment as necessary to 
strengthen the operational capacity of the PCU to monitor and evaluate the 
implementation of the Project components (including audit services for purposes of 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement). 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning February 15, 2008 
 
through February 15, 2018 
4.55% 
 
On August 15, 2018 
4.45% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  17
-
16
-
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this 
Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, 
so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) 
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $350,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Procurement of all goods under this Part C.1 shall be carried out using 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  19
-
18
-
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $180,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Computer software licenses and services which are proprietary and obtainable 
from only one source (including technical support and software updates) up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $180,000 equivalent, may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be awarded under Part B.1 of this 
Section; (b) the first two contracts of each calendar year during the implementation of the 
Project awarded under Part C.1. (a) of this Section; and (c) the first two contracts 
awarded under Part C.2. of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Page  20
-
19
-
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by consulting firms under the Project estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Consultants services under the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants, for tasks that meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $1,600,000 equivalent shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  21
-
20
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the terms of reference for the 
assignment shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, the terms of reference of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $200,000 until the 
Bank determines based on the amounts and frequencies of withdrawals applications that a 
higher balance not to exceed the amount of $500,000 is necessary. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened in BANGUAT, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Page  23
-
22
-
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Page  24
-
23
-
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
