                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001157




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-71290)



                                     ON A

                                    LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION


                                   TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA

                                    FOR A

            FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN



                               December 16, 2009




Finance and Private Sector
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange Rate Effective December 11, 2009)

            Currency Unit = Guatemalan Quetzales (GTQ)
                     GTQ 1.00 = US$ 0.1204
                     US$ 1.00 = GTQ 8.3015


                          FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 ­ December 31


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AML/CTF   Anti-money Laundering and combating Financing of Terrorism
BANGUAT   Banco de Guatemala, Central Bank of Guatemala
CAMEL     Capital, Assets Management, Earnings, Liquidity
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CEMLA     Centro de Estudios Monetarios Latinoamericanos
CFATF     Caribbean Financial Action Task Force
CHN       Crédito Hipotecário Nacional
CICTE     Inter-American Committee Against Terrorism
CIS       Credit Information System
DPL       Development Policy Loan
FCB       Bank Capitalization Fund
FIRST     Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening
FOPA      Deposit Insurance Fund
FSAL      Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSAP      Financial Sector Assessment Program
FSTAL     Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GT        Guatemala
IADB      Inter American Development Bank
IAS       International Accounting Standards
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
FOMIN     IADB's Multilateral Investment Funs
IFI       International Financial Institutions
IFRS      International Financial Reporting Standards
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IVE       Intendencia de Verificacion Especial, Special Audit Office
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MOUs      Memorandum of Understanding
MSME      Micro, Small, Medium Scale Enterprise Development
NBFI      Non-Bank Financial Institution
NICs    International Accounting Norms
NPLs    Non-Performing Loans
OAS     Organization of American States
P&A     Purchase and Assumption
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDO     Project Development Objective
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
RBS     Risk Based Supervision
ROA     Return on Assets
ROE     Return on Equity
RTGS    Real Time Gross Settlement System
SB      Superintendency of Banks
TA      Technical Assistance
TF      Trust Fund
TTL     Task Team Leader
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
WHCRI   Western Hemisphere Credit Reporting Initiative




                   Vice President: Pamela Cox
                 Country Director: Laura Frigenti
                  Sector Manager: Lily L. Chu
             Project Team Leader: Ilias Skamnelos
                              GUATEMALA
              FINANCIAL SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN




                                                  CONTENTS




1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 30
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 34
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 42
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Financial Sector
Country:                Guatemala               Project Name:             Technical Assistance
                                                                          Loan
Project ID:             P076853                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-71290
ICR Date:               12/16/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          GUATEMALA
Original Total
                        USD 5.0M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 3.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 5.0M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Superintendencia de Bancos
 Banco de Guatemala
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/05/2002     Effectiveness:                               03/13/2003
Appraisal:            06/03/2002     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/25/2002     Mid-term Review:           02/01/2005        02/01/2005
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2005        06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory        Government:        Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                               50                  50
General finance sector                                                50                  50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Standards and financial reporting                                     33                  33
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                 67                  67

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:          Laura Frigenti                       D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:            Lily L. Chu                          Danny M. Leipziger
Project Team Leader:       Ilias Skamnelos                      Jose De Luna-Martinez
ICR Team Leader:           Ilias Skamnelos
ICR Primary Author:        Ilias Skamnelos


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To provide technical assistance to support the implementation of the Government's
financial sector reform program aimed at restoring the soundness of the financial system.
The FSTAL will provide assistance for: (i) closing and liquidating insolvent banks; (ii)
recapitalizing weak but viable banks; (iii) strengthening overall financial regulation and
supervision; and (iv) fostering market discipline and competition among financial
intermediaries.




                                                ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                                 Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                                   approval          Target         Completion or
                                                  documents)         Values          Target Years
                  Closure of insolvent banks and/or transfer of assets and liabilities of insolvent
Indicator 1 :
                  banks to other financial institutions.
                                              Fully operational
                                              and ready for
                  To create the mechanism
Value                                         implementation
                  to assist in the closure of
quantitative or                               (including          None           Achieved
                  insolvent banks and
Qualitative)                                  operating manual
                  implement as needed.
                                              formally
                                              approved).
Date achieved     06/07/2002                  06/30/2007          06/30/2009     03/20/2007
Comments          The operational and legal frameworks were established, with: (i) licenses for
(incl. %          three intervened banks revoked, and (ii) two banks successfully resolved using
achievement)      the new scheme of purchase and assumption.
Indicator 2 :     Establishment of Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization
                  Creation of Fiduciary
Value             Fund for Bank               Full
quantitative or   Capitalization (FFCB). implementation of None                  Achieved
Qualitative)      Approved by Decree 74- FFCB.
                  2002.
Date achieved     06/07/2002                  06/30/2007          06/30/2009     03/20/2007
                  Fund is fully operational, approved by Ministerial Resolution in 2004. Staff were
Comments
                  trained on its operation; manual was amended in Dec 2006 to incorporate
(incl. %
                  improvements. FFCB funds were provided to FOPA and 3 banks participated in
achievement)
                  a large bank resolution.
Indicator 3 :     Recapitalization of weak but viable banks
                                              For banks already
                                              identified, process
                                              of recapitalization
                                              or satisfactory
                  Recapitalization of weak
                                              reduction in
Value             but viable banks, as they
                                              provisioning
quantitative or   become apparent through                         None           Achieved
                                              requirements (as
Qualitative)      supervisory reports or
                                              per reports, by
                  related analysis.
                                              provision of
                                              further doc./ add
                                              collateral)
                                              completed.
Date achieved     06/07/2002                  06/30/2009          06/30/2009     05/05/2009
Comments          Provisioning needs that emerged in a few banks were resolved.


                                                 iii
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :   Establishment of a Credit Information System (credit bureau)
                                           Bureau fully
                                           operational and
                                           updated to
Value
                Credit Information         increase its
quantitative or                                               None            Achieved
                System established.        support to banking
Qualitative)
                                           system; active
                                           cooperation/use of
                                           private banks.
Date achieved 06/07/2002                   05/15/2008          06/30/2009     05/05/2009
Comments
                The Credit Information System has been operational since 2004. There is an
(incl. %
                active cooperation and use by private banks.
achievement)
                Draft of new laws on secured transactions, non-bank financial institutions,
Indicator 5 :
                insurance companies, and collective investment vehicles
                                           Draft laws
Value
                Drafts of new laws         presented to
quantitative or                                               None            Achieved
                completed                  relevant
Qualitative)
                                           authorities.
Date achieved 06/07/2002                   06/30/2009          06/30/2009     05/05/2009
Comments        The movable collateral bill was approved. The insurance bill is pending third and
(incl. %        final review in Congress. The draft bill of microfinance is being reviewed by the
achievement) Monetary Board and other government parties.
Indicator 6 : Draft and implementation of new accounting rules
Value                                      Implementation of
                Draft and implementation
quantitative or                            new accounting None                Achieved
                of new accounting rules
Qualitative)                               rules
Date achieved 06/07/2002                   12/31/2008          06/30/2009     11/04/2008
Comments        The Monetary Board approved the New Accounting Manual for entities subject
(incl. %        to inspection by the Superintendency of Banks in December 2006. Revisions
achievement) were incorporated in January 2008.
Indicator 7 : Adoption of a better legal framework for rapid debt collection
                The draft on movable
Value           collateral including a
                                           Legal framework
quantitative or section on collateral                         None            Achieved
                                           in place.
Qualitative)    execution under
                preparation.
Date achieved 06/07/2002                   06/30/2009          06/30/2009     05/05/2009
Comments        The draft on Movable Collateral was approved on October 24, 2007, and has
(incl. %        been effective since January 1, 2008. The registry has been operational since
achievement) January 2009.
Indicator 8 : Establishment of the Special Unit Against Money Laundering within the SB
                Establishment of the       Continued
Value
                Special Unit Against       strengthening of
quantitative or                                               None            Achieved
                Money Laundering within Unit and improved
Qualitative)
                the SB                     practices in



                                               iv
                                           AML/CFT.
Date achieved 06/07/2002                   06/30/2009          06/30/2009    05/05/2009
                The unit was established in the Superintendency of Banks in 2002 and has been
Comments
                proactively strengthening its AML/CFT activities. It participates in a number of
(incl. %
                international organizations and, in July 2004, FATF listed Guatemala in its list of
achievement)
                cooperative
Indicator 9 : Modernization of the payment system for large transactions
Value           Modernization of the
                                           System fully
quantitative or payment system for large                                     Achieved
                                           operational.
Qualitative)    transactions
Date achieved 06/07/2002                   06/30/2009                        06/30/2009
Comments
                The Real Time Gross Settlement system was implemented and linkages with
(incl. %
                internal and external systems were established.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                       Target Years
                Establishment of Bank Resolution Framework, including the Bank Capitalization
Indicator 1 :
                Fund (SB and Banguat jointly).
                                          Implementation of
                Bank Resolution
                                          Bank Resolution
Value           Framework, including the
                                          Framework,
(quantitative   Bank Capitalization Fund                     None           Achieved
                                          including the Bank
or Qualitative) contemplated in new legal
                                          Capitalization
                framework..
                                          Fund.
Date achieved 06/07/2002                  06/30/2007         06/30/2007     03/20/2007
Comments        The bank resolution framework is fully operational and has been successfully
(incl. %        used to resolve two banks in October 2006 (with FFCB support to purchasing
achievement) banks) and in January 2007

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     11/21/2002            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     05/29/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.05
  3     12/05/2003            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.05
  4     05/28/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.25
  5     12/01/2004            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.83
  6     04/22/2005            Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.83
                                                        Moderately
  7     11/21/2005     Moderately Satisfactory                                             0.93
                                                       Unsatisfactory



                                                 v
  8    05/17/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   1.21
  9    08/04/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   1.47
 10    10/26/2006         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   1.59
 11    04/13/2007         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   2.01
 12    11/06/2007         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   2.46
 13    05/16/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   2.62
 14    05/20/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   2.62
 15    11/05/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   3.30
 16    05/11/2009         Satisfactory        Satisfactory   3.53


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Macroeconomic Background.
Guatemala's advances on the macroeconomic front in the early 1990s had begun to face
pressures in the run up of the 2000 presidential elections, both from external shocks as
well us from macroeconomic policy choices. Guatemala averaged real GDP growth of 4
percent in the 1990s, compared to an average population growth of 2.7 percent, with the
inflation rate declining to less than 9 percent in 2001 from a high of 42 percent in 1990.
The country enjoyed a low level of external indebtedness at 13.7 percent of GDP, with
central government budget deficits averaging about 1.5 percent of GDP. However, in the
run up to the 2000 presidential elections, the Government pursued expansionary
monetary and fiscal policies which resulted in a widening of the current account deficit, a
depreciation of the currency, the loss of foreign exchange reserves, and a credit boom due
to increased liquidity in the banking system. This deterioration was aggravated by
adverse terms of trade movements, particularly due to depressed coffee prices and
weather related conditions, including the 1998 Hurricane Mitch.

The new Administration assumed office in January 2000 aiming at stabilizing the
economy, but economic growth suffered from a restrictive policy and further external
shocks. Restrictive fiscal and monetary policies succeeded in reducing the budget deficit
to 2.2 percent of GDP in 2000; interest rates on bank loans declined sharply from an
average of 27 percent in late 1999 to less than 20 percent a year later; capital began to
flow back to the country, and international reserves increased sharply to US$1.8 billion at
the end of 2001 (close to 5 months of imports). But these policies also kept economic
growth only slightly above population growth, with the economy suffering from a sharp
decline in coffee prices (the main export) in 2001 and the global economic slowdown that
further reduced economic growth to just 2.1 percent. The Government's program to
reestablish a stable macroeconomic environment was agreed with the IMF and supported
by a 21 month Stand-by credit of US$100 million approved in April 2002.

Financial Sector Background.
The fragility of the financial sector, documented by the 2000/2001 Financial Sector
Assessment Program (FSAP), was a threat to the Government's program towards
reestablishing a stable macroeconomic environment. The FSAP identified a number of
shortcomings of the financial sector's institutional, legal and regulatory framework,
warning of the possibility of a systemic crisis unless the vulnerabilities were addressed.

Banks off-shore and off-balance sheet operations were neither reported nor regulated, and
anecdotal information suggested that they amounted to the same volume as regulated
operations. Guatemala's regulated banking sector comprised of 31 banks with assets
equivalent to 34.8 percent of GDP, plus 3 additional private banks (Metropolitano,
Promotor and Empresarial) which the banking authorities had to intervene in 2001. Most
banks operated at the center of financial conglomerates that included a related,

                                            1
unregulated, off-shore bank as well as related financieras, insurance companies, securities
brokers, and companies engaged in leasing, factoring, credit cards, and warehouse
business, which could be regulated or unregulated. The unregulated entities catered
exclusively to Guatemalan residents.

The credit boom of the late 1990s had taken place in a context of poor banking
supervision and prudential regulation, and, when the economy slowed down, a number of
banks experienced a sharp increase in Non-Performing Loans (NPLs). The regulated
portion of the financial sector had shown signs of stress since 1998, with six banks
suffering liquidity and solvency problems and remaining in operation largely due to
emergency loans from Banco de Guatemala (Banguat) and deposits from the public
sector (in addition to the three banks which the authorities had to intervene). In addition,
as the FSAP noted, lack of information and inadequate accounting practices obscured the
real situation in the sector. Reported figures for March 2002 indicated a well capitalized
sector with capital equivalent to 14 percent of risk-weighted assets, compared to the
required 10 percent; but taking into account the substantial under-provisioning of NPLs,
several more banks presented significant capital shortages.

Rationale for Bank Assistance.
The high cost of the interventions in 2001 convinced the Government of the need to
strengthen financial sector regulations and supervision, resulting in a request for support
from the IFIs with the Bank in a strong position to provide assistance. Paying off
depositors in full in three small weak banks and two finance companies had an initial cost
to Banguat of close to US$200 million. Concerned with the possibility of further bank
failures, the Government requested support from the IFIs to elaborate a new legal and
regulatory framework that would address the major shortcomings diagnosed by the
FSAP. A FSAL was approved to assist the Guatemalan authorities implement the
Government's financial sector reform program.1 In tandem with the adjustment operation,
the technical assistance loan FSTAL was approved to assist the Guatemalan authorities to
implement the financial sector reform program agreed under the framework of the FSAL.

Support for financial sector reform was an important component of the CAS Progress
Report. The fragile state of the banking system had not been anticipated at the
preparation of the 1998 CAS, and the CAS itself did not provide explicit lending program
for financial sector reforms. The financial sector reform program of the Bank was thus
addressed in the CAS Progress Report (No.24235-GU), which considered the reform
implementation as crucial component to ensure macroeconomic stability and establish the
pre-conditions for growth. The Bank was to play an important role in assisting the
strengthening of Guatemala's financial sector and providing targeted support through
technical advisory services as a follow up to the FSAP, including assistance for the
preparation of the new financial laws. In order to avoid redundancies, the Bank


1
  The ICR for the FSAL (Report No ICR0000475) presents in detail the systemic approach undertaken by
the Bank in assisting the authorities and the integral role of the FSTAL. The outcome performance of the
FSAL was rated Satisfactory.


                                                    2
collaborated closely with the IMF and the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB)
that also provided technical assistance and budget support.

 Box 1. The Government's
 financial sector reform
 program

 The Government's financial
 sector    reform   program
 involved:
         (a)             the
 modernization     of    the
 financial sector legal and
 regulatory framework with



1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The FSTAL was to provide technical assistance to support the implementation of the
Government's financial sector reform program aimed at creating a modern, stronger and
better functioning banking sector, able to improve and expand its intermediating
functions and to withstand shocks. It would provide assistance for: (i) closing and
liquidating insolvent banks; (ii) recapitalizing weak but viable banks; (iii) strengthening
overall financial regulation and supervision; and (iv) fostering market discipline and
competition among financial intermediaries.

The key performance indicators were: (i) closure of insolvent banks; (ii) transfer of assets
and liabilities of insolvent banks to other financial institutions; (iii) establishment of the
Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization (FCB); (iv) recapitalization of weak but viable
banks; (v) establishment of a Credit Information System (credit bureau); (vi) draft of new
laws on secured transactions, non-bank financial institutions, insurance companies, and
collective investment vehicles; (vii) draft and implementation of new accounting rules;
(viii) adoption of a better legal framework for 'rapid debt collection; (ix) establishment of
the Special Unit Against Money Laundering within the Superintendency of Banks (SB);
and (x) modernization of the payment system for large transactions.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The Program Development Objectives and Key Indicators were not revised.




1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The government agencies beneficiaries of the FSTAL were Banguat and SB, but,
ultimately, the project aimed at benefiting all users of financial services in Guatemala,
including depositors, creditors, investors, firms and households.

                                              3
Banguat and SB were to benefit from legal, regulatory and institutional reforms aimed at
strengthening the financial system and avoiding a banking crisis. The financial services
users were to benefit from a sound financial system that would offer better savings,
investment, and credit instruments to a larger segment of the population under
competitive conditions; and, in the longer run, contribute to maintain macroeconomic
stability and foster economic development.

1.5 Original Components

The project had six components:
         1) Rapid exit and resolution of insolvent banks. This component would finance
TA to the SB to: (i) establish qualitative and quantitative benchmarks to assess the
solvency and viability of banks; (ii) design templates to prepare and evaluate bank's
rehabilitation plans; (iii) design legal and financial instruments to carry out the transfer of
liabilities from insolvent banks to solvent banks; (iv) transfer assets from insolvent banks
to a special trust; (v) establish mechanisms to compensate institutions acquiring assets
and liabilities from insolvent banks; (vi) manage and sell remaining assets of insolvent
banks rapidly; and (vii) establish mechanisms for payment of depositors of insolvent
banks.
         2) Establishment and operation of the Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization
(FCB). This component would finance TA to assist Banguat to establish and put in
operation the FCB2, including: (i) assess the banks' capitalization requirements; (ii)
design fnancial instruments to capitalize weak but viable banks; (iii) draft legal and
operating documents for the operation of the FCB; (iv) formulate policies and strategies
to sell FCB's participations in financial institutions; (v) monitor evolution of capitalized
banks; (vi) audit the FCB; and (vii) establish a plan to close the FCB once its goals have
been achieved.
         3) Strengthening of the SB. This component would finance TA to establish a
Credit Information System (credit bureau) to centralize, organize and maintain
information of debtors of financial institutions operating in Guatemala. The loan would
also finance the acquisition of software and hardware for the operation of the credit
bureau. This should encourage the establishment of better lending practices in
Guatemala, reducing the amount of future NPLs loans and improving the efficiency of
the overall financial system.
         Other activities that would be financed under this component included3: (i) review
and update of the draft law on secured transactions; (ii) draft a new law on non-bank
financial institutions, improving the legal framework of this sector in accordance with
best international standards; (iii) draft a new law for collective investment vehicles

2
  The FSAL's proceeds were to be used to help implement the new bank resolution mechanism, including
the funding of the FCB, which together with the deposit insurance fund (FOPA) would form the two main
tools that the Government needed for banking resolution.

3
  This component would complement the TA to be provided by IADB which aims at financing the drafting
of new prudential regulations as well as strengthening off-site and consolidated supervision.


                                                  4
(mutual funds and investment firms); (iv) update accounting principles and disclosure
practices for all type of financial intermediaries; (v) review and propose amendments to
existing legislation to improve the legal framework for debt recovery; (vi) a new legal
framework for off-shore entities; (vii) draft a new law for insurance companies; and (viii)
assist the SB to determine Banguat's capital requirement to cover its accumulated losses.
         4) Anti-money laundering. This component would finance TA to strengthen the
Special Unit Against Money Laundering to prevent and sanction money laundering
activities. The loan would also finance the acquisition of hardware and software required
for the unit's operation, as well as the training of the unit's staff, and the development of
new supervisory tools to detect money laundering activities.
         5) Strengthening of Banguat. The loan would finance the acquisition of hardware
and software to modernize the payment system for large financial transactions. The loan
would also finance technical assistance to assist Banguat to adopt international
accounting standards and the formulation of a strategy for the long term development of
Guatemala's financial system.
         6) Project Management Unit. This component would finance TA for the adequate
and efficient utilization and monitoring of the different components of this loan that
retained a degree of flexibility to allow adjustments to respond to changing priorities
within the overall framework of the operation.

1.6 Revised Components

The project components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

The project underwent the following loan amendments: (i) on November 2005, US$2
million was cancelled by the Ministry of Finance for budgetary reasons under areas that
the authorities would develop under their own or other funding4; and5 (ii) on May 2007,
under a new government, new strategic priorities among the benefiting institutions, as
well as the insolvency of two banks in late 2006 and early 2007, the canceled US$2
million was re-established by a new government under new activities in line with project
objectives and existing components6. More specifically, the reinstated amounts supported
efforts to advance in the transition to a risk-based supervision model and enhanced
consolidated supervision of financial conglomerates, strengthen supervision of
AML/CTF activities, enhance the financial safety net, and continue the modernization of
the payments system.
4
  The impact was small, since eliminated activities were already in progress, or would still take place but
funded by other means (i.e., IADB-FOMIN, SIB, US Treasury).

5
 On December 2005 the direct contracting threshold ceiling was also increased in relation to the
acquisition of software under the Payments Systems component.

6
  Re-categorization and new procurement guidelines were adopted, changing the procurement sections on
the Legal Agreement. Notably, the authorities also requested a larger financial sector focus of that year's
DPL III.


                                                      5
The loan's original closing date was June 30, 2005. It was extended three times, initially
in June 2005 until June 30, 2006; in June 2006 until June 30, 2007, and; in May 2007
with the re-establishment of the cancelled funds until June 30, 2009. The project faced a
slow start, with a nine month delay in its execution, while further delays were the result
of the early lack of coordination among the beneficiary agencies, as well as delays due to
elections, change in Government, change of Superintendent, a major change in
Guatemala's disbursement procedures and the role of UNDP (causing the Bank to
temporarily suspend disbursement requests), and complex procurement work (for
example related to payment system activities). The rationale behind these extensions and
loan amendments is further explored in context under Section 2 and related lessons
learned are derived in Section 6.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project's preparation, design, and quality at entry were:
        (i) Consistent with government and Bank priorities, and counting on the strong
support and commitment of the authorities. The project was prepared in response to an
emerging crisis and at the Government's request to support the implementation of its
financial sector reform program. The authorities had moved decisively to intervene three
insolvent banks and all five new financial sector laws that the FSTAL helped implement
had been approved by Congress before Appraisal. The CAS Progress Report, which was
approved simultaneously with the FSTAL by the Board, clearly presented the importance
of the financial sector reforms and the Bank's catalytic role.
        (ii) Incorporated lessons learned in the project design. The project clearly
identified and incorporated in its design lessons learned from earlier projects. These
included building on a sound background analysis, with the TA based on the
recommendations of the 2000/2001 FSAP that was accurate in assessing the weaknesses
of the financial sector and identifying the shortcomings of the financial sector legal and
regulatory framework. Furthermore, the project aimed at building on the experiences and
lessons learned from banking crises (internationally and in other Latin American
countries), as well as on best practices on crisis resolution and prudential regulations. In
addition, the project focused on the need for strong commitment and ownership of the
relevant stakeholders, and the desirability of retaining flexibility during project
implementation. Finally, it aimed to built on Bank experience with TA loans involving
more than one beneficiary agency to ensure the effective coordination of these agencies.
        (iii) Coordinated closely with other multilateral agencies. The Bank, IMF and
IADB had provided assistance since early 2001 to the design of the financial sector legal
and regulatory framework in line with the FSAP recommendations. In response to the
Government's request, the Bank and the IADB coordinated on identifying the TA work
each would finance, with the latter preparing a US$900,000 grant facility to assist the
authorities in drafting prudential regulations required to enforce the new Bank
Supervision Law and to strengthen off-site supervision.



                                             6
         (iv) Established realistic objectives and flexible components to achieve them. The
project's incorporation of lessons learned from other experiences in banking crises and
the Bank's close involvement in the design of the new financial sector framework helped
in establishing realistic objectives. Yet the project aimed for flexibility within and across
its components for achieving the longer term objective of financial stability through the
institutional strengthening of the two implementing agencies.
         (v) Identified effectively risks and associated mitigation measures. The risks
associated with this operation were clearly identified at the PAD and were relevant to the
operation. One risk mentioned was the possible lack of coordination among the financial
agencies that materialized to a certain degree at the early stages of the project. Despite
incorporating lessons learned in the design of the PCU, operating under the oversight of a
high level executive committee to overcome issues related to involving more than one
beneficiary agency, effective coordination only materialized as experience was build
during implementation. To the extent that other risks materialized, the mitigation
measures were effective in minimizing their effect on the development objectives.

2.2 Implementation

The project faced a slow start, with a nine month delay in its execution. The project was
approved by the Board end June 2002, but the executive delayed presentation to
Congress. Congressional approval was obtained mid-November. The loan agreement was
signed in December 2002 and the project was declared effective mid-March 2003. Decree
74-2002 defined as executing agencies the SB and Banguat, with contracts signed jointly
by the legal representatives of both entities. The SB was responsible for managing the
resources of the Loan through the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), using UNDP as the
procurement agency and in close coordination with Banguat. The PCU was created in
March 2003, while it was formally established in the SB with the July 2004 Agreement
No. 26-2004, enhancing clarity in its role and responsibilities.7

The post effectiveness delays were the result of inexperience with Bank loans within the
PCU, Banguat and SB (addressed by vigorous training in Procurement and Financial
Management), but largely due to lack of coordination among the beneficiary agencies.
More specifically, there was lack of agreement between the two implementing agencies
on (i) who would sign the Agreement with UNDP -after some delay, it was agreed that
both agencies would; and on (ii) the use of a special account for disbursement of the loan.
After delays, the authorities agreed to use a special account that was established in
Banguat. While the decision was being made on the choice of disbursement (from project
effectiveness until January 2004), early work (for priority components 1 and 2) was
funded with loan advances provided by UNDP, reimbursed at a later stage by the project.



7
  The PCU consisted of the Director and Administrative Assistant, is also integrated by the Director of
Legal Department, the Director of the Research Department, the Director of Financial Services Department
and the Internal Auditor of the Superintendency of Banks, as well as the Director of the Department of
Monetary Stabilization Operations from the Banco de Guatemala.


                                                   7
Another administrative structural drawback limiting the project's implementation was the
necessity of approvals by both Banguat and SB, independent of who was the beneficiary.
The Bank team suggested that signing take place only on the part of the institution that
was directly affected by the relevant project component. The authorities agreed in order
to avoid further delays and the UNDP contract was amended to reflect this. From October
2007, the SB signed the contracts resulting from components 1, 3, 4 and 6 and Banguat
from components 2 and 5.

Due to the delay in the signing of the loan and declaration of effectiveness, the authorities
advanced their own funds to initiate work in the project (thus demonstrating their strong
commitment to the project's outcomes), resulting in the reallocation of funds across
components to better reflect TA needs. These changes posed a further coordination issue
for the PCU that aimed to ensure that the goals of both institutions were achieved. The
Bank team also worked closely with the authorities to ensure that the reallocation of
funds across components better reflected the shifting TA needs.

Disbursement improved significantly following the resolution of these hurdles. Yet, some
expected and other unforeseen events posed further delays at later stages. These included
delays due to elections, change in Government, change of Superintendent, a major
change in Guatemala's disbursement procedures and the role of UNDP (causing the Bank
to temporarily suspend disbursement requests), as well as complex and delicate
procurement work (for example related to payment system activities). However, the PCU
was very proactive to anticipate issues and take prompt actions, leading to the relatively
large disbursement and major progress towards achievement of objectives in spite of
these delays. Intensive supervision was also complemented by procurement and technical
missions by Bank experts, as well as further training on procurement, financial
management and disbursements.

One important event during implementation was the cancelation of US$2 million on
November 2005 and its re-establishment on May 2007. The cancelation took place by the
Ministry of Finance for budgetary reasons under areas that the authorities would develop
under their own funding. However, under a new government and new strategic priorities
among the institutions, as well as the insolvency of two banks in late 2006 and early 2007
(see Box 4 in Annex 2), the amount was re-established under new activities in line with
project objectives and existing components.8 More specifically, in line with the
interpretation of the two bank failure events, the reinstated amounts supported efforts to
advance in the transition to a risk-based supervision model and enhanced consolidated
supervision of financial conglomerates, strengthen supervision of AML/CTF activities,
enhance the financial safety net, and continue the modernization of the payments system.9


8
    Notably, the authorities also requested a larger financial sector focus of that year's DPL III.

9
  It should be noted that the Bank had given its no-objection, on an exceptional basis, to the direct hiring of
a law firm to carry out a forensic audit added in the context of the bank failures of 2006 and 2007 (about
US$550k). This was eventually cancelled due to delays related to safeguarding integrity through key
procurement considerations and because two related legal processes took place in the meantime helping

                                                         8
Overall, these delays resulted in the loan's original closing date of June 30, 2005, to be
extended three times until June 30, 2009, (with two of the extensions for one year only)
in order to enable the full implementation of the loan. However, it should be noted that
these extensions were also an opportunity under a flexible TA structure (that allowed
reallocations based on priorities) and a strong Bank supervision team, to closely assist the
authorities in meeting the financial sector development challenges. The continuous and
strong effort to revisit activities as needed has been central in enhancing the achievement
of objectives. The authorities requested a further extension at the end of 2008. However,
as the project had already achieved its PDO following previous extensions which totaled
four years, further extensions could not be justified under the Bank's closing date policy
and the project was allowed to close. The final undisbursed amount was US$1.47 million.
Table 1 in Annex 1 reports on the procurement processes completed or canceled.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E was carried out as part of normal project supervision, with the ISRs reporting in
detail on progress and flagging issues that required attention going forward.10 Staff and
management effectively used this to make decisions about technical assistance focus and
the ratings of the operation. Performance indicators were not quantified (as the focus on
result measurement was not yet established at the time of appraisal, but also due to the
nature of some specific components), but progress against them was regularly tracked
and reported by the PCU and was closely monitored during project supervision missions
that collected qualitative information as well as quantitative data on banking sector
performance (in particular under the components of the payments system and the credit
bureau).11

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

No safeguard issues were identified for this project. There were no compliance issues on
financial management, procurement or disbursement requirements under the project.
Fiduciary compliance was good throughout the project and no issues were raised during
implementation. No issues were also raised in project audit reports and financial
management reports that were produced regularly. No major procurement issues arose
during implementation. The only procurement issue raised (at the end of the project) was
on the difference of internal procedures on the method of shopping of goods among the


achieve these objectives (Chapter 11 in NY for Refco and liquidation process in Barbados for Bancafe
International).

10
   Please note that the target value of Indicator 5 ('Approval of draft laws') under the Implementation Status
Reports' (ISR) Project Development Objectives is not in line with the PAD/ Loan Agreement target ('draft
a proposed new law') and has been revised accordingly under the ICR.

11
   Cooperation and the exchange of information was very fluid, evidence of the frequent exchange of
highly confidential material.


                                                      9
Bank's new guidelines and UNDP's. There were also regular and vigorous trainings for
the PCU in Procurement and Financial Management

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The sustainability of the reforms, the improved institutional capacity and better financial
sector infrastructure were at the center of the FSTAL. As Section 3 explores in more
detail, the government's financial sector reform program helped restore the soundness of
the financial system by closing insolvent and recapitalizing viable banks, while
significant progress was made strengthening overall financial regulation and supervision.

Nevertheless, the 2006 FSAP Update concluded that, while the 2006/07 successful
resolution of two banks highlighted the significant progress made, the need for further
strengthening remains. The resolution of Bancafé and Banco de Comercio showed the
adequacy of the new legal and institutional framework, but also exposed the need for
further strengthening consolidated supervision, and for better risk-management practices
by financial institutions.

Given the nature of safeguarding financial stability that involves the continuous
identification of problems and reforms to the national financial architecture, the Bank has
aimed to assist the Guatemalan authorities beyond the lifespan of this project. The
FSTAL supported work in the areas identified by both FSAPs and since the completion
of the project the Bank has remained engaged through FIRST Initiative support, namely
through a Crisis Simulation Exercise (TF094008/ P116500) and follow up TA in the
fields of consolidated risk based supervision, and intra and interagency contingency
planning, coordination and related protocols. In addition, a Western Hemisphere Credit
Reporting Initiative (WHCRI)12 assessment of the country's credit reporting systems has
been requested.




12
  A partnership between Centro de Estudios Monetarios Latinoamericanos (CEMLA) and the World
Bank.


                                               10
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective of strengthening Guatemala's financial system to reduce the risk of a
financial crisis and stimulate prudent lending remains highly relevant to Guatemala and
to the Bank assistance strategy in that country. Despite the substantial progress in
strengthening the financial sector achieved under the FSAL and FSTAL, more remains to
be done. The 2006/07 bank failures, although successfully resolved, point to the need to
further strengthen supervision of financial conglomerates to detect and prevent the type
of illegal activities that led to these bank failures. Several objectives of the FSTAL
remain relevant for the near future, especially in the 2008/09 global financial crisis
environment, including the objective of moving towards a risk based supervisory
approach and fully adopting international accounting norms. Also, the objective of
improving access to credit though new legislation to strengthen creditors' rights and
transparency of financial information, and establishing the institutional framework for
non-bank financial intermediaries remains a very relevant objective to stimulate growth
and employment creation in Guatemala.

The Country Partnership Strategy of August 2008 (Report No. 44772-GT) in particular
makes the strategic recommendation that "firming up gains in banking regulation should
be complemented by improving SME access to finance and developing the non-banking
financial sector". It points out that continued financial sector assistance during this CAS
was highly relevant and that the remaining challenges center on: (a) strengthening the
regulation of the banking sector by removing risks of unregistered offshore operations
and related lending; (b) deepening the financial sector; and (c) facilitating access among
small and medium enterprises. The FSAP Update (March 2007) in addition commented
positively on the progress on stabilizing the financial sector and noted the challenges
remaining concerning the supervsion of financial groups.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The primary objective was to provide TA to support the implementation of the
Government's financial sector reform program aimed at restoring the soundness of the
financial system. A clear evidence of the increased strength of Guatemala's financial
system is that it has been able to withstand the failure of two banks (in October 2006 and
January 2007) with minimum risk of contagion to other banks in the system, as well as
the impact of the global financial crisis. Annex 3 presents a brief but detailed
macroeconomic and financial sector review, with Table 2 exploring selected financial
indicators.

Annex 2 provides a detailed discussion of outputs and two boxes on two of the most
important outcomes, the transition to risk based consolidated supervision and the safety
net and bank exit framework in Guatemala. In brief, the project achieved the following
sub-objectives:
                                            11
        1) Rapid exit and resolution of insolvent banks. The component financed TA to
the SB to establish mechanisms for the rapid exit and resolution of insolvent banks. Box
4 of Annex 2 describes the current integrated mechanism in place that includes a good
bank - bad bank mechanism. In October 2006 and in January 2007, the operations of
Banco del Café S.A. (Bancafé) and Banco de Comercio S.A. were suspended, and FOPA
was authorized to provide funds to the trusts constituted to exclude the assets of these
banks, up to the amount of the deposits covered by FOPA's guarantee (Q1,600.0 million
for Bancafé and Q360.0 million for Banco de Comercio, 23.6 percent and 37.8 percent of
the total deposit obligation of the two banks). These two bank resolutions are very
significant. They are the first rapid resolution cases ever implemented with the new
framework without going through liquidation. They put into practice the new resolution
mechanism, and verified the resilience of the new bank resolution framework. The
resources provided by FOPA plus the total amount of the excluded assets of the
suspended banks allowed for 100 percent coverage of the deposits in both institutions.
This mechanism allowed FOPA to utilize fewer resources (Q564.6 million less) than it
would have had to utilize to cover the promised guarantee, favoring its financial situation.
The processes were carried out in a rapid and orderly way, preserving the stability of the
system.

        2) Establishment and operation of the Fiduciary Fund for Bank Capitalization
(FCB). The component financed TA to assist Banguat to establish and put in operation
the FCB. In January 2007, the FCB provided financial assistance to FOPA for Q360.0
million (see Box 4 in Annex 2), and to the three banks that participated in the process of
exclusion of assets and liabilities of Bancafé with Q138.4 million (subordinated debt to
cover the increase in their respective minimum capital requirement due to the acquisition
of the business units that were incorporated in their balances). Since then, the FCB has
also provided financial assistance in the order of Q108.6 million to three banks to cover
the minimum capital requirement, either related to the acquisition of new business units
or mergers with other banks. On October 2008, FOPA made a partial repayment of
Q100.0 million to FCB.

        3) Strengthening of the SB. The component financed TA to establish a Credit
Information System (CIS, credit bureau). In April 2004, the SB issued norms to guide the
CIS operations, and the CIS has been open for consultation by the banks in the system
since May 2004, relying on inputs from 43 supervised entities. From May 2004 to
February 2009, there were a total of 4,027,417 queries from its users. Credit registry data
has contributed to enhance credit concentration and risk assessment. The data in the CIS
data base has improved quantitatively and qualitatively with the required reporting by the
banks of their evaluation of their corporate portfolios of large debtors based on capacity
to pay. This improved information is being used by the SB to strengthen its supervisory
function.




                                            12
        The component also financed the preparation of new laws on secured transactions,
non-bank financial institutions, insurance companies and collective investment vehicles.13
Although all drafts were completed, only the Law on Secured Transactions (the Movable
Property Guaranties Law) has entered into force as of January 2008 (the Congress
approved Decree 51-2007 on October 2007, amended in 2008 by Decree No. 46-2008).
The Law aims towards greater acceptance of movable collateral by financial institutions
to help unlock access to credit for enterprises, especially MSMEs.14 Substantial progress
was also made with the remaining laws with the NBFIs Laws submitted in 2006 and
under review by the Monetary Board15, and the Insurance Activity Law (initiative no
3500) pending at the third and final reading before approval in the Congress.16

        Finally, the component financed TA to support the implementation of the
transition to risk based and consolidated supervision (see Box 4 in Annex 2). As part of
the process of institutionalizing risk based supervision (RBS), the SB begun applying it in
2008 (as a first stage) to the five largest financial groups that represent about 80% of
financial assets of the system. The five largest banks were completed in 2009 and work is
now turning to others. Once RBS is fully completed at the individual level of all
companies comprising the financial groups, the full implementation of consolidated

13
   Please note that the related target value of Indicator 5 ('approval of draft laws') under the Implementation
Status Reports' (ISR) Project Development Objectives is not in line with the PAD/ Loan Agreement target
('draft a proposed new law') and has been revised accordingly under the ICR.

14
   Guarantees on bank loans are mostly fiduciary, counting for 47 percent of the total in March 2009, with
another 24 percent being real estate and 5 percent a mixture of fiduciary/real estate. Greater acceptance of
movable collateral by financial institutions will help unlock access to credit for enterprises, especially
MSMEs. Smaller enterprises, particularly micro-enterprises, have less acceptable collateral than larger
companies. While the latter can generally offer real estate as collateral, smaller companies not only have
less collateral (as a percentage of loan value) but it consists more commonly of movable collateral. The law
effectively gives small business owners more access to credit by making the guarantees required by banks
more flexible. Intangible assets such as commercial patents and other intellectual property are accepted to
request a non-fiduciary loan. Also, business owners are able to use future yields, shipment guarantees, and
livestock, among other things, to leverage loans. One of the benefits of the law is that it standardizes assets,
which, until the legislation was passed, had been treated in different ways by diverse institutions and
legislations. The new legal framework has also enabled the creation of the Registry of Non-Real-Estate
Assets (Registro de Garantías Mobiliarias) in the Ministry of Economy, which has been active since
January 2009, but still counts with low inscriptions as it is establishing its role in the sector. To further
foster credit growth and increase the efficiency of collateral, work could include the strengthening of
creditor rights, insolvency proceedings and extra judicial restructurings.

15
   The Ley de Sociedades de Microfinanzas draft is under discussion by the Monetary Board since the
issuance of a favorable opinion on 2006 (the next step is its presentation to the executive branch for
submission to Congress). However, following a meeting on September 2006 between banks, Banguat and
the Ministry of Economy it was not possible to reach an agreement on four points and no significant
advances have been made since then. The Ley de Entidades Civiles de Microcrédito No Lucrativas is also
under review by the Monetary Board, as of mid 2008.

16
  The project was presented to the Congress on November 2006 and passed the first reading, followed up
by a second reading on 28 November 2006. The third reading is pending before final approval.


                                                      13
supervision will be completed, a feat expected by 2011. It should be noted that, since
2003, all banks are required to establish risk management committees and SB verifies
that policies and procedures for risk management are part of the banks' risk manuals.
However, more has to be done to homologize procedures and performance varies among
banks.

        4) Anti-money laundering. The component financed TA to strengthen the Special
Unit Against Money Laundering. The Intendencia de Verificacion Especial (IVE) has
been active since December 2001, as part of the SB, in strengthening the AML activities
in Guatemala. Savings and credit cooperatives were obliged to report since November
2002, while lotteries, raffles etc have been included since December 2007. Since 2005 the
Law includes the prevention of terrorism financing. IVE has implemented new forms of
reporting under the "Know Your Customer" rules, while it has also introduced customs
declarations forms. Over its years in operation, IVE has received and investigated
suspicious transactions (for example 391 in 2007 and 330 in 2008), and submitted money
laundering related complaints to the prosecutor (32 from 101 reports in 2007, and 21 of
48 in 2008). In addition, IVE provided information to the Public Ministry and foreign
financial analysis units (205 and 37 requests respectively in 2007, and 216 and 31
respectively in 2008). Finally, IVE has provided talks, seminars and training on
methodologies, procedures and practices for the prevention, detection and control of
money laundering and terrorist financing prevention.

       In July 2004, FATF removed Guatemala from its list of non-cooperative
countries, following an in-situ visit to the SB. IVE participates in the Caribbean Financial
Action Task Force (CFATF), of which it held the vice-presidency in the period 2005-
2006 and the presidency in 2006-2007; the Inter-American Committee Against Terrorism
(CICTE); the Organization of American States (OAS); and the Egmont Group of
Financial Intelligence Units. As of end 2008, Guatemala has signed 37 MOUs with other
Financial Intelligence Units in Americas, Europe and Asia, with the aim of exchanging
information relating to the laundering of money or other assets. Furthermore, to date, 19
MOUs have been expanded and now include matters relating to the exchange of
information concerning the prevention of terrorist financing.

        5) Strengthening of Banguat. The component financed the modernization of the
payment system for large financial transactions. In 2002, Banguat created the Payments
System Committee to coordinate the implementation of the project for the Modernization
of the National Payments System The regulatory framework for the payments system has
been substantially strengthened and the RTGS has been fully operational since January
2006. The World Bank's Global Payment Systems Survey of 2008 places Guatemala at
the high level of development with regard to Large-Value Payment Systems, the only
country in that list in the Central America region.17 The component also financed TA to
assist Banguat to adopt international accounting standards and the restructuring of its

17
   See Massimo Cirasino and Jose Antonio Garcia, 2008, Measuring Payment System development, the
World Bank. Neverteless, the study also recognizes that significant work remains to be done in other
aspects of the payments system.


                                                  14
financial statements in accordance. The change was implemented beginning January
2009, with Banguat adopting international accounting standards to the extent that its
organic law allows.

3.3 Efficiency

Although a cost-benefit analysis cannot be done for a project of this nature, the benefits
attributable to the project are described in Section 3.2 and Annex 2. Most importantly, the
supported reforms have helped reduce the risk of a systemic banking crisis avoiding the
high associated social and fiscal costs. The successful implementation of two bank
resolutions, including the fourth largest bank in October 2006, alongside the resilience of
the system during the 2008-09 international turbulence are evidence of the progress made
since the high costs incurred during the interventions in 2001.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

This rating takes into account the consistent relevancy of the project objectives, the
achievement of the PDO and the benefits that have been realized in large part due to
project outputs. An overall rating of "highly satisfactory" has not been given, taking into
account that the component that financed the preparation of new laws on secured
transactions, non-bank financial institutions, insurance companies and collective
investment vehicles was successful in completing the drafts, but only the Movable
Property Guaranties Law entered into force, thus limiting the developmental impact.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Not applicable. However, although the FSTAL was not intended to have a direct impact
on poverty or social development, it has had an indirect one by addressing financial
sector weaknesses through the strengthening of the regulatory and supervisory framework
and practices and by adopting an efficient and orderly bank resolution mechanism. These
reforms have reduced the risk of a systemic banking crisis avoiding the high social costs
associated with such crises. The international experience is that financial crises entail
huge fiscal costs that crowd out social spending with dramatic effects on poverty
increase.18 The strengthening of banks and increasing profitability has enabled banks to
increase lending, which is an important factor to promote economic growth.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening




18
   The fiscal cost of the 1999 banking crisis in Indonesia amounted to 50 percent of GDP. The Brazil crisis
of 1994 had a fiscal cost of about 13 percent of GDP and the Mexican crisis of 1994/1995 had a cost to the
Government of about 20 percent of GDP. A study of the cost of banking crises in 56 countries during 1973-
1997 found that they had generated an accumulative loss of 8.3 percent of GDP.


                                                    15
The FSTAL has had a major impact in strengthening the institutional capacity of Banguat
and SB. Banguat has reduced the institutional vulnerabilities it faced due to flaws in the
payments system, and has also strengthened its capability to manage the FCB, a pillar of
Guatemala's financial sector safety net. SB has also strengthened its capability to
supervise the financial system by implementing a new regulatory and supervisory
framework that involves risk-based consolidated supervision of financial groups. SB has
also created and is successfully managing the IVE (addressing money laundering and
terrorism financing issues) and the CIS (credit bureau). Both institutions have also
received intensive training in bank resolution procedures which enabled them to
successfully implement two bank resolutions through P&A schemes, respectively for the
fourth largest bank in October 2006 and a smaller bank in January 2007.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The development outcome sustainability is favorable in a number of ways. The
authorities' commitment to strengthen their capability of supervising and supporting
financial sector development has been demonstrated in the past by their commitment to
develop components using their own funds, and is firmly embedded in the institutional
culture of both institutions as exemplified by continued efforts to improve existing Laws
and norms based on ongoing international improvements in best practice, as well as their
request for an extension of this FSTAL in 2009, a Crisis Simulation Exercise with FIRST
Initiative funding and follow up support on contingency planning. The reforms supported
by the FSTAL have also been maintained through a change in administration and changes
in the positions of Minister of Finance, governor of Central Bank and Superintendent of
Banks. The new bank resolution mechanism has been successfully tested and proven
effective in containing a possible sector wide crisis.

Most notably, the recent events in global financial markets have highlighted the strength
of the sector and the stronger institutional capacity of the authorities to deal with such
pressures. Since the 2006/07 bank resolutions, the financial system has remained stable,
with Annex 3 providing a brief review of the financial sector. There is the risk however
that Guatemala's economic conditions could deteriorate due to external or internal
shocks, to such an extent that would affect the financial sector as a whole. However, the
prudential regulation and bank resolution mechanism supported by the FSTAL would
minimize the risk of a systemic crisis.




                                           16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was based on solid sector work. The policy reforms under the FSAL and the
TA work agreed with the Government were based on the recommendations of the
2000/01 FSAP and post FSAP TA work by the Bank, the IMF and IADB. As such, they
offered a systemic, coherent and well integrated response, addressing short-term needs
and longer term development issues. The PAD was well-written and issues well
described. The output indicators were generally appropriate and were all achieved, even
though some draft laws have not yet been approved. Quality at entry would have been
rated highly satisfactory except for: (i) the PCU, despite incorporating lessons learned
from other projects with dual implementing agencies, faced problems at the early stages
of implementation. Nevertheless, it should be pointed out that the Bank team and the
PCU were highly pro-active in identifying and resolving issues, and that such structures
are complex by nature with hard to identify one-off or generally applicable solutions. To
that end, the project offers lessons learned under Section 6; (ii) it would have been useful
to have quantified targets for some of the components, but at the time of preparation,
quantified targets were not required (the project was prepared using the earlier logistical
framework without baseline and annual targets).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Highly satisfactory

The Bank monitored project implementation and the procurement process through close
and regular supervision missions. The Bank discussed with the beneficiaries
implementation plans and delays, and was proactive in identifying and resolving issues.
Importantly, the Bank team was closely engaged with the authorities in the
implementation of the financial sector reforms supported by this operation and the FSAL,
and provided close technical assistance to the authorities in addressing problems that
emerged in rapidly changing circumstances. The authorities also requested the Bank
team's help with the supervision of broader activities related with the project
development objectives. The Bank was flexible and receptive to introducing changes
within the project objective to meet changing circumstances and requirements.
Procurement and financial management was monitored closely, with staff frequently
joining supervision missions and providing practical and concrete advice, as well as
training, to the PCU.




                                            17
 Box 2. Bank team technical assistance to the authorities
 Areas of intensive Bank assistance during supervision worth mentioning include:
          (i) Bank assistance to establish and utilize the bank resolution mechanism. Bank staff
 supervised closely the work of the international consultants that elaborated the FCB operating
 principles and procedures and participated in the training provided to BANGUAT and SB staff. The
 Bank team was pro-active in suggesting and later approving modifications to the FCB operating
 principles to respond to the type of assistance requested by the banks. Bank staff was intensively
 involved in assisting the authorities with the first two bank resolutions using the P&A procedures.
 Drawing from early lessons from these resolutions, Bank staff helped to identify areas for
        h i b k            ii       d     l i         i     d i d h      h ii         d fining the use
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

This rating takes into account the Bank's performance during all phases of the project.
The team developed excellent relationships with the authorities that praised the Bank for
its provision of intensive technical assistance to both Banguat and SB through
supervision missions and the organization of workshops. In particular, the authorities
recognized the Bank's receptiveness to changing conditions and the actions taken to
promptly address these.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The Government's performance during preparation and implementation was satisfactory.
The Portillo administration reacted positively to the FSAP recommendations and
requested support from the IFIs to design and implement a comprehensive financial
sector reform program. The Berger and Colom administrations maintained the same
commitment to the reform program as the previous administration. The only problem in
regard to government performance was the initial delay in effectiveness, which was
however tied to building support among Congress for the FSAL. The project team had
good communication with and access to authorities' officials as needed.




(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Banguat and SB performance during preparation and implementation was satisfactory.
Both agencies worked closely with the Bank in the design of the operation. They
remained highly committed to the project's development objectives throughout
implementation, particularly demonstrated by their strong commitment and coordination
with the Bank in overcoming the early implementation delays. They remained extremely
engaged, requesting Bank technical support and advice as conditions and priorities in the
financial sector reform efforts changed. Importantly, the work undertaken is continuing
                                                  18
beyond the lifespan of the FSTAL, further highlighting the strong commitment of the
authorities. One example is the transition to risk-based supervision, which is a difficult
process that takes several years to accomplish.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, reflecting the performance of the
Government, Banguat and SB, as well as their commitment to the project objectives, the
quality of project management and implementation capacity.

6. Lessons Learned

It is desirable to retain a degree of flexibility in the project to allow adjustments to
respond to changing priorities within the overall framework of the operation. Broad
definition of the disbursement categories can contribute to such flexibility and facilitate
the movement of funds without difficult formal reallocations. This is particularly relevant
if the implementation period is lengthy, there is a risk that individual priorities become
less relevant. The project allowed the Bank team to be responsive to the changing needs
and priorities of the benefiting agencies, and a crucial aspect of achieving this is the build
in flexibility, but also the strength of the TTL and the Bank team in staying engaged with
the client and providing solid technical advice.

Although the quality of the technical analysis underpinning a TA operation is crucial,
timely TA and advice as part of the Bank supervision process is a key factor of success.
The FSTAL was based on the findings of the FSAP and further technical analysis
conducted during preparation. However, the timely technical assistance and advisory
services to the implementing agencies that was carried out during supervisions was
critical in: (i) maintaining a continued technical and policy dialogue that strengthened the
authorities' ownership and commitment to the development objectives; (ii) allow
adjustments to respond to changing priorities within the overall framework of the
operation. Nevertheless, needed resources are not always available to be used to fund
Bank staff, which sometimes is the best qualified to provide the TA needed. Mechanisms
are needed to fund this type of Bank provided technical assistance in ways that do not
impinge on the usually limited preparation and supervision budgets.

The commitment and ownership of the authorities is central to success at both the design
and implementation stage, and should be encouraged with institutional strengthening and
capacity building. The preparation of the project counted with the strong commitment of
both the highest levels of Government and the implementing agencies. The successful
development of regulations for the resolution of insolvent banks, the new handbook of
RBS and the chapter on consolidated supervision were all due not only to the high quality
of international consultants recruited but also the commitment made by the authorities in
providing technical resources and personnel exclusively dedicated to these tasks.
Importantly, as technical capacity was build and the new supervisory vision was



                                             19
institutionalized, the SB claimed clear ownership, reflected in their commitment to
continue such work beyond the lifespan of the FSTAL.

A "hit the ground running" implementation structure under two executing agencies can
be elusive. The PCU's staff limited experience with Bank-financed operations can result
in implementation delays, however resources can be provided to enhance management,
procurement and financial management capacity as needed. The lack of coordination
among the beneficiary agencies, particularly with regard to the redistribution of available
resources among competing priorities, is a recognized yet elusive intrinsic issue in
projects with two implementing agencies. It is important to recognize such concerns early
on and allow sufficient time for their resolution. A proactive PCU and Bank team is
crucial in handling such issues, allowing for funds to be mobilized in a timely manner to
priority areas. In addition, projects using two agencies, may in some cases consider
managing funds separately and build in a process for reviewing the transfer of money
from one to the other that would operate in a more independent systematic way.

A number of technical lessons learned can be drawn as well: (i) the change from a
compliance based supervision approach to a risk-based consolidated supervision
approach may take longer than usually envisaged. The Plans of Action of the SB to
implement the financial sector legal and regulatory reforms had benchmarks that proved
excessively optimistic and did not take into account that the implementation of some of
the reforms is a complex process that may include the training of the staff of the
supervisory agency and of the banks; (ii) a well funded Bank Capitalization Fund can be
an effective stabilizing factor. The fund can anchor expectations in the financial system,
independently of its actual utilization. Importantly, the fund should be able to lend to the
deposit insurance fund as both funds have complementary roles in bank resolution
processes (further safety net lessons learned can be found in Box 3 in Annex 2).

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

SB highlighted the fact that this project represented a milestone in the development of the
Guatemalan financial system. From the SB perspective, the most important change has by
far been the shift towards a risk-based supervisory approach. The institution believes that
this change will have long-lasting and positive repercussions not only within the SB itself
but also on the supervised entities. In this same vein, the SB points out that the
development of procedures for bank resolution, coupled with the adoption of an explicit
mechanism of deposit insurance have helped create a better environment for the
development of the financial system overall.

Banguat highlighted that the enactment of up to date laws that cover the activities of new
players in financial markets will prove to be beneficial in the long run. The most visible
impact in the short run was the acquisition of the RTGS system, helping to develop the
internal financial market and avoid operational failures in events of shortened liquidity.

(b) Cofinanciers


                                            20
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                      21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                     Last Amendment Actual/Latest Estimate
           Components                                                            Percentage
                                      (USD millions)   (USD millions)
1. RAPID EXIT AND
RESOLUTION OF INSOLVENT                    0.17                  0.17              3.37%
BANKS
2. ESTABLISHMENT AND
                                           0.26                  0.24              4.80%
OPERATION OF THE FCB
3. STRENGTHENING OF THE
                                           2.13                  1.81              36.30%
SB
4. STRENGTHENING OF ANTI-
                                           0.58                  0.34              6.74%
MONEY LAUNDERING
5. STRENGTHENING OF
                                           1.34                  0.55              11.05%
BANGUAT
6. PROJECT COORDINATION
                                           0.47                  0.36              7.28%
UNIT
Total Project Costs                        4.95                  3.48              69.54%
Front-end fee IBRD                         0.05                  0.05               1.00%
Total Financing                            5.00                  3.53              70.54%


(b) Financing
                                           Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                                                              Percentage of
           Source of Funds                 Estimate            Estimate
                                                                               Appraisal
                                         (USD millions)     (USD millions)

Borrower                                      0.90
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                              5.00               3.53            70.54%
and Development




           Table 1. Additional report on procurement processes completed,
                         but that failed or got canceled, 2009



                Process              Institution      US$               Comments

Consulting firm to support a             SB          524,276 The selected law firm demands
banking forensic investigation                               were contrary to the laws of the
and to define follow up strategies                           country and the World Bank's


                                               22
(US$524,276.43)                                            standards.       The      Banking
                                                           Commission conducted a forensic
                                                           audit of the bank.
Implement second phase of work        SB            80,000 The Banking Commission decided
on the monitoring and analysis of                          not to carry out this activity for
financial risks (US$80,000.00)                             non technical considerations.
FCB specialized software            Banguat        112,600 The process was performed twice.
development (estimated                                     The tenders received were not
US$30,000.00).                                             consistent with the needs of FCB.
                                                           Banguat decided to develop it in
                                                           house.
Payments system interface           Banguat        280,000 The amount requested for the
interconnection between MoF                                service was three times more than
and Banguat (estimated US$                                 anticipated (due to interface
173,800.80).                                               uniqueness) and the authorities
                                                           decided to develop in-house
                                                           solution.
Total                                              996,876




                                              23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Rapid Exit and Resolution of Insolvent Banks - Completed
In accordance with Guatemalan law, the project supported the Operating Procedures
Manual for the Exclusion of Assets and Liabilities; draft standard contracts for such
transfers; proposed amendments to the regulations of the Board of Exclusion of Assets
and Liabilities and the FOPA; the Procedures Manual for Regularization Plans of
troubled banks. In October 2006 and January 2007, the Monetary Board suspended the
operations of two banks in the system, further described in Box 3.19 Derived from this
experience the authorities also carried out the modification under JM resolution 22-2008,
while future trust fund supported TA is expected to continue support based on lessons
learned and best practice international experience.

Establishment and Operation of FCB - Completed
The Bank Capitalization Fund (FCB) was established on November 15, 2002 by Decree
No. 74-2002. The Project supported in 2004 the Regulations and Manual of Operation of
FCB, and in the following years provided training and the necessary tools for the
institutions involved in the operation of the fund. FCB's regulations were issued by the
FCB Technical Committee and approved by the Ministry of Finance, by Government
Agreement No. 51-2004, with amendments in 2006 to the rules of eligibility of banks to
be financed through Ministerial Agreement No. 48-2006. The utilization of FCB is
described in more detail in Box 3, but included support to FOPA by Q360 million in
2007 (with a repayment in 2008 of Q100 million), and financial assistance amounting to
Q366.9 million to three banks that had participated in the process of orderly exit of Banco
del Café, S. A., for the purpose of covering the required minimum amount of additional
equity, arising from the participation of these entities in that process. It also provided
funding to three banks in the system for Q181.0 million, to cover the required minimum
amount of additional equity resulting from merger processes.




19
   Two weak banks-Banejer and Banoro were resolved with the Government capitalizing CHN in 2002
with Q100 million to allow it to absorb Banejer; and with Q193.9 million in 2003, to allow it to merge with
Banoro. These resolutions were made using the old system of Government capitalization, instead of the
bank resolution mechanism of the new Banking Law, partly due to lack of experience of the authorities
with the new resolution procedures. The Bank had also received a petition to fund a financial study of
Crédito Hipotecário Nacional (CHN) under Component 1, as per request from the Minister of Finance in
line with urgent priorities in the context of IMF discussions. The project team had urged the authorities to
define a course of action based on the analytical work already undertaken by the SB. A high level
commission was created regarding the strategy with respect to CHN, however no progress was made along
this front.


                                                    24
Box 3. Guatemala's safety net in practice and lessons learned
Guatemala's financial safety net, supported in its creation by the WB FSAL and accompanying FSTA, consists
of: (i) a bank regularization/resolution mechanism, establishing a procedure of dealing with problem banks
that consists of agreeing on a regularization plan, ordering the suspension of the bank's operation in the case
that the regularization plan is unsuccessful, and transferring the bank's deposits and an equivalent amount of its
assets to willing banks in the system. The residual assets and liabilities are transferred to a trust fund for their
liquidation; (ii) the Deposit Insurance Fund (FOPA), which insures deposits for up to Qs20,000 (US$2,600)
per individual or entity in a local bank or subsidiary of a foreign bank. It is a fund administered by BANGUAT
(the Central Bank) constituted by quotas paid by participating banks, returns on investments of the fund,
proceeds from liquidation of banks and Government contributions. FOPA also received the equivalent in
Quetzals of US$73.5 million from the FSAL; (iii) the Bank Capitalization Fund (FCB), which has the
objective to support financially the process of regularization and strengthening of the national banking system,
within the context of processes of bank mergers, acquisition of assets, and processes of exclusion of assets and
liabilities. Also, when strictly necessary it can support financially the FOPA.

In October 2006 and in January 2007, the operations of Banco del Café S.A. (Bancafé) and Banco de Comercio
S.A. were suspended, and FOPA was authorized to provide funds to the trusts constituted to exclude the assets
of these banks, up to the amount of the deposits covered by FOPA's guarantee (Q1,600.0 million for Bancafé
and Q360.0 million for Banco de Comercio, 23.6 percent and 37.8 percent of the total deposit obligation of the
two banks). These two bank resolutions are very significant. They are the first rapid resolution cases ever
implemented with the new framework without going through liquidation. They put into practice the new
resolution mechanism, and verified the resilience of the new bank resolution framework. The resources
provided by FOPA plus the total amount of the excluded assets of the suspended banks allowed for 100 percent
coverage of the deposits in both institutions. This mechanism allowed FOPA to utilize fewer resources (Q564.6
million less) than it would have had to utilize to cover the promised guarantee, favoring its financial situation.
The processes were carried out in a rapid and orderly way, preserving the stability of the system.

This experience has highlighted the need to enhance the effectiveness and funding of both FOPA and the FCB.
Despite FOPA's subsequently recapitalization (through additional fiscal funds, an increase in premiums
charged to banks, and additional secured funding form banks in the system), there is a need to secure additional
funding sources to support possible future bank resolutions. In January 2007, the FCB also provided financial
assistance to FOPA for Q360.0 million (with a repayment on October 2008 of Q100.0 million), and to the three
banks that participated in the process of exclusion of assets and liabilities of Bancafé with Q138.4 million
(subordinated debt to cover the increase in their respective minimum capital requirement due to the acquisition
of the business units that were incorporated in their balances). Since then, the FCB has also provided financial
assistance in the order of Q108.6 million to three banks to cover the minimum capital requirement, either
related to the acquisition of new business units or mergers with other banks. The failure of these banks also
highlighted some important vulnerabilities in the sector, and convinced the authorities of the need to further
strengthen risk-based consolidated supervision of financial conglomerates, and to create a financial crimes
investigation unit. Since the failure of these two banks, domestic financial markets have remained stable.

Some lessons for the establishment of a financial safety net: (i) the transition from an old to a new legal
system, particularly the risk that new prudential rules could expose weak financial conditions, can accelerate
the need to capitalize some banks and close others, when deposit insurance schemes are still under-funded and
unable to cover insured depositors. (ii) in addition, when new legislation limits the Central Bank's LOLR
capabilities, it is important to strengthen or create financial safety funds to facilitate bank resolutions. (iii) well
capitalized Deposit Insurance and Bank Capitalization Funds can be an important signal to the market that the
system is in a position to face any possible banking crisis, helping to strengthen confidence in the banking
system; (iv) a strong financial safety net should follow a holistic approach to each design, not overlooking any
of its components; (v) when the decision to create a guarantee fund to reimburse depositors is left to the
discretion of the banks, authorities must be prepared that such a fund may never be created. Some lessons also
apply to the design of Bank support for the financial safety net: (i) liquidity support for the establishment of
funds should be tranched to support not only the enactment of a new financial legal and regulatory framework,
but also its implementation that should be accompanied by technical assistance; (ii) earmarking proceeds for
the establishment of funds can provide confidence and successful resolution of weak banks.

                                                     25
Strengthening of the Superintendency of Banks (SB) - Completed

     (i) Establishment of a Credit Bureau: The bureau has been operational since May
              2004 and the rules governing its operations are contained in the Agreement
              12-2004 of the Superintendent of Banks. There are currently 454 active
              passwords, distributed among a total of 41 supervised entities. From May
              2004 to February 2009, there were a total of 4,027,417 queries from its users.
              With support from the Project, the bureau received the necessary equipment,
              servers and software, as well as training courses.
     (ii) Preparation of new laws on secured transactions, non-bank financial institutions,
              insurance companies and collective investment vehicles: In the preparation of
              the draft laws mentioned, inter-agency committees were formed with the
              Banguat, the SB and the Ministry of Economy, with the help of international
              consultants, experts in each of the subjects. Although all drafts were
              completed, only the Law on Secured Transactions (the Movable Property
              Guaranties Law) has entered into force as of January 2008 (the Congress
              approved Decree 51-2007 on October 2007, amended in 2008 by Decree No.
              46-200820). Substantial progress was also made with the remaining laws with
              the NBFIs Laws submitted in 2006 and under review by the Monetary
              Board21, and the Insurance Activity Law (initiative no 3500) pending at the
              third and final reading before approval in the Congress.22
     (iii)Strengthening off-site and consolidated supervision23: The project supported
              implementing the transition to risk based and consolidated supervision, under
              an IADB financed new Manual24, and the incorporation of the section of the
20
   On July 4, 2008, the Ministry of Economy issued the Acuerdo Gubernativo, No. 181-2008, incorporating
in its structure the registry of Movable Property Guaranties. A fully functioning registry has been
operational since January 2009.

21
   The Ley de Sociedades de Microfinanzas draft is under discussion by the Monetary Board since the
issuance of a favorable opinion on 2006 (the next step is its presentation to the executive branch for
submission to Congress). However, following a meeting on September 2006 between banks, Banguat and
the Ministry of Economy it was not possible to reach an agreement on four points and no significant
advances have been made since then. The Ley de Entidades Civiles de Microcrédito No Lucrativas is also
under review by the Monetary Board, as of mid 2008.

22
  The project was presented to the Congress on November 2006 and passed the first reading, followed up
by a second reading on 28 November 2006. The third reading is pending before final approval.

23
   In line with its Strategic Plan, the SB made adjustments to its organizational structure in order to allow
the creation of multidisciplinary groups for strengthening the supervision of financial groups through the
distribution of analysis functions (off-site ) and monitoring (in situ) in three departments to ensure the
health of these groups as well as the creation of a research department to investigate and guide on the
adequacy and implementation of the different supervisory practices.

24
   IADB TA support contributed in the development of the Procedures Manual for Risk Based Supervision
(banks and off-shores)- the chapter on consolidated supervision is part of the manual.

                                                      26
             insurance and finance companies, towards the effective supervision of
             financial conglomerates. In addition, it supported the development of a
             number of Manuals, related to monitoring and managing risk, establishment
             and merging financial institutions, business continuity etc.25 The project
             finally supported the acquisition of software and hardware, studies and several
             courses and internships on regulation, risk based and consolidated
             supervision, risk management, off-shores monitoring, on-site NBFIs
             supervision, IFRS, insurance etc.
     (iv) Update of accounting principles and disclosure practices for financial
             institutions: With respect to accounting principles in 2006 the Monetary
             Board (under resolution JM-150-2006, amended by JM-9-2008) issued a new
             Accounting Manual that came into effect on early 2008.26 In addition, the
             Superintendent of Banks issued procedures for the consolidation of financial
             statements of firms under financial groups (Agreement No. 06-2008), and in
             January 2009, resolution JM-168-2008 entered into effect amending the
             Accounting Manual with regard to the registration of capital reserve accounts,
             aiming to strengthen the assets of the banks. Regarding disclosure, the
             Superintendent of Banks has issued Agreement 15-2007 on Provisions for
             financial disclosure and Agreement 16-2007 on Guidelines for Information
             Disclosure, while further regulation is under discussion to expand such
             practices. A registrar for external auditors is also operating within SB, with
             the institution continuing the strengthening its capacity to review working
             documents of external auditors, as a way of verifying reports and deter fraud.




25
   The SIB carries out in-situ and extra-situ supervision of all the banks in the system since June 2002. The
scope and periodicity of the in-situ inspections depend on the risk profile of the entities and, in general,
there is one in-situ inspection per year of different aspects of the banks' operations. Extra-situ inspections
are carried out daily, weekly or monthly through the analysis of the data provided by the banks.

26
   The Accounting Manual adopted international accounting norms (NICs). However, there are three
remaining areas of difference with respect to the NICs, which according to the SIB reflect a more
conservative approach appropriate to the Guatemalan circumstances, namely: (i) financial institutions will
use accrual accounting (NICs) in all their accounts except for lending operations which will be recorded on
a cash basis; (ii) some investments are registered at Cost Method vs. Participation Method of NICs that
would adjust by retained income; and (iii) potential liability for terminating employments will be
provisioned for as opposed to being kept implicit as per NICs. Overall, there have been significant
improvements in converging towards NICs conventions, while these differences cannot be considered
material.


                                                     27
 Box 4. Risk Based Supervision in Guatemala
 One of the most significant advancements for the SB has been the paradigm shift towards Risk Based
 Supervision (RBS). The SB is in the midst of a transition from the "traditional" approach to RBS. The
 former concentrated on mainly on verifying compliance with laws and regulations (traditionally those
 related to liquidity, solvency and soundness of assets). This was the case in Guatemala until 2007
 (using as the core supervisory model a version of CAMEL, a rather static and ex post model), when the
 SB, with assistance from the project, started shifting focus towards evaluating and monitoring risks,
 both financial and otherwise, depending on their size and complexity, and before their impact on the
 supervised entities' financial and operational situation. This implies an ongoing assessment to identify,
                itor and control risks. Oficio No. 634 2008 of the Monetary Board has made RBS




Anti-Money Laundering - Completed
The Special Audit Office (IVE) was established by Decree No. 67-2001, and was
incorporated in SB's organizational structure under Resolution No. 38-2002. The Decree
Law No. 58-2005 to Prevent and Suppress Terrorism Financing was published in 2005
and the relevant regulations in 2006, assigning to IVE the prevention of terrorism
financing, in addition to money laundering. The project supported the acquisition of
software and hardware, consultancies to strengthen IVE's operation, as well as external
training and internships on the detection and prevention on money laundering and
terrorism financing. In addition, the project financed the methodology for the analysis of
suspicious transactions related to terrorist financing, and the verification of the degree of
compliance with FATF recommendations.

Over it years in operation, IVE has received and investigated suspicious transaction (for
example 391 in 2007 and 330 in 2008), submitted money laundering related complaints
to the prosecutor (32 from 101 reports in 2007, and 21 of 48 in 2008). In addition, IVE
provided information to the Public Ministry and foreign financial analysis units (205 and
37 requests respectively in 2007, and 216 and 31 respectively in 2008). Finally, IVE has
provided talks, seminars and training on methodologies, procedures and practices for the
prevention, detection and control of money laundering and terrorist financing prevention.
As of end 2008, Guatemala has signed 37 MOUs with other Financial Intelligence Units
in Americas, Europe and Asia, with the aim of exchanging information relating to the
laundering of money or other assets. Furthermore, to date, 19 MOUs have been expanded
and now include matters relating to the exchange of information concerning the
prevention of terrorist financing.

Strengthening of the Central Bank (Banguat) - Completed
    (i) Modernization of the Payments System for Large Transactions - Real Time Gross
           Settlement System (RTGS): In August 2002, Banguat created the Payments
           System Committee to coordinate the implementation of the project for the
           Modernization of the National Payments System. Regulations were approved

                                                    28
                    by resolution JM-166-2005 by the Monetary Board and the system began
                    operations on January 2006. The system provides real time gross electronic
                    settlement of transactions in national and foreign currency. A number of other
                    Resolutions were passed in 2007 and 2008 further strengthening the RTGS
                    system. The Project supported work on the provision of strategic advice (legal
                    and technical) on modernizing the Payment System, the acquisition of
                    hardware and software for operating, monitoring and linking the RTGS
                    system.At 31 December 2008, 19 banks in the system, 3 finance companies
                    and the National Stock Exchange were participating in the RTGS system.27
            Table: Operations liquidated in the RTGS
            Type of Operations                              No of Operations    Millions Quetzales   No of Operations    Millions Dollars
                                                             2007     2008       2007      2008      2007      2008      2007
       I.   By participants                                  34,546    36,913    194,862 239,037       3,496     3,708     2,307
      II.   By Banguat                                        2,117     2,619      5,490   1,685         570       805        34
     III.   By Cámara de Compensación Bancaria de cheques    11,694    10,385     47,533 50,567        9,378     8,330     1,468
     IV.    By Cámara de Compensación Automatizada                0       497          0      23           0       271         0
      V.    By Negotiation Systems                            1,513     1,743     88,804 62,812
            Totals                                           49,870    52,157    336,689 354,122      13,444    13,114     3,809




     (ii) Adoption of new accounting standards by Banguat: Banguat received training on
             the implementation of International Accounting Standards (IAS) and the
             restructuring of its financial statements in accordance. A number of Banguat
             commissions studied the regulatory and legal context for IAS adoption and
             exchanged opinions with SB, concluding that the accounting rules should
             correspond to the provisions contained in its own Organic Law, with the
             accounting principles based on IAS. The change was implemented beginning
             January 2009, with Banguat adopting international accounting standards to the
             extent that its organic law allows.




27
   The net multilateral result of the Clearing House is settled in the RTGS system, while the system also
includes the internal systems of Banguat - the Accounting and Financial Information System (Sistema de
Información Contable y Financiera, SICOF), the Integrated Securities System (Sistema Integrado de
Títulos Valores, SITV) and other systems. In terms of communicating the system is connected to two
communication networks, a local (BANCARED) and an international (SWIFT), and has interfaces to
interact with key systems like the Electronic Money Banking Chamber (Mesa Electrónica Bancaria de
Dinero, MEBD), the Banking Clearing House of Checks (Cámara de Compensación Bancaria de Cheques)
and the Automated Clearing House (ACH, Cámara de Compensación Automatizada) developed and
managed by the Banking Association of Guatemala, the Electronic Trading System of Foreign Exchange
(Sistema Electrónico de Negociación de Divisas, SINEDI) and the Electronic Clearance System (Sistema
Electrónico de Liquidación, SEL) developed and administered by the National Stock Exchange.


                                                            29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not applicable, however, a general macro and financial sector review and some statistics
are provided below.

The macroeconomic situation

Guatemala experienced a boom in the years just before 2008, caused by rapidly growing
exports, remittances and capital inflows attracted by the growing economy. In those
years reserve money, deposits and credit expanded rapidly, mostly as a result of the large
inflows of dollars, and the quetzal appreciated against the dollar in nominal terms and
more so in real terms. In early 2008, with the economy overheating, the central bank
intervened to reduce the rate of growth of the monetary variables. While the global crisis
has resulted in a sharp decline in the main sources of dollars--exports and remittances--
the uses of dollars have declined even more, in such a way that Guatemala is still
experiencing net inflows of foreign exchange. For this reason, reserve money and
deposits are still growing at relatively high rates (26% and 15%, respectively). Different
from other countries in Central America, credit has kept on growing, although at a much
                                       28
lower rate (about 5% per year).             The still expansionary monetary policy is
complemented by a moderately expansionary fiscal stance. The fiscal deficit is expected
to increase from 1.7% in 2008 to 2.8% in 2009, mainly as a result of a decline in the
fiscal revenues and of a modest anti-crisis expenditure program. Given that the public
sector's debt is just 20% of GDP, the country is in a strong macroeconomic position to
face the global crisis as long as it can maintain the large net inflows of dollars that have
prevailed in the recent past.

The financial sector

Guatemala's financial system is small compared with other countries in the region and
dominated by banks. Guatemala compares unfavorably with other countries in the region
in terms of domestic financing to the private sector (above 40% as percentage of GDP,
below the region's average of almost 60%). The supervised system comprises of banks
(onshore and offshore); finance, insurance and bonding companies; foreign exchange
houses; warehouses; and leasing, factoring and credit card companies. As of January
2009, the banking sector accounted for about 84 percent of the assets of the financial
system. Supervised non-banking sectors are small. Finance and insurance companies
account only for 14 percent of the system's assets and the participation of bonding
companies, warehouses and exchange houses does not reach 1 percent. The insurance and
pension sectors are small and underdeveloped, the former heavily oriented toward non-
life insurance and the latter largely public. There is no equity market and the private debt
market consists mainly of short-term promissory notes, mostly issued by credit card

28
   Credit was growing at 5% in April 2009, at the end of a long process of slowing down from rates over
25% in late 2006 and early 2007. It is important to note that the onset of the global crisis reversed the
relative growth of credit and deposits--before September 2008, credits were growing at higher rates than
deposits; since then, the opposite has been true.


                                                    30
companies and a few enterprises. The government and Banguat are the primary bond
issuers. In the unregulated sector, microfinance institutions have grown in recent years
reaching an estimated total of about 4 percent of the banking system's credit portfolio.
Close to 300 registered Savings and Credit Cooperatives are the most relevant
microfinance institutions in terms of lending and provide a wide range of financial
services like micro-savings, remittances payments, micro-insurance, and housing loans to
mostly un-banked, moderate-income Guatemalans.

The banking sector is mainly domestic and privately owned. The number of onshore
banks has dropped from 31 in 2002 (primarily through mergers and acquisitions29) to 19
banks as of January 2009. The four largest onshore banks hold about 73 percent of the
system's assets30, with a moderate but rapidly increasing since 2006 Herfindahl-
Hirschman concentration index for assets, credit portfolio and deposits. In addition, 7
banks operate as offshores and belong to financial conglomerates associated with onshore
banks. The majority of the 16 finance companies also belong to the local financial
groups. In total there are 10 financial conglomerates with Q134.4bn (US$17bn) of assets.
In terms of ownership, although 7 onshore banks count with foreign participation, the
main foreign bank is Citibank with a market share of about 7%, while Banco Azteca, a
Mexican bank that initiated its operations in Guatemala in 2007, specializes in micro
consumer loan operations.31 There are no majority state-owned banks in the system, with
the government only holding a minority position in Banco de Desarrollo Rural
(Banrural), an institution with about 18 percent of the banking sector's assets that is
dedicated to providing small short-term loans to farmers. Crédito Hipotecário Nacional
(CHN), an autonomous government entity that specializes in mortgage loans, has faced
continuous difficulties since 2001, with losses reported for 2008 and a high NPL level
despite several restructuring attempts.

Reported ratios of performance and solvency of banks have improved after the banking
sector crises of 2001, but weaknesses remain. Financial sector legal and regulatory
reforms implemented since 2000 have improved banks' solvency and resilience to market
volatility. Official figures indicate that all banks in the system present capital to asset
ratio over the statutory minimum of 10 percent, with an average of 10.3 percent as of
December 2008 (in line with the other Central American countries ratio). The quality of
the banks' lending portfolios has improved with non performing loans (NPLs) as a
percentage of total loans dropping from a system's average of 13.8 at end 2002 to 2.4
percent in December 2008. NPLs have started to increase in the last three months
although they still stand at a comfortable level at 3% as of April 2009. Bank profitability
has also improved with an increase in the system's Return on Assets (ROA) from 0.6 at

29
   The banking crisis of 2006-07, including the intervention of Banco de Café (the fourth largest bank at
the time) and Banco de Comercio, further reinforced the trend.

30
  The four largest onshore banks are Banco Industrial, Banco G&T Continental, Banco de Desarrollo
Rural and Banco Agromercantil de Guatemala.

31
     HSBC has been reported planning to begin operations in 2009.


                                                    31
end-2002 to 2.1%. percent in April 2009, and for Return on Equity (ROE) from 10.7 to
21.9% percent in April 2009. However, weaknesses remain primarily through the low
level of provisioning for NPLs. The Superintendence recognizes that provisions are low
and ruled in January 2009 that banks should increase them to either 1.5% of the total
portfolio or 100% of NPLs, whatever is higher. It gave banks 10 quarters to achieve this,
a period that made the measure feasible. At the same time, even though the regulation
and supervision of offshores has intensified, they could still present a weakness to the
sector.

Table 2: Selected Banking Sector Indicators
                                          Dec-05     Dec-06     Dec-07     Dec-08     Jan-09
No of Banks                                  26         24         21         19         19
Balance Sheet (Q millions)
Assets                                    88,679    106,698    118,393    130,778    133,331
  Investments (net)                       25,624     31,154     25,064     28,126     29,263
  Liquid assets                           13,534     16,741     18,078     19,197     20,403
  Loans                                   43,560     51,515     68,984     74,826     74,886
  NPLs                                     1,082      1,202      1,111      1,789      1,960
  Provisions                                 951      1,135      1,172      1,309      1,361
Liabilities                               81,251     97,011    107,504    117,350    120,071
  Deposits                                67,199     78,804     86,904     97,654     99,474
Capital                                    7,428      8,688     10,888     13,428     13,260
  Primary capital                          5,573      6,013      7,218      8,380      8,776
Note:
Assets (US$ millions)                     11,666     14,046     15,515     16,806     16,769
Assets of 5 largest banks (% Total)          61.4       71.0       77.8       79.1       79.0
Loans in US$ (% Total)                       27.6       30.2       33.1       33.6       34.2
Income Statement (annualized)
Interest income                            5,594      6,043     10,245     11,075     12,713
Interest expense                           2,090      2,329      4,111      4,453      5,043
Operating expenses                         3,770      3,811      5,030      4,994      5,280
Pre-tax profit                             1,387      1,613      2,229      2,684      3,593
Net Income                                 1,128      1,293      1,834      2,188      3,300
Financial Indicators (%)
Statutory Capital to RiskWeightedAssets     12.8       14.2      15.0        14.7       15.0
NPL/Total Loans                               2.5        2.3       1.6         2.4        2.6
Provisions/NPLs                              87.8       94.4     105.5        73.2       69.4
NPL-Provisions/Primary Capital                2.4        1.1      -0.8         5.7        6.8
ROE                                          15.2       15.1      16.9        16.3       24.9
ROA                                           1.3        1.2       1.6         1.7        2.5
Liquid assets/Total Assets                   15.3       15.7      15.3        14.7       15.3
Source: SB




Just like the Central American region overall, Guatemala's banking sector initial liquidity
concerns related with the international financial crisis have abated. The largely domestic
banking system of Guatemala has been shielded from direct external event repercussions,
                                             32
and subprime exposure was not an element of the banking sector. While second round
effects may include the impact of the economic slowdown, lower remittances and the
recent depreciation of the quetzal, the primary concern in the last quarter of 2008 was a
squeeze in credit lines from international banks (initially reported drop of 25 percent).
However, the Guatemalan authorities responded with a number of preventive measures
(see Box 5), with supervisory focus now shifting to the system's high liquidity and its
profitability outlook.

An important event has also been the Rosenberg events of May 2009, with allegations
involving Banrural's management and activities. Although statistics are still unavailable,
anecdotal evidence points to minor deposit migration that was largely met by drawing
temporarily on market liquidity, while a recovery has allegedly already taken place.
Importantly, the system experienced no contagion or any disruptions in its operation,
pointing to a strong public perception on its ability to withstand such pressures.
 Box 5. The authorities' response to the global financial crisis
 The main response by Banguat has been to: (i) ease the requirements on banks' accounting of reserves,
 in force since November 2008; (ii) established a temporary US-dollar fund facility for banks. This
 facility was initiated on November 2008 and was extended until March 2009, but so far less than 35
 percent of the US$290m funds have been utilized by banks; (iii) cut its intervention rate to 6.25
 percent. This was the result of three distinct interventions, as Banguat cut its intervention rate by 25bp
 on January, 50bp on February and 25bp in March, following a slowdown in inflation. These decisions
 followed two consecutive years of overshooting of Banguat's target and negative real interest rates in
 2008, but the fall of oil and commodity prices in late 2008, combined with falling domestic demand,
 resulted in a change in Banguat's policy stance. So far the intervention rate cut has not translated to an




                                                    33
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                     Names                               Title
 Alejandro Alcala Gerez             Sr Counsel
 Alvaro Larrea                      Procurement Specialist
 Amelia Veronica C. Yuson           Program Assistant
 Antonio Leonardo Blasco            Financial Management Specialist
 Bujana Perolli                     E T Consultant
 Cara Zappala                       Special Assistant
 Denika L. Torres Guajardo          Temporary
 Efraim Jimenez                     Consultant
 Enrique Antonio Roman              Financial Management Specialist
 Fabienne Mroczka                   Financial Management Analyst
 Gisela Durand                      Consultant
 Gregorio Impavido                  Sr Financial Economist
 Gustavo Castro F. Raposo           Finance Analyst
 Hela Cheikhrouhou                  Financial Economist
 Ilias Skamnelos                    Financial Sector Specialist, TTL
 Joaquin G. Gutierrez               Lead Financial Sector Specialist
 Jorge Kamine                       Counsel
 Juan Carlos Mendoza                Senior Financial Economist
 Keisgner De Jesus Alfaro           Senior Procurement Specialist
 Luis R. Prada Villalobos           Senior Procurement Specialist
 Manuel Vargas                      Sr Financial Management Specialist
 Mariluz Cortes-Gorman              Consultant
 Mario Guadamillas                  Program Manager
 Monica Lehnhoff                    Procurement Analyst
 Paola J. Granata                   Consultant
 Yira J. Mascaro                    Sr Financial Economist




                                    34
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                      16                        63.77
  FY03                                       2                         8.24
                          Total:            18                        72.01
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                     6                          17.17
  FY04                                    25                          96.64
  FY05                                    29                          86.25
  FY06                                    21                          97.15
  FY07                                    28                         176.55
  FY08                                    16                         101.55
  FY09                                    16                           0.00
                          Total:         141                         575.31




                                       35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                      36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                   37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

(Summary of Borrower's ICR - General Conclusions Section translated from Spanish)

It is important to note that the World Bank played an important role in developing the
project, making available groups of experts who supported the actions and strategies
undertaken within it, contributing decisively to provide greater safety and soundness to
the Guatemalan banking system through the modernization of the Superintendency of
Banks and the Bank of Guatemala.

The Superintendency of Banks, having significantly developed the regulation arising
from the modernization of the financial legislation of 2002 and having managed the
development of the methodology for risk-based supervision, and according to the
commitments set forth in the Loan Agreement, achieved a very important qualitative leap
at the institutional front placing it at the forefront of financial supervisory systems
worldwide.

The Superintendency of Banks developed the standards for a prompt and orderly exit of
insolvent banks.

The Bank of Guatemala developed regulations for access and use of the Bank
Capitalization Fund-FCB.

The Superintendency of Banks has fully achieved the specific purpose of this project in
modernizing the regulatory framework of the Guatemalan financial system according to
international standards in supervision, as well as in having achieved its own internal
reinforcement in methodologies, systems and tools developed to perform risk-based
supervision.

Of the objectives established for the purpose of this project, those not fully achieved were
related to the passing of new laws: a. Secured Transactions Law, was the only one
approved on 24 October 2007 by the Congress of Guatemala in Decree 51-2007 and
entered into force on 1 January 2008; b. The draft Law on Insurance Activity is pending
third reading in the Congress; c. The draft Microfinance Law is being reviewed by the
Monetary Board.

The Superintendency of Banks developed 38 norms derived from the new financial laws
(11 priority ones to be approved by the Monetary Board, 4 priority ones to be approved
by the Superintendency of Banks and 23 non-priority to be approved by the appropriate
authority).

As regards support to the Superintendency of Banks and the Bank of Guatemala to
upgrade their tools, ie information systems and inspection manuals used in the
supervision of institutions, these have been fully achieved through consultancies that
were part of the project implementation.



                                            38
The information tools that the Superintendency of Banks has developed and implemented
to date, through a system called "SIS", have become an electronic platform of high value
for purposes of the monitoring systems in the service of the Superintendency of Banks.

The Bank of Guatemala has developed the System of Real Time Gross Settlement-
RTGS-with the project participation in the licensing of the tools it utilizes.

During project implementation, the Superintendency of Banks processed acquisitions
under the World Bank procedures

Licenses and equipment procured under the Project resources fulfilled a necessary and
substantive function to support the implementation of new tools developed by the
Superintendency of Banks and the Bank of Guatemala.

Developments in the banking and financial system of Guatemala in the last three years
have done nothing but demonstrate the high level of importance that the project played
for the Superintendency of Banks. The project design had a fully adequate basis for the
needs and requirements of this decade that could be viewed as the immediate challenges
for the Superintendency of Banks. The events in the past three years, marked not only by
the departure of two failing banks in the system but also by the many processes of
acquisitions, mergers and entries of foreign banks, have highlighted the need for a
strengthened Superintendency of Banks, renewed in its methodologies and conceptual
tools and fully capable to cope with the complexities demanded by the current economic
conditions. From the perspective of the overall project design, it can be argued that the
central objective of strengthening the Superintendency of Banks and the Bank of
Guatemala, to modernizing the regulatory framework in accordance with international
standards in banking supervision, was highly relevant in terms of the events described.

It should be noted that the two suspended banks were appointed to the respective Board
of Exclusion of Assets and Liabilities and were set deadlines for the exclusion of assets
and liabilities, returning to depositors 100% of the balances in their accounts, and
proceeding to the establishment of trusts to transfer assets excluded from the balance
sheets of these banks. It is noteworthy that the processes set out were undertaken quickly
and orderly, and complying with the Law on Banks and Financial Groups, the
Regulations of the Fund for Savings Protection and the Board for the Exclusion of Assets
and Liabilities, and the Manual of Exclusion of Assets and Liabilities, allowing to
mitigate the inherent systemic risk.

The Superintendency of Banks is in the midst of a transition from the approach called
"traditional supervision" in terms of functions within the banking and financial system to
a focus on "Risk Based Supervision." Importantly, within this new approach, the
Superintendency of Banks of Guatemala made significant progress in implementing new
methodologies and analysis tools with support provided through this project. The new
approach to supervision in Guatemala has been developed and is fully conceived in the
new Handbook of Risk Based Supervision, which is driving the Superintendency of
Banks to implement a specialized supervision, comprehensive and discretionary.

                                           39
Reviewing in depth the dimensions of the methodological change in the approach to
supervision, it can be seen that the actions of the components implemented as part of this
project were highly effective in promoting the paradigm shift towards risk-based
supervision and thus placing the Superintendency of Banks of Guatemala in a leading
position with respect to modern supervision systems worldwide.

After completing the initial implementation of the new approach in the five largest
financial groups in the system, it is clear that the supervised institutions have shown their
willingness to cooperate adequately with the Superintendency of Banks, having begun to
be in constant feedback with the authorities with respect to their risk management
systems. This has also had a positive impact to strengthen the importance of risk
management units integrated within the financial institutions themselves. Finally, it has
been possible to see a positive impact on the overall banking system towards a culture of
comprehensive risk management as a result of the implementation processes of the new
methodological approach by the Superintendency of Banks.

The Superintendency of Banks has experienced a number of substantive changes within
its organization, its procedures and work systems, which are fully in line with the
methodological implementation required by the new supervisory approach. Among the
most significant changes we include the implementation of the supervision of vertical
groups and the creation of a comprehensive risk unit as part of the Supervision
Intendency, the development of new monitoring manuals for other entities that make up
the financial groups, and implementation of the rating processes of the various elements
that make up for the comprehensive profiles of the supervised entities.

With respect to the performance of the Project Coordination Unit -PCU- with regard to
the agreed responsibilities for the implementation of this project, we can say that it has
shown a highly satisfactory performance having met the actions and activities
programmed in the project.




                                             40
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    41
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

·       Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the amount of US$5.0 million
to the Republic of Guatemala for a Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan. World
Bank Report No. 24222-GU, June 7, 2002.
·      Report and Recommendations of the President of the IBRD to the Executive
Directors on a Proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan in the amount of US$150.0
million for the Republic of Guatemala. World Bank Report No.P7544-GU, May 31,
2002.
·      Memorandum of the President of the IBRD to the Executive Directors on a
Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the Republic of Guatemala. World Bank
Report No.24235-GU, May 31, 2002.
·      Financial Sector Assessment Program. Aide Memoire. World Bank/(MF
Confidential Document. June 2001.
·      Financial Sector Assessment Program - Update. Aide Memoire. World Bank/(MF
Confidential Document. February 2006.
·     Implementation Completion and Results Report on a Loan in the amount of
US$150.0 million to the Republic of Guatemala for a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
World Bank Report No.ICR0000475, September 25, 2007.
·      Country Partnership Strategy for the Republic of Guatemala. World Bank Report
No. 44772-GT, August 1, 2008.
·     Informe de estabilidad financiera a Diciembre 2008. Superintendencia de Bancos,
Guatemala, December 2008.
·      Informe Trimestral del Sistema Financiero para Junta Monetaria a Junio de 2009.
Superintendencia de Bancos, Guatemala, June 2009.
·     Informe de Politica Monetaria a Junio de 2009. Banco de Guatemala, August
2009.




                                         42
