Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LN H  3 / v 7- POA                              Report No. 7112-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND
AGROINDUSTRIES EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 5, 1990
Europe, Middle East and Nortrh Africa Region
Country Department IV
Agriculture Operations
This document has a resWiced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUWAL
Currency Unit           zloty (zi)
19iS lgs9 ,a99i
(est.)      (Jan 1)
ZI/USS              147           175        265a/       430       1400        9000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BFE                -  Bank for Food Economy
BH                 -  Bank Handlowy
EDB                   Export Development Bank
CC                    Convertible Currency
CMEA (COMECON) -  Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EDF                -  Export Development Fund
EPF                -  Equal Payment Fund
EPS                -  Equalization Payment System
FTC                -  Foreign Trade Company
FTE                .  Foreign Trade Enterprise
FTO                -  Foreign Trade Organization
IAFE               -  Institute of Agriculture and Food Economics
IQF                -  Individually Quick-Frozen
LIBOR              -  London Interbank Offered Rates
MAFFE              -  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and the Food   Economy
MFT                -  Ministry for Foreign Economic Cooperation
NBP                   Narodowy Bank Poiski (National Bank of Poland)
OIC                -  OMce of International Cooperation
PAID               -  Project Appraisal and Implementatiod  Division in NBP
PB                 -  Participating Banks
ROD                -  Foreign Exchange Retention Account
TR                 -  Transferable Rubles
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
a/    The exchange  rate at which the preappralsed subprojects were evaluated was
zi 250/US$1.00.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
POtAND
AGROINDUSTRIES EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJEI:
Table of Contents
Loan and Proiect Summr                                                              I-iv
L  INTRODUCTION ................................................ 1
11 THE AGRICULTURAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. Role of Agculture               .........................                    2
B.  Institutions Supporting Agriculture and Agroprocessing  ................    4
C.  Agricultural Performance          ....................... .                 7
D. Agricultural Policy            .........................                     8
E.  Bank Strategy for Supporting Agricultural Development ................      9
F.  Current Status of the Finandal Sector  ................                     9
G.  Institutional Structure of Finance  .......    ........................  11
H.  Bank Strategy for Assitance to the Financial Sector  .......    .......... 16
III AGROINDUSTRY SECTOR ISSUES
A.  The Polish Food Processing  Industry ........... ..        ............... 17
B.  Frultand Vegetable Production, Processing  and Exports .....      ......... 17
C.  livestock Production, Processing  and Exports .........       ............ 18
D.  Constraints on Performance of the Food Processing  Industry  ... ....... 19
E.  Export Incentives     ...................      ....................... 20
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Project Concept and Objectives ................................ 24
B.  Sumn qry Project Description ..........................                   24
C.  Detailed Features  ..........................  25
D.  Cost Estimates ..........................  29
E.  Project Financing  ..........................  29
F.  Procurement ......................... . 31
G.  Disbursements  .........             .....................  .. 32
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Organization and Management  .............................. 34
B.  Lending Terms and Conditions  .............................. 37
C.  Accounts and Audits ...............               ...............  40
D.  Reporting and Evaluation      ..............................  41
E.  Environmental Impact .............. ................  41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Poland in
November/December 1987 and consisted of Messrs./Mme. E. Brook (leader), A. Kogan,
C. Cornelius (Bank), J. Intratorand C. Cronberg (consultants). Updating missions were
undertaken in September 1988, June 1989, and October 1989.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.2
VL     l 
A. fVm_I Analis ................... 43
a  Prodctio .            .       ..............  44
C.      k    ............. ..                                                  45
VIL Pl tJECT JUSTICATION AND RISKS
A. _    gts  ..................                                               48
a   Economic Anlsb  ...   49
C.  Rik  ..............                                                        SO
Vill  ASSURANCES  TO  BE OBTAINED AND RECOMMENDATION  ............ 52
ANEX I  Bonk for Food Ecookmy
Table 1:  ComparatIve Baance Shwt - 1983-86
Table 2: Income Statement for Year Ended December 31, 1986
Table 3: ComparatIve Income Statment - 1983485
&WX 2  Production and Exports of Main Food Processed  Products from Poland
Tabk 1:  Export of Major Agricultural and Food Products
Table 2:  Producton and Exports of Frozen Fruits and Vegetables  197048
Table 3:  AgrIultural Production in 1987-88
Table 4: Production and Procurement of Major Fruits and Vegetables
ArNNEX 3 Project Cost Phasing
Table 1: Selected Pre-Appraised Subprojects
Table 2:  Marketing Actvities
Table 1: EstImated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 2: FInanctal Indicators of Subprojects
AINNEXS Selected Documents and Data Available In Profect File
CHAR
Organzation Chart of MAFFE
MA&.      IBRD 20562R. Agroindustries Export Development Project



POIANID
AGROINDUSTRIES EXPORT DEVELAPMENT PROJECT
Loan and BMWje Summary
National Bank of Poland (NBP).
9hiMInm1          Republic of Poland.
be  idYHeJ        Exporting agroindustrial enterprises.
Ahmam             US$100 million equivalent.
IOUms:            Seventeen years, including five years grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
onALeni
Terms:            $75 million equivalent of the Bank loan proceeds would be
onlent by NBP to participating banks (PB). Subloans to
final beneficiaries would be denominated in US dollars and
interest would be at prevailing market rates. NBP would
bear the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the
Bank's currency pool. The interest rate charged by NBP to
the PB would be established as a floating rate linked to the
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for dollar deposits
and would include a margin for NBP. NBP would establish
this interest rate for a six-month period. NBP would
establish its margin, in consultation with the Bank, taking
into account NBP's spread requirements and the cost of
similar funds in the market. This margin would be set at
1.75% for the January 1 - June 30, 1990 period. Subloans
would be for a maximum of 12 years, including a maximum
grace period of 3 years. The remaining $25 million
equivalent of the Bank loan would be made available for ale
by NBP to importers of livestock feed.
froWect
QJecAtvj:         The main objectives of the proposed project would be: to
remedy existing constraints to rapidly increasing Poland's
exports of processed agricultural products to convertible
currency (CC) countries; to promote further involvement of
the private sector in food processing activities which are
export oriented; to assist state enterprises financed under
the project to operate in a market-oriented system; and to
help maintain supplies of livestock to processors and thus
sustain meat exports.



- li -
Dctrbffbo:        In order to generate incremental convertible currency export
earnings, the project would aim at the rehabilitation,
modernization and expansion of existing agro-processing
industries. Investments in the needed equipment would be
such as to allow Polish products to be upgraded to levels of
quality required in western markets and would result in
higher prices because of improved quality and packaging, and
increased volume of exports. This would be particularly
the case for ham in cans and in vacuum packing, frozen
fruits and vegetables and forest products including game
meat and berries, which are exported mainly to EEC
countries. The project would also include support for export
marketing activities of agro-processors and would meet part
of the shortage in livestock feed and thus help maintain
adequate supplies of livestock to processors.
Markets           Poland has well established export markets for the main
commodities to be produced under the project, and is also
expected to penetrate new markets. Marketing
studies/surveys which were prepared for the main products to
be produced under the project, such as meat and frozen
fruits and vegetables indicated that increases in
incremental exports are well within the scope of projected
potential growth of the relevant markets. In fact all the
preappraised investments are related to enterprises which
have already some share in export markets, and the
possibility of expanding their share was examined on a case
by case basis.
Environmental
ina:ct            All the preappraised subprojects were reviewed and found to
be in satiefactory compliance with the pollution control
guidelines set by the authorities of the Government of
Poland, to avoid any increase in pollution, either in the
water or the air. In regard to any new investment to be
financed under the project assurances were obtained at
negotiations that (i) ali environmental impact assessment
would be carried out, and (ii) that its approval by BFE or
other PB would require that (a) it is designed in accordance
with appropriate safety, health and environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) it would not cause,
directly or indirectly, any environmental deterioration.
The impact assessment would be done by the District
Environmental Authority and subsequently reviewed and
approved by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and
Natural Resources.
Benefits:         Economic benefits under the proposed project are expected
from: (a) increased production of frozen fruits and
vegetables, meat products ard miscellaneous food items and
the increases in the exports of these commodities, mainly to



- iii-
CC markets; (b) increases in value added of fruits and
vegetables and potato products; (c) decreases in operating
costs due to technological innovation and more efficient use
of labor. The economic rate of return of all preappraised
subprojects, which varied between 21 and 70X was calculated
to average about 35X. Although the exchange rate of the
zloty vis-a-vis convertible currencies has depreciated since
the time of appraisal, the preappraised subprojects are
still judged to be amply viable under present and evolving
conditions. The primary benefits would be in foreign
exchange from exports, and the market prospects remain
favorable. Relative prices of imported inputs have not
changed significantly, and because the rate of depreciation
of the exchange rate has been higher than the rate of
inflation in Poland, the prices of domestic inputs have
somewhat decreased in terms of foreign exchange. Therefore
the rates of return on investment are estimated to have
improved; (d) increase in overall profitability due to
improved organizational and managerial skills resulting from
training and technical assistance to be provided under the
project; and (e) establishment of appropriate management
information and cost accounting systems by the enterprises.
Benefits from the livestock feed component d rive from
helping prevent a decline in livestock production which
would result in a decrease in raw material supplies to
processors, meat supplies to domestic consumers, and meat
exports.
At the macro level the project faces the risk that the
policy and institutional reforms may not progress
sufficiently to alleviate the constraints on efficient
performance of the food processing industry. The risk is
being reduced by actions being taken by Government on the
basis of its firmly declared policy objectives and of an
intense policy dialogue with the IMF and the Bank. Another
risk is that prices in the international markets for project
commoditie- may be lower than estimated. To offset this
factor, the project design seeks to improve project output
and marketing services. As for the possibility that delay in
project implementation might affect its economic benefits,
Bank staff have tried to reduce this risk by assisting in
the preparation. for procurement by subborrowers during
project appraisal. In any case, even with a delay of
project benefits by one year, the project would still yield
a rate of return of about 20% on the pre-appraised portion;
and a two-year delay would reduce it to about 13%. Finally,
the institutional capability of BFE and other PB may prove
to be inadequate. Therefore the Industrial Export
Development Project, which is being processed in parallel
with this project, contains a component to provide technical
assistance to the banks.



- iv -
EstmaeBMWoec Costs
C _tm                                 LO          EQrebm          lo
-U US$ millio-..-
oindustries Investments
a) preappraised subprojects             41.4        55.5           96.8
b) credit line                           5.5        15.1           20.6
c) marketing activit!ss                  1.4         0.5       '    1.9
Total                                               I 7           119.3
Livestock Feed                            .         25.0           25.0
Total Proiect Cost                      48.3        96.0          144.3
Interest during Construction             6.0         4.0           10.0
Total Financing Required                54.3       100.0          154.3
Floandng Plan
LJol          Foreign          Totl
USS milUon
Fundn&  Souns
a)  World Bank                        0.0           100.0         100.0
b)  BFE and other PB                 42.4             0.0          42.4
c)  Subborrower's Contribution       11.9             0.0          11.9
Total                                54.3           100.0         154.3
Esdmated IBRD Disbursements
Bank FY                  90        91       92        93    94       95
-----------------US$ million---------------
Annual                 30.0      20.0     20.0      15.0    10.0      5.0
Cumulative             30.0      50.0     70.0      85.0    95.0   100.0
Economic Rate of Return: 21% to 70% on pre-appraised subprojects and not less
than 18X on those under the credit line.
Nau:               IBRD No. 20562R



NDMD
STAF            REOr
L EODU&IQN
1.01        The Government of The Republic of Poland has requested assistance
from the Bank for financing investments to upgrade existing agroprocessing
plants and modernize their equipment so as to increase the volume, and improve
the quality of processed food products in selected subsectors for export to
convertible currency areas. The project would also provide finanzial support
for the sector for the acquisition of livestock feed to alleviate short term
shortages and help maintain livestock supplies to meat processors. The
proposed project, which was formulated in response to this request, would
support the objectives of the Polish economic reform program and priorities
which aim at improving the country's foreign trade balance, and strengthen
creditworthiness.
1.02        The project was identified as a result of the Bank's economic and
sector work which took place after Poland's admission to the Fund .ad the Bank
in 1986. Subsequently, this project was prepared by the Institute of
Agriculture and Food Economics (IAFE) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
and Food Economy (MAFFE) in association with the Bank of Food Economy (BFE),
Foreign Trade Organizations (FTOs) and PROEXIM, a local economic consultancy
company, and is based on 32 enterprise investment proposals and several
subsector papers. The FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) assisted
Government in the formulation of the project.
1.03        The appraisal mission, which visited Poland in November/December
1987 consisted of Messrs. E. Brook, mission leader, A. Kogan, Ms. C. Cornelius
(Bank), J. Intrator, financial/management specialist, and C. Cronberg,
agroindustrial engineer (consultants). Postappraisal missions, comprising
Messrs. E. Brook and J. Intrator (consultant) visited Poland in September 1988
and June 1989 to update information and verify the economic and financial
viability of proposed investment subprojects. Messrs. E. Brook and G. Luhman
visited Poland in October 1989 for further 'updating.



-2
IL THE AGRICULTURL AND FNCALSECTOR
A. Roe of AMltM
2.01        Agriculture is an important sector of Poland's economy and plays a
major role in trade and employment. In 1987 the sector provided 13X of
national income, 15X of Convertible Currency (CC) exports, but only 3% of
"transferable ruble" (TR)lI exports, and 28X of the total labor force. The
share vi agriculture in GNP declined considerably during the sixties and early
seventies but has remained stable at about 13% over the last ten years. The
agricultural sector has slightly increased its share of total trade with
CC-countries since 1975, but a considerable decline has occurred in trade with
the non-CC-countries. The generally outmoded technology and inadequate
capacity of the food processing industry have limited the ability of this
sector to increase its share in exports.
Farm Shze and Ownershin
2.02        Out of Poland's total land area of 31.3 million ha, 18.8 million
ha are used for agriculture, of which 14.8 million ha are arable land. Private
sector dominates agriculture in terms of land ownership as well as food
production. Agricultural lard is held by the private and socialized (State and
cooperative farms) st.ctors in about the same proportions as their share in
total output--77X by the private sector and 231 by the socialized sector.
Within the socialized sector, the State farms, situated mainly in the western
part of the country, predominate (82X), followed by the collective farms (16%)
and the agricultural production associations (2%). Poland instituted a land
reform immediately after the Second World War, setting the ceiling on land
holdings of private farmers at 100 ha in the western part of the country, and
50 ha in the central and eastern parts.
2.03        The private sector in agriculture, in 1987, comprised about 2.7
milli.on peasant farms averaging 5.2 ha in size. Fifty-seven percent of the
farms have less than 5 ha, accounting for about 21% of the agricultural land.
Only 18% of all farmers have more than 10 ha and cultivate 47% of the land.
There have been slow but remarkable changes in farm size distribution over
time. Since 1970, small farms below 10 ha, which are mainly held by part-time
farmers, with at least one family member earning income a salary outside
l/     Most intratrade among the centrally planned countries in Eastern
Europe is denominated in TR--a non-convertible accounting
currency. In 1988, 1 TR was equal to zl 197.21 (annual average
rate; zl 116.41 in 1987).



agriculture, have decreased in number (152) and have lost about 20X of the
area covered by them to bigger farms. The beneficiaries of such transactions
were mainly farms in the above-1S-ha category which increased considerably in
nuuher (171) and area (311), and resulted in an increase in average farm size
by 101.
Stucture of Production
2.04        In terms of the gross value of agricultural production in 1988,
the crop subsector contributed about 54X and the livestock subsector about
461. Of the gross crop production, cereals (wheat, rye and barley) and
potatoes comprised 521; fruits (mainly apples and berries) and vegetables,
191; and industrial crops (mainly sugarbeet and rapeseed) 10; and oth-.r
crops, 191. In the livestock subsector, milk production accounted for 32% of
gross value of animal production, pigs for 28%, beef cattle for 15%, poultry
and eggs for 13%, while others accounted for the remaining 12%. Further
details are provided in Annex 2, Table 1.
Investment 'n the Food Economy Comnlex
2.05         Though the overall food economy complex had been designated by
Government for priority investments in the 1980s, investment in agriculture
has been lower than planned. The food economy's share in the total national
investment had been planned to reach 301 by 1985 and to be maintained at that
level for the remainder of the decade, compared to 221 during 1976-80, and
about 231 during 1981-85. Further, during the early 1980s, investmelit grew
much faster in private agriculture than in socialized agriculture. In constant
terms, the shaxe of the social sector was reduced to almost half while that of
the private sector was allowed to rise by 4% annually till 1984 and reached
55% of total agricultural investment. Investments are financed from State,
enterprise and private sources. Investment allocation has been a major
Government policy tool and while a minor portion of agricultural investments
has been financed from the State budget, the Government has exerted influence
on non-governmental investment decisions by controlling credit and the supply
of building materials and other investment goods.
2.06        Actual investment expenditures in the food economy complex, during
the 1981-85 period, amounted to about zl 1.9 trillion (US$16.6 billion), in
constant 1984 prices. Investments in agriculture represent about 23% of total
investment, while the share of agroprocessing wes 151. The balance of 7.5%
represented investments in support sectors which included the farm inputs
indus'tries (fertilizers, pesticides, etc.) and the farm equipment and food
processing machinery industries. Of total investments in agroprocessing,
about 21% were in dairy processing, 13% in the sugar industry, 9% in fruit and
vegetable processing and 6% in the meat processing industry.
2.07        Until the recent changes in Poland in mid-1989, the Government
agricultural program was based on the 1986-1990 investment plan which
allocated about 70% of total investment within the food complex to agriculture
(about 78% during 1981-85), 21% to agroprocessing (15X during 19e1-85) and
about 9% to the support sectors (7.5% during 1981-85). This allocation



- 4 -
reflected a shift in priorities In favor of food processing, as the inadequate
allocation under the previous five-year plan had been viewed as a strong
impediment to overall improvement in the food situation and to the growth of
exports of processed agricultural products. The amount allocated to
agroprocessing represents a 62X increase over the previous plan. However,
implementation of this plan was significantlv behind schedule as of mid 1989,
and the new Government has not yet prepared a now substantive policy and
investment program for the future.
L           SuR       A alMu  and A__o__In.
2.08        Virtually all agricultural support activities are carried out by
the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Economy (MAFFE-See Chart 1),
which is responsible for planning, policy formulation, research, plant and
animal protection and other general support activities. The Departments of
Agroprocessing and of Investment and Technology of MAFFE are both responsible
for long-term development in the food processing subsector which is generally
financed through equity contributions from budgetary resources, loans from the
sank for Food Economy (BFE), and, in recent years, also through short- to
medium-term credits from foreign suppliers of equipment.
Fo*o EUUrMdS ComnL
2.09        Up to 1982, all food-producing enterprises in Poland were required
to be members of central subsector associations of industries which translated
the sectoral goals of the national plans into enterprise specific targets for
each industry, and oversaw their implementation. The character of these
associations was altered in 1982 to make membership in them voluntary except
for certain centrally balanced items, such as meat and grain milling. In line
with the economic reform program and beginning in mid-1988, all existing
associations were dissolved and converted into companies which were to provide
services of common interest to their member enterprises. Membership in the
newly created companies is voluntary, and Government control over them, in
terms of management and regulations, has decreased considerably.
2.10        Mta  All State-run meat producing enterprises used to be required
to be members of the meat producers' association, which had been established
by a Government directive, The association had 27 members, with 74 processing
plants and 20 transportation units, and some related enterprises, such as
those producing equipment and spare parts for the meat industry, and a design
bureau. In July 1988, the association was converted into a company called
PEK-POL, with voluntary membership and limited by shares, which took over some
of the activities formerly performed by the association. The founding
shareholders of the company were 24 State-run meat producing enterprises, a
design bureau, repair and maintenance enterprises serving the meat industry,
the meat technology institute and the foreign trade organizations, Animex and
Baltona (see para. 2.15). Fixed assets valued at zl 4.5 billion, mainly
storage and export facilities in Gdynia, which had been purchased by the
association with funds provided by Government were taken over by PEK-POL.
Currently, the company provides various services to the meat industry



. 5 -
enterprises including import and supply from domestic sources of equipment and
other technical material, and operates a training center for staff of the
industry in Poznan. PEK-POL plans to widen the scope of its activities and
open retail stores for meat and meat products, provide transport services and
engage in exports. PEK-POL, as an agert of the Ministry of Domestic Trade,
continues to carry out functions previously performed by the association with
regard to the organization and coordination of domestic supplies of meat and
meat products, the management of seasonal surpluses and keeping track of
supply and demand balances. Neat exports, however, are effected through the
trading organization ANIMEX, of which the company is the single largest
shareholder, apart from the State. Despite its vested interest in ANIMEX, PEK-
POL has also established an export department within its organization, and
plans to engage directly in export marketing activities.
2.11        Fruits aud veMabies  are basically processed by four groups of
agroprocessors: (i) Fructopol-Warsaw with 40 plants (37 in agroprocessing);
(ii) Fructopol-Lublin with 11 plants (7 in agroprocessing) and specialized in
canning, production of preserves and concentrated fruit juices; (ii) the
Hortex Kombinat of the Union of Horticultural and Agricultural Cooperatives,
which is an enterprise specializing in frozen fruits and vegetable production;
and (iv) the company of cold store enterprises, many of which also engage in
fruit and food processing. The total number of fruit and vegetable processing
plants is 310. The companies for each group of enterprises mainly assist
their members in technical and economic matters and in research, development
and marketing activities. Although the list of activities of the companies is
wide, their functions are, in practice, more limited, since prices in this
subsector are unregulated and there are no quantitative central allocations of
inputs or outputs.
Tle Role of BFE In SuDr  of Aqrculture
2.12        The Bank for Food Economy (BFE) is the primary financial
institution serving the agricultural sector and is expected to be the
principal financial intermediary under the project, though other banks may
participate. The Ministry of Finance is BFE's major sharehrlder with 51%,
while the cooperative banks (CB), which were attached to the Agricultural Bank
in 1975 to form BFE, hold 49% of its shares. At the end of 1988, total assets
of BFE amounted to zl 2,120.0 billion (US$4.9 billion) of which 67% were
short-term credits and 31% medium- and long-term investment loans. In 1988,
BFE earned a satisfactory gross margin of about 3% on its lending operations,
given its extremely low level of administrative expenses (0.5% of average 1988
assets) and the preferential rate of interest of 6% paid on borrowings from
NBP, the major source of BFE's operating funds (61% of liabilities at the end
of 1988). BFE's loan arrears are negligible. During 1988 BFE provided
financial services to about 12,000 social sector entities, of which 9,700 were
engaged in agriculture, 1,100 in the food industry, 700 in forestry and 500 in
other economic activities. BFE also serves as the apex bank for the
cooperative banking system, which comprises 1,653 cooperative banks serving a
meibership of 2.5 million farmers, artisans, and employees of the social
sector enterprises. Early in 1989, BFE changed its statute to adopt universal



- 6 -
banking principles introduced under the new banking law. Further details on
BFE and the cooperative banking system are provided in Annex 1.
(aa                    iFrog)
2.13        The operational mode, rules and regulations, and behavior of
Poland's foreign trade institutions have been influenced by policies
established by the Council for Hutual Economic Assistance (CMEA). Though
trade with CHEA countries accounted for more than half of Poland's total trade
in 1985, agricultural trade is directed largely (82X in 1987) towards
convertible currency countries (EEC, USA and others). The Polish foreign
trade system evolved from its integration into the overall system of planning
and control. Under this system, broad trade targets are defined by the
national planning office and sanctioned by the Council of Ministers for a
five-year period on the basis of material balances for major commodity
categories. This leads to the ratification of broad targets for bilateral
trade with each CMEA country and definition of export targets to achieve a
planned aggregate balance in the trade with the non-CMEA countries. On the
basis of such planning, bilateral agreements and annual trade protocols are
concluded with Ministries of Foreign Economic Cooperation (MFT) of other CMEA
countries. Annual export and import targets are also determined for market
economies, though such trade has basically been viewed as residual. These
arrangements are likely to be changed in the wake of the economic reform
policies now being implemented, with Government intervention, planning and
regulation of foreign trade being significantly reduced.
2.14        To maintain planned balances - bilaterally with each of the other
CHEA countries, and multilaterally with the rest of the world - and to ensure
adherence to the inter-governmental agreements between CMEA countries, each of
the central Foeign Trade Organizations, operating directly under the
supervision of the MFT, has traditionally had a monopoly in an assigned range
of products and a large degree of autonomy in setting prices with external
trading partners. Their main function has been to identify domestic suppliers
for specific transactions, negotiate prices, and conclude annual contracts on
product specifications, delivery and prices with these firms and with
counterpart FTOs in other countries. Two major innovations introduced in 1982
removed the traditional monopoly of the FTOs: (i) the issuing of trade
germits, or concessions allowing producing enterprises and associations to
perform directly their own input procurement and output marketing, and (ii)
the formation of the Foreign Trade Companies (FTC) as joint stock companies
with NFT as the majority shareholder and minority shareholding by interested
state enterprises. Most of the past administrative restrictions have been
removed and, export permits are required only for a few basic commodities,
such as grains, rapeseed and meat. Although individual producers are now
permitted, and are being encouraged to engage directly in export activities,
the volume of their production for export is usually not sufficient to justify
the setting up of their own export marketing units.
2.15        Presently, about a dozen FTOs and FTCs handle the bulk of the
agricultural, food and beverage exports and a substantial share of the food
economy complex imports as well. Most FTOs and FTCs are represented overseas



through joint stock companies in which one of the organizations takes the lead
(e.g., POLFOOD in New York with ANIMEX as major shareholder). The most
important export organizations are listed below:
a mMain   CooUdt                           Vo E
(UN ssIUm)
Inin
Animex (FTC)      Meat, meat products and               389      472       512
live cattle
Agros             Vodka, spirits, apple juice            90        98      116
concentrate, fruits and
vegetables
Hortex (FTC)      Frozen fruits and vegetables,          63        71       76
apple concentrate, frozen berries
Polcoop           Fresh and frozen fruits and           131      145        85
vegetables, dairy products and
forest products
Rolimpex          Rape seed and oil, sugar and          130       201      202
molasses, seeds
Interpegro        Fresh fruits                           21       25        23
Agricoop          Fruits and vegetables                   7         7        7
Spolem            Various agricultural commodities        2       11         2
Rybex (FTC)       Fresh ocean fish                      110       193      186
Total                                                 943    1,223    1,209
C. agicultural Performance
2.16        The performance of Polish agriculture has fluctuated over the past
20 years, though total agricultural output rose at an annual trend rate of
1.5% for the period as a whole. Production suffered a decline by 15% during
the 1980-82 crisis, but showed a steady recovery between 1982 and 1988. Again,
since 1988 and especially in 1989, there has been a sharp drop in production
and shortages of food have developed. Over the two decades, taking into
account the annual population growth of 0.9%, which has been relatively high
by European standards, the annual average growth in output per capita in
Poland was a mere 0.55%. The performance of the livestock sector, which grew
at 1.5% per year, was better than that of the crops sector which grew at only
about 0.8%. Growth of agricultural productivity in terms of output per worker
and per ha has also been slow. Yield comparisons of major crops (wheat,
potatoes, sugarbeet) with other European producers indicate substantial
potential for improvement, which could reduce the trade deficits (for wheat),
or release arable areas for production of other crops. As for the food
processing subsector as a whole, it expanded during 1971-78 at an average
annual growth rate of over 4 5% with emphasis on the meat processing industry
as livestock output expanded, mainly as a result of increased supplies of
locally produced animal feed, but also with the provision of imported feed
concentrates. However, during 1978-82 this subsector suffered a setback due



- 8 -
to stagnation in the economy, and the expected export performance in Western
markets failed to materialize. The balance of payments and social crises of
the late 1970s and early 1980s resulted in a sharp decline in processed food
output of about 47X between 1978 and 1982. The subsequent recovery in the
food industry was slow, with value added :-ising by only 10 between 1982 and
1988.
D. Aukaba      k
2.17        The agricultural sector has a special significance in the Polish
economy, as it accounts for 281 of total employment, a proportion equal to
industry. Further, maintaining parity in the incomes earned by workers in
both the sectors has been a long standing major Government objective.
Consequently, the Government's pronounced policy has been to encourage the
growth of food production and to improve the sector's external trade balance.
At the same time Government has been anxious to maintain food prices at
affordable levels, given the large share of such products (around 45X) in an
average consumer's budget. Since mid-1989 the new Government policies have
made it a priority to orient the economy, the agriculture sector included, to
be responsive to market forces. As part of the process of bringing about the
needed structural changes, the Government has taken steps to liberalize most
agricultural product prices.
2.18        Up to 1989 the agriculture sector was highly regulated, leaving
limited flexibility to producers with regard to input purchase, output
disposal, or pricing decisions. This was true in the primary production
subsector, where small-scale private farming predominates (para. 2.03), and
even more true for agroprocessing enterprises, which are mostly state-owned.
The principal instruments of such regulation were the following: (i) controls
on ingut Rrices and procurement Drices for 2rimary producers. and provision of
subsidies to agroRrocessors to cover the differences between their costs of
production and controlled retail prices. Many agroprocessing exports are
still effectively subsidized (see para. 3.11). Subsidies are also provided in
terms of concessional rates of interest, and privileged access to investment
financing; (ii) nuantitative controls, in the form of allocations of inputs to
primary producers, and allocation of agroprocessors' output as between the
domestic and export markets; and (iii) control of its agricultural credit
system, the operations of which were based more on considerations other than
economic and financial criteria.
2.19        Past Government interventions have led, in many instances, to a
misallocation of productive resources, and eventually resulted in lower levels
of output and productivity than might otherwise have been achieved. However,
economic policy reforms are expected to include adjustment of interest rates
to positive real levels; removal of restrictions on land holdings;
privatization of various state and cooperative enterprises and enhancing their
competitiveness; the removal of controls on domestic food prices, which has
already been implemented (para. 2.20); reduction in export subsidization;
restructuring, demonopolization, and privatization of distribution of seed,
animal feed, and other inputs, and alleviation of their shortage;
rationalization of management of state farms and other state enterprises so as



to increase their orientation toward cost and profit concerns; and
strengthening the provision of support to private farmers in terms of credit,
extension and applied research. All these measures of policy reform are
expected to help remedy the main inefficiencies in the production and
marketing processes, as well as in the food industry sector.
L Bank St_tesv for Sy    .AN*autural De_ _   et
2.20        The aim of the Bank's assistance program is to help Government
carry out its program of reforms oriented toward a more open economy and
increased efficiency in the productive process. In particular, the effort in
this first agricultural project is primarily focussed at achieving increased
exports to convertible currency markets. More specifically, given the acute
foreign exchange shortage, Bank involvement would help to ensure that the
necessary measures of rehabilitation and new investment are taken, so as to
generate additional foreign exchange earnings/savings which would lead to
improvement in the country's balance of payments and creditworthiness. The
Bank is reinforcing Government's policy actions in this sector to restrict
investments to those activities which: (a) are export-oriented; (b) make
better use of available raw material; and (c) increase efficiency in
production and productivity of labor and capital. Furthermore, by providing
urgently-needed oilseed meal, the project would help avoid a decrease in
livestock supplies to processors at this critical juncture in the transition
to a market economy.
F. Current Status of the Financial Sector
2.21        Fundamental changes have been introduced in the financial sector,
most of them since 1986. The most significant changes have been implemented
as a result of revised legislation (including a new Banking Law) passed in
January 1989, which aims at establishing an active financial sector for
mobilizing and allocating resources, and abandoning practices inherited from a
centralized economic system. Significant progress has already been achieved
in transforming the banking system, and in streamlining credit and interest
rate policies.
Transformation of the anking Slstem
2.22.       In an effort to introduce competition into the banking system, the
essentially mono-bank system, in which the National Bank of Poland (NBP) had a
monopoly on commercial banking, was converted into a two-tier banking system
as of January 1989. NBP maintains the central banking functions, but has
transferred all of its credit activities to nine commercial banks created out
of its own banking branch system.   Under the new system, all banks--including
five specialized banks which existed prior to the new legislation--can operate
as universal banks, providing services to all economic units, independent of
their ownership or economic activity. Competition among banks is expected.
The "basic account" system, under which enterprises were directed to a single
bank, was eliminated in August 1989. Enterprises are now free to choose any
bank or banks in which to carry out their financial operations. In addition,
the adoption of an active interest rate policy is expected to provide the



- 10 -
basis for banks to compete in deposit and lending rates. Entry of new banks
has already begun, and the participation of fo:eign banks is expected. A
Banking Supervision Department of NBP has been established. Legislation to
facilitate capital market development is under preparation. The table below
shows the banking structure which prevailed until December 1988, and the new
structure introduced by the implementation of the new Banking Law of January
1989.
Evolution of the BanWn  Structure
An of Dec=ghm 31, 1988               As of janar  1. 19
C£ Ln Bak                            Ce£bsa Bank
NBP                                   NBP
Commercial Banks                     Commemial Banks
NBP's branch network               Nine new commercial banks:
-State Credit Bank of Warsaw
-Bank of Gdansk
-Bank of Silesia
-Bank for Industry and Trade of Cracow
-Deposit and Credit Bank of Lublin
-National Economic Bank of Lodz
-Great Poland Credit Bank of Poznan
-Pomeranian Credit Bank of Szczecin
-Western Bank of Wroclaw
Speialized Banks                     EiisUng baDks:
PKO Savings Bank                      -PKO Savings Bank
Bank for Food Economy (BFE)           -Bank for Food Economy
Bank Handlowy (BH)                    -Bank Handlowy
Export Development Bank (EDB)         -Export Development Bank
Bank PKO SA                           -Bank PKO SA
Credit Policis
2.23        Until recently, the major objective of credit policy was to
accommodate the financing requirements of the central economic plan. Bank
credit was extended liberally to ensure that the plan's production and
investment requirements were achieved. In addition, credit allocation was
influenced through the intervention of "founding" institutions (branch
ministries). In recent years, however, NBP has ceased to be formally
subordinate to the Ministry of Finance and has progressively been granted more
autonomy in the formulation of the annual credit plan which, although
coordinated with the economic plan, is no longer viewed as automatically
accommodating the requirements of the latter. Under the current system, the
expected main thrust of credit policy is to contribute to an efficient control
of monetary and credit expansion. In this context, the credit plan now sets
an upper limit on total credit expansion based on macroeconomic
considerations.



- 11 -
2.24        From January 1989, the practice of directed credit, in which
credit was allocated by economic sector and by ownership of economic units
(socialized and non-socialized), has been abandoned. The new regulations aim
at managing credit policy based on indirect instruments--interest rates,
refinancing credit, and reserve requirements--rather than the previous direct
controls. This policy is expected to be reinforced by the transformation of
formerly sector-specialized banking institutions into universal banks (para.
2.22). Banks are now expected to provide credit based on enterprise
creditworthiness and on the merit of the projects.
itrest Rate Policis
2.25        Interest rates on bank credits to the socialized sector were
adjusted infrequently during the period 1983-1986. Interest rates remained
negative in real terms and had little influence on credit flows. Furthermore,
much of the credit enjoyed preferential rates, and directed credit remained
the main instrument for allocating financial resources. Since 1988,
progressive efforts have been made to improve interest rate policies.
Initially, nominal interest rates were adjusted periodically in an effort to
approach rates that were positive in real terms. However, explosive inflation
prevented the full realization of this objective and real deposit and lending
interest rates remained negative. For a short period beginning in 1988, NBP
adopted a policy of establishing minimum rates to be paid on demand deposits,
and maximum rate to be charged on credits, but in August 1989, NBP freed both
deposit and lending rates. Currently, NBP's refinancing rate, which is
adjusted periodically, is 56%. While the use of preferential interest rates
has been scaled down significantly, such rates--ranging from 22% to 33% plus a
9% spread--continue to be in place for activities such as agriculture, energy
savings, environmental protection, housing and exports.
G. Institutional Structure of Finance
National Bank of Poland
2.26        NBP, in its capacity as the Polish Central Bank, issues currency,
acts as the Government's bank, refinances other banks, holds the official
foreign exchange reserves of gold and part of the official foreign exchange
reserves, administers the foreign exchange regulations and, in consultation
with the Ministry of Finance, prepares the annual credit plan.
2.27        Prior to recent reforms, NBP was also the largest commercial and
savings bank, providing banking services mainly to socialized enterprises
through an extensive network of branches, and to households through a similar
network of national savings banks. Over two thirds of household and firm
banking transactions were carried out with NBP. Generally, branches of the
NBP were assigned groups of enterprises in particular localities and, as
enterprises dealt with only one bank in their domestic financial operations,
there was very little competition in the banking system. NBP was the main
source of credit for socialized economic units and for households. The Bank
of Food Economy (BFE), through the cooperative banks network, was the main



- 12 -
supplier of credit to non-socialized economic units, mostly private farms.
Other non-socialized enterprises were financed through Bank PKO SA.
Cammmdal flans Fk NUP &m N
2.28        The nine new coumercial banks,2/ vhich are fully state-owned,
began operations in January 1989, by taking over NBP's commercial (non-
housing) operations. NBP transferred to the new banks most of its branch
network, and each new bank has in excess of 20 branches. Although there are
no geographical restrictions for the new banks to operate, the initial
distribution of the former NBP's branches made each bank predominant in a
region, with additional branches located in some large cities/towns where NBP
previously operated two or more branches. Banks are free to set up new
branches in other parts of the country, subject only to prudent restraint.
2.29        Upon its establishment, each bank was allocated between 8% and 14X
of NBP's commercial portfolio associated with the operational branches taken
over by the respective bank. The new banks are universal banks offering
banking services to both the household and enterprise sectors. These new
state-owned commercial banks have become--at least initially--the main
financial intermediaries in the Polish financial system as they have inherited
more than 70% of the total credit operations to all economic units in the
country. Several important structural and institutional issues are affecting
the development of the newly established banks. These include poor quality of
their portfolio, high credit concentration, under-capitalization, and lack of
experience with modern banking practices.
2.30        Each bank is headed by a President (appointed by the Prime
Minister), who selects two Vice-Presidents and the rest of the top management.
Each bank has an Executive Council which is an advisory body of the President
and normally includes both Vice-Presidents, the Director of the Credit
Department, and one or two directors of branch offices who normally rotate
their membership in the Council with the rest of the branches. The
participation of the Workers' Council in the banks' management has been
abandoned in the new banking system.
2.31        The new banks are universal in the sense that they are empowered
to offer banking services to both the household and enterprise sector, both
socialized and non-socialized. The banks can operate current accounts (demand
deposits) as well as savings and time deposits, both in zlotys and foreign
currency. Currently, all banks are in the process of establishing their
foreign currency operations departments, which will allow them to lend in
foreign exchange. At this time, they have to transfer their deposits in
foreign currencies to NBP. Since August 1989, banks have been free to
establish their deposit and lending interest rates, which has introduced some
degree of competition. However interest rates both on deposits and on lending
2/    Any or all of the commercial banks may be eventual participants under
the project, but they will first have to meet established eligibility
criteria as detailed in Chapter V.



- 13 -
remain highly negative in real terms. The banks may also finance long-term
investment projects, but at present they are granting, almost exclusively,
short-teor loans. Most of them are engaged in efforts to renegotiate long-
term loans inherited from NBP, in order to transform them into shorter term
operations at variable interest rates.
2.32        All financial activities with bank clients are performed at the
branch level. Each Branch Director is responsible for all deposit and credit
activities, and for providing the central office with periodic reports and
special reports which may b. requested by the President.  In addition, each
bank has a central control office to oversee special tasks assigned to it by
the President. Although they have been functioning for less than a year, the
banks are clearly eager to establish their independence and prepare themselves
for a new competitive environment. All banks are in the process of developing
their own policies and procedures, and introducing computer technologies which
should speed up internal reporting and improve management control. The banks
are hiring highly qualified people for their central offices, to help
facilitate adaptation to the changing environment and to implement the
necessary changes.31 Salary scales are being restructured to reflect talent
and effectiveness rather than seniority, as well as to be competitive with
alternative employment opportunities.
2.33        While the new Banking Law permits enterprises to select their
banks, and banks to select their clients, the traditional banking practices
and long-established relations with an enterprise still prevail, making access
to credit for new applicants rather difficult. While each bank has issued its
own credit manual, differences in practice among banks are almost non-existent
as they rely substantially on their extensive experience in term lending
inherited from NBP. In theory, any enterprises keeping an account at any bank
can apply for credit, provided it meets certain established eligibility
criteria. These are related to the sector of activity of the enterprise, its
financial situation, and its capability to repay the credit and implement the
project within the proposed schedule. Investment credit maturity is set to
match the gestation period of the investment project.
2.34        Interest rates for local currency loans vary between 65% for up to
one year credit, to 90% for medium and long-term credit. These rates give the
banks about a 20% spread over the corresponding time deposits, and the full
spread over the non-interest bearing current accounts. Because of the
profitability of these spreads, banks are expanding efforts to increase their
deposit base to finance their credit operations. As of June 30, 1989, about
45X of total bank credit was financed with banks' own resources. The main
alternative source of financing is rediscounting by NBP.
2.35        Functions undertaken by the Head Office of each bank include the
bank's overall coordination, supervision of the branches' work and credit
3/    For example, 75% of the professional staff in the central office of the
Bank for Industry and Trade of Cracow have been newly recruited. The
average age of newly hired staff is about 32.



14 -
decisions for loans above certain limits, ranging between zl 100 million to zl
500 million depending on the bank.  Loans over these limits are appraised at
the branch level, but mus' be approved by the President of the bank. Most of
the banks have not yet established credit comittees for the approval of their
loans, but this will be a condition of participation in the project (para.
5.01). A Credit Coimittee acting as an advisory body to the President will
ensure that he has full expert support and will avoid arbitrariness in credit
decisions.
2.36        Overall, supervision of investment projects is quite satisfactory.
In addition to monitoring enterprise accounts and overseeing loan collections,
the financing branch periodically visits the site of projects under
implementation, and undertakes special supervision visits for projects facing
difficulties. In general, supervision is performed by branch personnel,
except that a designated banlk engineer may join site visits or review
technical problems identified by the loan officer. In case of non-compliance
with the original credit agreement, the loan terms could be renegotiated.
Because of the traditional one-to-one relations between the former NBP's
branches (today's new commercial banks) and the enterprises, loans are seldom
called. Instead, guarantees are tightened up, usually through required co-
signing of the renegotiated loan by another enterprise client of the bank. As
a result of these systematic reviews of financial positions and tight
supervision of the borrowers results, arrears are rare, small and usually
settled in less than three months.
2.37        Procedures for the appraisal of investment projects in all the new
commercial banks are based on a version of discounted cash flow method, which
compares well with international practice. Each bank is equipped with
experienced financial analysts and has a number of engineers who serve both
the head office and, as required, particular branches. The appraisal of a
project frequently focuses on gathering technical and financial data related
to the project and the enterprise, with limited analysis. This pattern of
project review needs to be improved in order to lessen the credit risk in a
more competitive framework.
2.38        The accounts of the banks are audited by a Commission of Accounts
Revision which is appointed every year by the Council of Ministers at the
proposal of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission's report is sent and
reviewed by the Council of Ministers.  Until now, however, banks have not been
audited by independent auditors following international auditing standards.
Preious Specialized Banks
2.39        The five banks previously denoted as "specialized" now form part
of the new commercial banking system:
(a)   PKO Savin  Bank was established in November, 1987 as a general
savings bank to serve the household sector and to replace the
existing network of NBP saving branches. As of January, 1988,
PKO Savings Bank also took over the NBP outstanding housing loans.
Under the new banking law and according to its statutes, the bank



- 15 -
can undertake operations also with enterprises in all type of
activities.
(b)   Bnk for Food Economy.  See para. 2.12.
(c)   The hmkI ub      continues to provide over 90X of settlement
services for the socialized sector's foreign transactions in
domestic and foreign currencies. It also manages the country's
official foreign exchange reserves. BH's main activity has been
primarily the short-term foreign exchange financing of trade.
However, it is also empowered to provide financing in zlotys,
mostly for working capital, and longer term financing mostly to
finance exports. BH is 100X owned by the Ministry of Finance.
(d)   The Exort D_Mnent Bank started operations in January 1988 as
the first new bank to be set up under the previous 1982 Banking
Law. EDB's operations were restricted to provide credits only to
socialized enterprises, primarily in foreign currency, for export-
related projects. Also, EDB's statutes limited its operations to
wholesale banking, and thus could not offer any services to, or
mobilize resources from, individuals. However, in April, 1989,
new statutes were approved, which expanded EDB's operations to
universal banking, in line with the stipulations of the new
banking law.
(e)   The Bank PKO SA continues to concentrate on foreign exchange
services--mainly foreign currency deposits--for households and
private sector. These services include mainly opening and
maintaining foreign currency accounts for individuals and
providing banking facilities to polonia firms, private industrial
enterprises, and foreign trade enterprises.
Other New Banks
2.40        Several new banks of various type of ownership, including state-
owned, cooperatives, private and joint ventures, are expected to be
established in the near future. During the first quarter after the new
legislation, about 30 applications were screened for potential entry. Among
new banks already established are tbe Bank for the National Economy, which is
fully state-owned and whose main activities are expected to include state
investments and industrial restructuring, and the Bank for Economic
Initiatives, which is the first commercial bank with private capital
participation.
Baknin  Sunervslon Degartment
2.41        As provided under the new banking law, a Banking Supervision
Department (BSD) was established in NBP in January 1989. During preparation
of the proposed project, a training program financed through the PPF has been
conducted for BSD staff by representatives of the US Office of the Comptroller



- 16 -
of the Currency and the US Federal Reserve. Since that time, the pace of
implementation of the supervisory system has slowed considerably as the BSD
has been unable to gain approval of an internal regulation of NBP that would
set its organizational structure and outline its method of operation. As a
result, the prudential regulatory framework and supervision of banks are at an
embryonic stage. NBP has also sought IMF assistance in carrying out further
development of the BSD and in coordination with this effort, and Bank
assistance is proposed under the Industrial Export Development Project.
H. Bhk Sttg=  for Assists=  to th Fuimda  Sector
2.42        Support to the development of the financial sector is an integral
part of the Bank's overall strategy for assistance to Poland. The design of
the project makes a fundamental contribution to the implementation of this
strategy through: (i) the involvement of a number of banks, selected only once
they have agreed to adopt an action plan to enhance their overall operational
and financial position; and (ii) the technical assistance aimed at
strengthening the management and operational capabilities of existing banks.
Effectiveness of these efforts is further assured by closely coordinating
actions in these areas with those of the IMF. These elements support the
thrust of the reform by fostering the development of the commercial banking
system and competition therein.
2.43        In line with the high priority the Government attaches to the
further development of the financial sector as a part of its current reform
effort, it has now requested the Bank's urgent assistance in this area. A
joint sector review was begun in November 1989 to deepen the understanding of
the issues facing the sector and recommend needed policy reforms. The
insights gained will provide timely input to a possible policy-based loan in
FY90/91. Subsequent Bank assistance is expected to cover support for
financial sector reforms and for the development and modernization of banks
and other financial institutions. By accelerating the establishment of an
appropriate institutional network and policy framework, these efforts will
facilitate efficient financial intermediation which will also benefit future
Bank operations.



* 17 -
Ill. THE AGROINDtSTRY SUBSECTOR
A. Mig bc                 Industry
3.01        The food processing industry comprises over 10,000 production
units and employs 422,000 persons. Of these, about 1400 plants belong to large
State enterprises, and the rest, which include about 8800 plants, most of
them very small, are owned by cooperatives. Ten branches of the industry are
largely controlled by the State; these are cereals, sugar, potato, oilseeds,
tobacco, meat, fish, beer and spirits and the coldstorage industry. Dairy
processing and bakeries, on the other hand, are largely run by cooperatives.
3.02        National investment outlays in agroprocessing during the 1981-85
period amounted to zl 284 billion in 1984 constant prices, of which zl 18.0
billion Was in meat processing and zl 25 billion in fruits and vegetables.
During the 1986-90 investment plan period, investment in food processing was
expected to increase to zl 460 billion or 21X of national investments in the
food economy complex. This allocation reflects a shift in priorities favoring
food processing, which began to be viewed as a severe constraint to overall
improvement of the food situation. Further, nine of the sixteen branches of
the industry mentioned above were accorded high priority in view of the
possibility of increases in exports for convertible currencies and in import
substitution. The emphasis on investment in agroprocessing is due to the
substantial contribution which this subsector can make to foreign exchange
earnings or savings and to value added.
B. Frultand vsgdable Production. Promsing and ExUort
3.03        Through the first half of the 1980s, income from fruit and
vegetables, typical cash crops, represented about 10% of total income of
private farms. A major share (93X in 1985) of the marketed output of these
crops was provided by small specialized horticultural farms located in about
15 districts in the center of the country. The main fruits produced during
the 1981-85 period were apples - 1.5 million tons, pears and cherries together
0.10 million tons and plums 0.14 million tons. Further, the average
production of berries was as follows: strawberries 0.20 million tons,
currants 0.15 million tons and raspberries 0.03 million tons. Total vegetable
production amounted to 4.7 million tons on average during the 1981-1986 period
with the main crops being cabbages, onions, carrots, beets, cucumbers and
tomatoes. Data on production and procurement of fruits and vegetables over
the past seven years are given in Annex 2 Table 2. Most fruits and vegetables
are procured by the processing industry through medium- to long-term
contracts, 10 years for perennial fruits and 5 years for vegetables. Based on
areas agreed with farmers or areas to be developed with perennial crops or to
be cultivated with annual crops, enterprises provide the farmers with certain
basic inputs (mainly planting material and pesticides), and specialized
advice, and operate collection centers at harvest time. Farmers can be
penalized by the enterprises for not complying with agreed contracts, although
this rarely occurs.



- 18 -
3.04        All agroindustries have rather well defined raw material bases
which are established with the agreement of district authorities. There is no
interference by Government in the establishment of procurement prices for
fruits and vegetables which are set by the market. Total eupply of fruits in
1988 was about 1.4 million tons (0.6 million tons in 1980-81) and of
vegetables about 1.3 million tons (1.2 million in 1980-81). Fruits were
either exported fresh or processed for the production of concentrated juices,
jams, canned fruits and pulp, or frozen. Vegetables supplied to the
agroindustries were used for the preparation of preserves (pickled, in brine)
or canned, and an increasing quantity is being frozen.
3.05        Exports of frozen fruits and vegetables from Poland increased from
132,000 tons in 1987 to 190,000 tons in 1988, and that increase contributed
about US$92.0 million to its trade balance. Production of apple juice
concentrate for export, which surpassed 80,000 tons in 1986 and contributed
about US$80.0 million to export revenues, is now gradually recovering from the
effects of the severe frost damages suffered by apple orchards in the spring
of 1987. Table 3 in Annex 2 gives further details on Poland's agroprocessing
production and exports.
C. Lvestock Production. Processing and Exports
3.06        The state-owned and cooperative-owned slaughterhouses, and on-farm
slaughter, produced about 1.4 million tons of pig meat, 670,000 tons of beef
and veal and 25,000 tons of mutton and lamb (all expressed in cold carcass
weight) in 1987. Poland exported in 1987 about 48,000 tons of meat, 37,000
tons of canned ham and shoulders and 15,000 tons of other canned meat products
and sausages, at a total value of about US$216.0 million. Live animals were
also exported, amounting in value in 1987 to about US$160.0 million, and
included 62,000 tons of live cattle, 10,000 tons of sheep and lamb and 27,000
tons of horses. Quantities of meat and processed meat products exported in
1988 were about equal to those in 1987; however, prices obtained for canned
ham, for which the U.S is the main market, were about 14X lower than in 1987
and total export proceeds from ham decreased from US$117.0 miilion to US$101.0
million. Exports of live cattle increased in 1988 to 87,000 tons while export
of horses dropped to 16,000 tons. The total value of live animals exported in
1988 was about US$192.0 million.
3.07        Exports of meat and meat products are overseen by PEK-POL and are
provided by thirteen enterprises geared .-or exports, which have 29 USDA
approved slaughiterhouses and meat processing plants. The remaining 12
enterprises, which are shareholders of PEK-POL, and operate 45
slaughterhouses, supply only to the domestic market. Capital investments in
the meat industry declined from zl 57.5 billion equivalent during 1976-80 to
zl 25.3 billion 1981-85, in 1984 constant prices, which was too low to support
rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of plants required to maintain
high quality standards of exports and increase their volume.
3.08        The USDA-approved slaughterhouses have a good standard of
production. The facilities are well maintained and clean. However, many of



- 19 -
the slaughterhouses are of very old design, often established before World War
II. Most of the export slaughterhouses process pork ham and shoulders into
canned hams. Cutting and sorting procedures are labor-intensive but well
supervised, and the ham exported is of good quality. Several slaughterhouses
produce also canned meat products for the domestic market and for export to
Western Europe (Annex 2, para. 6.)
3.09        Recently the livestock industry has encountered serious
difficulties because of the shortage of protein feed resulting from the
extreme scarcity of foreign exchange for imports. For 1989, the Government
estimates the shortfall in planned supply of oilseed meal at about 450,000
tons, with a value of approximately US$113 million equivalent, and expects the
shortage to continue into 1990.  The decline  in imports between 1988 and 1989
is approximately 200,000 tons, A.'Iued at about US$50 million.  The
consequences of these deficit, (u.2'.d be severe and are of great concern to the
Government.  Operations of meret  ,,cessors are affected by reduced supplies of
livestock and, as a result, tr., a- alability of meat for the domestic market
and for export is reduced.  While shortages in supplies of other agricultural
inputs are being addressed under various assistance programs for Poland, the
requirement for protein feed is not being met.  Therefore, a component for
such feed is proposed for inclusion in the project to help maintain livestock
supplies to meat processors.
D. Constmints on Performance of the Food Processing Industrv
3.10        Till recently, the main constraint on efficient performance of the
agriculture sector, including the food processing industry was the complex
system of taxation, subsidies, and price controls. This situation has changed
significantly as a result of various measures taken since September 1989.
With minor exceptions, all agricultural and food prices have been liberalized.
Subsidies to the sector, with the exception of those for fertilizers and for
exported agricultural products, have been abolished, and it is expected that
when the exchange rates are unified, export subsidies would also be
eliminated. Nevertheless, some major constraints still affect the efficient
performance of the food processing industry, especially in terms of the
exports to convertible currency markets:
(i)  foreign exchange shortages are possibly the most serious
constraint on modernization and expansion of production
capacity of the food industry sector;
(ii) entergrise management is still oriented towards technical
rather than financial and economic considerations.
Enterprise management has not been trained to be
profit-conscious in the context of a market system, because
the economic regime was generally predicated on the cost-
plus system. Since prices were established to provide a
mark-up over costs, the concept of profit is that of a
mark-up rather than one in terms of a return on assets, and
there is probably still an insufficient incentive to



- 20 -
minimize costs. Further, due to the absence of direct
contacts between the foreign importers and the Polish
producers, enterprise managers have limited understanding of
the type of Polish products for which there is an export
demand;
(iii) Invtwmest selectiom crteris have not given sufficient priority
to return on investment, which therefore has not usually
been a major factor in investment decisions;
(iv)  labor wodhct    improvement is hindered by the current wage
and tax policies. This is expected to change in the near
future as a result of the on-going macroeconomic policy
reforms, but at present there is still poor linkage between
wage levels and the profitability of an enterprise, which
does not encourage the movement of labor to more successful
enterprises. Severe housing shortages also impede labor
mobility; and
(v)   the lack of modern prodUctio, technoees  is a major constraint
in expanding exports, principally those to the Western
markets. This has been mainly caused by foreign exchange
shortages. As a result, Poland has made inadequate advances
in product technology, and despite considerable resource
allocation to scientific and technological research, there
has been poor progress in designing new, appealing products
for the export markets.
3.11        The proposed project would contribute to resolving some of the
constraints mentioned above, mainly the foreign exchange shortage and the
inadequate investment selection criteria. Government is aware of the
detrimental impact of the various constraints and is gradually addressing them
through policy changes. For example, the foreign exchange constraint may be
alleviated through the recent reform of the foreign exchange retention scheme
(paras. 3.16-3.17), and the complex system of taxation has recently been
simplified. The introduction of uniform levels of export subsidies by product
groups should help alter enterprise management behavior and provide incentives
to operate the enterprises more profitably. The recently-granted right of
producers to engage in their own marketing has also increased managers' direct
interest in export promotion.
E. EXg2rL Incetia
3.12        The ExchanM  Rate and Exort Profitabilit.  Most of the exports of
agricultural and agroprocessed products are effected through FTOs, with
individual FTOs specializing in particular products (para. 2.16). Usually
producers sell their output to the FTO at prices agreed upon in domestic
currency, and the FTO effectively acts as a buyer on the domestic market. It
then acts as a trader on its own account on the world market, seeking the best
price available. The prices at which the FTOs make their domestic purchases



- 21 -
may be either centrally determined (by the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance
and Foreign Economic Cooperation, in concert with the respective agroindustry
subsector companies), or determined by negotiations between the companies and
the FTO, or between individual producers and the FTO. In most cases, due to
the still overvalued exchange rate of the domestic currency, the zloty
equivalent of the export price received, at the official exchange rate (the
"transaction price"), is lower than the price in zloty paid by the FTO to the
domestic producers (the "sales price"). Until the end of February 1989, the
differences between sales and transaction prices were covered by the Equal
Payment Fund (EPF), which was managed by the Ministry of Foreign Economic
Cooperation. The EPF was liquidated with effect from March 1, 1989 and
replaced by the Export Development Fund (EDF), established under a new law.
The Fund is financed by revenues from profitable imports,'/ mainly from non-
convertible currency areas, and duties and now supports exports. The
Government, in recent months, has accelerated the deva'uation of the zloty
with the objective of reaching equilibrium in the current account, and the
need for export subsidies is expected to be eliminated gradually.
3.13        The total export subsidies to convertible currency areas which
amounted in 1985 to zl 106 billion (US$717 million) or 77Z of FOB value,
declined in 1987 to zl 90 billion (US$340 million) or 26Z of FOB value. The
level of subsidies varied between commodities, as shown below:
Export Subsidies for Agricultural Products
Exported to Convertible Currency Countries. 1985487
1985        1986        1987
Crolp                                            ------- (X of fob value)-
Fresh fruits and vegetables                142          90           35
Processed fruits and vegetables            125          70           29
Potato products                             96         132
Oil seeds and vegetable oils                80         140          110
Alcoholic beverages                        n.a.        n.a.         144
Molasses                                   n.a.        n.a.          48
Sugar                                      n.a.        n.a.         104
Livestock Products
Raw meat                                    63          61           22
Meat products:    ham and shoulders         80          69           24
other canned meat        80          139          70
Poultry and dairy products                   0          27            0
Live animals                               n.a.         67           12a/
A/    Exports of calves, sheep and horses are not subsidized, cattle received
44X export subsidy in 1987.
lThe profit is created from the foreign exchange differential between the
import cost and the domestic sales price.



- 22 -
3.14        Until January 1988, there was no ceiling on the export subsidy
paid by the EPF. Thereafter, all agricultural commodities were granted a
uniform subsidy of 20X on the transaction price for exports to the convertible
curr-ncy area and 50X -or exports to CMEA countries. However, additional
subsidies were paid by the EPF on exports where the sales prices were higher
than the transaction prices plus the uniform subsidy of 20X. Because of steep
increases in domestic prices and production costs and the uniform basic
subsidy of 20X, export subsidies in 1988 rose to about zl 250 billion (US$580
million) on the total fob value of zl 706 billion (US$1,630 million).
Although subsidy payments are in practice compensations for an overvalued
zloty, which limits the profitability of exports, part of the amount paid to
exporters may also be compensation for production inefficiencies, or for the
export of products with limited comparative advantage, or for deliberate price
supports to domestic producers.
3.15        With the introduction of the EDF in March 1989 (para. 3.11), new
uniform rates of export subsidy for agricultural commodities, ranging between
10 and 30X of fob value, have been established. Thus, export of horses would
be granted a subsidy of 10, fish, starch and beer 20%, and cattle, all meat
products, frozen fruits and vegetables, 30%.
3.16        Eoagen Excha     Retention.  Another significant incentive to
exporting enterprises is the permission granted to them to retain a portion of
their foreign currency earnings for their own use. From 1982, when it was
introduced, to the end of 1986, this represented a claim by enterprises to
purchase foreign currency from the Government, which could then be used to
finance needed imports of raw materials, intermediate goods, spare parts and
machinery and equipment. Foreign exchange shortages, however, made it
difficult for many firms to benefit from this procedure, and hence the scheme
was modified on January 1, 1987 to the so called "M" account system, under
which the foreign exchange entitlement accrued directly to the exporters, at a
rate equal to 80X of the basic entitlement. Since July 1987, foreign exchange
entitlements held in "M" accounts have been tradeable through the Export
Development Bank at market clearing rates.
3.17        In January 1989, a new foreign exchange law was adopted under
which export proceeds are transferred directly to the exporting enterprise,
which has to resell a portion (ranging between 70X and 90X) to the banking
system. Retention rates for agricultural exports now range tween 10% and 30%.
Further, under the new law it is no longer necessary to obtain a special
license to own foreign currency; this new statute allows transferability of
foreign exchange among enterprises, as well as its sale on foreign exchange
auctions at market rates.
3.18        OterLXpi nes. Exporting enterprises receive several other
benefits. These include a rebate on income tax, based on the value of exports
in relation to total sales (for every 1X of export sales the income tax rate
is decreased by 0.4X, subject to a minimum of 10); drawback of import duties



- 23 -
and turnover taxes; and access to foreign currency credits repayable from
foreign currency earnings.



- 24 -
IV. THE      CI
A. Prlat Mr,   mObatv
4.01        The proposed project fits into the Bank strategy in Poland of
seeking policy reform and supporting it with financing of investments that
would improve the country's trade balance and competitiveness vis-a-vis CC
countries (para. 2.23). Thus, a package of policy changes that would improve
the performance of the Polish economy and trade balance underlies the proposed
project. These include policies of fiscal and monetary restraint to redluce
inflation, including cuts in subsidies, and a move towards positive real
interest rates; decontrol of prices; demonopolization of input distribution to
farmers, procurement of raw material, processing, and marketing of final
products; privatization of state enterprises; unification of official and
parallel exchange rates;substantial changes in the system of export subsidies;
support of investments in the private sector and increased independence of
management of state-owned enterprises.
4.02        The main objectives of the proposed project would be: to remedy
existing constraints to rapidly increasing Poland's exports of processed
agricultural products to CC countries; to assist the lending institutions
associated with the project and state enterprises financed under it to operate
in a market oriented environment; to promote further involvement of the
private sector in food processing activities which are export-oriented; and to
help maintain supplies of livestock to processors and thus sustain meat
exports.
4.03        In order to generate incremental convertible currency export
earnings, the project would aim at the rehabilitation, modernization and
expansion of existing agro-processing industries. Investments in the needed
equipment would allow Polish products to be upgraded in western markets and
would result in higher prices because of improved quality and presentation and
in increased volume of exports. This would particularly be the case for ham
in cans and in vacuum packing, frozen fruits and vegetables and forest
products including game meat and berries, which are exported mainly to EC
countries. The project would also include support for export marketing
activities of agro-processors and would meet part of the shortage in livestock
feed and thus help maintain adequate supplies of livestock for processors and
meat for export.
B. Summ a  Project Desoidon
4.04        To achieve the above objectives, the proposed project would
support, over a four-year period, the following activities:
(a)  Anroindusbies.  The project would provide financing for
investments by agro-processing enterprises, comprising
freezing and processing lines for fruits and vegetables,
cold storage facilities, equipment for processing of ham and
meat products (including the production of metal cans for



- 25 -
export of ham), machinery and equipment for the production
of a coffee substitute and chicory, a processing and packing
plant for herbs and creams, bottling lines for beer,
refrigerated trucks, and machinery and equipment for the
modernization and expansion of production of various other
agroindustrial products. Special efforts would be made to
promote and support investments by joint-venture enterprises
and by small and medium-scale private processing plants.
Financing also would be provided for export marketing
support, including market studies for export commodities,
training of management and staff of state enterprises,
leasing and testing of new equipment, and export promotion
activities.
(b)   Uvetock EWd. Financing of imported protein feed for
livestock to help alleviate the present critical shortage.
The Industrial Export Development Project, which is being processed at the
same time as this project, contains a component for the strengthening of BFE
and other PB. Therefore no provision was made under this project for such
strengthening.
C. Detailed Features
4.05 The project comprises more than thirty preappraised agroindustry
subprojects, including some supporting facilities, such as refrigerated
vehicles and production of cans for meat; unidentified subprojects which would
be financed under a line of credit; and technical assistance which would
enhance agroindustry exports through improved marketing capabilities and
training. It also includes emergency supplies of protein feed for livestock.
A typical sample of proposed investments is described below.
4.06        Frozen fruits and v=etables.  The project would finance facilities for
the preparation, freezing and cold storage of fruits, berries and vegetables
in the fruit and vegetable processing plant located at Kwidzyn. This
subproject would be implemented in two phases, to reach a nominal cold storage
capacity of 20,000 tons, and is mainly financed with domestic resources. The
imported equipment needed to complete the first phase of 10,000 tons,
including compressors and harvesters for beans and peas, would be financed
under the project. Incremental production is estimated at 15,000 tons of
frozen fruits and vegetables at completion of the first phase of the
investment program, of which about 10,000 tons would be sold to convertible
currency markets. The balance would be partly supplied to the domestic
market, mainly as intermediary raw material for jams and marmalades, and be
partly exported to the CHEA countries.
4.07        Processuin  of ham and meat uroducts.  The project would finance the
modernization and limited expansion of the ham and meat processing lines at
eight export slaughterhouses and meat processing plants. All slaughterhouses
to be financed have USDA approved facilities, and are at present producing



- 26 -
canned ham for export. Long tradition and experience have enabled the Polish
meat processing plants to produce ham of excellent quality which finds its
main market in the U.S. It is expected that about 95X (2,000 tons) of the
incremental ham production would be exported to the U.S.; exports of carcass
beef, choice meat cuts and canned meat products to convertible currency
markets, mainly the FRG, Italy and the U.K. would increase by about 5,800
tons.
4.08        The main investments to be financed would include ham mixing
equipment, multineedle line injectors, canning and foil packaging lines and
grinding and cutting equipment for meat products. The production of high
quality canned (pressed) ham is labor intensive and requires skilled
personnel. Presently, it is difficult to find skilled labor for teat
processing lines, due to the hard and monotonous work. Part of the proposed
investments, such as equipment for cutting fat from hams, as well as meat
recovery units, would result in labor saving.
4.09        (Khzr Arindusties.  Investment in a Potato-Starch Processins Plant
would increase the processing capacity from 1,300 to 2,000 tons of potatoes
per day and result in annual incremental exports of 5,000 tons of starch and
2,000 tong of potato pulp to convertible currency markets. Poland has a long
tradition in the export of game meat and wild forest fruits such as
blueberries, blackberries and mushrooms to the Federal Republic of Germany and
other countries in Western Europe. A freezing and cold storage plant for
forest products with a nominal storage capacity of 1,500 tons would be
constructed in Jastrow, and improve processing, packing and storage of forest
products. Another type of subproject in this category is the processing and
packaging of herbs for export. Poland has a wide collection network for herbs
and other species to be used for natural pharmaceutical purposes. Besides
being consumed in the domestic market, these products are also exported,
mainly to the FRG. The project would finance mixing and packaging equipment
for processing plants belonging to the Herbapol Association. Beer produced by
the ZYWiec brewery, located in the mountainous area of Southern Poland, is
considered the best in the country and the quality of export beer is superior
to the domestic brands. Current exports of beer would be significantly
expanded through modernization and improvements of the bottling, labelling and
packaging equipment. A new roasting oven for shicory, to be installed in the
Amino Food Concentrates Plant in Poznan, would increase the processing
capacity, improve quality and raise the efficiency of production. With this
new investment, exports of instant chicory to convertible currency markets are
expected to increase from 70 to 420 tons annually. For the Skawina Food
Concentrates Plant, tne froject would provide financing for the purchase and
installation of a roasting oven, agglomeration equipment and a modern
packaging line for a coffee substitute. This investment would upgrade the
quality and presentation of this product and is expected to result in a
significant increase in exports to convertible currency markets, from 1,000
tons at present, to 2,000 tons annually.
4.10        SuogrlnU Services for Anroindustrie   Currently, the Polish
international trucking enterprise, PKS Autotransport, cannot satisfy the



- 27 -
demand for refrigerated trucks for perishables to be transported to Western
Europe; transport services are, therefore, also being provided by foreign
firms. The project would finance the import of forty refrigerated trucks
(with a total carrying capacity of 700 tons) by Polcoop and Interpegro, two
major foreign trade companies. These vehicles would transport annually about
35,000 tons of frozen fruits and vegetables and other perishables to export
markets in Western Europe.  This investment would significantly reduce
transport costs in foreign currency and thus increase export revenues.
4.11        The expansion and modernization of the Droduction of oval-shaped
cans would permit further increase in the export of ham in small cans (2, 3,
and 5 lbs.) for household consumption. The export to the U.S. during 1986 and
1987 anounted to about 4.0 million units, and would gradually increase to
about 5 million units, increasing the volume sold to the household sector by
about 1,500 tons of ham. The new production line for cans would manufacture,
instead of soldered units, welded cans which have a better appearance, higher
consumer acceptance, and avoid the use of lead in their production. The new
line would also include the lacquering and printing of the Lin sheets which
would eliminate a bottleneck in can production.
4.12        Credit Un   Surveys carried out by BFE and a local consultant firm
indicate that there is a considerable demand from state, cooperative, and
private enterprises for credit for financing miscellaneous investments to
modernize and improve export-oriented agroindustrial production.  Therefore,
in addition to financing for the preappraised subprojects, the project would
also provide a credit line to finance other subprojects which would broadly
belong to the type of activities already preappraised. Investments selected
for financing under the proposed credit line would be required to conform to
the stipulated eligibility criteria (see para. 5.12) and are expected to
include equipment for tne processing of meat, fruits and berries and other
agro-based commodities. The demand for foreign exchange for the import of
processing and packaging equipment, etc., under this credit line is estimated
at US$15.0 million.
4.13        Marketing Activities.  The export markets in Western Europe, the United
States, and other countries such as Japan, Saudi Arabia and other Gulf States,
are becoming increasingly competitive and complex. The pressure from a large
number of different exporters as well as import barriers, both in monetary
terms and in the increasing number of non-tariff regulations, limit export
possibilities. The CC markets not only expect top quality of imported food
products and competitive prices, but during the last few years, have become
more diversified and demanding with regard to supplies and conditionalities
(delivery times, consistency in quality standards, payments arrangements,
etc.). The need for improved confidence and quick and direct contacts between
buyers and sellers is growing. Consequently, producers and buyers need to
interact more closely than previously, and the larger agroindustrial
enterprises would have to increase their awareness of the export markets as
well as their direct contact with foreign importers. Additional new products
and markets need to be explored before further investments are made. Market
surveys and studies would have to be carried out more frequently to assess



- 28 -
market prospects, using both domestic and foreign specialists. The project
would, therefore, finance the foreign exchange cost of mArket surveys and
studies related to proposed new investments and to commodities produced under
the project. It is envisaged that potential subborrowers, groups of
subborrowers or foreign trade enterprises would receive medium-term subloans
to finance these studies.
4.14        Seminr and 2hNr bnins courns  in marketing activities, evaluation
of market trends, and information about specific markets are given by the
Foreign Trade Research Institute and other support service enterprises.
However, these entities need improved equipment, teaching materials, and
short-term foreign lecturers. Foreign language training of staff involved in
export activities is also essential. Subloans would be provided under the
project to finance imported equipment and materials, and foreign lecturers.
4.15        ExuOrt nromotion and mareting campaigns would also be eligible for
financing through project subloans. Activities to be financed would include
trial production and shipments; leasing of specialized equipment for new
products; purchase of pilot equipment; participation in trade fairs; marketing
campaigns; and training to improve quality and quality control at the
enterprise and plant levels.
4.16        Uvestock Feed.  The country is experiencing a severe shortage of
protein feed, with potentially serious consequences for livestock and meat
supplies (para. 3.09). In the case of oilseed meal, the Government estimates
the shortfall in planned supply for 1989 at about 450,000 tons, valued at
approximately US$113 million equivalent, and expects the shortage to continue
into 1990. The decline in imports between 1988 and 1989 is approximately
200,000 tons, with a value of about US$50 million. The Government indicates
that deficits in supplies of other essential agricultural inputs are being
addressed under various assistance programs but that the requirement for
protein feed remains unmet. In order to help fill the gap and maintain
adequate supplies of livestock for processors, an amount of US$25 million
would be provided under the project t, finance imports of livestock feed
(mainly soybean meal). At current prices, this amount would finance about
100,000 tons of meal. The Government is continuing discussions with other
sources to meet the remainder of the deficit.
4.17        This financing for livestock feed would be provided on an
emergency basis in the context of the Government's ongoing reform program.
Substantial progress already has been achieved in policies affecting feed, as
the Government has freed the price and eliminated all direct subsidies.
Government has also indicated that its policy is that all users (private,
state and socialized farms) have access to feed without preference for any
sector. The Government confirmed this policy at negotiations, and, during
project implementation, Bank supervision missions would verify that the policy
is observed in practice.
4.18        The distribution system for feed is satisfactory.  Any entity
wishing to import feed under the project would be allowed to do so. Most of



- 29 -
the feed for the private sector would be distributed by the Peasant Self-Aid
Cooperatives, which operate a system of distribution points covering the
entire country. The social sector would be supplied primarily by state feed
*illw, which also provide feed to the private sector through the Peasant Self-
Aid Cooperatives.
D. Cost Fssies
4.19        Total project cost, including physical and price contingencies but
excluding interest during construction, is estimated at US$144.3 million. The
project cost figure includes taxes and duties estimated at US$9.5 million.
The direct foreign exchange component is estimated at US$96.0 million, or
about 66X of total project cost. Interest during construction related to
agroindustry investment is estimated at US$10.0 million, of which US$4.0
million would be the foreign exchange portion and would be paid out of the
Bank loan. Base costs have been updated to end-1989 prices. The cost
estimate of pre-appraised subprojects and support services include physical
contingencies of 10% and price contingencies of 7.2X for 1990 and 4.4% for
1991 through 1994. Cost estimates are summarized in the following table;
further details are provided in Annex 3.
Summary  rolet  Cost Es.makg
Z of    X of
Foreign Total
Comoonent                    Local   Foreign    Total Exchange  Cost
------US$ million------
Agroindu;tries Investments
a) Pre-appraised subprojects 41.4        55.4      96.8    57       67
b) Credit line                  5.5      15.1      20.6    73       15
c) Marketing activities           4       0.5      19   26          1
Total Agroindustries           48.3      71.0     119.3    60       83
Livestock Feed                  -2.07.             25.0   100       17
Total Project Cost             48.3      96.0     144.3    66      100
Interest during construction  6.0         4.0      10.0   40         -
Total Financing Required       54.3     100.0     154.3    65        -
E. eroect Financin
4.20        The proposed Bank loan would be made to NBP and would be for 17
years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate, and would be on-lent in US dollars by NBP to BFE and other participating
banks. Thus NBP would bear the cross-currency risk between the US dollar and
the Bank's currency pool.



- 30 -
4.21        The preliminary financing plan is shown below:
Protec     BBana  Plan
X Share in
Funds
Local      Foreign        Total            Required
---------US$ million-------------------
Funding Sources
World Bank              -         100.0       100.0             65.0
BFE and other PB     42.4           0.0        42.4             27.0
Subborrowers         iL            PA         11.9              8
Total                54.3        100.0        154.3            100.0
The proposed loan of US$100 million would finance about 65X of the total
financial requirements and 100l   of foreign exchange costs.  It would include
interest during construction of agroindustry investments on the subloans
denominated in foreign exchange. Without the inclusion of this provision, the
cash flow position of subborrowers during the construction period would be
unduly stretched. The cost of imported spare parts, equal to about 10% of the
value of imported equipment, has been included in project costs and would be
included in project subloans. In addition, BFE and other participating banks
would provide from their own resources short-term loans to project
beneficiaries, to cover the working capital requirements of incremental
production and marketing, resulting from project-financed investments.
Subproject beneficiaries would be required to contribute from their own
resources not less than 101 of total investment costs. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that BFE and other participating banks would make
counterpart funds available for financing the project in a time'.y manner and
would also provide short term loans to project beneficiaries to cover working
capital requirements.
4.22        A roll-over fund, to be administered by NBP, would be established
at NBP, with resources generated from repayment of subloans collected and paid
by BFE and PB into it. Resources from the fund that are not needed for
repayment of the Bank loan would be utilized by BFE and other banks in
accordance with priorities established by NBP to finance additional
investments aimed at expanding exports. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations on the establishment of the roll-over fund and its operation
along the lines mentioned above.
4.23        NBP would manage the funds for the livestock feed component and
would sell foreign exchange proceeds of the proposed loan to all entities
wishing to import such feed.



- 31
F. rri  ar
4.24       Equipment, goods, civil works and services to be financed under
the proposed Bank loan would be procured as follows (figures in brackets
correspond to Bank financing):
Pza,n Ibt)ied J
Int'1    Direct
pro i *ct Cate y                       _1 __   I ----- ---- ____lien-------------
Asroivduatri. Invatmnta c/
liet Procemains              5,0 (5.0)    5 (2. 5)  1.4 (1.4)       10,5 (4.4)   19.X (13.3)
Other te-Apraised Subprojects  28.1 (28.1) 3.0 (3.0)   *.4 (l *)    32.6 (2.1) 72.1 (41.6)
Credit Line                  5.5 (5.5)    4.5 (W.5)  4.2 (4.2)  1.0 (1.0)  12,6 (0.9)   27.8 (16.1)
Livestock Fed i/                                                          25.0 (25.0)  25.0 (25.0)
Total                              38.6 (36.6)   10.0 (10.0)  14.0 (4.0)  1.0 (1.0)  60.7 (32.4) 144.3 (9.i0)
-   -              -       ---.~~~~~~~~~~~~- ----. -
P/    F4iuras in brackets correspond to llM ftinancin.
h/    Minor civil works, local costs of inatallatiou, tecbnical assistance and training.
£/   Including cost of installation of equipetn by suppLiers, technical assistance and training.
d/    Procedurs for livestock feed are axplained in paa 4.29.
4.25       All equipment, goods and services to be financed under the Bank loan
would be procured in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines. International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be used for industrial equipment and
services, except for the following: (i) pea/bean harvesters, some equipment items
for the meat processing component and other small procurement packages where only a
few suppliers manufacture the specific type of equipment, which would be procured
under Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures; and (ii) a small number of
highly-specialized equipment items that cannot be grouped in bid packages, which
would be procured under International Shopping procedures. Proprietary equipment or
spare parts, and equipment which needs to be standardized with an existing
industrial line, would be procured, with the Bank's prior concurrence, by direct
contracting with the original supplier. Under ICB procedures, Polish manufacturers
would be allowed a preference of 15X or the applicable customs duty, whichever is
lower.
4.26       The value of procurement under ICB would be about US$38.6 million and
under modified ICB about US$15.0 million (for livestock feed, para. 4.29),
consisting of about 27 contracts and accounting for some 56X of the total value of
imported equipment, goods and services. LIB procurement, estimated to result in
about 15 contracts, would be limited to an aggregate amount of about US$10.0
million.'/ Packages of small items not exceeding an equivalent value of US$200,000
per package would be procured under International Shopping procedures, the aggregate
amount being limited to US$14.0 million equivalent. International Shopping would be
done after evaluation and comparison of price quotations invited from a list of at
least three suppliers from at least two countries eligible under the Bank
guidelines. Prior review by the Bank of invitations to bid, bidding documents and
bid evaluation reports would be needed for contracts/packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$300,000 or more each. Procurement under LIB procedures, as agreed
1/ The numbers of contracts for ICB and LIB include estimates for
investments under the credit line.



- 32 -
to in each case by the Bank, would also require its prior review of the short list
of qualifying bidders. All other procurement actions would be subject to the Bank's
review before submission of the first application for disbursement, in accordance
with Appendix 1, Clauses 3 and 4 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
4.27        Civil works (US$31.7 million), including site preparation, foundations,
drainage, and buildings, would not be financed by the Bank. Sufficient contractors
are available in Poland to provide adequate competition for the procurement of the
civil works, and this procurement will not adversely affect the cost or scheduling
of the project.
4.28        Procurement actions would be carried out by the respective individual
subborrowers and by PEKPOL for the meat processing enterprises. Technical
assistance would be provided by local specialized engineering firms, NBP, BFE and
other PB, and local trade organizations.
4.29        Livestock feed is needed urgently during the winter months and must be
procured quickly. Furthermore, feed is traded on exchanges worldwide at
continuously-announced prices. Therefore, for contracts up to $5 million (about
US$10.0 million in the aggregate), feed to be financed under the project would be
procured on the basis of evaluation and comparison of CIF quotations obtained from
more than one supplier. For contracts over $5 million (about US$ 15.0 million in
the aggregate), a modified ICB procedure would be applied.
4.30        Foreign consultant services for studies would be employed in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
4.31        Assurances were obtained that procurement would be carried out in
accordance with conditions and procedures stipulated above.
G. Disbursement
4.32        The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan of US$100.0 million equivalent
would be disbursed as follows:
Amount      % of Expenditures
Category                      USS Million       to be financed
Buildings, equipment and
spare parts for:
cold stores for fruit and vegetables,
meat processing plants, and for
miscellaneous agroindustries and
technical assistance             71.0      ]   100 % of foreign expenditures and
100]  of ex-factory cost for goods,
and 100l   of foreign expenditures
I   for technical assistance.
Livestock Feed                   25.0           1001 of foreign expenditures.
Interest during construction      4.0
Total                         100.0



- 33 -
4.33        Disbursements under all categories would be supported by documentation
as follows. For contracts above US$200,000, disbursements would be made against full
documentation and for contracts of less than US$200,000 against Statements of
Expenditure (SOE), with the full documentation retained by NBP for review by Bank
missions during the course of project implementation. Disbursements for livestock
feed contracts would be made against full documentation.
4.34        Because the initiation of the lending program for Poland has been
delayed and processors have had to proceed with their investments, and because of
the urgency of the requirement for livestock foed, retroactive financing of 10X of
the loan amount is proposed for expenditures incurred during a period of 12 months
prior to Board presentation.
4.35        The project is expected to be completed by June 1994.  Annex 4, Table I
gives an estimated disbursement schedule, summarized as follows:
Bank FY                 90       91       92        93    94      95
----US$ million---------------
Annual                30.0     20.0     20.0      15.0    10.0     5.0
Cumulative            30.0     50.0     70.0      85.0    95.0   100.0
The disbursement reflects the special features of the project.  Thus most
investments would be implemented in existing facilities and would require only minor
civil works, some facilities required for project investments are presently under
conlstruction, and the funds for livestock feed would be disbursed during the first
year of the project.
4.36        To accelerate payments to suppliers and reduce administrative work, a
Special Account in the amount of US$7.0 million would be established by NBP on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank. NBP would be expected to provide full
banking services and provide monthly statements of the account on a timely basis.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted quarterly
or when the amounts withdrawn aggregate to 50X of the initial deposit, whichever
occurs first. Records of the Special Account proceeds and expenditures would be
kept by NBP. The Special Account would be audited under the project auditing
arrangements (para . 5.18).



- 34 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Orlanimo   ad  tanamt
hsudboLAm
5.01        The National Bank of Poland (NBP) would be the borrower of the
proposed Bank loan (para. 4.20), which will be guaranteed by the Government of
Poland. The Bank for Food Economy (BFE) is expected to be the principal
participating bank. However, with the approval of NBP and under its
supervision, the recently established commercial banks would also be eligible
to participate in lending operations under the project. All loan proceeds
from the Bank would be channelled through NBP to BFE and other participating
banks (PB). For that purpose, NBP would enter into subsidiary financing
agreements with the PB, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
The conclusion of the agreement with BFE or another PB would be a condition of
effectiveness. NBP has established a separate unit, called the Project
Appraisal and Implementation Division (PAID), to assist in, and monitor, the
implementation of Bank-financed projects. The main responsibilities of this
unit would include: (i) preparing formats for subloan appraisal and
supervision, and procedures to be applied by BFE and other PB in the use of
such formats; (ii) verifying subproject appraisals submitted to NBP by BFE and
other PB; (iii) monitoring and assisting in the technical supervision of
subprojects; and (iv) providing assistance to BFE and other PB in matters
related to environmental, procurement and safety issues. The execution and
control of financial transactions between the Bank and NBP, and between NBP
and BFE and other PB would be the responsibility of NBP. The role of NBP in
implementing the project would mainly consist of assisting BFE and other PB in
coordinating and supervising the project-related activities, monitoring
progress in project implementation and providing technical assistance and
guidance. Criteria for participation of a bank in the project would be as
follows:
(a)   good standing with regulatory agencies;
(b)   sound financial policies satisfactory to the Bank, particularly
with regard to credit administration, asset and liability
management, and financial structure;
(c)   a technical unit, specialized in medium- and long-term project
lending, properly staffed and capable of undertaking appraisal and
supervision acceptable to the Bank;
(d)   a credit committee as an advisory body to the president on credit
decisions and major supervision problems;
(e)   an external audit in accordance with appropriate standards,
starting with the 1989 accounts, to be used as the basis for an



- 35 -
action plan to improve its operations and financial situation,
including
(i)   improvement of its financial structure and achievement
of a ratio of capital to risk assets of at least 8%
within an agreed time frame;
(ii) minimizing of its exposure risks by limiting loans to
a single borrower or group of financially-associated
borrowers to an agreed percentage of capital;
(iii) introduction of adequate provisions for potential loan
losses; and
(f)   signing of a subsidiary financing agreement with NBP incorporating
operating rules as agreed between the Bank and NBP.
An assurance was obtained at negotiations that banks would need to meet these
criteria for participation in the project.  Details would be agreed on a case-
by-case basis, considering the specific situation of each bank.
Resnonsibilities for Inlmementadon
5.02        The main tasks of BFE and other PB in the project implementation
would be to:
(a)   assist subloan applicants in the preparation of subloan
applications;
(b)   evaluate the technical, commercial, financial and economic
viability of proposed subprojects, the technical and
managerial capabilities of subloan applicants and determine
their creditworthiness; and, assess availability of raw
materials and export marketing opportunities of proposed
subprojects (para. 5.12);
(c)   provide assistance and guidance to subborrowers in the
preparation of bidding documents and ensure that goods and
services to be financed from the loan are procured in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines;
(d)   carry out all banking operations related to loan servicing,
including subloan agreements, loan disbursements,
supervision of subproject implementation, loan collection
and accounting;
(e)   deal with all matters related to banking transactions in
foreign exchange in connection with procurement of goods
financed under the project, such as letters of credit, bank
guarantees and payment for shipping documents; and



- 36 -
(f) monitor the commercial and financial performance of
subborrowers (project beneficiaries).
5.03        BFE management has initiated various measures to facilitate
project implementation and to effectively carry out its responsibilities in
relation to the proposed project. BFE has recently established an Office for
International Cooperation (OIC) under which two departments would operate.
One of these, the Foreign Exchange Department, would carry out all foreign
exchange transactions (para. 5.05); the other, the Project Implementation
Department, would be responsible for coordinating implementation of projects
financed by foreign resources, including the proposed project, and would be
responsible to coordinate the project implementation with the branches,
including preparation of subprojects and their supervision, and reporting to
the Bank. The Project Implementation Department is currently hiring about 10
professionals (economists, engineers, agronomists, procurement and marketing
specialists) for its Food Processing Division, to carry out the functions
listed in para. 5.02 above, and to provide training and guidance to head
office and branch staff to improve their capabilities in loan appraisal
methodology and procedures. The OIC recruitment, which is not yet finished,
would reach eventually about 60 staff members, but the Project Implementation
Department is already functioning. The head of this Department would be the
project coordinator for BFE's activities in the implementation of the project.
In that capacity he would be responsible for internal coordination of all
project-related activities among BFE head office departments and branch
offices, for external coordination between BFE and NBP, the concerned
Government offices, agencies and enterprise companies and for relations with
the Bank.
5.04        The activities mentioned in para. 5.02 (a), (c), (d) and (f) would
be carried out by staff in BFE branches. The activities are within their
regular scope of operations. Subproject appraisdl (para. 5.02 (b)) would also
be carried out by branch staff which would be provided with training, when
necessary, by the OIC staff in loan appraisal methodology. All subloan
appraisals would be reviewed at head office before being presented to BFE
management for approval, and submitted to the NBP for review (para. 5.01).
5.05        BFE has recently been authorized to deal in foreign exchange;
however, until BFE has established a foreign exchange department and has
gained adequate experience in dealing with such operations, foreign exchange
transactions (para. 5.02 (e)) would be carried out on behalf of BFE by a
correspondent commercial bank in Poland.
5.06        NBP would guide and supervise BFE and other PB in the performance
of the activities listed in para. 5.02 above. NBP also would implement the
livestock feed component by selling foreign exchange proceeds of the proposed
loan to importers.
5.07        NBP would maintain the project account, prepare reimbursement
applications for withdrawal of loan funds from the Bank; prepare periodic
reports on the progress in project implementation and i_s impact and results;
and prepare the Project Completion Report.



- 37 -
5.08        The management groups of the enterprises proposed to be financed
have adequate experience in their ongoing activities. However, in the cases
for which the new expansion would diversify considerably the scope of
activities of the processing plants, further training of the management or
restructur.ng of their organization would be needed. Also, in conformity with
the Government policy to restructure the economy into a market oriented
system, enterprises would need to restructure their management information
system and introduce, wherever it does not exist, a system of cost accounting.
Appropriate training for this purpose would need to be arranged. There would
also be a need for training to promote exports and for technical assistance
for short and medium-term periods. BFE and the other PB would provide the
appropriate financing for such training when required.
5.09        Several of the existing processing plants are using excessive
labor due to the availability of cheap local labor and labor-intensive
equipment. Their planned expansion would result in a better relationship
between output and employed personnel and eliminate unnecessary
labor-intensive operations. Financing for management assistance and training
which would be required for taking such decisions, is included in subproject
cost estimates. Maintenance of the processing plants would be improved by
providing adequate financing for imported spare parts, partly included in the
proposed subprojects and partly to be financed through the credit line.
B. Lending Terms and Condidons
5.10        Periods of repayment for project subloans would be determined on
the basis of cash flow projections for each investment and would not exceed
the useful life of the investments financed. In any case, maturities of
subloans would not exceed 12 years including grace periods of up to three
years. Subborrowers would be required to contribute from their own resources
not less than 10X of total investment costs, in either cash or kind.
5.11        The interest rates for on lending under the project would be as
follows:
(a)   $75 million equivalent of the Bank loan proceeds would be onlent
by NBP in US dollars to BFE and other PB. The interest rate would
be established as a floating rate linked to the London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR) for dollar deposits and would include a
margin for NBP. NBP would est,blish this margin for a six-month
period. NBP would establish its margin, in consultation with the
Bank, taking into account its spread requirements and the cost of
similar funds in the market. This margin would be set at 1.75%
for the January 1 - June 30, 1990 period. BFE and other PB would
repay the loan to NBP in accordance with repayment schedules of
the subloans made and financed by Bank funds; the amounts to be
repaid would be credited to the roll-over account to be maintained
by NBP (para. 4.22). Furthermore, should a subborrower prepay to



- 38 -
BFE or other PB all, or part, of the subloan prior to maturity,
BFE or other PB would prepay to NBP the amount collected.
(b)   BFE and other PB would provide subloans denominated in US dollars
at prevailing market rates.
(c)   BFE and other PB would also charge prevailing market rates on
loans in domestic currency for complementary investments.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the interest rates and the other
terms and conditions for onlending under the project would be as specified
above.
5.12        Elfibft for FnandnF   The primary objective of the project is to
increase foreign exchange earnings in convertible currency through the
expansion of exports of agro-based processed commodities. Therefore,
enterprises, including state-owned, cooperative and private, would be eligible
to receive funds under the project for financing of subprojects which satisfy
the following eligibility criteria:
(a)   subprojects must be expected to be completed within three years
from the date of signature of the subloan agreement;
(b)   the projected cumulative net revenues in foreign exchange, to be
generated from incremental exports to convertible currency areas
resulting from the proposed investment during the first four years
after completion of the subproject, should be expected to exceed
the foreign convertible currency component of the subproject
investment costs. Cumulative net revenues are defined as
incremental export revenues in convertible currency less current
expenditures in convertible currency for imported inputs and
convertible currency debt service (principal and interest);
(c)   the financial and economic rates of return for any proposed
subproject should each be not less than 181;
(d)   each subproject should be able to generate sufficient cash flow to
cover debt service;
(e)   each beneficiary of a subloan exceeding $500,000 would introduce
an appropriate cost accounting and management information system
not later than 12 months after subloan approval by BFE or other
PB, and a commitment to this effect would be included in the
subloan agreement; and
(f)   no safety hazard or environmental deterioration should result,
directly or indirectly, from investments to be financed under the
project.



* 39 -
In addition, enterprises would be required to operate in accordance with sound
financial standards.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations on the
eligibility criteria stipulated above.
5.13          dw                  Subloan applications would be supported by
detailed feasibility studies and appraisal reports to be prepared by SFE or
PB. These studies and reports would cover the folloving:
(a)   the technical feasibility, financial viability, co mercial
soundness and economic justification of the proposed investment.
Particular emphasis would be placed on assessing the availability
of raw materials and the export-marketing possibilities for the
incremental production of the subproject;
(b)   an evaluation of:  the proposed scale of the subproject, the need
and adequacy of the civil works and equipment to be procured, the
location of the enterprise, its layout and design and the
estimated investment costs in domestic and foreign currencies; and
of compliance of the proposed subproject with pollution control
guidelines set by the authorities; and
(c)   an evaluation of the subborrower's creditworthiness, organization,
management and financial structure, and of the technical staff and
know-how available for implementing the subproject and its
operation.
5.14        Simplified appraisal procedures would be applied to subprojects
with an estimated foreign exchange cost not exceeding US $100,000 for
replacement of equipment and spare parts or for subloans to finance export
promotion activities. These procedures would include, as applicable:
(a)   review and assessment of the viability and financial soundness of
the enterprise and its capacity to service the loan in convertible
currency;
(b)   the technical verification that the equipment, spare parts or
materials to be purchased are appropriate and are intended to be
used in the existing production process, to break any existing
production bottleneck, increase efficiency of the existing process
or contribute to improving quality and meet new product standards
in export markets.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BFE and other PB would adhere to
the appraisal procedures as described above.
5.15        The subprojects which were pre-appraised during project
preparation were found technically feasible and financially and economically
viable. However, because of the time which has elapsed since project
preparation, BFE and other PB would, before final approval of the pre-
appraised subprojects, reassess their economic and financial viability and



- 40 -
verify that no adverse changes in export marketing possibilities and prices
have occurred since subproject appraisal, in order to ensure that these
subprojects conform ti the eligibility criteria stipulated in para. 5.12.
5.16        BFE or other PB would prepare appraisal reports for subprojects to
be financed under the credit line. NBP would have overall responsibility for
quality control and submit to the Bank for review and approval the first three
proposed subloans and all other proposed subloans exceeding the amount of
US$500,000 each. Assurances were obtained at negotiations on this procedure.
C. Ateonts and Auit
5.17        The accounting arrangements and capability of BFE to carry out
banking cperations have been examined and found satisfactory in their scope
and timeliness.  This review would also be done for other PB.  BFE's Finance
and Accounting Division would set up a project account at the start of the
project.  Such account would provide a detailed record of subprojects approved
by BFE under the project, the subloans disbursed, whether financed with Bank
or BFE funds, and the subborrowers' equity contributions. The project
coordinator and the Food Processing Division of BFE would receive monthly
statements of the project account which would serve as a source of information
for preparing reimbursevent applications to NBP and management reports on the
status of project implementation. If other PB would wish to participate in
financing under the project, similar accounting arrangements and procedures
would have to be implemented and their capability to apply them would have to
be examined and found satisfactory to the Bank.
5.18        BFE and other PB would have their accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. These audits would cover the respective project accounts. BFE and
other PB would furnish to the Bank, through NBP, as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
certified copies of their financial statements for the year, audited as above,
together with the auditors' reports. NBP would have its project account for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and would furnish to the Bank a certified copy of the account, together
with the report of the auditor, within six months of the end of the year.
This audit would cover the Special Account and operations under the Statement
of Expenditure (SOE) procedure, and the report would contain a separate
opinion on the latter.
5.19        Each project subborrower would have its accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to NBP and the Bank, and would submit to BFE or other PB, within six months of
the end of the year, certified copies of its audited statements and its audit
report. The scope and content of the statements and audit report would be as
agreed with BFE or other PB, NBP, and the Bank.   All financial statements of



- 41 -
subborrowers would be kept at BFE and other PB for subsequent review by Bank
missions and serve as a source of information for monitoring subborrowers'
financial performance. Assurances on the above were obtained at negotiatior.s.
D. Rotdl* and Evaluadom
5.20        NBP in, cooperation with BFE and PB, would be responsible for
monitoring and evaluating the impact of the project. BFE and PB would
supervise physical project implementation at the enterprise/processing plant
level through field visits and review of documents, invoices, and key
indicators provided by subborrowers and identify bottlenecks and constraints
affecting project implementation or its expected impact and zesults and report
their findings to NBP which would take appropriate action, as necessary.
5.21        ReRgorng  NBP would prepare  progress reports every six months
which would be submitted to the Bank within 30 days of the end of the period
under review. These progress reports would include a copy of the project
account, a sunmary statement on the financial status of the project and the
Bank loan, and a brief descriptive section on the physical implementation of
the subprojects and on the problems encountered during implementation.
5.22        Prolect ComnIeton Renoil  Promptly after completion of the project,
but no later thar six months after the closing date, NBP, with the
collaboration of BFE and other PB, would prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report on the execution of the project, its costs, and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it. The report would also discuss the performance of
the various participating institutions and agencies in discharging their
respective obligations under the project.
E. Environmental Imnac
5.23        The environmental aspects addressed in the context of the proposed
Project refer to the three main categories of subprojects, i.e., (i) ham and
meat processing; (ii) frozen fruits and vegetable processing; and (iii)
miscellaneous agro-industrial products.
5.24        The ham and meat processing component will include mainly
modernization, and to some extent expansion, of ham and beef canning plants,
which implies cutting and mixing of meat and its canning. This is done in
facilities approved by the USDA and EEC, which are up to international
standards. The cutting of meat, the selection of pieces for ham production,
mixing, injection of brine and vacuum canning are done under strict sanitary
condit'ions, generally with little waste. The same is valid for the production
of canned beef. In two of the ham processing plants, in which the project
would finance modernization and expansion of processing capacity, in the
cities of Bydgoszcz and Torun, the existing wastewater treatment capacity is
limited. However, no expansion of slaughtering lines is contemplated at these
two locations and it has been agreed that the additional quantities of meat to
be processed for ham production for export will be brought from other
USDA-approved slaughterhouses. In all the existing slaughtering lines the
wastewater is usually treated by passing it through fat traps, screens ancd



. 42 -
settlement tanks for separation of solid waste. The pretreated wastewater is
then conveyed into municipal or regional sewage treatment plants for further
treatment, usually by flocculation, settlement and biological treatment.
5.25        Air pollution from the slaughtering and meat processing plants
included under the project is not expected to increase. In the
slaughterhouses and meat processing plants the air pollution from coal burning
boiler plants is diluted by the existence of high chimneys (60-70 m) and the
expanded/modernized production capacity would be too small to create any
significant deterioration in the air quality.
5.26        Fruit and vegetable processing includes washing and cutting the
raw material and subsequently freezing and packing the product. The
processing of fruits and berries creates little pollution, whereas, for
vegetables, there is need for an appropriate wastewater treatment system. A
by-product of apple processing, apple pulp, is dried and returned to the
farmers for feed.  In potato/starch processing, the project would finance the
introduction of decanters to separate the potato juice from the starch/pulp
slurry, thus reducing the amount of wastewater.  The fruit and vegetable
freezing plants under the project have made appropriate arrangements fo'r
handling the increased volume of wastewater.
5.27        The proposed subproject for processing of forest products (game
meat and forest fruits), LAS Pila, would be located near Jastrow in a
voivodship (district) where over 30% of the area is covered by forests. The
existing regulations relating to hunting of animals are being strictly
enforced by the authorities and incremental production of game meat would be
well within established limits and would not affect the present ecological
balance of wildlife in the area.
5.28        Each of the subprojects to be financed under the Project would be
reviewed before approval for compliance with the pollution control guidelines
set by the authorities of the Government of Poland, to avoid any increase in
pollution, either in the water or the air. The necessary legislation and
resulting regulations have been effective since March 1985. Based on the
procedures described above, the investments to be financed under the Project
would not be allowed, and are not expected, to increase existing pollution
levels. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) any subproject to
be financed under the project would require an environmental impact
assessment, and (ii) that its approval by BFE or other PB would require that
(a) it is designed in accordance with appropriate safety, health and
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) it would not cause,
directly or indirectly, any environmental deterioration.  Consequently, BFE or
other PB would be required to obtain from each investor a detailed report on
the environmental impact of the specific subproject.  The impact assessment
would be done by the District Environmental Authority and subsequently
reviewed and approved by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural
Resources. The Bank has provided to NBP and BFE a detailed questionnaire to
cover the various environmental aspects to be examined during the impact
assessment work.



- 43 -
VL FINANCIAL ANALYSI. PRODUCT     AND MARKE
A. nA
6.01        The project would derive financial benefits mainly from:  (a)
incremental production and sales; (b) reduced operating costs due to
techi.ological innovation and more efficient use of labor; and (c) incremental
exports.
6.02        Detailed feasibility studies of pre-appraised subprojects have
been prepared and have provided the basis for financial analysis. Details on
projections of investment and operating costs, revenues and cashflows are
presented in the Working Papers.'/
6.03        Meat Processing Plants.  The proposed preappraised subprojects in this
category were assessed to be financially viable, with satisfactory FRRs
ranging between 12% and 34%, and an aggregate FRR of 25%. Though the
investments are sensitive to changes in operating costs and revenues, the
switching values for these are quite low. The investments are also sensitive
to slow build-up of capacity utilization. However, the risks are acceptable
as (a) utilization of new investments may start earlier than projected in the
financial analysis because procurement, supply and installation of new
equipment should not take more than one year, (b) the availability of raw
material has been carefully assessed and no difficulties in these areas are
envisaged, and (c) all subprojects would be undertaken by existing processing
plants with long experience in production and exports.
6.04        In general, the financial situation of proposed project
beneficiaries is satisfactory from the standpoint of creditworthiness. Fixed
assets are almost entirely financed by statutory funds (equity) and current
ratios are at acceptable levels. 1986 pretax profits of the meat processing
plants average 3.4% of sales revenue. The debt-service coverage ratio, taking
into account accumulation of funds from current production and incremental
benefits accruing from the project, indicated satisfactory levels of financial
resources to meet the financial obligations resulting from investments under
the project. Furthermore, many of the processing plants which are the
proposed project beneficiaries are, formally, branches of large enterprises
(for example, 3 out of 14 plants of the Bydgoszcz meat processing enterprise
' The pre-appraised subprojects are expected to remain viable. The
primary benefits would be in foreign exchange from exports, and the market
prospects remain favorable. Relative prices of imported inputs have not
changed significantly, and, because the rate of depreciation of the exchange
rate has been markedly greater than the rate of inflation in Poland, the
prices of domestic inputs have decreased in terms of foreign exchange.
Therefore the rates of return on investment are expected to improve.



-44 E
are project beneficiaries) and their financial obligations would be backed by
the resources of the enterprises.
6.05        The prevailing conditions under which meat processing plants
operate, should be borne in sind when assessing the results of the financial
and sensitivity analyses. In calculations of benefit streams, the sales
prices for comodities to be produced were based on full costs plus markup and
production costs were those projected by enterprises, with some adjustments
made for maintain.ng consistency. In the meat industry all export sales to
the FTO Animex are conducted at a uniform "average" price for each commodity,
which is determined from time to time in negotiations between Government and
the parties concerned, and this average price has been applied in the
financial analysis.
6.06        Cold Stonra  and rEzing Plants  At appraisal in mid-1987, the average
FRR for the proposed subprojects was 241. Conservative assumptions have been
applied in projecting the build-up of capacity utilization, averaging 40% in
the first year of production, and 75 and 1002, respectively, in the two
succeeding years. The rate of capacity utilization of freezing and processing
lines and the cold storage, as projected by the enterprises, is about 1.3
(volume of prodtuction to storage capacity) which is considered the mini-oum
ratio for efficient operation. This would depend on a suitable product-mix of
early and lato crops and, primarily, the export marketing possibilities.
Higher capacity utilization of the processing facilities would reduce unit
costs of production and overheads and improve the financial viability of these
subprojects.
6.07        Other InvstM_ents  The FRRs for the preappraised subprojects in the
group of miscellaneous agroindustries and transportation enterprises were
above 20%. Most of the subprojects for meat processing, cold storage and
miscellaneous agroindustries were prepared and appraised in mid-1987. In view
of possible changes investment costs and export marketing prospects and/or
prices, and considering the expected revisions in Government policy relating
to export incentives, such as price subsidies and tax rebates, within the
framework of the economic stabilization and adjustment program, BFE and other
PB would reassess the economic and financial viability and export marketing
prospects of all preappraised subprojects before final approval of subloans to
be financed under the project. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
B. PhueUig
6.08        The construction of 10,000 tons of nominal processing, freezing
and cold storage capacity to be financed under the project, would result in
incremental production of frozen fruits and vegetables, at full development,
of about 15,000 tons. Also, the enterprise is planning to store, during the
off-season, other products such as ice cream, ready meals, juice concentrates,
etc., from its own production or on a service basis. This would increase the
utilization rate of the cold storage facilities. About 3,000 tons of frozen
fruits and 6,000 tons of frozen vegetables would be exported to CC countries.



- 45 -
A part of the remaining 5,000 tons would be exported to Eastern European
countries and a part would be for further use in the domestic food processing
industry.
6.09        The planned production increases for export of about 7,200 tons of
meat and seat products are very modest, compared to total Polish export
production of meat products. The six preappraised meat processing plants are
expected to increase their exports by about 5,300 tons of canned ham and
shoulders, 1,250 tons of other special canned meat products and 650 tons of
boef and other meat products. All incremental exports of meat products
resulting from project investments would be to CC countries.  The increiental
production and exports of other products envisaged under the project (potato
starch, beer, herbs, game meat, coffee substitute and chicory), would be
significant in terms of their contribution to export earnings, and would range
between about US$ 100,000 and US$ 2 million per exporting enterprise per
annum.
C. Markets
6.10        Poland has well-established export markets for the main
commodities to be produced under the project, and is also expected to
penetrate new markets. The increases in exports of meat products are very
modest and well within the export targets (43,000 tons of ham for 1990)
projected in a marketing survey by Polfood of the United States market for
canned ham and picnic meat market. The study concluded that considerably
greater flexibility at all stages of marketing would be required from Polish
exporters to sustain this level of export activities and realize increased
prices and profitability.
6.11        Two separate market studies/surveys on the prospects for exports
of frozen fruits and vegetables to Western Europe were conducted between
September and November 1987. One study was undertaken by FAO/CP within the
framework of project preparation and the second by the Polish Foreign Trade
Research Institute.
6.12        Western Europe would be the main market for the fruit and
vegetable products of the project with the EEC countries being the major
constituent. At present, there are no quantitative restrictions on imports
from Poland or other CMEA countries into the Community, or into its member
states. There are, however, restrictions which relate to specific sectors and
products, mainly manufacturing. In regard to agricultural products, import
restraints operate through the Common Agriculture Policy (CAP) and apply
indiscriminately to all exporting countries. In regard to the fruit and
vegetable products produced under the project, there are no specific
restrictions which would affect their marketing. The specific findings and
conclusions of the FAO/CP study are as follows:



- 46
Fr       B
(a)   Imports of Individually Quick-Frozen (IQF) berries (strawberries,
raspberries, currants and other berries) in the EEC and other
Western European countries expanded durlng the 1980 to 1986 period
by over 72 pa. in the wake of strong demand from producers of
jams, dairy products, ice creas and bakeries. This iopressive
growth was caused by shifts in consumer preferences towards
healthier foods with low sugar content and without preservatives.
Polish exports of frozen berries to EEC countries represent abou:
50X of total EEC imports from non-member countries, and the Polish
share remained fairly constant, averaging about 4,000 tons p.a.,
over the last six years. Poland has a strong position in the EEC
market in frozen strawberries and black currants, and supplied in
1986, 821 and 671, respectively, of imports from non-member
countries.
(b)   The rising trend in demand for healthier foods, and thus for
frozen raw materials will continue over the medium-term, and
Poland's share in imptrts into Western Europe is expected to be at
least maintained at the growth rate experienced during 1981-1986,
which would result in annual incremental exports of about 4,000
tons, or 20,000 tons over the next five years. However, measures
need to be taken to (i) improve quality, quality control and
packaging; (ii) strengthen direct contacts between Polish
producers and foreign buyers/end-users; and (iii) introduce more
aggressive marketing efforts and better market information.
Frozen VYtbles
(c)   Consumption of frozen vegetables (excluding potato products) in
twelve major countries in Western Europe reached 1.2 million tons
in 1986, growing by over 100,000 tons between 1984 and 1985. EEC
imports increased by an average annual rate of 121 during the
period of 1980 to 1986 and were 518,000 tons in 1986. Total
imports from non-member countries increased from 67,000 tons in
1980 to 145,000 tons in 1985 (imports in 1986 decreased to 106,000
tons because of the Chernobyl accident). However, Poland's share
in EEC imports was only about 121 or 18,000 tons in 1985 (6,000
tons in 1980). Demand from the retail and catering markets in
Western Europe will continue to increase. The retail market will
undoubtedly expand rapidly due to the acquisition of deepfreezers
and microwave ovens by households in Western Europe, and is likely
to diversify quickly into a wide selection of high-quality
pre-cooked frozen meal products.
(d)   Poland should be in a position to increase its share in the
growing market, particularly of those vegetables requiring manual
picking and sorting which can improve quality and increase prices



- 47 -
(brussels sprouts, haricot beans and cauliflower), and of high
quality vegetable mixes. A continuation of the past export trend
to CC countries of 2,500 tons of incremental exports p.a., or
12,500 tons over a five year period appears to be obtainable and
even faster growth could be feasible provided Polish marketing
agencies would: (i) improve their quality control and packaging;
(ii) strengthen direct contacts between Polish producers and
foreign buyers/end-users; and (iii) introduce more aggressive
marketing efforts and better market information.2/
6.13        The conclusions reached by the study team of the Polish Foreign
Trade Institute are similar to those of the FAO/CP study. Their assessment of
incremental exports to CC countries during the next five years (up to 1992)
ranges between a minimum quantity of 14,000 tons and a maximum of about 30,000
tons for frozen fruits (berries), and of about 15,000 tons for frozen
vegetables. However, any substantial increase in the volume of exports beyond
these estimates would require drastic quality improvement, better adaptation
to the requirements of individual customers, bold promotional and marketing
activities, and penetration of new markets. Funds are provided under the
project for promotion of marketing activities and needed technical assistance
in the areas of improving the export performance of agricultural products
(paras. 4.13 - 4.15).
3/     See ProsRects for Exports of Polish Ouick Frozen Berries and
Vegetables to Western Europe. Working PaRer. FAO/World Bank
CooRerative Program, November 25, 1987



- 48 -
VIl. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Beuflts
7.01        Project benefits would be derived from:  (i) increased volume of
production of frozen fruits and vegetables, meat products, and miscellaneous
agro-based commodities and the increases in exports, mainly to convertible
currency markets; (ii) increases in value added of the products processed
under the project; and (iii) increase in value of the above commodities as a
result of improved quality and presentation. Net foreign exchange earnings of
preappraised subprojects, derived from incremental exports to convertible
currency countries would amount to about US$55 million annually at full
capacity, excluding additional earnings from exports to non-convertible
currency areas. The project would generate about 1500 new jobs, mainly
seasonal but also some permanent jobs. Furthermore, it would result in a
reduction in unit costs of production through the use of labor-saving
practices and modern machinery and a slight reduction of employment in the
meat packing industry. Although not quantified, the benefits of the livestock
feed component of the project would be considerable. The import of feed would
help prevent a decline in livestock production and thus would have a
substantial impact on incomes of farmers and processors (including those which
would participate in the project), meat supplies to consumers, and exports of
processed meat.
Denefldarles
7.02        The beneficiaries of the project would be the state, cooperative
and joint venture enterprises which own the approximately 30 pre-identified
state food processing plants and additional enterprises which would benefit
from investments under the credit line. A significant number of the new
beneficiaries to be financed under the credit line are expected to be from the
private sector, including joint ventures with foreign capital and partially-
privatized state enterprises. Project beneficiaries would be strengthened in
terms of their financial position and their technical level of production
which would enable them to supply higher quality products to their foreign and
domestic markets. Indirectly, small private farmers who are the main raw
material suppliers to the processing plants would benefit in terms of
increased and more stable and secure marketing possibilities and reductions in
post-harvest losses (which were considerable, for example, in the case of
strawberries in 1987). An estimated 6,000 fruit and vegetable farmers would
be able to participate indirectly in the project through increased production
and supply of raw materials to the processing plants. Likewise, over 17,000
livestock farmers would be able to supply additional livestock to the
processing plants. Collectors of herbs, and rural families involved in
hunting of game and collection of forest berries and mushrooms, would also
have additional seasonal work resulting from the expanded processing
facilities envisaged under the project. Thus, the indirect benefits from the
project will be almost wholly derived by the private farmers engaged in the



- 49 -
production of crops and the collection of other project products. Farmers
would also be the primary beneficiaries of livestock feed to be imported under
the project.
7.03        Non-quantifiable benefits of the project would include:  (a) the
institution-building effect on BFE and other PB through the experience gained
in implementing an agroindustries development project of this size and
diversity; (b) improved export activities and penetration of new markets
through technical assistance in marketing studies and marketing operations
which would benefit both the FTOs and the producers; (c) improved quality of
management and operation of freezing and cold storage plants resulting from
the technical assistance provided for under the project; and (d) maintenance
of support for the Government's reform program through continued adequate
supplies of meat.
B. Economic Analyis
7.04        Quantified benefits of the project include increased processing
capacity in agroindustries, and increased export earnings which would result
from improved quality of products for exports and local sales and cost savings
in operation due to new investments. The fruit and vegetable freezing and cold
storage plant would permit expansion of exports of frozen commodities.
Increased quantities of high quality ham and other meat products would be
produced in the six meat processing plants in which processing and packing
lines would be modernized. Further, products from the miscellaneous
agroindustries and transport services, and those industries to be financed
under the credit line, would increase exports, mainly to convertible currency
countries. As indicated above, benefits from helping prevent the decline of
livestock and meat supplies through imports of livestock feed have not been
quantified.
7.05        Economic costs included in the analysis are the net incremental
operating costs of the agroindustries and investment costs net of taxes,
subsidies and transfer payments but inclusive of physical contingencies. The
average economic life span of the meat processing and coldstorage components
was estimated to be 15 yGars and 25 years respectively. Appropriate
replacement investments were added to the cost streams during the amortization
period for calculation of the ERR and NPV. Marketing costs are also included.
The economic cost of labor was assumed to be equal to the financial cost.
7.06        In view of the considerable overvaluation of the Polish Zloty
(parallel market rate about zl 1000 to US$1 in comparison to the official rate
of zl 265 to US$1 in mid-1987), the shadow price for foreign exchange applied
in the economic evaluation was US$1 - zl 500. Foreign exchange costs and
benefits were adjusted accordingly. Economic prices are based on mid-1987
border prices (transaction prices) for all traded products. Traded inputs
(viz. energy costs, and packing material.) have also been valued at their
border price.



- 50 -
7.07        The aggregate economic rate of return (ERR) for the pre-identified
subprojects was calculated to be 35% and the net present value (NPV) was zl
7.0 billion. The ERR and NPV of individual enterprises are indicated in Annex
4 - Table 2 and the indicators in regard to the main preappraised project
components are shown below:'/
ERR
Activitiel                         .        (%)   (zl billion)
1.    Fruit and vegetable freezing and
cold storage component               34          3.5
2.    Meat processing plants               36          1.7
3.    Transport                             57         1.3
4.    Chicory                               21         0.1
5.    Coffee substitute                     30         0.2
7.08        The sensitivity analysis indicates that the preappraised project
components are relatively sensitive to changes in operating costs and
benefits. They are more resilient in regard to changes in investment costs
and delays in benefits. For example, if the operating costs of the fruit and
vegetable and meat processing investment components would increase by 28 and
34% respectively, or benefits would fall by 17 and 22% respectively, the rate
of return would come down in the two components to 12%. However, the
investment costs would have to increase by 85 and 243% respectively to reduce
the rate of return to 12%. Similarly, even with a delay of 1 year in
obtaining benefits the two project components would still yield a rate of
return of 20%. The sensitivities mentioned above are consistent with similar
agroindustry investments where operating costs are normally dominated by the
cost of raw material.
7.09        The ERR for the other pre-identified agroindustries ranges between
21% and 70%. As stipulated, the ERR of subprojects to be financed under the
line of credit would be not less than 18% (para. 5.12(c)).
C. Risks
7.10        At the macro level the project faces the risk that the policy and
institutional reforms may not progress sufficiently to alleviate the
constraints on efficient performance of the food processing industry. The
risk is being reduced by actions being taken by Government on the basis of its
restructuring program, strengthened by the policy dialogue with the IMF and
the Bank. Another risk is that prices in the international markets for
project commodities may be lower than estimated. To offset this factor, the
project design seeks to improve the quality of project output and marketing
services. As for the possibility that delay in project implementation might
affect its economic benefits, Bank staff have tried to reduce this risk by
lAs indicated previously, the pre-appraised subprojects are expected to
remain viable; in fact, the rates of return on investment are expected to
improve.



- 51 -
assisting in the preparations for procuroment by subborrowers during project
appraisal. Further, even with a delay of project benefits by one year, the
project would still yield a rate of return of about 20X on the pre-appraised
portion; a two-year delay would reduce it to about 131. Finally, the
institutional capability of BFE and other PB, essentially that of the staff to
be directly involved in execution of the project, may prove to be inadequate.
Therefore the Industrial Export Development Project, which is being processed
in parallel with this project, contains a component to provide technical
assistance to the banks.



- 52 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND kECOMMENDATION
8.01.       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from NBP that:
(i)   BFE and other PB would make counterpart funds available for
financing the project, including working capital requirements, in
a timely manner (para. 4.21).
(ii)  Repayments of subloans, not needed for the repayment of the World
Bank loan, would be deposited in NBP and would be utilized to
finance additional investments to expand exports (para. 4.22).
(iii) Procurement of goods and services would be carried out in
accordance with conditions stipulated in paras. 4.24-4.30.
(iv)  Criteria for participation of banks in the project would be as
indicated in para. 5.01.
(v)   BFE and other PB would provide financing as required for the
specific training needs related to enhancement of management
information and cost accounting systems (para. 5.08).
(vi)  Onlending terms and conditions, including interest rates, would be
as specified in paras. 5.10 and 5.11.
(vii) BFE and other PB would adhere to the stipulated eligibility
criteria and the appraisal methodology set out in paras. 5.12-
5.14.
(viii)BFE or other PB would prepare appraisal reports for subprojects to
be financed under the credit line. NBP would have overall
responsibility for quality control and would submit to the Bank
for review the first three proposed subloans and all other
proposed subloans exceeding US$500,000 each (para. 5.16).
(ix)  BFE and other PB would furnish to the Bank, through NBP, within
six months of the end of the fiscal year, their financial
statements, audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
(para. 5.18).
(x)   A subproject to be financed under the project would not cause,
directly or indirectly, any environmental deterioration. BFE and
other PB would obtain from each investor a detailed report on the
environmental impact of the specific subproject which would be
carried out by the District Environmental Authority and approved
by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources
(para. 5.28).



- 53 -
8.02.       A condition for effectiveness of the proposed loan would be the
conclusion of a subsidiary financing agreement, satisfactory to the Bank,
between NBP and BFE or other PB (para. 5.01).
8.03.       Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project is
considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$100.0 million for 17 years,
including 5 years of grace, at the Bank standard variable interest rate. The
loan would be made to the National Bank of Poland and guaranteed by the
Government.



- 54 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
POLAND
^                    S ROBNDUSlRAGEXPODNRT DEVELDPMENT PROJEC
NK FOR FDECONOMY
1.    The Bank for Food Economy (BFE) was established in 1975 through the
merger of the Agricultural Bank and the Central Union of Savings and Loan
Cooperatives, with the general objective of guiding the development of the
food sector of the economy. The State, through the Ministry of Finance, is
the majority owner with 51%, while the cooperative banks (CB) hold 49% of its
shares. The Banking Law of 1988 and the Cooperative Law of 1982 provide the
legal framework for BFE's operations and its Statute is approved by the
Council of Banks and by BFE's National Congress of Delegates. BFE performs a
dual role, (i) providing credit and other banking services to social sector
enterprises engaged in agriculture, food processing and forestry, comprising
State and cooperative farms, agricultural circles (machinery services) and
food industry enterprises; and (ii) serving as the apex bank and Central Union
of Savings and Loan Cooperatives, and bearing the responsibility for guiding
and auditing the operations of the CB system.
2.    Self-Goernment Structure  The self-government entities of BFE are (i) the
National Congress of Delegates, which is the supreme body of BFE and is
convened at least every four years; (ii) the National Council which operates
during the period between congresses consisting of 60 members elected for a
term of four years, eleven elected by the National Congress and one each by
the congresses in the 49 provinces (voivodships) of the country; (iii)
province congresses of delegates and councils; and (iv) the Board of BFE.
Among the responsibilities of the National Congress are the adoption of BFE
rules and determination of the lines of activity of BFE and the CBs.  The
National Council recommends to the Council of Ministers the appointment of the
chairman of the Board, elects the members of the Board, adopts plans of
operations submitted by the Board and approves BFE's annual reports and
financial statements.
3.    Owanzaftion and Management   BFE is managed by its Board, comprising the
president of the bank as chairman (who is appointed by the Prime Minister),
two vice-presidents of BFE and five members, elected by the National Council.
The Board is responsible for implementing Government's monetary policy as it
applies to agriculture, forestry and the food industry, and for establishing
policies for the operation of the BFE/CB system and their implementation.
4.    BFE has its head office in Warsaw and one branch in each of the
country's 49 provinces. The branches have a total of 46 sub-branches which
have been set up to provide easier access for social sector entities. At
end-1988 the total staff of BFE numbered about 5,800, of which about 330 were
in its head office. Additionally, 412 CB auditors are on the head office
payroll although they operate from BFE branch offices. About 40% of head
office and 33% of branch office staff have university education. Wage policy
for the country's



- 55 -
ANNiX 1
Pap 2
banks is coordinated by the Council of Banks and the level of wages is about
the same among the banks, and is slightly lower than in the ministries
and considerably lower than in industry. This situation has made it difficult
for BFE to attract well-qualified staff in recent years.
5.   FinanI  Servis and Credit Ouetatons.  During 1988 BFE provided financial
services (current and time deposit accounts and financial settlement services
- transfers of funds) to about 12,000 social sector entities of which about
9,700 (81X) were engaged in agriculture (state and cooperative farms and
agricultural services), 1,100 (9X) in the food industry, 700 (61) in forestry
and forestry industries and 500 (4X) in other fields including handicrafts.
At end-1988 current and time-deposits (excluding deposits from CBs) amounted
to zl 457.4 billion (US$1,062 million).
6.    In 1988 about 70% of BFE clients obtained short-term production credit,
which is generally provided in the form of short-term loans, up to one year,
or overdrafts with quarterly credit limits established at the beginning of the
year on the basis of projected cash flows. The aggregate balance of
short-term credit outstanding at the end of 1986 was zl 1,350.0 billion
(US$3.1 billion), of which zl 770.0 billion (US$1.8 billion) was the
outstanding portfolio of the food industry.
7.    During 1987 BFE approved 4,123 investment projects with a total cost of
zl 485.0 billion (US$1.8 billion). 2,721 projects (66% of the total) were in
agriculture, with an aggregate investment cost of zl 137.0 billion (US$516.0
million) and an average cost of zl 50.0 million (US$188,500) per project. In
contrast, the average cost of food industry projects was zl/621.0/million
(US$2.3 million) and, thus, 445 projects (11% of the total number of projects)
accounted for zl 276.0 billion (US$1.0 billion). During 1987 BFE disbursed zl
113.0 billion (US$426.0 million) for investment projects, and the outstanding
balance for all medium and long-term loans for investments at end-1987 was zl
488.0 billion (US$1.8 billion). Investment loans are granted for periods
related to the useful life of the assets financed and to the borrowers'
repayment capacity, up to a maximum period of 30 years.
8.    Loan Aggraisal.  Currently BFE does not undertake extensive appraisal of
loan proposals. For production credit, BFE reviews financial statements and
projections, and production plans of enterprises and provides credit in line
with the projected cash flow to close the gap between inflow and outflow of
funds. Applications for investment credits are generally submitted to BFE
with detailed feasibility studies prepared by the enterprises with the
assistance of independent technical/economic planning and design offices.
Feasibility studies are reviewed in BFE, and in recommending loans for
approval a series of appraisal criteria are considered. These include the
priority accorded the proposed investment in the national socio-economic plan,
such as centrally-planned investments, preferred sectors indicated in the
five-year plans and export-oriented investments. Other important criteria are
the financial effectiveness ratio (benefit/cost ratio), the pay back period
and the enterprise's performance with previous and ongoing investments. BFE



- 56 -
ANNEX I
Par 3
branch managers are authorized to approve loans up to zl 1.0 billion
(US$3.8/million) or zl 700.0 million, if part of the financing is provided
from the Government budget. Applications exceeding these limits and all loan
proposals for the construction of cold storage facilities are forwarded to
head office with the branch report and recommendation, reviewed in the
relevant department and submitted to the Credit Committee, before final
consideration and approval by the Board. Members of the Credit Committee
include representatives of the Planning Commission and the Ministry of
Agriculture, in addition to BFE officials and representatives from various
Central Unions of Cooperatives.
9.    Itemst Rafs.  Until the end of 1987 lending interest rates of BFE for
social sector enterprises, including those in the food industry, were 91 p.a.
for short-term production credit and 8X for investment credit, except for
agroindustries engaged in the production of alcoholic beverages, poultry and
confectionary, which were charged 12% interest for production and investment
credits. In February 1988, the interest rate for investment credits was
raised from 81 to 91, and for agroindustries engaged in the production of
alcoholic beverages, etc., the rate was increased from 121 to 181 p.a. In
1987, the deposit rates ranged between 61 and 151 on fixed term-deposits. In
1988, deposit rates were raised to 101 for 12-months deposits, 121 for 24-
months and 151 for 36-months deposits. On March 21, 198'9 the basic interest
rate on credits was raised to 44%. However, about 901 of BFE credits to the
agricultural sector and the food industry are made at the preferential rate of
251 p.a. and are refinanced by NBP at 221 p.a. Credits for non-preferential
economic activities (alcoholic beverages, tobacco, etc.) now bear interest
ranging between 451 to 661 depending on the repayment periods of loans. Cash
credits to the population are charged interest ranging between 551 and 661
p.a. Deposit interest rates were also raised as from March 21, 1989, as
follows: Current accounts - 21%, term deposits for six months - 331, 12-
months - 441, 24-months - 551 and 36-months - 661 until May 25, 1989, and 551
p.a. as from May 26, 1989.
10.   Lano Collctdon.  Data on loan collection indicates that arrears are very
low, about 0.51 of the short-term portfolio and less than 0.21 of the total
outstanding investment credits. However, short-term credits granted in tne
form of overdrafts are rolled over from year to year, and BFE's information
system for medium- and long-term loans cannot provide data on amounts of
principal and interest due for collection and actually collected, rescheduled
or paid off out of Government budgetary transfers to BFE. While BFE does not
maintain statistics on the aging of arrears, it is estimated that, currently,
about 901 of arrears are less than one year old. In the course of general
restructuring of its economy, an increase in the level of arrears can be
expected and BFE would have to improve and modify its information system to
facilitate maintaining adequate control over its loan portfolio, minimize the
incidence of arrears and deal with them effectively.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Pap 4
11.   Mmkm4C..s ] SS a S K -"E    BFE has a continuing relationship with its
clients, which Involves visits to their enterprises and desk reviews of the
financial statements and reports which, in accordance with Government
regulations, are submitted to the Ministry of Finance and the Central Office
of Statistics and copied to BFE. During implementation of an investment,
borrowers have to submit quarterly progress reports to BFE and
site-supervision is carried out periodically. BFE does not undertake
evaluations to assess the results and impact of specific investments financed
by the bank.
12.   Acounts and Audbl"'   BFE's accounting is largely manual, although in
thirteen branches the accounting is computerized with an outmoded system
operated by NBP. BFE's chart of accounts was designed specifically for its
operations but conforms with the standard chart of accounts prepared by NBP
for all banks. Branches prepare periodic balance sheets and income statements
which are consolidated at head office. BFE is now exploring the possibilities
for establishing an independent integrated computerized accounting and
information system which would serve both BFE and the network of cooperative
banks.
13.   Internal auditing of BFE and audit of the cooperative banks is
undertaken by the Department of Control and Auditing of BFE which reports to
the president of the bank. Audits are ur.dertaken in accordance with
guidelines issued by Government's Supreme Chamber of Control and by NBP. With
regard to external auditing, accounts of BFE are audited by auditors appointed
by the Ministry of Finance, which has the responsibility for certifying BFE's
annual financial statements. In its review, the Ministry of Finance audit
concentrates primarily on compliance with legislation and regulations, the
calculation of taxes and the use of Government subsidies. The external
auditors rely entirely on BFE's internal audit of branch accounts and review
only head office accounts and related documents.
14.   Financd Status.  At end-1988, total assets of BFE amounted zl 2,119.9
billion (US$5.2 billion), of which 67% were short-term credits and 31% were
medium- and long-term loans. (Annex 1, Table 1). The National Bank of Poland
(NBP) is the principal source of financing of BFE's operations, providing
long-term loans totalling zl 1,270.0 billion at end-1988, equivalent to 60% of
total BFE resources. An interesting feature of BFE's financial structure is
the substantial transfer of zl 274.0 billion from the CB system, or about 13%
of resources at the end of 1988. Demand deposits provided 21% of resources;
the share fund, statutory funds and retained earnings provided 2.2%; and other
liabilities covered the balance of 3.8%.   BFE's liquidity was satisfactory at
the end of 1988, although this aspect of the financial structure has not been
a concern because of the bank's open-ended financing arrangements with NBP.
At end-1988, BFE's equity was zl 46.3 billion, equivalent to 2.2% of total
liabilities and equity. This level has been adequate, given the low level of
arrears and the quasi-equity nature of borrowings from NBP.  However, the
equity position will need to be improved as the economy becomes market-



- 58-
AMnEX 1
Ypa 5
oriented, enterprises are allowed to go bankrupt, and specific terms are
agreed for the repayment of the outstanding debt to NBP. (One possibility
would be for part of the NBP debt to be converted to equity.)
15.           Rmudal Rssat&  BFE earned a satisfactory gross margin of 3.2X on its
lending operations given its extremely low level of administrative expenses
(0.51 of average 1988 assets) and the preferential rate of interest of 6X paid
on borrowings from NBP,'/ which is the dominant source of BFE's resources.
Because of the high rate of income tax (80X) net income after tax was about
0.5X of total assets and 31% of equity. The income statements for 1986 to
1988 are shown in Annex 1, Table 2, and comparative statements of income for
1983-1985 is provided in Annex 1, Table 3.
16.   Coonerate Banks.  The cooperative banking system comprises 1,653
cooperative banks, which provide credit, savings and other financial services
to the non-socialized sector, including individual farmers, farmers
cooperatives, rural trade and small scale industry and the rural population.
CBs have a total of 465 branch offices and about 2,700 "cash counters",
serving a membership of 2.5 million (3.06 million in 1975), consisting of 1.79
million farmers (1.82 million in 1986), 148,000 artisans (136 in 1986) and
about 550,000 employees of social sector enterprises and other individual
members. CBs have a total staff of about 29,700.
17.   CBs mobilize most of their resources from deposits (86%), having also
access to deposits from local governments. Total current- and term- deposits
at end-1987 amounted to zl 897.3 billion (US$3.4 billion), of which 53% were
deposits of individual members, 33% from local governments and 14% from social
sector entities. Short-term working capital credits to members at end-1987
amounted to zl 60.5 billion; outstanding balances of medium- and long-term
credits were zl 356.8 billion for investments and zl 21.6 billion for
consumption purposes, respectively. The 1987 consolidated income statement
for all CBs shows income before tax of zl 12.6 billion and net income after
tax of zl 5.2 billion (average tax rate - 59%). Income for 1987 includes a
Government subsidy of zl 9.8 billion, covering the difference between a
standard and actual interest income.
t/     Interest rate was raised to 6% in 1988.  (In 1987 the interest
rate was 4X) - As of March 21, 1989 the rate was increased to 22%
p.a.



POLAND
BaK FOR POW ao r
Coeparative Balance Sheet 1984-88
Deco bcr 31
(:1 - .1lLic)
1984       1985        1986        1987       1988                                             1984         1945        166         1667        16N
ASSEITS                                                                         LIABILITIES
CurrODt      a JcreteCurrent Liabilities
Current Accounts
Cash and Banks             196        533         91           40      3,203
Social Sector Cnterprises           51.777       54.250     195.400   3U5.862        475.255
Short-tars Credits                                                                   Cooperative BrD                    lZ8 357 1D2an9           1ll {74    2 J 252       273 87
CDs               14,595      14,434     20.076      31,586    65.444          Total                               180,134     236.559      407.074    404,114       73.642
Social Sector   593-7Z6    647.137    740 100       L28 030 1349L517           F
Fixed-term Deposits                      --          --       2.631       2,U41          1?3
Total                 608,321   6S1.571    760.176       859.615 1.414,961           Other Current Liabilities           27 981       220946                  4  64178
Total Current Liabilities          198.052      257.75e0    43.6891    S81,036       766.291
Accounts Receivable
Government        49,225      52.262     21,049      23,481    19,142
Other                707       4.592    2425 3f 471    14 441
Total                  49,932      56,854     45.074      26.952    33.583           LOC TEN. LIABILITIZS
Amsets              658 449    718-958   10.531        885 608 1u ;147             Investimnt A. Tim  Deposits         93.483      1190.6        5,370       5.445       19.226
Borrowings fron 33P                682.051      882.596    750.135    06.461   1,276,114
Laes-term Arssts
Employ" Funds                           743       1,571       1,977       2,565        3.204
Long-term loans to                                                                   CD Dbvwlo,m  t Fund                     177                     30 
Social Sector       334,905   366,929    417,800       487.628   656,115          Total Lcng-tem Liabilities          776,&54     80 ,002    75.79U        RT.Iff   tI.uf
Deposits in NBP          1,921      1,944         --           --         --
Fized Assets            2.880       1,494      1,369        1,575      3.128         Total Liabilitia                   974,506   1.061,646   1.196.477  1.346.374   2.073.544
Other Assets               324        368      3,196        6.402      8.8685
msctot              340.030    370 735   *22 365       495 605   668 128          Share Fund                            9.111        9,573       9,726       9.66         9.62
Resource Fund                        6.854        8.011      10. 102     12.657       16,651
Investment Fund                      1,600        1,616       2.625       3,148        5.341
Other Fun3w                          2.100      2.LM          3 311       3-332       .613
Tofl,654                                     22,323      25,766       28,903      35,197
Not Income for the Yoer              4,319        5.515       5.463       6,M46       11.134
Total Equity                        23J973       27847       312         3LEI3         WM31
TOTAL ASSETS          998,479  1,089.693  1.227,706   1.382,213 2,119.875            TOTAL LIAILITIES & EQUITY          998,479   1.089.693   1.227.706  1,362.213   2.119,875
~~-              - - --- --



- 60 -
Tablb 2
Inneo  $ttmnt foes tbews  Wad Desolar 31, 1966, 19  and 1963
(2i   mIllion)
Deearm 31. 1966          Oee~e  31, 196                Dee he 31, 1966
Inteost
Social *setor (em r2.1                         93          z6,tn          92          153.04          96
Coopatiwo bank loons              1.220         1           1.4"1          2            3.707          2
Coww    a ncn                     1.974        -1           3.S17         A             1.0211
Total                            75.322        97          91,297         90          156,182         99
Govenusnt subsicv I/              2,111         3           2,114          2            1,705          1
Othw                                 9                        Sil                      ....fl3
Total Incoe                      771529       100          93.22         100          160.639        100
._am_MmmUma                         m            i*         mm                     _                 80
Exmdi tures
Interest an Osmaits
Social sector                     2,6s2         3           3.153          3            2,876          2
Cooeative banks                  13 5             2251                                 2L9            1
Total                           21,049         27          25.667         27           32.259         20
Skwrowings (Nationa Sank
of Potand)                     2s.6           a           21-4           U1          i6
Total Interest                 460618         60          55.113         S6          96,043          60
Acinistratfon
Staff compensation                2,5ff         3           3,S44          4            5,841          4
Materials                           239         *             304                         576
Rent wd utilities                   39                                     I S1                        I
Total                            3,22           4           4,379          S           7,315           5
Other Expwnditures                  167                       203                       1,612          1
Total Expeditures              50.23          65          S9.695         63         104,970          66
a                           mainamammeamma                            am                          asimimm
Net incom  before tax               27,316        35          34,227         36          55.669          34
IncoLs tax  3f4) 21                               la          ZL3M           V.            s.3S1         i
Not incme oaftef tax                 S,463         7           6.6            7           11,134          7
mm            mm m                       a Us                        mas
/  Intrest on   wito due from Govorr_nt but not paidOurinh yer.
Susi1d' en credit granted at interest rate below 6.



- 61 -
Table 3
POLAND
BANK FOR FOOD ECONOMY
Comparative Income Statement - 1983-1985
(zl - million)
December 31
1983        1984          1985
INCOME
Interest and Commissions            50,272       55,148        71,759
Other Income                             45          57            79
Total Income                        50,317       55,205        71,838
ITURES
Interest
Deposits                         11,512       12,946        16,646
Borrowings A/                       121       18,221       24,825
Subtotal                         11,633       31,167       41,471
Administration
Staff                             1,508        1,827        2,046
Other expenditures                  477          615           748
Subtotal                          1,985        2,442        2,794
Total Expenditures                      13,618      33,609        44,265
Net Income before Tax                   36,699      21,596        27,573
Income Tax (80X)                       29,359       17,277        22,058
Net Income after Tax                     7,340       4,319         5,515
-              -
/J Includes fees for banking services



- 62 -
AN-NEX 2
Page 1
tDAD
AGAOEDEDUSTRIES- EXRX)R      tJELPM)   PROJEMCT
Producdo and Exors f Processed Fruits and Venatbles
and Meat Produvts foM Polad
1.    Five commodity groups - meat and meat products; fresh, canned and frozen
fruits and vegetables; live animals; beverages (mainly apple juice
concentrate); sugar and honey - accounted for more than 80% of the value of
agricultural exports from 1978 to 1982. In recent years their share has
decreased to about 60% due to the decline in the value of exports of the three
mcst important groups - meat, fruits and vegetables and live animals - and
so.me rise in the value of exports of minor items. In the case of the largest
items - meat and meat products - the decline was mainly due to a dramatic drop
in quantity, by as much as 60% between 1980 and 1982, because of raw material
shortages and the temporary withdrawal of the "most favored nation" import tax
clause for Polish exports by the US. In 1986, exports of meat recovered to
114,000 tons, compared to 310,000 tons in 1975 and to as low as 65,000 tons in
1982. Without doubt, the policy of maintaining high domestic consumption,
despite rationing and in spite of declining domestic production, played a role
in reducing export earnings. In other exports - e.g. fruits and vegetables
and sugar - the decline in earnings was due to falling prices, especially in
recent years, for canned fruits, jams and canned vegetables which constituted
a large share of total fruit and vegetable exports. However, during the same
period exports of frozen products increased considerably and Poland has
captured a major share of the Western European frozen berries market.
2.    The total value of agricultural exports in 1988 amounted to US$1,625
million. In current US$ terms the value of exports increased by about 11%
over 1987 (US$1,435 million). In both years, 1987 and 1988, 88% of the export
proceeds were realized in convertible currency. Table 1 in Annex 2 provides
detailed data on exports of major agricultural and food products in 1987 and
1988.
Frozen Fruits and Veetahbles
3.    Poland's production of frozen fruits and vegetables has increased by 81%
during 1975-86 from 121,000 to 219,000 tons. Most of the production increase
- 98,000 tons - went for exports. In 1986, 69% of the frozen products was
exported, 38% to convertible currency countries, mainly to the EEC and
Scandinavian countries, and 31% to Eastern European countries, mainly the
USSR. Export of frozen products to CC-countries were valued at
US$53.5/million in 1986 which represented 53% of all fruit and vegetable
exports to the CC-countries. The construction of 94,000 tons capacity of
freezing and cold storage facilities in the late seventies and early eighties
permitted the rapid expansion of exports both to Eastern and Western European
countries. Exports of frozen fruits to convertible currency countries



- 63 -
ASNNEX2
Pap 2
creased by 17,000 tons during 1981-86 and of vegetables by 9,000 tons during
1981-85 (1986 was an abnormal year for vegetable exports because of the
Chernobyl nuclear accident). Incremental frozen fruit and vegetable exports
to non-convertible currency countries rose somewhat faster than exports to
convertible-currency countries, by 23,000 tons of fruits during 1981-86 and by
12,000 tons of vegetables during 1981-85. 1987 data indicate a decrease in
production and exports of frozen fruits, mainly because of the severe frost in
early 1987. In 1988, exports of frozen fruits increased by 23,000 tons when
compared to 1987, or 5,000 only, when compared to 1986. However, the total
incremental exports of 23,000 tons were sold in CC areas. Exports of frozen
vegetables show an upward trend, increasing from 72,000 tons in 1987 to 85,000
tons in 1988. The value of exports in 1988 of frozen fruits and vegetables to
CC areas was US$71.0 million (US$61.0 million in 1987 (see Annex 2, Table 2).
4.    Exports of frozen fruits in 1988 consisted of strawberries - 65,000
tons, raspberries - 3,500 tons, red and black currants - 19,000, and other
fruits, including frozen blackberries, some cherries and plums. Main
importers are the large multinational jam, dairy (yogurt) and ice cream
producers and bakeries in Western Europe.
5.    Exorts of frozen vesetable  to convertible currency countries virtually
doubled during 1981-86. Exports to Eastern European countries, particularly
the USSR, increased by over 60% over the six-year period. Main export
commodities are: mixed vegetables, cauliflower, carrots, haricot beans and
Brussels sprouts. Main importers in Western Europe are the Federal Republic
of Germany, 10,200 tons in 1986; the Netherlands, 710 tons; and Sweden and
Denmark with about 800 tons each. Except for haricot beans, where the Polish
share in extra EEC imports is about 29%, the share of other vegetables in
total extra EEC imports is relatively small, only about 12%. It should be
noted that Polish exports to the EEC dropped by 35X in 1986, from 19,300 tons
in 1985 to 12,500 tons, partly due to the Chernobyl accident. In 1987 exports
recovered the previous level of 20,000 tons. As mentioned in para 3 above, in
1988 exports of frozen vegetables to Western Europe increased to 33,000 tons,
valued at US$10.2 million.
xaoNt of Meat Products
6.    Currently, Poland exports about US$500 million equivalent in live
animals and meat products, mostly to Western Europe and the United States, and
increasing sales of carcass beef to Latin America. Virtually all exports of
livestock and meat products are paid in convertible currency. The most
important processed export commodities, relevant to the project, are: (a) ham
and shoulders canned or packed in foil - US$104 million in 1988 (US$119 in
1987); (b) other canned and dried meat products - US$28 million in 1988 (US$26
in 1987); (c) beef and pork meat - US$72.0 million and US$68.0 million in 1988
and 1987, respectively, and game meat - US$11.0 million. The export value of
live animals was US$124 million in 1986, increased to US$160 million in 1987
and to about US$192 million in 1988. Export volume of meat products increased
by 50X between 1981-1986, but has not yet fully recovered to the level
attained in the late 1970s. The export of hams and shoulders, almost



- 64 -
AN"NEX 2
Page 3
exclusively to the U.S., increased rapidly from 25,000 tons in 1981 to 36,500
tons in 1988 and almost reached the level of 1979 (42,000 tons or 43X of US
imports). In 1986, Poland provided 251 of U.S. imports of ham in volume
terms, second after Denmark, the main exporter to the U.S. Exports of other
meat products are progressing at a much slower rate. Main items are luncheon
meats, pork goulash, beef in gravy, dried products and lard. Volumes exported
are relatively small; main importing countries are Federal Republic of
Germany, U.K., and Sweden.
9.    Odm rexut commodides.   Poland's exports of apDle juice concentrate (ajc)
have rapidly developed from about 6,000 tons in 1980 to over 50,000 tons
during 1986. The ajc production in the 1986 crop season surpassed a record
80,000 tons. This performance, however, will not be repeated in the coming
years because of the severe damage caused by frost in the Spring of 1987.
Although 47,000 tons of ajc were exported in 1987, this consisted mainly of
stocks carried over from the previous year. The total apple crop in 1987 was
about 0.5 million tons, compared to 1.9 million tons in 1986. The apple
orchards are gradually recovering from the frost damages and the total 1988
crop reached almost 1.4 million tons. The fast increase in exports of ajc
was realized through the acquisition of processing equipment through
suppliers' credits, mainly from the FRG, under barter agreements linkirg
exports of ajc to the repayment of credits.



~I3SIES    fl9 UWLG9WII IEtl
Et3 O d lbier WglAtiarS wd fad prad1s
w-iq.~~~~~
Total                           Nm- rntible                             C_e rttble
_______________                             ctrmcc   see e*gciee  or"
SpecIficatlo                                             wo _f                                                   _ 
3931    191I     9o1      t98 -961           9U91    911 |       l     9 I"1   111    "11       am
Suar                                          255.0    79.4  12494.5  91779.2         0       0        0.9      3.1   252.0   19.3  32493.1   9171.2
molasses                                      315.9    24. 3    6403.5  9429.1        0       -                         I 335.9  264.5   4663.5   9429.I
Rapeseed                                      421.0   332.1  154U4.9  34499.5        43.0   10.1   11s.8   451.7   3610.0  372. 3 1356.1  342.6
a         oil                                  49.2    21.3   4059. 3   3521.9                                          49.2   21.1   4659. 3    311.9
Bp.                                             6.6    17.5       17.2   592.8        .          .                       6.3   31.5       11.2    5"2.I
fotatoes                                      425.5   002.7   )013.9  11259.2    423.1 J           033   9SI.0  31203.9  1.6    3.4      52.9      5S.2
11.31  _ad vewZtable products                 21.6   25.1  30712.0  5349.5    351.5  112.1  6991.15  34305.6    35.13   S2.5  23146.5  S306s.S
Frozen fruit  ad vegetables                   133.   1339.3  2213S.5  3942.S         58.0   59.2  S226.0  *ss.&    53.6  132.1  1,621.5   36S.4
Fresb fruits sa  vetables                     20.5   31S.5  14042.0  203U.S    261.0  216.P  91S2.S  1336.6   n3.s   ".6   46.4  "579.
spir5ts'                                      S"0.0   S17.0   3381.4 I3S71.3          7.0   41.0   324.5  1325.5   55 S3.6   55.6   -M.$  14232.2
casai2 23.5    20.5  333809.  335S0.5                                                 -                .                21.S   36.5  13609.0  33556.*
Cheses                                          1.2      1.3    434.3   970.6                 .        .            .            _ 
milk pewder                                    44.0    45.6   3150.4 245.5                                              "A.0   46.6      1156.4  24592.6
Fish _a  flis  products                       144.5   145.2   551.9  72241.5         14.4   33.3    51..3  322.3   13.2  13S.1  S293.1  110126.3
"Wat                                           4.5   50.4  13481.5  31126.0          6       1.2    11.3    13.5    41.0   56.3  36416.3  31132.4
lors. mat                                       0. S      .17   4358.4   51_3.5       -                                 IR.      3.1   435.4   S73.
Rabbit mat                                      4.0      3.1   2611.9  3225.5         -       -.6    3.3    2317.9   3225.9
acem                                            I.S      1.3    552.3   1044.6                         .                 ).S     1.3    *S2.6  1304.3
Caed h    NW shoulders                         35.1    35.5  32023.9  43922.5         6       6        8.1      9.0      5.1   35 .S  32635.2  43033.5
CMAd mats *ad 20*11ago                         IS.0     1.3   7123.7 12S45.4          6       6       19.3    34.2    IS.6   IS3    721G.4  1253.3
Cattle for slaughter eM& hre.d3s               52.0    315.5  23593.3  5352.3 8                                         62.60   35.5  23093.3  53562.1
s_ep far slasbter as  brand I                  16.3    12.    1459.4  14330.0                                           1 3     12 7 2. 1451.4  14330.8
Dfoes for s3*ahtrts an bh _ ed                 25.3    is.5  14300.  3 5542.                                            20.    35.1  346611.6   35542.S
a 3m tho s. bectellttre.
Source: CSO  orelga tlae.



DOAN
AGRIIOUSTRIES - EXNNT DEVELORHIT PIOJECT
Production  Ad ExWorts of frozen Fruit. ad VOSOables
1070-ge
1i70       1i75        I3O         1941        1992         1003          1944         105          1s"           1",        lO
A. Cror   rulits
Productljo  (tons  1o00)        31          69          36         66          e1          153           120          144          134          120         na.
EuiniLa (tons *000)
tL  CC countries           n.c          39          46          50          52           S0            65           63           67           63          U
to bOC comtrics            a.m.         11          12           S           7           16            24           23           31           IJ          17
Totcl *orts                   nU..          50          56          58         50           66            so           U                         so         103
Vluo of *Mort.,
Cal billiaem              nU..         n.e.        n.e.          3.1         3.6          4.3           5.6          6.6         11.0         16.7      2W0
of  1c   oCC co,mtri.a
US  IIIlon)                n.e.        n.m.       nA..          33.8        39.2         34.4          35.1         33.5         43.5         53.0       61.0
3.  Frosen Vestebl.
ftQtbetln (tons  000)           14          52          66          07         70           63            65           01           05           e3           -
Exports (tons 000)
to CC countric             n.e.        n a.        n.s.         12          10           12            16           21           16           21         33
to IIC cowitrios           na.         nae.        n.s.         22          31           32            20           34           33           51          52
n.e.       n.e.        n.e.         34          50           44            45           55           54           l2          G5
T 1sa ot *nogts
(EL b:lIll                 n.e.        n.e.        n.s           1.0         1.5          1.4           1.5          2.1          2.1          5.5         0.5
of lec   to Ce countri*s
(USS milln)                n.e.        n.e.        n.e.          4.1         5.9          3.2           3.7          4.7          5.0          6.0        10.2



- 67 -
Table 3
POLAND
AGROINDUSTlIES - EXPORT DEVELDPCKNT PROJECT
Agricultural Production in 1987-1988
Crops, Livestock, Moat Production
Specification           Unit           1987           1988        1988:1987
Total erains         tons million         26.1            24.5          93.8
of which:
wheat   tons million           7.9             7.6         96.2
rye     tons million           6.8             5.5         80.8
barley  tons million           4.3             3.8         88.3
oats    tons million           2.5             2.2         88.0
corn    tons million           0.146          0.20        139.7
Potatoes            tons million          36.3            34.8         95.8
Sugar beets         tons million          14.0            14.1        100.7
Oil crops            tons million          1.192           1.20        101.2
Meedow hay           tons million         15.4            14.8          96.1
Livestock   ooulatio
Total cattle        head   '000       10,523          10,322.1          98.1
of which:
cows    head   '000        4,936          4,805.1          97.4
pigs    head   '000       18,546         19,605.0         105.7
sheep   head   '000       4,739           4,376.5          92.3
,Production
Total livestock      tons   '000       4,311           4,338           100.6
for slaughter
of which:
beef    tons   '000        1,413          1,372            97.1
pork    tons   '000        2,202          2,280           103.5
poultry tons   '000          465            487           104.7
Milk                litres '000       15,079.0        15,022.8         99.6



POLAND
AGROINDUSTRIES - EXPRT DEVELOPHMNT PROJUCT
Production and Procurement of Mbior Fruits and V*xotables s/
1953    1980/81       1982       1983          1984         1985        1986        1987          1988
- Strawberries           142      n.&.          211        191           186          212         267         234           249
- Currants: black        n.a.    n.&.            63         79            66           91  )      150  }       102          165
red        n.a.    n.a.            75          85           85           89  )
- Raspberries            n c      n.e.           30         29            30           38          32                        43
- Cherries
(sweet & sour)            33     n.a.          na.         119           113           97          88          17           9U
- Plum                    69      n.a.         n.m.        162           131          172         147           17           98
- Applas                 259      n.e.         n.a.      1,729         1.565        1,343       1,920         504         1.303
- Other W/                _-      n            n             9           I6 SO        147         153
Subtotal                470      n.e.         n.&.      2,563         2.336        2.189       2.757        1.035        2.188
- Strawberries           n.e.    n.e.           127        126           121          144         172         223           144
- Currnts:  black        n.a.    n.a.            40         58            52           62          73          44            41
red        n.a.    n.a.            30          39           35           42                                                                 I I
- Raspberries            n.a.    n.a.            16         22            20           30  )       22  )        0            29
- Cherries
(sweet & sour)         nU..    n.a.           n.a.       n.a.           32            18          13           4            42
- PLUM                   n.a.    n.e.          n.e.         37            39            7          42           1            28
- Apples                 n.e.    n.a.          n..       1,157           921          901       1.287         474           991
- Other _)                                                  9 1n n,  91   24           87          is          1              8IL
Subtotal                n.e.    645          1,717      1,530         1.244        1,291       1,625         769         1.353
V GETJIBLES
Production                        nc..    nUe.          n.a.                                4.700        5,350       5S.80 o5546
ESQ<xuz">nt                              1,158         1,086      1,131         1,106        1.100       1,281       1.374         1,304                       k
I/ Siuro: HAMT! - Dopartaent of Horticulturo
k/ Mainly pears and gooseberries



POLAND
Agroilduatris EXo   Devopmen  Proe
Seblted Pro-AppraISed Subpro*et
lotals Includino twitansawiu   lotals Includins CstlMj     rus
(listY flalhm)                     IUSI ObO
--------- .. ----.--------------  -----------------------------                           Local.aui.  1a  f l.  'Aatuw I
19t     1l  I 2   toal          1M0    191  M          Toulat    Lca        for. Exch.     fe)         lae;
ziudnm  - Cold Store (I0s000 t)                  131077.1    41.1     - 13,111.3  1,384*9  4U.4        - 15,433.2         21     31224.5        10,65.4  1,543.3
hdissczt - Nat Ptocessing                         t41.6         -     -  141.6  Itl1.9           -     -   06.9           35      1,411.0            9.3     156.1
6nuilza   - Nea1 PtFossid                         12679         -     -  1,267.9   1"4.7         -    -  I491.7           of       111H3.3         149.2    109.2
Tom  - eat Ptwousirna                             1    .5       -     -  1.05.5   1265.3         -    -  14265.3          34 1U357.4                01.4     12I.5 .
Jiulustot - deat Prcesing                           776.3       -     -              9. 913.9    -    -    913.9          3          713.3          51.6    12.5>
lebign - NIat Prsins                                797.9       -     -    797.9    933.1        -    -    931.7           14        69.6          126.3      121.9 ? o
Rzeszo  - eat  rocessin                           1157.4              -  1#157.4   1.31U.        -     - 1.361.)           02      1,117.5          417.0    1M7.,
lila - Fotest trodts                              39732.0 3I1.5       -  7.213.5  4W390.o 4#095.I      -   ,411.4         36       3,020.3       4,417.7      948.
aosza - Potato Products                           1,961.4 -    -      -  1.44134   2M30.S        -    -- 2.367.S          60       1,383.3         *J-.5      210.3
llerbrul - Nert' Procnsani                        1.303.3       -     -  5,13.3   2.121.5 -1- 2.121.5                     31         656.5       1t .9         1
UsUiicszez -    1Prudctam Of cas                  5068.0  247.1       - 6.015.?   6,136.9  291.7       -  7071.6          32       5439.1          W60.     .701.1
Zmuiw  - her  sttlin                              2,956.4       -     - 2.95a.4   34711.1        -     -  ,47.1            3       2,697.4         23:.9     347.6
p5kcoor - 3etriierated Trucls                     239 4.6       -    -  2 4.   315.&             -     -  3#41.4           77      2.622.J          -0.4      723.3
lstermro - Befraswrated Jruc4s                    39604.2             -  3404.2   4,244.3              - 4240.3            77      3,265.0            .0     975.3
moiss - Prod. of Clbano                             361.4       -    -    367.4      432.2                  432.2         a3         355.1          I4.2       62.7
Skavins - Coffee Suktitute                        3,99.1        -    -  3."1    4,695.4          -     - 46695.4           71      33U1.5           191.0     MM.
Total:                                46,50.7 3,769.7      - S0.420.4 54633.2 4,434.9       - 5U 311.I         55    31256.6         19,331.7   701h7V.1



- 70 -
Tabe 2
:Ovoin4ust?t¶ - ExPort Dewwmt P'o..ct
Tule 127. Narket ng Actt;i    s
DtIs1e4 Cost rici,
(Zioti Nillion
wrtabeoun of Totals 1il. Cant
Itat  , Includifn               .,$ '100
Cvoatirnacesn        --
Base Costs               (US$ '000)                  Lceal
For.  (Exel. Dutin  I
M9O  1991  1992  Total  M990  1991  1M   Total   Exch. Tax")  Taxs   Total
22338 338a3n=     muo m  383W   mum w 383.3338283  3383s38333  38838383 828
1. IlWESTo   COSTS
i. NavAisS
NIfbet Stuiu                  43*5  86t 8.9 217.3  66.1 181.4 2194   466*.  122.6  297.5            46.7  46.3
T- auun                       87.6  43.3  43.8 175*3  136.6  95.9 117*2  349.7   97.4  252.3           -  349*7
Sol"PIrotIon                  87.6 306.7  87.6 482.0  136*.  671.4 234.4 1,042.4  266*9   7J3.5        -1042.4
T *'Tstal Ntetliw SCOM   2t 18.7 43A.4 216.4 874.5  339.3 9 4.6 570.9 1.853.9  468.6 19323.3    46*7 1353.9
-  -               m---- ---- - - ---- - _  _ -*gas
Total                               218.7 437.4 213.4 874.5  339.3 948.6 570.9 1,85.9*  4883. 19323.3    46*7 1821*9
_ 383383 umS 3233. 8383 -                            #-  - _
July 6. 1939 13:59



- 71 -
AhNiNX4
Tabk 1
POL4ND
Arolndustres - Exuogt Develofugt.?rgI
Eslimated Schedule ot Disburseents
IBRD           Quarter      Disbursements
Fiscal Year        Ending      During Ouarter    Cumulative
-US$ Millions-
1990              June 1990           30.0             30.0
1991
September 1990      4.0            34.0
December 1990       5.0             39.0
March 1991          5.0            44.0
June 1991           6.0             50.0
1992
September 1991      6.0             56.0
December 1991       5.0             61.0
March 1992          5.0             66.0
June 1992           4.0             70.0
1993               September 1992      4.0             74.0
December 1992       4.0             78.0
March 1993          4.0             82.0
June 1993           3.0             85.0
1994               September 1993      3.0             88.0
December 1993       3.0             91.0
March 1994          2.0             93.0
June 1994           2.0             95.0
1995               September 1994      3.0            98.0
December 1994       2.0           100.0



faLAW
(ml .112.1cm)
Sales      Eqmort Sales      Pro-ta     Current       Debt. Equty     Projected      Fresr&      Incremetal      tFuancleL       Zemicnc
Revenue   to CC-comutriem      Proit.     Ratio           Rat.o        Investment     RKheehS       bawrte      In        Wg-121t    w
19i            ieJ            ING        19ie            1oes          Cost        CApoem.  at Cepelty    I                         I
A. Met. Procossina Plants
Sydaoszcs               16.545          3.352           500        1.3           a. .              346          205          403         13.7    32.5       34.1
Tor.                    11.16          2.116            515        1.4           2:00              202          221          *11         21t.    111.1      40.1
Grudaiad:                0.550          3.400           326        1.4           n. .              3e7          250          302         1.4       6.0      22.5
sialystock              24.001          3,165         2.330        2.4           0.55              443          21           65          50. 3   313.6      45 .1
Lublin                  15.617            030          0G          1.9           0.23              327          244        4.063         40.0   0.7 1       36.
ReaOsow                1t0.00           1. i6           451        1.3           0.02              556          350           076        36.0   226         22.0
D. Cold Storae ond
Fr.am.s Plants
Kuidayn                  7.049          1.105           S00        1.3          27:73            4.015         6*J         1.433.4       24.3 32512.S        33.0        _
C. Transort
PoIcrop                 71.506        20.900              1.6      1.1           0.35            1.200          Ms         1.652         42.2   $1.2         10.1
lnterpearo               S.0uS         3.625           3U1         1.4           0.50            1.407        1.11U          SOO         22.6   in. 0       44.6
D. gu
Aino - cbtcory           5.405            201           546        2.0           0.40              261          250          ta          40.0   162.6       20.0
shewine -cottoo          6.771           230            $53        1.0           0.41            1.*S         1.2S         1.S40         24.0   2U          30.0
substitute
n.o.- no long-t.cm  liabilit.ies.
Sr     Snclude  x; 410 U lillon In nvon-coavertible currencies.
II



- 73 -
ANC 5
SaIaS d DoCeuner and Dib  Aymblb  In Promt Fib
1.    FAO/CP Project Preparation Report - October 21, 1987.
2.    FAO/CP Working Papers   Annexes 1 to 10.
3.    FAO/CP Marketing Study   November 25, 1987.
4.    Polish Foreign Trade Research Institute - Marketing Study.
Foreign Fruits and Vegetables - November 1987.
5.    Sub-project Evaluation Reports for pre-identified sub-projects -
prepared by IAFE.
6.    Appraisal Mission - Working Papers - Financial and Economic
Analysis.
7.    Feasibility Studies for pre-identified subprojects - prepared by
PREOXIM, Ltd., Economic Consultancy Office



POLAND
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY AND FOOD ECONOMY (MAFFE)
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Board of Agricultural   Board of Horticultural                   Board of Ministry    Board of Science
Education                Economy             MINISTER                              & Technology
Office of
Vice Minister      Government       Vice Minister                 Vice minister          Vice Minister
Plenipotentiary
...=iiiIiiiiiiii    Office    r                    r
Department       Department        Department       of the           Legal             Department of
of Soil              for              of          Minister       Department         I Agroprocessing  't
Management      Agroindustries    Development
&            Restructuring         of
Amelioration                        Agricultural                r                     r
Production        0         Dpat-ent of       IIDepartment ofI
Economics & Finance      Investments
| Department of    Department for                   Personnel                          [ Technology
Science, Tech-    Rural Develop-    Department   Department
nology &            ment              of                          Office of          1     1     1
IExtension    |                       Veterinary                  Administration
Inspection                     & Budget      |   Department of
I_________       I                                                 Foreign
I         |        - I   Economic
Department of     Department for   Department               r                 I          Relations
Defense        Cooperation with       of    |              Department for Socio-
Soviet         Forestry                Professional Matters
Agriculture         &                      & Social Security
Hunting



---      -    ---           ¢           g-                                -22 -                                                                               24722056
.,                                                                                     T.-;r---:2  K- _ S-1>    d    +ol~ngod---l------)  t1A(                         -          - EXPORT
dy                                                                                                         D ~~~~~~~~~~E-V  .0~ WPROJEC-T
LOCATION OF ENTERPRISES
* Coffee S.bntitote        S   Fornnry Prodods
.r 0    Tanspot                                                             0   Co. Factory
* Chticory                 0   Potato Pnodocts
r Beer Bottling               0    Herb Processino
a                                                                           £   Meo      ~.- nt e rocessing Parts  u and Vetable Processing
PRA.  BTDGOSZ z /                                                        '~~~~~~OTROgK                                                                                           Main YSTds       and Cold Stores
--Z:: A                                                                                                                                                       Rail road
L    P O                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ai,rpots
A ~Major Forts
To                                                    MAO~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                      ~~~~CtAWEK  @  Notional Capital
-    -                      POZNA    .-  -0                                                                           -                                                   O                                                         Proince (W/ojeWdoi eot  Capita_ls
WARSA lf  20°                      22                                -'-'-'°'                                  t0                  Cities and Towns
(WARSZIAW  Co,,o,  SIED[CR    ~   -- 54 051.5            ~-S~--T Rivers
KONI52
~~~  O(~~~~~~~~ltA                                                                       -                -        POD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lAA                                                           Praninc (Wojew6dtwotn) Boo..daries
* O.rSn                 LRSZNO                                                       -  SKIE  IEWICE KA                                                                                                                     intotirnalisa Boundaries
-  SIERADZ          ~        ~         1(--                 ,          -~~ (RA
tOTRYB V          -
To~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oB
KIIELC                                                                  '~~~~~~~~~~~vth~DE  tWED
C,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,
RN   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~rEMN                                                                 POLANDWO-,- 
T. Lv-              FED.~~~ REMP.        E
0-                                                                                                 ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,)OF  GERMANY \,    CzEctfQ  V'--~1
S~~~~~~~,cz      ~rovco.,.,aaSLOVl                                                                                           ThI
_______________200_K___E__E___A                                                                                                                                                                                                HUNGARY
4.EnvOEvnOce  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~         ~       ~                   ROMANIA
K ~~~~~~~~~~~nnnEOv n                                                  ITALY                       Yt G  SA! f'5
Ion                                                   22                                     54n                                                                          k*             OCICtEI 1955~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCOER18



