Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 15955
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGROINDUSTRIES EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3167-POL)
August 8, 1996
Agriculture and Regional Development Operations Division
Central and Southern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
their official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Polish Zloty (PLZ)
1988 US$ 1 = PLZ 0.0431
1989 US$ I = PLZ 0.1439
1990 US$ 1 = PLZ 0.9500
1991 US$ 1 = PLZ 1.0576
1992 US$ 1 = PLZ 1.3626
1993 US$ 1 = PLZ 1.8115
1994 US$ 1 = PLZ 2.2723
1995 US$ 1 = PLZ 2.4250
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(metric)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP            Agricultural Development Project
AEDP           Agroindustries Export Development Project
BGZ            Bank for Food Economy
CC             Convertible Currency
CMEA           Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
EFSAL          Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
EU             European Union
FAO/CP         Food and Agriculture Organization/Consultative Program
FIDL           Financial Institutions Development Loan
FRR            Financial Rate of Return
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IEDP           Industrial Export Development Project
LCB            Local Cooperative Bank
MAFE           Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy
MOF            Ministry of Finance
NBP            National Bank of Poland
PBs            Participating Banks
PU             Project Unit
RCB            Regional Cooperative Bank
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SPA            State Property Agency



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGROINDUSTRIES EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3167-POL)
CONTENTS
Preface .......................................................... i
Evaluation Summary  ................................................  iii
Part 1: Project Implementation Assessment  .............                           ..1.................. 
A. Project Objectives ............................................   1
B.  Evaluation of Objectives ........................................   I
C. Achievement of Project Objectives   .................................   2
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation  ...                            ....  5
E.  Project Sustainability  ..........................................   6
F.  Bank Performance ............................................   6
G. Borrower Performance  .........................................   7
H. Assessment of Outcome  ........................................   8
I.  Future Operation   ............................................   8
J.  Key Lessons Learned ..........................................   8
Part II: Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments   ..................................    10
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans ......................................    11
Table 3: Project Timetable   .......................................    11
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual ...............    12
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation  ........................    12
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation   ...........................    12
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project  .................................    13
Table 8A:  Project Costs  .........................................    13
Table 8B: Project Financing   ......................................    14
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits  ................................    14
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants   .................................   15
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  ...................   16
Table 12:  Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs  ...............................   16
Table 13: Bank Resources:  Missions  .................................   17
Appendices:
A. Aide-Memoire of ICR Initiation Mission
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Map - IBRD No. 27512
dbs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of their
o official dutics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLbout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMIENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGROINDUSTRIES EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3167-POL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agroindustries Export Development
Project (AEDP) in Poland, for which an IBRD loan in the amount of US$100 million equivalent was
approved on February 6, 1990; signed on February 22, 1990; and made effective on May 7, 1990.
At the Borrower's request, an amount of US$25 million equivalent was cancelled in May 1994.
The last disbursement from the loan account was made on December 19, 1994, and the loan was closed
on December 31, 1994 as originally scheduled. The final amount utilized was US$71.62 million
equivalent and the unutilized balance of US$3.38 million was cancelled with effect from December 31,
1994.
The ICR was prepared in the Agriculture and Regional Development Operations Division of the
Central and Southern Europe Departments (Country Departments I and II) in the Europe and Central Asia
Region. The current Task Manager is Kishore Nadkarni; the report was reviewed by Michele de Nevers,
Division Chief and Jane Loos, Project Adviser. The Borrower - the National Bank of Poland (NBP)
- provided written contributions. A summary is included as an Appendix to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun in the last supervision mission in February 1995, and followed
up on during missions in September 1995 and January 1996. It is based on materials in the project files,
discussions with relevant NBP and Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy (MAFE) officials,
interviews with representatives of the participating banks, and with selected agencies and subborrowers.
The Borrower contributed in the preparation of the ICR by: (i) discussing major points included in the
report; (ii) providing information on the credit line component; (iii) coordinating collection of necessary
data; and (iv) providing its section of the report.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGROINDUSTRIES EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3167-POL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
i.    Since Poland rejoined the Bank in 1986, the Bank's strategy of assistance has focussed on
supporting the country's program of macroeconomic and structural adjustment to make the economy more
efficient, flexible, market responsive and competitive in external markets. In the agricultural sector,
the Agroindustries Export Development Project, approved in 1990, was the Bank's first operation in the
sector. It was followed by the Agricultural Development Project (Loan 3343-POL) in 1991 in support
of the restructuring of the rural cooperatives sector and the creation of an independent cooperative bank
system, and the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3600-POL) in 1993 in support of the
Government's Medium-Term Adjustment Program in the agricultural sector.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
ii.    Objectives: The development objectives of the Agroindustries Export Development Project
(AEDP) were to: (a) remedy the existing constraints to rapidly increasing Poland's exports of processed
agricultural products to convertible currency (CC) countries; (b) assist the lending institutions associated
with the project and the state-owned enterprises financed under it to operate in a market-oriented
environment; (c) promote further involvement of the private sector in food processing activities that are
export-oriented; and (d) help maintain supplies of livestock to processors, and thus sustain meat exports
(para. 1).
iii. Components: The main project components were the provision of credit for financing: (a)
investment by agroprocessing enterprises, including for preappraised subprojects, and for eligible
subprojects yet to be identified under a line of credit through eligible participating banks; and (b) import
of protein feed to help alleviate a critical shortage of livestock feed at the time. In addition, a component
for strengthening the Bank for Food Economy (BGZ) and other participating banks (PBs) was included
under the concurrent Industrial Export Development Project (IEDP - Loan 3166-POL) that was processed
and approved in the Bank at the same time as the AEDP (paras. 2 and 3).
IMLEMENTATION ExPERiENcE AND RESULTS
iv.    Achievement of Objectives: In 1990, when the project was approved, the democratically elected
Government in Poland had just introduced its Economic Transformation Program (ETP) which contained
sweeping reforms in initiating major macroeconomic and structural adjustment in the economy. As a first
generational investment project aimed at supporting the ETP by enhancing export competitiveness in areas
of perceived comparative advantage, the AEDP did not contain any significant sector policy objectives
additional to those pursued under the ETP. Institutional development objectives were essentially limited



- iv -
to strengthening the operations of the participating banks, to be pursued under the concurrent IEDP. The
project's objectives, therefore, were largely financial - incremental export earnings to convertible
currency (CC) markets; efficiency improvements in participating enterprises; and promotion of private
sector involvement in export-oriented agroprocessing activities (paras. 4 to 6). Despite some notable
successes, the project, overall, has not met its financial objectives, either in terms of incremental export
earmings or efficiency improvements in the subborrower enterprises. Financial rates of return (FRRs),
as estimated by the subborrowers and PBs, are generally lower than the minimum expected (15 percent).
A significant proportion of the subborrowers, particularly in the larger subprojects, are facing financial
difficulties, leading to bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings in many cases. Workouts or reorganization
plans are being worked out with the creditors, including BGZ and other PBs, in most of the latter types
of cases (paras. 11 to 20).
v.     Success in the institutional strengthening of the PBs has also been limited. Of the four PBs, three
of the PBs (accounting for 10 percent of the funds onlent) have received technical assistance under the
IEDP and subsequent other Bank operations; however, importantly, in the case of BGZ, the main PB
(with about 90 percent of the funds onlent), progress has been limited. Serious delays by BGZ in living
up its commitments of undertaking satisfactory diagnostic and portfolio assessment studies, and in
preparing and implementing action plans for improvement, have led to a progressive deterioration in its
financial situation. The Government, with the Bank's substantial involvement, is currently engaged in
undertaking a restructuring of the Polish rural finance system, including BGZ and the cooperative banking
system, consisting of over 1,600 local cooperative banks and a number of regional cooperative banks
(paras. 19 to 20).
vi.    Major Factors Affecting the Project: The main risks to project implementation were recognized
at appraisal - the possible effects on the subsector from the variations in implementation of the overall
economic transformation and structural adjustment programs, and the potential impact of adverse price
changes in world markets. What could not be foreseen was the sudden collapse of the CMEA market
juxtaposed with transitional difficulties in domestic markets, and their combined impact on the enterprise
and banking sectors. Factors beyond the Government's control included the major changes that occurred
in CMEA markets after 1990 which were critical for many Polish exporters who had oriented their
production to the increasing trade in convertible currency within CMEA markets, and who were
subsequently unable to switch their production to the more demanding Western markets; these difficulties
were further compounded by the effects of droughts in 1991/92 which severely affected agricultural
production, reducing product quality and increasing unit costs of production for processors (para. 23).
Changes ensuing from the Government's implementation of its economic transformation program also
had, on balance, the effect of reducing demand on the part of medium to large state-owned enterprises
for undertaking investments resulting from a combination of factors: uncertainties in their status pending
restructuring or privatization; perceived high interest costs; and delays in completion of administrative
and judicial proceedings in the case of enterprises in financial difficulties with their creditors (paras. 24
to 25).
vii.   Bank and Borrower Performance: Bank performance was more satisfactory during the pre-
implementation phases of the project, including identification, preparation and appraisal; during the
implementation phase, while Bank supervision was satisfactory in terms of the frequency and extent of
efforts, including missions in the field, its effectiveness in securing an early and meaningful impact on
BGZ (the main PB under the project) and on its subborrowers, was limited. In hindsight, perhaps the
Bank could have been more forceful in seeking BGZ's compliance with its undertakings, including the
examination of stronger remedies such as suspension of disbursements. The fact that the AEDP credit
line was among the relatively more successful of the Bank's credit lines in Poland in terms of the pace
and extent of disbursement, and the consequent reluctance to discourage a good performer, may have
contributed to the Bank's reluctance to take a stronger line with BGZ (paras. 28 to 32).



- v -
viii.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during the identification, preparation and appraisal
stages of the project cycle. Performance during implementation was affected by the continued misgivings
of the National Bank of Poland (NBP), the apex institution for the project, in regard to its role conflict
as apex under the project and its normal functions as a central bank. This constrained NBP from taking
a proactive role in project promotion, facilitation and monitoring as the Bank would have expected.
Compliance with covenants was generally satisfactory with the notable exception of the serious delays
by BGZ in meeting its commitments in respect to implementation of an action plan for improvement of
its operations. Reporting, while complied with, was inadequate in terms of the accuracy and quality of
information (paras. 33 to 34).
ix.    Assessment of Project Outcome: The overall project outcome is assessed as unsatisfactory as the
project has not met its development objectives and prospects for the future are uncertain. Without any
significant sector policy and institutional objectives, the project relied heavily on the achievement of its
financial objectives. Despite a few notable successes, the financial objectives in respect of incremental
exports to CC markets or significant increases in operating efficiency have not been met as many of the
subborrowers, including the larger ones, are facing serious financial problems, and their future depends
upon the outcome of the workout and restructuring plans being discussed with their creditors, including
BGZ and the other PBs. In regard to BGZ, the outcome depends crucially upon the Government's ability
to undertake a satisfactory resolution under the ongoing restructuring program for the Polish rural finance
system (para. 35).
PROJECT SUSTAINABILIrY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
x.     Sustainability: The sustainability of the project is uncertain, and would depend critically upon the
Government's success in resolving satisfactorily the situation in regard to BGZ, the principal PB under
the project. The resolution of the BGZ issue goes beyond just BGZ since the fates of several of BGZ's
clients (and subborrowers under the project) are also linked closely with the eventual outcome in respect
to BGZ. At the Government's request, the Bank has hitherto been providing intensive assistance through
participation in the ongoing dialogue in regard to restructuring of the Polish rural finance system, and
coordinating multilateral/bilateral technical assistance that is being provided from EU and other sources
to the Government in the design and preparation of the program (para. 27).
xi.    Future Operation: The Borrower has not prepared a formal operational plan pending a decision
in regard to the restructuring of the rural finance system, including BGZ and the cooperative banks. The
Bank is, however, intensively involved in the ongoing discussions in this regard. During this exercise,
the Bank intends to stay in close touch in respect to the implications of the outcome for BGZ's
subborrowers under the loan within the more general context of a resolution of BGZ's portfolio problems.
NBP has confirmed that it does not intend to utilize the reflows from the subloan repayments for future
lending for similar purposes (paras. 36 and 37).
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
xii.   The main lessons from the project (as summarized in para. 38), which may also have more
general relevance for other projects, are:
(a)  credit lines are inappropriate instruments in the absence of strong financial intermediaries
and in environments of significant monetary instability characterized by high inflation and
interest rates;



- vi -
(b)  successful restructuring of medium to large state-owned enterprises cannot be accomplished
without sweeping reforms that address questions of enterprise ownership and governance;
(c)  the need for Bank projects to have strong institutional components to complement the
provision of funds; and
(d)  the danger of emphasizing disbursements, as a measure of performance, as they are not
necessarily correlated to results on the ground.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGROINDUSTRIES EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOan 3167-POL)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PRojECr OBJECTE
1.    The development objectives of the Agroindustries Export Development Project (AEDP) were to:
(a) remedy the existing constraints to rapidly increasing Poland's exports of processed agricultural
products to convertible currency (CC) countries; (b) assist the lending institutions associated with the
project and the state-owned enterprises financed under it to operate in a market-oriented environment;
(c) promote further involvement of the private sector in food processing activities that are export-oriented;
and (d) help maintain supplies of livestock to processors, and thus sustain meat exports.
2.    The main project components were the provision of credit for financing: (a) investments by
agroprocessing enterprises, including for preappraised subprojects, and for eligible subprojects yet to be
identified under a line of credit through eligible participating banks; and (b) import of protein feed to help
alleviate a critical shortage of livestock feed at the time.
3.    In addition, a component for strengthening of the Bank of Food Economy (BGZ) and other
participating banks (PBs) was included under the concurrent Industrial Export Development Project (IEDP
- Loan 3166-POL) that was processed and approved in the Bank at the same time as the AEDP.
B. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
4.    Poland rejoined the Bank in 1986. Preparation of the AEDP and IEDP was started in early 1987,
and both projects were first appraised in late 1987. At the time, although socialism was under strain and
the demand for reform was growing, there was no consensus that radical change was the only solution.
Bank operations focussed, therefore, on securing gains in selected subsectors, chosen on the basis of an
assessment of their potential comparative advantage, through improvement in the productivity and
efficiency of state-owned enterprises. The elections of June 1989 marked a watershed in Poland's history.
The new democratically-elected Government, strongly committed to the rapid creation of a market
economy, initiated its Economic Transformation Program (ETP) in early 1990 with priority on stabilizing
the economy and creating effective markets to replace the system of central command. The Bank's
assistance program shifted to helping the Government carry out its program of reforms oriented to a more
open economy and increased efficiency in the productive process. In particular, the effort under the
AEDP, the Bank's first agricultural project in Poland, was to be focussed at achieving increased exports
to convertible currency markets.
5.    Objectives (a), (c) and (d) were well-defined to achieving the project's primary goal of helping
to increase exports of agroprocessed products to CC markets. Objective (b) in regard to increasing the
efficiency and market-orientation of the PBs and the state-owned enterprises was also consistent with the
Bank's strategy of supporting the ETP towards a market economy.
6.    Project preparation, including the main appraisal, took place in 1987-88, well before the initiation
of the major reforms of 1989-90. The principal features of the project were defined at this time, but
some modifications to project design were later made in response to the introduction of the ETP.



- 2 -
Reflecting the relative inexperience at the time of the National Bank of Poland (NBP) and other Polish
banks in commercial banking operations, including project appraisal and supervision, the project, as
originally designed, was expected to include over thirty preidentified, preappraised subprojects, with a
relatively small credit line component to help finance other eligible subprojects as would be identified
later. With the delay in post-appraisal project processing and the major changes taking place in the
environment (para. 22), the number of preappraised subprojects likely to participate dropped, and the
significance of the credit line component increased. In the absence of any other institution or agency that
could serve as an apex for onlending of bank funds, NBP and the Bank agreed that, as a special
consideration, NBP would undertake the apex function through a newly created project unit to be set up
within NBP. Technical assistance was to be provided to BGZ and the other PBs under the IEDP to help
strengthen their operations, including a requirement that the PBs undertake to prepare action plans for
operational improvement based on acceptable audits of their financial situation. At the Government's
request, a credit component was added to enable imports of protein feed to help sustain meat exports.
While the importance of supporting infrastructure and services such as market research and surveys;
export promotion campaigns; export market intelligence; and product innovation/pilot testing were
recognized, the project design did not include an explicit, institutional component to address these areas
beyond the provision of funds under the credit line to those enterprises that wished to undertake such
activities. Overall, for both the AEDP and the IEDP, as the Bank's first generational projects in Poland,
institutional and policy conditionalities were kept to a minimum in recognition of the striking progress
being made in economic reforms under the ETP.
7.    The main risks to project implementation were recognized at appraisal - the possible effects on
the subsector from the variations in implementation of the overall economic transformation and structural
reform programs, and the potential impact of adverse price changes in world markets. The risk of a one
to two year delay in project implementation and its impact on project benefits was also identified, and
found acceptable. What could not be foreseen was the sudden collapse of the CMEA market juxtaposed
with transitional difficulties in domestic markets, and the combined impact on the enterprise and banking
sectors. In hindsight, the considerable risk associated with the Government's political will and ability
to deal effectively in a timely manner with BGZ was also not adequately recognized.
8.    As described later (para. 23), in addition to the transitional effects of the economic and structural
reform programs, the project's implementation period was marked also by major, unforeseen, external
factors, including the collapse of the former CMEA markets after 1990, and serious droughts in 1991/92.
To increase the utility of the Bank loan to subborrowers in the changing circumstances, a number of
modifications were made to the project during implementation without compromising the original
objectives. In view of the rapid and wide-spread liberalization under the price and trade regimes, the
need for explicitly targeting support to export-oriented investments alone was reduced, and in addition
to export-oriented projects, others that resulted in significant efficiency gains were also made eligible for
support, including financing of permanent working capital; as prices were largely liberalized, financial
rates of return (FRRs) provided an acceptable proxy for the ERRs, and the requirement on the separate
calculation of an ERR was relaxed; procurement limits and procedures were revised to recognize the
increased experience and capacity of the participating agencies; and, for consistency, thresholds and
conditions were harmonized between the Bank's different credit lines in Poland.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    Despite its success in committing and disbursing a substantial part (about 72 percent) of the funds
under the Bank loan, the project can be deemed to have had only very limited success in achieving its
overall objectives.



-3 -
Sector Policy Objectives
10.   As a first generational project being processed concurrently with the Government's sweeping
ETP, launched in early 1990, the project had no additional sector policy objectives over those being
addressed under the ETP.
Financial Objectives
11.   Incremental Export Earnings:  With the modifications made (para. 8) during project
implementation in recognition of the changed economic environment and newly emerging needs, the
project's original exclusive focus on increased export earnings to CC markets was complemented by other
eligible activities including investments and permanent working capital financing to increase operating
efficiency; purchase of equipment by operating lease companies, etc. With a few notable exceptions,
exports were generally significantly lower than projected, reflecting the combined adverse effect of the
collapse of the CMEA market; difficulties in switching to Western markets; and the sponsoring
enterprises' financial difficulties that affected production volume and quality. Data submitted by the
subborrowers and PBs are inadequate to assess with any assurance the increment in export earnings, but
it is clear that the achievements are likely to be far short of the US$55 million per year incremental
earnings projected at appraisal.
12.   Efficiency Improvements: Similarly, the objective of improved efficiency through reductions in
unit costs in enterprises producing primarily for the domestic market was achieved only to a limited
extent. While the new machinery and equipment, and upgrading of domestic and imported working
capital inputs, enabled by the subloans resulted in improved technical capability, the efficiency aspects
could only be realized to a limited extent given the excess capacity in the face of weak domestic and
external markets. In some cases, even though the project was successfully implemented, the sponsoring
enterprise faced severe problems from other sources, leading, in a number of cases, to institution of
bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings.
13.    Subproject Portfolio Characteristics: A total of 32 subloans was made under the project for an
amount of about US$46 million equivalent for financing of investment and permanent working capital;
the average loan size was about US$1.25 million within a range of US$0.2 to US$9.5 million. In
addition, subloans were made for a total amount of US$25 million equivalent under the livestock protein
feed import component.
14.   There were some significant differences as compared to expectations at appraisal. Out of the over
30 preappraised subprojects, only 6 eventually participated under the project. This was due to a
combination of factors, all leading to a reduced demand for borrowed funds for investment purposes -
the uncertainties caused in some medium to large state-owned enterprises in the face of impending
transformation or privatization; the ability of some of the better-performing enterprises to attract equity
funds from foreign investors; high interest rate levels that deterred some enterprises from undertaking
investments; weaknesses in major segments of the domestic markets following from changes in real
incomes and relative prices, resulting in altered and lower demand for some food products; the collapse
of the CMEA markets; and the difficulties in penetrating Western markets in the face of quality and other
requirements. The subsectoral composition of the subloans, however, was similar to expectations at
appraisal, with the fruit and vegetable processing (35 percent) and meat processing (20 percent) industries
being the largest participants under the credit line.
15.    Private Sector Promotion: In regard to the objective of promoting further involvement of the
private sector in export-oriented food processing activities, the project was successful to the extent that
it provided funds to 28 private sector subborrowers (for a total amount of about US$23 equivalent or



- 4 -
about 50 percent of the total lending for investment purposes). However, beyond the provision of funds,
the project's impact in promoting private sector exporting activities was limited as it did not specifically
contain any institutional components in regard to trade promotion and assistance to private exporters.
16.   Subproject Performance: In regard to performance, only a few of the subprojects and sponsoring
enterprises appear to be operating at a profit. A significant proportion (40 percent) of the subprojects
are facing serious financial difficulties due to a combination of the effects of weak domestic markets;.
loss of CMEA markets; and financial and cashflow problems compounded by interenterprise arrears and
high interest costs. In 10 cases, involving subloans totalling about US$12 million equivalent, the
enterprises have, or currently are, engaged in bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings with their creditors.
Workout and reorganization plans are being developed in most cases. In another six cases involving
subloans totalling US$12 million (including the largest subloan of US$9.5 million to the Kwidzyn Fruit
and Vegetable Processing Enterprise), restructuring programs have been arrived at between the enterprises
and their creditors.
17.   Rates of Return:  Actual financial rates of return (FRRs), as and where estimated by the
subborrowers and the PBs, are significantly lower than the minimum required (15 percent) in most cases
- let alone the appraisal expectation of an average of around 35 to 40 percent - and even these are
suspect in terms of the quality of the computations. The subborrowers and the PBs have not estimated
ERRs as the requirement of a separate estimation of ERRs had been dropped during project
implementation in recognition of the Government's program of widespread price and trade liberalization.
18.   Participating Banks: Although seven banks had been cleared as eligible under the project, only
four eventually participated. As expected, BGZ (Bank for Food Economy), owned jointly by the State
(51 percent) and the cooperative banks (49 percent) had the largest share of subloans, accounting for a
total of 28 subloans for a combined amount of about US$42 million equivalent (or 90 percent of the total
amount onlent for investment purposes). The other three PBs between them accounted for subloans for
a total amount onlent of US$ 5 million equivalent.
19.   Perfornance of PBs: Performance of the PBs has been mixed. The financial position of BGZ,
the principal PB under the project, has progressively worsened to the point where the Government is
currently engaged in a major restructuring program within the context of a comprehensive restructuring
program for the Polish rural finance system, including BGZ as well as the entire cooperative banking
system comprised of over 1,600 local cooperative banks and a number of regional cooperative banks.
At the Government's request, the Bank has been, and continues to be, closely involved in the process,
primarily as a coordinator of the multilateral and bilateral assistance being provided for the program from
EU and other sources. The three other PBs are also participating under other ongoing Bank credit lines
under which they have been the recipients of significant technical assistance in improving their operations.
20.   Livestock Feed Component: Despite serious initial delays in disbursement, pending a decision
by the authorities on use of counterpart funds, the amount (US$25 million) earmarked for this purpose
was completely disbursed. The recipients and the Polish authorities have acknowledged the benefits of
the component at a time of serious shortages of feed; however, it is not possible to assess the eventual
impact in helping sustain meat exports (as intended) due to the indequacy of data from the subborrowers.
Instiutional Objectives
21.   The project did not have any significant institutional development objectives other than those that
it shared with the concurrent IEDP in respect of the apex function of the NBP's project unit (PU), and
of the PBs, including BGZ. Through its experience under the project and other Bank credit lines for
which it has a similar function, the PU has built up considerable experience in Bank appraisal,



supervision and procurement requirements. It has been prevented from reaching, and performing, up to
its full potential as a proactive project unit by NBP's perceived role conflict (para. 33), in regard to its
normal functions as a central bank and its apex responsibilities under the project. In respect of the PBs,
the common institutional objectives have been achieved in the case of the smaller PBs, but the notable
failure has been in the case of BGZ where the Bank has not as yet been able to secure meaningful
improvement.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFCNG PROJECT IMMEMENTATION
Implementation Record
22.   The project was appraised in November 1987 but held in abeyance thereafter pending an
improvement in the deteriorating macroeconomic environment. Following an updating mission in October
1989, loan negotiations were held in December 1989; the loan was approved in February 1990; and
became effective in May 1990. Disbursement was slower than expected at appraisal, initially due to
delays by the Polish authorities in finalizing the arrangements for the use of the counterpart funds
involved under the livestock feed component, and later as the effects of the transformation process and
the impact of exogenous shocks coincided. While several of the modifications made in consultation with
the Borrower to increase the loan's utility in the rapidly changing circumstances (e.g. extending
subproject eligibility to efficiency improving investments; financing of permanent working capital;
simplifications to procurement procedures, and raising of thresholds to give greater flexibility to the PBs)
all helped increase loan utilization, an amount of US$25 million equivalent (or 25 percent of the original
loan amount) was cancelled at the Borrower's request in May 1994, and a further unutilized amount of
US$3.38 million equivalent at loan closing in December 1994. In seeking these cancellations, the
Borrower took into account the fact that funds would continue to be available for financing eligible
agroindustries projects, if any, under another ongoing Bank credit line (Loan 3166-POL).
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
23.   Two factors in particular had a major impact on project implementation. First, the major changes
that occurred after 1990 in the former CMEA markets which were significant for many Polish exporters.
The effect was even more pronounced as, encouraged by the increasing trade in convertible currency
among CMEA participants prior to 1990, many enterprises, including some of the larger subborrowers
under the project, had undertaken investments aimed primarily at these CMEA convertible currency
markets, but which they found difficult to switch from to the more demanding Western markets. The
second was the effect of periods of severe drought, particularly in 1991/92, which seriously affected
agricultural production, thereby reducing product quality and increasing unit costs of production for
processors.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
24.   A major economic change occurred in early 1990 as the democratically elected Government in
Poland undertook an accelerated program of macroeconomic and structural reform under its ETP. This
program differed radically from earlier efforts in its vision of a Polish market economy fully integrated
into Western Europe. Foreign trade was liberalized; prices were freed; and subsidies to producers and
consumers drastically reduced. Progress was also achieved in reforming the enterprise and financial
sectors, including the creation of a large number of private banks, and sale of state-owned enterprises to
domestic and foreign investors.
25.   Changes ensuing from these programs affected project implementation in various ways, but the
combined effect was to reduce the demand for borrowed funds for undertaking investments. Changes



- 6 -
in relative prices between outputs and inputs, as well as changes in domestic and foreign markets,
financially squeezed many enterprises, leading to cashflow problems that snowballed and were transmitted
through interenterprise arrears. Major banks faced liquidity and solvency problems. As a result of the
large losses of state-owned enterprises and the Governnent's fiscal deficit financed in part through bank
credit, bank lending to the more dynamic sectors became severely limited. Several medium to large state-
owned agroprocessing enterprises were subject to uncertainties in their status pending their eventual
restructuring or privatization, and chose to postpone major investments. The initial effects of other
reform measures were also to discourage investments, particularly through the use of borrowed funds.
The new banking laws and regulations introduced since 1990 required banks to increase loan loss
provisioning which also contributed to the high interest rates during the period by requiring the banks to
charge higher spreads. While the application of the new bankruptcy and liquidation regulations since
1991 has contributed to greater financial discipline, enterprises have been caught up in lengthy
proceedings as the courts' and the administrative agencies' capacities were strained.
Factors Generaly Subject to Implementing Agency Control
26.   It was recognized, at the outset during project preparation, that the role of the NBP as an apex
under the project was in special consideration of the fact that there was, at the time, no suitable
alternative institution or agency that could undertake the function, and in view of the urgency of making
funds available to the exporting enterprises as early as possible. In this context, NBP did, over time,
build up the PU with adequate staffing and facilities. PU management and staff were professionally
dedicated and commnitted in the performance of their project duties and responsibilities. However, NBP's
continued perception as to its role conflict as an apex under the project and its normal functions as a
central bank constrained it from undertaking a more proactive role in project promotion, facilitation and
monitoring of progress. Also, in the case of the PBs, including BGZ, with the autonomous status of the
banks pursuant to the banking sector reforms, NBP had limited influence in requiring the PBs to take
necessary actions to expedite project implementation, and to comply fully with their commitments in
respect to performance and reporting.
E. PROJECT SusTAiNABiLY
27.   The sustainability of the project is uncertain, and would depend critically upon the Government's
success in resolving satisfactorily the situation in regard to BGZ, the principal PB under the project.
The resolution of the BGZ issue goes beyond just BGZ since the fates of several of BGZ's clients (and
subborrowers under the project) are also linked closely with the eventual outcome in respect to BGZ.
At the Government's request, the Bank has hitherto been providing intensive assistance through
participation in the ongoing dialogue in regard to restructuring of the Polish rural finance system, and
coordinating multilateral/bilateral technical assistance that is being provided from EU and other sources
to the Government in the design and preparation of the program.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
28.   Bank  performance was more satisfactory in the pre-implementation phases of the project,
including identification, preparation and appraisal; during the implementation phase, while Bank
supervision was satisfactory in terms of the frequency and extent of efforts, including missions in the
field, its effectiveness in securing an early and meaningful impact on BGZ (and on its subborrowers) was
limited.
29.   The Bank was quick to respond to the Government's request to initiate project identification and
preparation, and was substantially involved in assisting the Borrower in design and development of the
project. FAO/CP provided valuable assistance during this phase, and much of the project preparation



- 7 -
was carried out by it staff, including preappraisal of subprojects. The Bank was instrumental in asking
for, and securing export market studies for various products with identified export potential; again,
FAO/CP staff provided significant contributions in this regard.
30.   The Bank mounted 10 supervision missions between 1990 and 1995, roughly at six-month
intervals. A total of 80 staffweeks were spent on supervision, or an average of 14 staffweeks per year.
Most supervision missions were staffed by financial analysts or economists; agroindustry specialists
participated in some of the missions. In regard to subproject portfolio supervision, the Bank was
proactive in following the problems of the larger subborrowers; in the case of the Kwidzyn Fruit and
Vegetable Processing Enterprise, which accounted for the largest subloan (US$9.5 million) under the
project, the Bank was instrumental in providing expert consultants' advice, funded from Trust Fund
sources, to the enterprise to assist it in developing an appropriate restructuring program.
31.   In regard to BGZ, the Bank was aware from the outset of the doubts in regard to the quality of
BGZ's portfolio. Consequently, it monitored regularly the progress in the preparation of satisfactory
financial audits and portfolio assessments as a basis for BGZ to develop an action plan to improve its
performance, as required under the provisions of the project agreements. However, the process was
seriously delayed -- first as a result of the inadequacy of the audits carried out by the chosen firm; and
later by delays by BGZ to agree to undertake diagnostic studies; appoint suitable consultants; provide the
required support and information; and finally, accept the consultants' findings and recomrnmendations.
While regularly urging NBP (as the Borrower) and BGZ to meet their obligations, in hindsight, the Bank
could have been more forceful in seeking BGZ's compliance with its commitments, including the
examination of stronger remedies such as suspension of disbursements. The fact that the AEDP credit
line was among the relatively more successful of the Bank's credit lines in Poland in terms of the pace
and extent of disbursement, and the consequent reluctance to discourage a good performer, may have
contributed to the Bank's reluctance to take a stronger line with BGZ.
32.   Finally, the Bank's continued rating of the project development objectives as satisfactory during
the implementation period was based on the subproject performance information submitted at the time
by BGZ and the other PBs which substantially understated the extent of the portfolio problemns as
compared to the information later submitted for the ICR.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
33.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during the identification, preparation and appraisal
stages of the project cycle. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy (MAFE) and local agencies,
notably the Institute for Agriculture and Food Economy (IAFE) and the Foreign Trade Research Institute
(FTRI) were closely involved in project preparation, including the selection and appraisal of the candidate
subprojects and the carrying out of domestic and export market studies. Performance during the
imnplementation phase was affected by NBP's continued misgivings as to its role as an apex institution
under the project. The management and staff of NBP's project unit were professionally dedicated and
committed to the performance of their functions, and cooperated well with Bank staff during project
supervision; relationships between the NBP and the Bank remained cordial and constructive at all times.
However, NBP did not take a proactive role in project implementation as the Bank would have expected,
despite the Bank's regular urgings. This is also reflected in NBP's steady reluctance to engage external
assistance, as suggested several times by the Bank, for more active project promotion and monitoring.
34.   Compliance with covenants was generally satisfactory with the notable exception of the failure
of BGZ to prepare a satisfactory action plan to address its problems as required under the agreements.
Reporting, while complied with, was inadequate in terms of the accuracy and quality of information.



-8 -
H. ASSSSM    T OF OUTCOME
35.   The overall project outcome is assessed as unsatisfactory as the project has not met its
development objectives and prospects for the future are uncertain. Without any significant sector policy
and institutional objectives, the project relied heavily on the achievement of its financial objectives.
Despite a few notable successes, the financial objectives in respect of incremental exports to CC markets
or significant increases in operating efficiency have not been met as many of the subborrowers, including
the larger ones, are facing serious financial problems and their future depends upon the outcome of the
workout and restructuring plans being discussed with their creditors, including BGZ and the other PBs.
In regard to BGZ, the outcome depends crucially upon the Government's ability to undertake a
satisfactory resolution under the ongoing restructuring program for the Polish rural finance system.
I. FUTURE OPERATION
36.   The Borrower has not prepared a formal operational plan pending a decision in regard to the
restructuring of the Polish rural finance system, including BGZ and the cooperative banks. The Bank
is, however, intensively involved in the ongoing discussions in this regard. During this exercise, the
Bank intends to stay in close touch in regard to the implications of the outcome for BGZ's subborrowers
under the loan within the more general context of a resolution of BGZ's portfolio problems.
37.   NBP has confirmed that it does not intend to utilize the reflows from the subloan repayments for
future lending for similar purposes.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.   The main lessons from the project, which may also have more general relevance for other
projects, are:
(i)  credit lines are inappropriate instruments in the absence of strong financial intermediaries
and in environments of significant monetary instability characterized by high inflation and
interest rates;
(ii) successful restructuring of medium to large state-owned enterprises cannot be accomplished
without sweeping reforms that address questions of enterprise ownership and governance;
(iii) the need for Bank projects to have strong institutional components to complement the
provision of funds; and
(iv) the danger of emphasizing disbursements, as a measure of performance, as they are not
necessarily correlated to results on the ground.



- 9 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGROINDUSTRIES EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3167-POL)
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included Under the Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



- 10-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives       Substantial     Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                     El                          E
Sector policies                     Ol            O            E               03
Financial objectives               E              0            O               E
Institutional development           O             O            0               0
Physical objectives                E              0            E               E
Poverty reduction                  El             E                            0
Gender issues                      E              E                            0
Other social objectives                                        El
Environmental objectives           El            El            E
Public sector management           El            E
Private sector development         El            E             0E
Other (specify)                    El            El            E               0
B. Project sustainability            Likely               Unlikey              Uncertain
El1                   El                   0
C. Bank performance            Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                     E                      0                    E
Preparation assistance              O                     0                    E
Appraisal                          E                      I                    E
Supervision                        E                      0                    E
D. Borrower performance        Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                         O                     0                    El
Implementation                     E                      E                    0
Covenant compliance                Cl                     0                    E
Operation (if applicable)           O                     El                   E
E. Assessment of outcome       Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
El            El           0               El



- 11 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan                                      Purpose                 Approval        Status
Preceding Operations
None
Concurrent Operaions
Industrial Export Development   Support to enterprises for expanding  1990       Ongoing
Project (Loan 3166-POL)      industrial exports to convertible
currency markets.
Following Operations
Agricultural Development      Support to private farmers, and       1991         Closed
Project (Loan 3343-POL)      promotion of other private sector
activities in rural areas.
Agricultural Sector          Support to Poland's Medium-Term        1993         Ongoing
Adjustment Loan              Sector Adjustment Program through
(Loan 3600-POL)              selective sectoral policies, urgent
structural reforms, and institutional
reforms and institution-building
measures in the agricultural sector.
Table 3: Project TImetable
Steps in Project Cycle                      Date Planned               Date Actual
Identification                                 6/87                        6/87
Preparation                                    8/87                        8/87
Appraisal                                      11/87                       11/87
Negotiations                                   4/88                        12/89
Board presentation                              5/88                       2/90
Signing                                        6/88                        2/90
Effectiveness                                  8/88                        5/90
Project completion                             6/94                        12/94
Loan closing                                   12/94                       12/94



- 12 -
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY90       FY91       FY92       FY93       FY94       FY95
Appraisal Estimate            30.0       50.0       70.0       85.0       95.0       100.0
Actual                        9.9        16.9       43.6       65.1       71.4       71.6
Actual as % of Estimate       33%        34%        62%        77%        75%        72%
Date of Final Disbursement:  12/19/94
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key implementation indicators in SAR                      Estimated              Actual
1. Number of preappraised subprojects expected to            30                     6
participate under the project.
2. Demand for investment credit from unidentified       At least US$15         US$30 mn.
subprojects.                                              mn.
* No fbrmal implementation plan was agreed under dte project.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation*
Key Operating Indicators In SAR                   Estimated            Actual
1. Subprojects to have acceptable economic    Ranging from 20% to    Not available
rates of return                         70% with an average of
35%
2. Aggregate present value (PV) of earnings    US$55 million per year  Not available
3. Incremental employment                  1,500                   Not available
* No formal operational plan was agreed under the project.



- 13 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Ddined at
Study                      Appraisal/Redeflned               Status        Impact of Study
No studies were included under the
project.
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Estimated
Local    ForeipgLca  Foreign
Costs    Coreign    Total      Costs  Costs     Total
Aeroindustries Investments
(a)  Preappraised subprojects        41.4      55.4     96.8      28.0    16.0        44.0
(b) Credit line                       5.5      15.1     20.6      25.7    30.6        56.3
(c)  Marketing activities             1.4       0.5      1.9          /                 "I
Total Agroindustries                    48.3     71.0    119.3       53.7    46.6      100.3
Livestock Feed                            -      25.0      25.0        -      25.0      25.0
Total Project Cost                      48.3     96.0    144.3       53.7    71.6      125.3
Interest During Construction             6.0      4.0      10.0                  "         1/
Total Financing Required                54.3    100.0    154.3       53.7    71.6      125.3
I/ Included under (a) and (b), not available separately.



- 14 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal               Actual\Estimated
Local  Foreign   Total      Local Foreign  Total
World Bank           -    100.0   100.0          -    71.6    71.6
BFE and other PBs    42.4    0       42.4       32.7    0      32.8
Subborrowers        11.9     0       11.9       21.0    -      21.0
Total             54.3   100.0   154.3       53.7   71.6   125.3
Percentage Share   35     65      100        43      57       100
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
At appraisal, the project as a whole was estimated to account for:
(i) net foreign exchange earnings of about US$55 million per year
from incremental exports to convertible currency countries; and
(ii) incremental job creation for about 1,500 persons.
Reliable ex-post data on project benefits are not available;
partial data provided by the enterprises indicate incremental
exports of about US$8.5 million per year.



- 15 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Overall Project Rating: 3
Original
Agreement   Section   Covenant  Status Fulfillment                 Description of Covenmnt                    Comments
Type              Date
LA          3.01(b)      M        C               Borrower is to make avaDable to Participatin  Banks funds   Comnplied
under Subsidiary Financing Agreements on terms and conditions
approved by the Bank.
LA          3.01(c)      M        C               Borrower to exercise its rights under Subsidiary Financing  Complied
Agreements to accomplish the purposes of the loan.
LA          3.02(a)      M        C               Borrower to coordinate and monitor overall execution of the  Complied
Project and carrying out by the Participating Banks of their
obligadons under the Subsidiary Financing Agreements.
LA          3.02(b)      P        C               Procurement to be governed by Schedule 4 to the LA.         Complied
LA          3.02(c)      M        C               Borrower to maintain a Project Appraisal and Implementration  Complied
Division with staffing, facilites and resources sadsfactory to the
Bank.
LA          4.01(a)      F        C               Borrower to maintain satisfactory records and accounts in   Complied
accordance with sound accounting practices.
LA          4.01(b)      F        C               Borrower to have records and accounts, including those for the  Complied
Special Account, audited not later than six months after the
close of the fiscal year.
LA          Sch. 6       M        CP              Participating banks to develop and implement action pans for  Serious delays by
strengthening of their organization and operations.        BGZ in preparing
satisfactory action
plan.
LA          Annex to     F        C               Pardcipating banks to make subloans only to enterprises that  Complied
Sch. 6                                meet the stipulated criteria.
LA          Annex to     F        CP              Subborrowers to supply such information as the Bank or      Complied
Sch. 6                                Borrower may reasonably request in regard to their financial  partially; quality of
condition or the benefits to be derived from the subprojects.  information often
inadequate.
Covenant type:                                        Status:
M - Managerial                                        C  -Complied
F- Financial                                          CP - Partially Complied
T - Technical
P - Procurement
E - Economic



- 16 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Staff-Weeks)
Stage of Project Cyde                    Planned     Revised      Actual
Through Appraisal                           n.a.        n.a.        34.0
Appraisal-Board                            n.a.         n.a.        35.0
Board-Effectiveness                                                  3.0
Supervision                                                         69.0
Completion                                                          11.0
TOTAL                                                              152.0



- 17 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. of Days in                           Rating2           Types of
Stage of Project Cycle     Mondt/Year  Persons   Field   Specialization   Pmplementtdon Development
status     objectives
Through Appraisal             6187        1        5           F             n.a.          n.a.        n.a.
6/76*       4        10      E, F, A, M        n.a.          n.a.        n.a.
8/87*       3       21        E, F, A          n.a.          n.a.        n.a.
10/87*       3       7        E, A, M           n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
11/87       5       21      E, F, A, M         n.a.          n.a.       n.a.
Appraisal - Board Approval    1/88        1        7           F             n.a.          n.a.        n.a.
9/88        2       14         E, F            n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
5/89        4       18      E, F, A, M         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
10189       2        7          E, F           n.a.          n.a.       n.a.
12/89       1        7           F             n.a.          n.a.       n.a.
Board Approval -              2/90        3        10       E, F, A          n.a.          n.a.        n.a.
Effectiveness
Supervision I                 11/90       2        10         F, A            2             1          M
Supervision I                 6/91        1        7           F              2             1          M
Supervision HI                9/91        3        10       F, A, E           2             1          M
Supervision IV                6192        2        8          F, A            2             1          M
Supervision V                 11/92       2        7          F, E            2             1          M
Supervision VI                5/93        1        7           F              2             1         M, F
Supervision VU                10/93       2        8          F, C            2             1         M, F
Supervision Vm                3/94        3        7        F, E, C           2             1         M, F
Supervision IX                7/94        2        7          F, A            2             1         M, F
Completion                    2/95        1        8           F              2             1         M, F
Follow up                     9/95        1        3           F
Follow up                     4/96        1        3           F
1 - Specialization                         2 - Performance Rating             3 - Types of Problems
A = Agroindustry Specialist                I - Minor problems                 F -  Financial
C = Cooperative Banking Specialist         2 = Moderate Problems              T = Technical
E = Economist                              3 = Major Problems                 M - Managerial
F = Financial Analyst
H = Horticulturist
L = Livestock Feed Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
N = Engineer
R = Forester
*FAO/CP mission.






APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 5
POLAND
AGROINDUSTRIES EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3167-POL)
AIDE MEMOIRE OF IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPoRT MiSON
1.    A World Bank Mission (WB) mission visited Poland between February 11 to 17, 1995 to initiate
work on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agroindustries Export Development Project
(AEDP). The mission met with representatives of the Borrower (The National Bank of Poland - NBP),
the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy (MAFE), the main participating banks, and visited
selected subprojects. The mission would like to thank the various Polish counterparts for all the
cooperation and courtesies extended to it. The mission's views expressed in this Aide Memoire are
subject to confirmation by WB management on the mission's return to Washington.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The Borrower and MAFE confirmed that the project objectives as expressed in para. 4.02 of the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)l remain generally relevant. However, major changes have taken place in
the project's environment since it was first appraised in 1987, which have had extensive impact on the
project's implementation and execution. These include:
*     the major political changes since 1990;
-     the new government's economic transformation program;
e     the collapse of the CMEA markets since 1990;
v     Poland's Association Agreement with the EU;
*     new laws on banking, and on bankruptcy/liquidation of enterprises.
3.    The combined effect of these factors has been that, while some of the subprojects financed have
been successfully implemented, many others have faced various degrees of difficulties.
OPERATIONAL PLAN
4.    The WB's revised guidelines (April 1994) on preparation of ICRs requires the preparation of an
operational plan by the Borrower and the implementing agencies, indicating actions and measures to be
taken by the Borrower, the relevant Government agencies, and the project entities, to ensure satisfactory
future implementation and operations under the project, and the achievement of the project's objectives.
The mission welcomed very much the assurances of the Borrower and the project agencies as to providing
their best efforts to meet the revised requirements. The draft operational plan should include:
*     the Government's views on the continued relevance of the project objectives;
*     actions and measures to be taken to ensure sustainability and continued satisfactory
operation of institutions and technical assistance programs under the project; and
Report No. 7112-POL dated February 5, 1990.



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 5
*     actions and measures to be taken to resolve the situation in case of subprojects and
subborrowers facing financial difficulties, including enterprises that continue to be under
state ownership.
The operational plan should be supported by a table that indicates clearly, for each major item under the
policy, institutional, technical assistance, and credit comnponents, the following:
*     major issues/problems;
*     major actions/measures already taken, being taken or to be taken;
*     schedule and timing of each major action/measure; and
*     the main Government and/or project agencies responsible for the actions/measures.
BORROWER'S EVALUATION OF PROJCT IMPLEMENTATION
5.    The mission drew the attention of NBP and the project entities to the Borrower's responsibilities
in the preparation of the ICR as indicated in the WB's Operational Manual Statement and Good Practices
for ICR Preparation (GP 13.55 of April 1994, paras 4 and 5). Copies of the WB's bp 13.55 and relevant
parts of GP 13.55 were left with NBP.
6.    As indicated in BP 13.55 and GP 13.55, the Borrower's ICR should include a summary not
exceeding 10 pages, together with the support report and annexes.
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
7.           To enable a comparison of appraised and actual project costs and fmnancing plan, the
Borrower and the project agencies should update the relevant tables (Tables 3 and 4) on pages 29 and 30
of the Staff Appraisal Report No. 7112-POL of January 5, 1990.
INFORMATION TO BE SENT TO TME WORLD BANK
8.    To enable the WB to complete the draft of Part I of the ICR, it was agreed that the Borrower
would ensure that the information indicated in Annex 1 is sent to the WB together with the updated
project costs and financing table (para. 7).
9.    The proforma in Annex 1 should be used for all large subprojects (those with subloans over
US$300,000). For smaller projects, a less detailed proforma could be used, for example, excluding the
sections on subproject financial rate of return, procurement, and investor financial rates of return from
Part II, and excluding Parts m to V. However, financial rates of return should be calculated for a
representative sample of the smaller subprojects.
COORDINAnON OF ICR PREPARATION
10.   The following persons would coordinate the preparation of the Borrower's and the WB's
preparation of the ICR.
For the Borrower:    Ms. Maria Celarska (National Bank of Poland)
For the WB:         Mr. Kishore Nadkarni (Central Europe Department)



Annex A                                                                    APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 5
Subproject Information Summara to be Submitted
for Each LIre Subloan/Subproject
(for each subloan over US$300,000 equivalent)
PART 1. Background Information
Name of Investing Enterprise:
Location:
Type of OwnershiD: majority state-owned/cooperative/majority private-owned
Type of Organization: state enterprise, joint stock company, limited liability company, etc.
Main Activities of Investing Enterprise:
Short Description of Subprojects: e.g. new facility/expansion/diversification for production of (name
of product) of which .... percent aimed at exports to convertible currency markets (if applicable).
Subloan Information:
* name of participating bank
* date of subloan approval by participating bank
- amount of subloan (US$ equivalent)
* maturities, grace period
- interest rate charged by participating bank
o date of first repayment of subloan principal
o are interest/principal payments current -- indicate extent of arrears, defaults, rescheduling,
etc., if applicable
Subnr_oect Completion/Exuected ComDletion Date: month/year
PART II. Performance Summnar
SubDroject Performance:
Appraisal    Actual/Current Estimate
(in US$)
* incremental sales
* incremental exports to CC markets
* incremental employment (in nos.)
ADpraisal    Actual        ApDraisal    Actual
(in PLZ)               (in US$ equivalent)
* civil works
* machinery & equipment
* incremental working capital
* other
Total subproject cost



APPENDIX A                                                                      Annex A
Page 4 of 5
Subproiect Financine:
Anpraisal           Actual
(in PLZ)
* investors' own funds
* local loans
* World bank subloan
* other foreign loans
Total subproject financing
Subproject Financial Rate of Return:    Appraisal            Current Estimate
Subproject Procurement:                 No. of Contracts     Value
* International Competitive Bidding
* International Shopping
* Direct Contracting
* Other (Specify)
Total
Investin Enterpise Performance:  (in PLZ or ratios, as relevant)
1993                1994
* total sales
* net profit/loss
* net worth
* current ratio
Note:  net worth = assets minus liabilities owed to others
current ratio = current assets/current liabilities



Annex A                                                                   APPENDIX A
Page 5 of 5
PART III: Major Issues/Problems (in order of imnortance)
For example,
*  excess capacity due to lack of domestic/foreign ma - s
*  difficult financial situation due to
*  organizational and management weaknesses such as
*  high costs of production due to
*  low/negative profitability due to
PART IV: Actions/Measures Taken or To be Taken to
Address the Above Issues/Problems
For example,
* voluntary restructuring by enterprise is under way
* involuntary restructuring/bankruptcy/liquidation proceedings are under way
* privatization/restructuring of enterprise is actively under way
* enterprise is being restructured under consolidation program
Adequate information should be provided to give a clear indication of the actions/measures
taken or to be taken, with an indication of their timing, and the agency or agencies responsible for
implementation or enforcement.
PART V: Exuected Outcome and Timing
An indication should be provided of the expected outcome of the actions/measures being taken
and the timing/expected timing of the outcome.
m:\poPAedp\aQen=n2.icr






APPENDIX B
Page 1 of 4
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(Prepared by the National Bank of Poland)
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.01  In 1986, after Poland's admission to the IMF and the World Bank (WB), the Government of
Poland requested assistance from the WB to support the objectives of the Polish economic reform
program which aimed at improving the foreign trade balance of the country. The Agroindustries Export
Development Project (AEDP) was identified as a result of the World Bank's works in the agroindustries
sector which took place in years 1987-1989. The project was prepared jointly with different institutions
in Poland. Thirty-two investment subprojects, in 10 agroindustries subsectors, were selected for financing
under the AEDP.
1.02   The National Bank of Poland (NBP) as the Borrower was responsible for the overall coordination
of the project. The proceeds of the loan were channelled through NBP to four participating banks. The
principal participating bank, as assumed, was the Bank for Food Economy.
1.03   The loan was signed in February 1990, when the economic changes in Poland were introduced.
This had a significant influence on further implementation of the project.
2.    OBJECTIVES OF TME PROJECT
2.01   The main objectives of the project were: (i) to remedy existing constraints to increasing Poland's
exports of processed agricultural products to convertible currency countries; (ii) to assist state enterprises
financed under the project to operate in a market-oriented system; (iii) to promote further involvement
of the private sector in the food processing activities which were export-oriented; and (iv) to assist in
cushioning the transition to a market economy by helping to maintain supplies of livestock to
agroprocessors.
2.02   The project was designed to be implemented over a four-year period and consisted of (i) a credit
component, and (ii) livestock feed component.
(a)    under the credit component, long term funds were provided for the rehabilitation,
modernization and expansion of existing agro-processing industries in order to generate
convertible currency export earnings.
b)    the livestock feed component allowed to finance imports of oilseed meals for state and
private farmers.
3.    COURSE OF THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.01   The Loan Agreement became effective in May 1990, after signing two Subsidiary Financing
Agreements with two participating banks, with other five banks in August and September 1990. Only
one, from the preselected subproject was financed in 1990. Either the banks or the enterprises were not
prepared to lend and to borrow financial means.



APPENDIX B
Page 2 of 4
3.02  In the year 1991, the interest in taking credits from the proceeds of the loan increased, although
the beneficiaries of the credits were small, private enterprises. In 1992, 13 subloans were granted by the
NBP, 7 subloans in 1993 and only 1 subloan in 1994.
3.03   Although seven banks were qualified as participating banks, during the period of implementation,
only four banks applied for the funds of the AEDP.
3.04   The World Bank and the NBP analyzed all events which might have had impact on the utilization
of the loan. Based on the discussion with the Polish partners, the WB (i) abandoned the strict
requirement of export orientation, (ii) increased the ceiling of IS procurement from US$200,000 to
US$500,000, (iii) increased the ceiling of IS procurement for private enterprises from US$200,000 to
US$2,000,000, (iv) allowed financing of permanent working capital for conmmencement or expansion of
operations, and (v) allowed making of subloans for purchase of equipment by operating leasing
companies.
3.05   Above-mentioned changes to the Loan Agreement did not result in increased demand from the
participating banks. Therefore, in May 1994 the NBP requested and the WB agreed to cancel US$25
million equivalent from the original loan amount. The loan was closed on December 31, 1994, according
to the original schedule, disbursed in 72%.
4.    ACHIEVEMENTS OF OBJECTIVES
4.01   Under the credit component, the objectives were not achieved. The loan funds were not used for
financing of preselected subsectors and subprojects as well as for financing of export-oriented subprojects.
4.02  In the year 1990, when the economic reform was introduced, the lack of the convertible
currencies discontinued to be an essential obstacle in the implementation of investments, and the means
of the AEDP were not the only available source of hard currency in Poland.
4.03   Under livestock feed component, the assumptions were fully implemented and the total amount
was utilized. The financial means were included into the foreign reserves of the state.
4.04   The participating banks did not use technical assistance means which were available under the
Industrial Export Development Loan made to the NBP by the WB at the same time. However, financial
assistance was provided to the banks because Poland received several grants for these purposes from
different donors.
5.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
5.01   The following factors had negative impact on the implementation of the credit component of the
project, however, they were of a different nature in different periods:
(a)   financial situation of several preselected state companies deteriorated; therefore, they did
not meet the financial criteria of the subprojects;
(b)    a lot of significant parts of potential beneficiaries were not able to meet collateral
requirements of the participating banks;
(c)    companies implementing non-export oriented subprojects were not eligible for financing;



APPENDIX B
Page 3 of 4
(d)   the procurement procedures, especially bidding requirements, even after modification,
have reduced the number of potential private beneficiaries;
(e)    high foreign exchange risk for the producers for domestic market;
(f)    a lack of possibility to finance second-hand equipment as well as civil and construction
works;
(g)    high risk for the banks and for investors in long-term financing of the projects;
(h)    competitiveness of preferential sources of financing for agriculture and agroindustry
provided by the Government, and foreign financial institutions and organizations;
(i)   the availability of funds from foreign companies without any collateral; and
(j)    a lack of sufficient capital, which forced borrowers to take expensive supplementary zloty
credits.
5.02   Due to a change in ownership and privatization, the number of small and medium-sized
companies increased significantly in the food industry subsectors. These companies, however, were not
sufficiently experienced in marketing and financial management. Quite often they undertook investments
in sectors where they lacked experience.
6.    BANK PERFORMANCE
6.01   The NBP should highlight the importance of efficiency of a continuous dialogue between the WB
and the Polish counterparts in improving loan utilization and project implementation. The Bank
demonstrated great flexibility in adapting the Loan Agreement's provisions to the changed conditions of
the project's implementation. This position resulted in the modification of the Loan Agreement, although
it seems today that the changes were introduced too late.
6.02   The relationship between the WB and the NBP was good throughout the preparation and
implementation of the project.
6.03   Polish institutions received valuable assistance from the WB staff: its active participation in
preparation and evaluation of the investment subprojects as well as advice and directions. A good
example of the WB's help were several workshops on financial analyses provided for the participating
banks and the NBP staff.
6.04  In some cases the WB and the NBP had different views, undoubtedly on the question of hiring
by the NBP of an external consultant to assist the banks in identification, preparation and evaluation of
the subprojects. The NBP was always ready to help the banks in this way, but the decision was
dependent on the demand for credits from the banks, which, unfortunately, was still decreasing.
7.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
7.01   The NBP will monitor the repayments from the participating banks, but will not be involved in
supervising the particular subprojects, because the credit risks are taken by the banks.



APPENDIX B
Page 4 of 4
7.02   The NBP is involved in the restructuring of the Bank for Food Economy which has already
started. Since the process is complex, the NBP is going to be involved in it for a longer period of time.
8.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The overall economic situation in the period of 1990-1994 was not conducive to investing. Due
to high inflation, long-term lending and borrowing carried too much risk both for the banks and the
enterprises. Under these circumstances, credit lines made available to the banks by intermediaries were
not the right solution.
m:\poi\aedp\nbp. icr



IREV 2751~
BaIt,c   Sea                  "~~~~~~~~'N   &,do(odonsk        FE ~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN     \.POLAND
FE ERATIOLINUA N I A                                      /AGRO  INDUSTRIES EXPORTS
I.p k                                                          LI ~~TOTOLOR~Od                                           DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*MEAT PROCESSING, INDUSTRY
116 S-? d                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Su,okk                         a      POULTRY PROCESSING AND EGG
0                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRODUCING INDUSTRY
ro5,.~~~~~~~j    /                                           ) ~~~~~~~~   ' SUWALKI  Ao9o,Io,.R;                                    A     DAIRY INDUSTRY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  DIR iDUTR
*  FRUIT AND VEGETARLE PROCESSING INDUSTRY
+      SATURATED) AND SOFT DRINKS INDUSTRY
EAKtNG INDUSTRZY
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+                                                                                            READY TO SERVE FOOD INDUSTRY
PrIle-                                                     1,,Iy,,,k ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*               HERB PROCESSING, INDUSTRY
-A,                                                                                      IA   ST                                     ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A CONFECTIONER'S INDUSTRY
j s Y,   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~*                            MILLING INDUSTEY
G ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+                                                                                          FODDER INDUSTRY
--.k-..            "E  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      COLD-STORAGE INDUSTRY
a          ~~      ~~+ HORTICULTURAL PRODUCTION
P.                                                     R ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                 EXPRESSWAYS
____OTHER MAIN ROADS
52-  z                     + ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
D.-  M-i                                I.A.~~~Foloko*                                    MAJOR PORTS
8  LA  ~                                         NATIONAL CAPITAL
A ~~~ POUL   KA                         S ~~~~~~PROVINCE (WOJEWODZTWO) CAPITALS
MAJOR URRAN AREAS
R.d.                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
L.       R-                                ~~~~~~~~~~~CANALS
d.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---PROVINCE (WOJEWODZTWOI BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIRS
c                                 SWEDEN                           RUSSIORAAN~~TOIA
I, FEDERATION
T. o'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEE                                                                                    BLRUSSA
50  loo  150  200 KILO.ETERS                                            --,n                 UKRAINE               r,                      POLANDI/
-f,,,h b-d.,-                                                                                                                                                    SLOVAK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4o   /IEMSL'FE 
ST~~~~~~~~~~1-SO A REPUBLICU 1L0C8l2F                                                                                                            2,                                ATRA        UNAR         ROMANUA
Tgiz'-, ~      oS.~f       U0Im.~                                                                                                                                                  ,,.
Aw-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t~~~~~~~~~   v~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           S                                  (~~~~~~~~~~JUY19












