CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 546 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(First NDFC Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 15, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 546 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(First NDFC Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 15, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1975, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN      (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "NDFC" means National Development Finance Corporation;
(b)   "Act" means the National Development Finance Corporation Act No.
XIII of 1973, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and NDFC, as the same may be amended from
time to time;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NDFC pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
NDFC out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to NDFC under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and
"free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03(b) of this Agreement.


﻿4
(f)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by NDFC out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to NDFC
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project.
(g)   "Eligible Enterprise" means an eligible enterprise as defined in Section
17 of the Act.
(h)   "Investment Enterprise" means an Eligible Enterprise to which NDFC
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or
has made an investment.
(i)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment.
(j)   "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of the Borrower.
(k)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Borrower.
(1)   "Statement of Policy" means the statement of lending and investment
policy approved by the Directors of NDFC on June 5, 1974, as amended to the
Effective Date of this Agreement.
(m)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by NDFC or by any one or more subsidiaries of NDFC or by NDFC
and one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The Borrower hereby designates NDFC as its representative
for the purpose of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under
the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.


﻿5
Section 2.03. (a) Pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement, NDFC, on
behalf of the Borrower, may withdraw from the Credit Account amounts expended
by NDFC for an Investment Project or, if the Association shall so agree, for
expenditures required to be made by NDFC for an Investment Project, to finance
the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods and services for the Investment Project
in respect of which the withdrawal is requested; provided, however, that no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or investment unless (i) the
sub-loan or investment shall have been approved by the Association, or (ii) the
sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Investment Project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to NDFC under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement which shall not exceed the sum of $1,000,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for such Investment Project.
(c)   Except as the Association and NDFC shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, or in
respect of an investment, if such expenditures shall have been made before the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made on account of
expenditures incurred after April 1, 1975, in respect of not more than three
Investment Projects for an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$2,000,000; or (ii) expenditures more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Association shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the
application and information required by Section 2.02(b) of the Project Agreement
or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the A asociation shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1979, or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September I in each year.


﻿6
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March I and September 1 commencing
September 1, 1985 and ending March 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description and Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project for which the Credit is granted
is to assist NDFC in financing such productive facilities and resources in the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan as will contribute to the economic and social development
of the country. The Project consists in the financing by NDFC of specific
develooment projects through loans to and investments in Eligible Enterprises, in
accordance with its Act and Statement of Policy.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to NDFC under
a subsidiary loin agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and NDFC
on terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purpose of the Project for which the Credit
is granted and except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall not take, or cause or permit any of its
political subdivisions or any of its agencies or any agency of any such political
subdivisions to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by NDFC of its obligations under the Project Agreement or the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and will take or cause to be taken all reasonable action
necessary or appropriate to enable NDFC to perform such obligations.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿7
(a)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by NDFC, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would, in
the opinion of the Association, adversely affect the conduct of NDFC's business
or NDFC's financial situation or the efficiency of NDFC's management and
personnel or the carrying out of the Project;
(b)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation of NDFC
inder the Project Agreement;
(c)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to NDFC having an
original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(d)   a change shall have been made in the Act which, in the opinion of
the Association, will materially and adversely affect the financial condition or
operations of NDFC;
(e)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or liquidation of NDFC or for the suspension of
all or part of NDFC's operations; and
(f)   NDFC shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature or any
action shall have been taken by NDFC or by others whereby any of the property
of NDFC shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and NDFC;
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and NDFC; and
(c)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) or (f) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
NDFC have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)  the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and NDFC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c)   NDFC has modified its Statement of Policy in a manner satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, NDFC, and is legally binding upon NDFC
in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and NDFC
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and NDFC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date August 15, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs
Division, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿9
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. M. L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
Sou th Asia


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)  The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(2)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in sub-paragraph (e) of Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by
the Association in respect of any portion of the Credit, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount
of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of NDFC
to submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals from the
Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount or portion
of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or portion of
the Credit shall be cancelled."


