CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 546 PAK
Project Agreement
(First' NDFC Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
DATED MAY 15, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called
NDFC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that NDFC agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS NDFC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NDFC shall carry out the Project described in Section 3.01(a)
of the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound economic, financial and investment standards and practices;
with qualified and experienced management and in accordance with its Act and
Statement of Policy.


﻿lw
4
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, NDFC shall submit Investment Projects to the
Association for approval or for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
(b)   When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan) or an
investment to the Association for approval, NDFC shall furnish to the Association
an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to NDFC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the
proposed terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule
of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment by NDFC of the amount of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to NDFC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
be used for the investment, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(c)   Each request by NDFC for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to NDFC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the terms
and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d)   The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and the schedule
of repayment in respect of each investment shall provide for an appropriate period
of grace, and, unless the Association and NDFC shall otherwise agree (i) shall not
extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the Association of such
sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan, of authorization
by the Association to make withdrawals from the proceeds of the Credit relent
to NDFC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in respect thereof, and (ii) shall
provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments
of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(e)   Except as the Association and NDFC shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this
Section shall be submitted to the Association on or before September 30, 1977.
Section 2.03. NDFC shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning (i) the expenditure of the


﻿5
proceeds of the Credit relent to NDFC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(ii) the Project; (iii) the Investment Enterprises; (iv) the Investment Projects; and
(v) the sub-loans and investments.
Section 2.04. (a) The Association and NDFC shall cooperate fully to ensure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and NDFC shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance by NDFC of its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of NDFC
and any other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   NDFC shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of NDFC and its subsidiaries.
(c)   NDFC and the Association shall promptly inform each other of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NDFC of its obligations
under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) NDFC shall exercise its.rights in relation to each Investment
Project financed under a sub-loan or with an investment in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Association and of NDFC, to comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and to achieve the
purposes of the Project.
(b)   Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, NDFC undertakes that unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made
on terms whereby NDFC shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Association and of NDFC, including, in the case of any such sub-loan
and to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any such investment
the right of NDFC to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate
the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with
sound technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to NDFC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall
be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and


﻿6
(2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Association if the Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works,
plants and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof,
and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business
practice and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall
cover marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to NDFC
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to the place of use or installation, and that
any indemnity thereunder shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such
information as the Association or NDFC shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Credit relent to NDFC under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with NDFC.
(c)   NDFC shall submit to the Association, for its prior approval, any
substantial changes proposed to be made by NDFC in respect of the repayment
provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.06. NDFC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NDFC shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending,
abrogating, or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association and NDFC shall otherwise agree,
NDFC shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets, except in the ordinary course of business.
Section 2.08. NDFC shall amend its Statement of Policy only with the
concurrence of the Association.
Section 2.09. NDFC undertakes that, except as the Association may otherwise
agree, it will take whatever action is necessary to maintain a collection ratio of
at least 80% of all payments of principal and interest due to it by Investment
Enterprises in each fiscal year and all such payments that are outstanding from
previous fiscal years failing which the Association may, until it is satisfied that
the aforesaid collection ratio has been achieved, withhold its approval of all new


﻿7
sub-loans or investments and decline to authorize withdrawals in respect of all
new free-limit sub-loans submitted to it by NDFC for such approval or
authorization, under Section 2.03(a) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.10. If NDFC establishes or acquires any subsidiary, NDFC shall
cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of NDFC hereunder
to the extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though
such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. NDFC shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of NDFC.
Section 3.02. NDFC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available but in any case not later than five months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of NDFC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, NDFC shall:
(i) conduct its operations and affairs in such manner as shall be necessary to
maintain, at all times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit provided in Section
3.05 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond NDFC's
control, be temporarily exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable action as shall
be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section. 3.04. NDFC shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any outstanding debt of NDFC which, in the judgment of the
Association, would materially affect NDFC's ability to meet its financial obligations.
wom


﻿8
Section 3.05. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Association
and NDFC, NDFC shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any debt if,
after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of NDFC and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than five times the
consolidated capital and surplus of NDFC and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes
of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement (including the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent
the amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
or agreement; (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed
debt is outstanding; and (iii) on deposits for more than one year as and when
they are received.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Rupees debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by NDFC for the purposes of servicing such
debt.
(d)   "consolidated debt of NDFC and all its subsidiaries" means the total
amount of debt of NDFC and all its subsidiaries, excluding: any debt owed by
NDFC to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to NDFC or to any other subsidiary.
(e)   "consolidated capital and surplus of NDFC and all its subsidiaries"
means the aggregate of: the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves
of NDFC and all its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of NDFC in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary in NDFC
or any other subsidiary.
Section 3.06. NDFC shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association
as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes
in the rates of exchange 'between the currencies (including Rupees) used in its
operations.
Section 3.07. NDFC shall duly perform all its obligations under agreements
under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal of NDFC by
the Borrower or its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.


﻿9
NDFC shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which would have the effect
of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving any material provision of, any such
agreement.
Section 3.08. NDFC shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
documents.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of NDFC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date eighteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify NDFC of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 4.04. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power
or remedy accruing to either party under this Agreement upon any default shall
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof
or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such party in respect
of any default, or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any right,
power, or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent default.


﻿10
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington., D.C.
For NDFC:
NSC Building
Tamizuddin Khan Road
P.O. Box 5094
Karachi, Pakistan
Cable address:
TERMFUND
Karachi
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement or under
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement on behalf of NDFC may be
taken or executed by the Chairman for the time being of NDFC or such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing.


﻿11
Section 5.03. NDFC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of NDFC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by NDFC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall he an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. M. L. van der Meer
Acting Regional Vice President
South Asia
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE CORPORATION
By /s/ M. Mufti
Authorized Representative


