Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/'  j*{  -8 .3 z-_ 1-T/
Report No. 5463-TU
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
April 24, 1985
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East ane. North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as ot January 1, 1985)
Currency Unit    =  Turkish Lira (TL)
TL 1             =  100 kurus (krs)
US$1             =  TL 428
TLI              =  US$ 0.002336
TL 1,000,000     =  US$ 2,336.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)      =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) =  0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)  =  2.20 pounds (lbs)
FISCAL YEAR
(of TCDD and TDI)
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DB           -     Turkish Maritime Bank (Denizcilik Bankasi)
DLH          -     General Directorate of Railways, Ports and Airports
Construction, Ministry of Public Works. (Demir
Yollari Limanlar Hava Meydanlari)
I)WT         -     Deadweight Tonnage
GDP          -     Gross Domestic Product
IG3          -     International Competitive Bidding
ILO          -     International Labour Organisation
I'AFRA       -     Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural
Affairs
MUF          -     Ministry of Finance
M-OT         -     Ministry of Transport
iPI          -     National Ports Institution
NPMP         -     National Ports Master Plan
NTMP         -     National Transport Master Plan
PCC          -     Project Coordination Committee
SPO          -     State Planning Organization
TCDD         -     Turkish State Railways
(Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Devlet Demir Yollari)
TCL          -     Turkish Cargo Lines
TDI          -     Turkish Maritime Organization
1'EU         -     Twenty-foot Equivalent Units
THY          -     Turkish Airlines
(Turk hava Yollari)
TSM          -     Transport Sector Memorandum
UJNDP        -     United Nations Development Programme
Demirliman   -     TCDD Ports Establishment (Limanlar Izmetmesi
Muessesesi)
Denizliman   -     TDI Ports and Vessel Salvage Establishment
(Liman Isletme ve Gemi Kurtama Muessesesi)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower;         Republic of Turkey
Amount:            US$134.5 million
Terms:             Seventeen years including four years of grace, with standard
variable interest rate
Project Objectives
and Description:  The proposed project is designed to assist the Government in
introducing modern container handling technology to the
ports system to accommodate the forecasted rapid growth in
container traffic at a time of increasing uncertainties
affecting port planning and development. The project could
cover a first plhase of container port development designed
to meet traffic growth up to 1990. The loan would provide
financing for: (i) specialized equipment for handling con-
tainers at four selected ports (Izmir, Haydarpasa, Mersin
and Trabzon); (ii) renewal of high priority items of float-
ing equipment required for the maintenance and construction
of port facilities; (iii) civil works for container berth
facilities; (iv) technical assistance for introducing con-
tainer handling technology including documentation,
operating procedures, maintenance and training.
Benefits and
Risks;            The project would lead to savings in ship service time and
to reductions in cargo handling costs which will be felt in
slower increases in sea freight rates and port tariffs.
Benefits would also include savings from avoided damage to
goods, reduction in potential congestion and reduced need
for general cargo facilities. The project would generate
foreign exchange earnings by providing support to Turkey's
foreign trade and by facilitating internationrl transit
traffic. Adverse developments in transit traffic represent
the major risk for the project. Should conditions in the
Gulf area return to normal in the next two to three years,
Gulf ports could again handle the major traffic to Iran and
Iraq by the early l990s. In the event that transit traffic
to Iraq should decline, container capacity at the Mersin
port would be taken up through growth in exports from S.E.
Turkey. As the transit trade to Iran provides the only
container traffic in the Black Sea, a minimum development
has been proposed for the port of Trabzon. Should transit
traffic fall substantially in the Black Sea, the equipment
at Trabzon could be relocated in other ports. Risk analysis
suggests that the project would remain economic even if
major reduction in transit traffic should occur.
This document has a restricted distinbution and may be used by recpients only in the perfor_ance of 
their offrcial duties. Its contents may not othenvwse be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Staff Appraisal Report; Republic of Turkey; Third Ports Project
US$ million equivalent
Estimated Project Costs:                        Local       Foreign       Total
Equipment
(a) TCDD                                        5.0         45.3         50.3
(b) TDI                                         2.9         25.9         28.8
(c) DLH                                         4.4         25.4         29.8
C() customs                                     0.9           8.0          8.9
Subtotal                                       13.2         104.6        117.8
Civil Works
(a) Izmir Dredging                              2.2          12.2         14.4
(b) Izmir Berth/
Reclamation                                 4.0           1.7         5.7
(c) Mersin Berth                                2.3           1.0         3.3
(d) Trabzon Berth                               1.3           0.6          1.9
(e) Hayaarpasa Berth                            0.6           0.3          0.9
Ct) Supporting Infrastructure                   3.6           --          3.6
Subtotal                                       14.0          15.8         29.8
Technical Assistance/Training                                 1.7          1.7
Total Base Cost 1/                             27.2         122.3        149.5
Plhysical Contingencies                         0.3           1.8          2.1
Price Contingencies                             3.5          18.9         22.4
Total Project Cost                               31.1         143.0        174.0
Financing Plan:                                     US$ million equivalent
Local      Foreign       Total
Government                                       31.0           8.5         39.5
Proposed Bank Loan                                --          134.5        134.5
Total                                            31.0         143.0        174.0
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
Bank FY                           1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Annual                            12.8    36.9    38.3    31.0    12.5        3.0
Cumulative                        12.8    49.7    88.0   119.0   131.5   134.5
Estimated Economic Rate of Return: 18%
I/ Equipment purchases under the project are exempt from custom duties and
sales tax.



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ......      .............................       1
A.  The Transport System .....    ..........................         I
B.  Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination ........             1
C.  The Ports Subsector .....       ...........................      3
D.  Previous Bank Experience in the Transport Sector ....            3
11.   THE PROJECT PORTS ......       ................................      6
A.  General          ............................................    6
B.  Port Operations ....................................             6
C.  Port Facilities ....................................             7
D.  Ports Administration .....      ..........................      10
E.  Budgets, Accounts, Audits, Insurance ............  ...          11
III.   THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT        ....................     14
A.  Port Investment Program .....       .......................     14
B.  Project Objectives .................................            15
C.  Description of the Project .........................            16
D. Cost Estimates                .       .        ..                ........    21
E.  Financing Plan .....................................            23
F.  Project Implementation .....      ........................      23
G.  Procurement and Disbursement .       ......................     25
Ii.  Environmental Impact .....      ..........................     28
I.  Impact on Employment .....      ..........................      28
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .       ...................................     29
A.  Introduction .......................................            29
B.  Existing Traffic ...................................            29
C.  Traffic Forecasts 1988-92 .....      .....................      31
D. Project Benefits                  ....                           35
E.  Project Costs ......................................            37
F.  Results of Evaluation .....      .........................      37
G.  Project Risk ......      .................................      38
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission to Turkey in
December 1984 composed of Denis Perfrement (Port Engineer), P.O. Cheryan and
Davis Elliott (Financial Analysts), Roy Knighton (Transport Economist) and
Suzanne Morris (Research Assistant). Assistance was provided during project
preparation by Consultants Messrs. Arthur Moon (Port Operations Specialist),
Colin Dale (Transport Economist) and William Feely (Documentation
Specialist).



- ii -
Page No.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION. . .40
A. General   ..40
B.  Past Financial Performance under
Previous Project (Loan 1741-TU) ................. .      40
C.  Financial Situation of TCDD and TDI ................       41
D.  Financial Requirements ....................                46
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS.48
ANNEXES
1.  Existing Port Facilities and Equipment .............       50
2.  Traffic Forecasts .......    ...........................   53
3.  EconomiL Evaluation ......    ..........................   66
4. Financial Evaluation               ....                     84
5.  Action Plan ..............    ..........................   93
6. Technical Assistance tor Container Operations;
Outline Terms of Reference         . . . .              115
7. Project Coordination Committee: Outline
Terms of Reference ..............................       120
8.  Documents in Project File ................. ....           122
CHARTS
World Bank 26972 - TDI Maritime Organization Chart -
Including Ports Operations
World Bank 26971 - TCDD Railways Organization Chart -
Including Ports Operations
IBRD 18676 - Port of Izmir
iBRD 18677 - Port of Trabzon
IBRD 18678 - Port of Mersin
IBRD 18679 - Port of Haydarpasa
Port of Izmir - Areas to be Dredged
MAPS
IBRD 18675 - Turkey: Transport Network
IBRD 18778 - Main Transit Routes to Iraq and the Islamic
Republic of Iran



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Introduction
1.01     Transport plays a vital role in the economy of Turkey by providing
essential support for economic activity, foreign trade and transit traffic.
The widespread distribution of population and economic activity and the
difficult terrain over much of the country calls for efficient road, rail,
air and maritime transport services. The Turkish transport network is also
a vital bridge between Europe and the Middle East.  Transport contributes
about 10% of GDP and 12% of employment outside agriculture, and the sector
generates majcr indirect effects which are felt throughout all sectors of
the economy.
1.02     Turkey has an extensive and fairly well-developed transport system:
about 60,000 km of state and provincial roads, 270,000 km of rural roads and
220,000 km of forestry roads; 8,200 km of railways; 12 major pubLic ports
handling a significant volume of cargo including coastal traffic; a system
of civil and military pipelines; and Turkish Airlines, which serves several
domestic  and  international  routes  (Map  IBRD 18675).   Road   transport
currently carries over 75% of freight traffic and 95% of domestic passenger
traffic. Since 1976, rail freight traffic has declined from a 20% share of
the market, mainly due to an acute shortage of motive power and low opera-
tional efficiency. Although coastal shipping has only increased at about 2%
per year since 1979, there is considerable scope for future growth.
1.03     Despite the importance of transport in the economy, investment in
the sector during the 1970s did not keep pace with the development and
present requirements of the economy.  Inadequate attention to rehabilitation
and modernization of transport facilities and equipment now constitutes a
major bottleneck to economic growth. Roads are currently below standard for
present traffic levels, some major railway routes require rehabilitation and
the railways lack adequate motive power and other facilities. Moreover,
because of an imbalance between overall economic growth and the level of
transport investment, the modal pattern of investments must now shift in
order to accommodate changes in demand and technology.  For instance, the
current emphasis on the development of mining and the iron and steel
industry as well as the development of the agricultural sector, particularly
cereals, will lead ta new bulk transport requirements, primarily on the
railways. At the same time, the continued growth of Turkey's foreign trade
as well as transit traffic to the Middle East requires the introduction of
modern port handling equipment to accommodate the growing volumes of
container traffic, expected to increase at up to 20% per year through 1990.
B. Transport Policy, Planning, and Coordination
1.04     Responsibility for transport sector planning, policy development,
and investment is divided among a large number of key ministries and
agencies.  The main agencies involved are:  (a) the Ministry of Transport,
which significantly contributes to transport policy and also oversees the



-2-
main agencies in the transport sector - Turkish State Railways (TCDD), the
Turkish Maritime Organization (TDI), Turkish Cargo Lines (TCL), Turkish
Airlines (THY); (b) the Ministry of Public Works which is primarily respon-
sible for execution of all transport infrastructure projects including
planning, policy and construction of state and provincial highways and
execution  of  port  and  railway   infrastructure;   (c) the  Ministry  of
Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA) which is responsible for the
vast network of local and forestry roads; and (d) the State Planning
Organization (SPO) which coordinates and helps to determine project priori-
ties in conjunction with the Ministry of Finance.
1.05     The need for improved coordination in the transport sector and a
system for ensuring an appropriate determination of modal, sector, and
national priorities had been recognized by the Government and was incorpora-
ted as a major goal in its development plans.  The Government's plans for
the development of the sector are embodied principally in the stabilization
programs pursued since 1980 and, especially, in the National Transport
Master Plan (NTMP) for the period 1983-1993. Although there have been some
changes in the economy since preparation of the NTMP, the basic targets
still remain valid and the plan provides a valuable general framework and
general  directions  for  the  development  of  the  sector.   The  Government
intends to update the NTMP every three years, the first revision being
scheduled for 1985.  The NTMP is supported by five-year programs for each
transport agency, which are now being established as a rplling-plan for the
period  1985-89.   Long-term  guidelines  for  the  development  of: the ports
subsector are provided by a National Ports Master Plan (NPMP) prepared by
consultants  in  1983.   This  study  determined  that,  in  the  medium-term,
existing port capacity is generally adequate and that the main needs are to
develop specialized facilities for container traffic and to provide
additional capacity by the early 1990s in the Istanbul-Mamara Region
(para. 3.04).
1.06     The  Bank  has  been  involved  in detailed  policy  discussions and
institutional issues in the transport sector and on modal investment plans
through preparation of a Transport Sector Memorandum (TSM) in 1983 and more
recently  through  a  T..ansport  Investment  Plan  Review  in  October 1984.
Through its involvement in the sector, the Bank has reached a broad
consensus with the Turkish authorities on the main issues and goals of the
transport  sector.   In  particular,  the  authorities  now  see  a  need  to
establish cost-based tariffs to increase operational efficiency, to reduce
railway deficits and to remedy deficiencies in project preparation and
implementation. At the same time, the Bank has assisted the authorities in
addressing a wide range of sector issues through its involvement in project
preparation and implementation in highways, railways and ports (para. 3.06).
Under the proposed project, for instance, assistance will be provided to the
Government for the introduction of a modern system for handling containers,
related improved documentation and customs procedures, greater autonomy for
ports,  and  comprehensive  training  programs   (para. 3.07).    Similarly,
improved planning and better selection of highway projects as well as a
shift from force account work to construction by private contractors are
being  achieved  under  two  existing  Highway  Projects.   Under  a  proposed
Agricultural Sector Loan, one of the objectives is to achieve improved



-3-
planning and subproject selection for rural roads. A railway project under
preparation would attempt to remedy major deficiencies in railway operations
including arrangements to reduce deficits.
C. The Ports Subsector
1.07     Turkey's  long coastline of 7,300 km has many ports and landing
facilities, including 12 major public ports, about 30 small municipal and
other public ports, and about 35 specialized ports owned by industrial
complexes.   The  large number  of ports  results  from  the  country  being
surrounded on three sides by the sea while land transport links are diff
cult because of adverse inland topography (Map IBRD 18675). Altogether, the
ports handled about 22 million tons of cargo in 1983, including 5 million
tons of coastal traffic and about 10 million tons of general cargo and
transit traffic.  The major public ports served the bulk of the country's
foreign trade handled by ship. Since 1979, foreign cargo has been growing
at a high rate of almost 11% per year, while coastal traffic has increased
at only 2% per year.  In addition, transit traffic to Iraq and Iran has
developed dramatically over the past five years, increasing from only
600,000 tons in 1979 to over 4 million tons in 1983 (Map IBRD 18778).
Container traffic has increased from 77,000 TEUs in 1979 to a current level
of around 200,000 TEUs (paras. 4.03 to 4.06).
1.08     Turkish ports generally have aIequate capacity and ship waiting
time is tolerable. The main emphasis of the Bank-s previous Ports Rehabili-
tation Project (Loan 1741-TU) was on a program of rehabilitation which is
scheduled  for completion  during 1985.   Following this program,  no major
needs are expected in terms of infrastructure requirements and general cargo
handling equipment during the remainder of this decade (para. 2.01).
However, container operations, throughput and traffic control need to be
improved.   The  growth  of  foreign  trade and  the  country's  emphasis  on
exports, combined with major increases in international containerized
transit  traffic,  require  the  introduction  of modern container handling
systems.  In view of the specialized nature of container operations,  this
traffic is tending to be concentrated in a limited number of ports and
considerable benefits in ship service time, ship waiting time, reduced
handling costs as well as reduced losses on cargo could be achieved by
introducing specialized container handling equipment and techniques in these
ports.  These developments are being addressed by a major part of the port
investment program under the Fifth Development Plan 1985-89, which would
assist foreign trade flows and assist in Turkey's foreign exchange earnings
(para. 3.04).
D. Previous Bank Experience in the Transport Sector
1.09     The Bank has participated in five projects in the transport sector
including two ports projects, of which one (Loan 1741-TU) is nearing comple-
tion, one railway project (Loan 893-TU--completed) and two highway projects
(Loans 2137-TU and 2439-TU), both of which are ongoing and scheduled for
completion in June 1987 and December 1990, respectively.  Details of these
projects and their status are included in the Project File (see item B.8 in
Annex 8).   Project  implementation,  although  experiencing  delays,   has



-4-
generally been satisfactory in achieving physical targets.  Most problems
have occurred in implementing policy decisions and with procurement delays.
However, the Government has now adopted a more coordinated and realistic
approach towards transport sector policy.  This has been reflected in the
quality of preparation of the proposed project and in Government's willing-
ness to discuss the important sectorial issues raised in the TSM.
1.10     Only  the  Railway  Project  (Loan 893-TU  of  US$47 million)  which
covered the first three-year tranche of the Railways 1972-1977 Investment
Plan and closed June 30, 1981, has been the subject of a Project Completion
Report  (PCR).   This  PCR  is  currently  under  review  by  the  Operations
Evaluation Department, which is preparing a report on the project. The main
conclusions of the PCR were that the project was largely successful in
meeting its physical objectives, especially track rcnewal. However, it was
less  than  successful  in achieving  institutional  and  policy  objectives,
particularly relating to improved productivity and financial viability.
These issues are being addressed through preparation of a proposed Second
Railway Project.
1.11     The  proposed  loan would  be  the  third  Bank  loan  in  the  ports
subsector. The earlier loans for ports were:
(i)   Loan 28-TU dated July 7,  1950,  for US$12.5 million for port
development  which  included  the  exteision  of   Salipazari,
Haydarpasa and Izmir ports, construction of a new port at
Samsun, mechanical equipment for loading/unloading grain, ore
and coal at Iskenderun, essential repair and replacement of
cargo-handling equipment in the above ports and some harbor
construction equipment for the Ministry of Public Works;
(ii)   a supplementary loan for port development No. 28-TU, Supplement
No. 1 dated February 28, 1954, which increased the original
loan to US$16.3 million to meet increases in project cost
estimates arising from agreed changes in the project and price
increases after 1950; and
(iii)   Loan 1741-TU, dated July 2, 1979, for US$75 million for ports
rehabilitation, which included replacement and modernization of
cargo-handling equipment, storage facilities and floating craft
to improve efficiency of port operations at ten major ports,
and to assist the Borrower in port subsector planning for
future investment programs and improvement in port management
techniques.
1.12     The project covered by Loan 28-TU was expected to be completed in
1958 but was actually completed  only  in  L9t2.   The  project  covered  by
Loan 1741-TO was somewhat slow in being implemented but speeded up latterly.
rt fell about 18 months behind schedule based upon disbursements, and
although the closing date was June 30, 1984, the Turkish Government does not
expect all components of the project to be fully completed until mid-1985.



-5-
1.13     Through Bank assistance,  Turkish ports have been able  to handle
increasing traffic in recent years at reasonable cost and efficiency, in
particularly  the major expansion of  transit traffic.   However,  with  the
rapid development of containerized traffic in recent years, it has now
become vital  to  introduce  modern  handling  techniques  and  procedures  to
support exports and transit trade and to reduce costs on imported goods.



-6-
II. THE FROJECT PORTS
A. General
2.01     In view of the major program of equipment renewal pursued by the
Government in recent years, assisted by the Bank's Ports Rehabilitation
Project  (Loan 1741-TU),  requirements  for conventional  port  equipment  are
expected to be minimal during the period of the Fifth Development Plan,
1985-89.   In effect, the rapid growth of container traffic will gradually
relieve pressure on existing general cargo handling equipment and facili-
ties.   Similarly,  a review by  the mission of bulk  traffic  requirements
during the Fifth Plan period has indicated that no major new investments are
required in this area, except for the possible development of coal handling
facilities serving thermal power plants. The main focus of the port invest-
ments and development program would therefore be on the introduction of
modern container handling technology (paras. 1.08 and 3.01).
2.02     The National Ports Master Plan (NPMP), prepared by consultants in
1983 for the Ministry of Transport, proposed the development of seven
container ports during the period through 1990 while the separate plans of
TCDD and TDI proposed a total of nine ports.  Given the specialized nature
of container facilities as well as uncertainties over the development of
traffic, especially transit traffic, the Government subsequently determined
that a firmer basis for development would be provided by focussing in a
first phase on only four ports over a three-year period (paras. 2.05 and
4.01).  This approach would minimize risks and provide flexibility in that
it would enable the port authorities to gain experience in container opera-
tions and to monitor and analyze changes in traffic patterns following the
introduction of modern facilities in the selected ports. The preparation of
a second phase of container port development would be included under the
proposed project (para. 3.23).
B. Port Operations
2.03     Although conditions vary from port to port, c'rgo handling perform-
ance in Turkish ports in 1983 was reasonably satisfactory. Throughputs for
general cargo range from about 270 tons to 720 tons per ship day with an
average rate of between 450 and 500 tons.  Container handling with conven-
tional equipment or ships' gear showed throughputs of 7 TEU per crane hour
and general cargo throughputs ranging from 500 tons to 1,750 tons per day.
Detailed port performance indicators are given in Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2.
While the present maintenance capability of the ports is generally adequate
for conventional types of handling equipment, there is currently a backlog
of  routine  dredging   work  because   of   inadequate   dredging   capacity
(para. 3.11).  Dredging work is particularly critical for continued access
to the ports by some of the larger container ships and bulk carriers.
2.04     Since  1983,  improvements  in  port  efficiency  are being  achieved
through the introduction of new equipment, revised maintenance procedures,
newly completed storage areas, and ports staff and workers training, all of
which were provided under the Ports Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1741-TU).
Other measures which are being introduced include better overall control,
particularly   where   agents   are   handling   port   operations,   improved



-7-
pre-planning of ships' arrivals, clearance of unwanted cargoes from berth
and storage areas, better traffic control as well as greater use of storage
facilities when direct delivery  is not available.   The ports  are also
planning to introduce multiple shift working, which will be a requirement
for specialized container operations. To ensure the serviceability of the
new container handling equipment being provided under the proposed project,
a specialist technical review will be made to ascertain any areas where
maintenance systems, arrangements or procedures need to be modified to cater
for the new equipment including ready availability of spare parts and
components. Any necessary improvements will be implemented with technical
assistance to be provided under the project  (para. 3.16).   In addition,
improvements in routine infrastructure maintenance, particularly dredging,
will be possible following renewal of high priority floating equipment under
the project  (para. 3.11).   These various measures are summarized  in an
Action Plan for the project (para. 3.23 and Annex 5, Table 1).
C. Port Facilities
2.05     Following a detailed traffic analysis and a review of port layout
plans and other operational considerations, agreement was reached with the
authorities that the first phase of container port development should focus
on one port in each major hinterland area.  The four ports-Haydarpasa,
Izmir, Mersin and Trabzon-currently handle about 60Z of total general cargo
traffic.  However,  it is anticipated that the share of container traffic
would amount to -at least 85X of the total due to diversion from other ports
within  the  traffic  shadow zone of  the proposed ports  (para. 4.02).   A
summary of the main technical data of existing and planned facilities at the
main public ports is presented in Annex I.
Marmara/Thrace Area
2.06     In view of its importance for general cargo traffic and its posi-
tion on the Asian side of the Bosphorus, the port of Haydarpasa is a clear
candidate for the first stage of container development in the Istanbul
area. The port, which is approached from the main Bosphorus channel where
water depth exceeds 27 m, has a general depth of 10.5 m and is protected by
two breakwaters, 1760 m and 600 m long. There are some 14 berths totalling
about 2,650 m of which 9 handle general cargo, 3 dry bulk, and 2 will handle
containers. The main general cargo berths have a depth of water alongside
of 10 m and the container berths 12 m.  Haydarpasa is the country's main
general cargo port and has rail and road links westwards to Europe and
eastwards to Ankara and the interior.  Because of limitations of space as
well as urban congestion, the second stage of container port development in
the Marmara/Thrace area would probably be located in an alternative port,
possibly at Derince,  about  45 km  from Haydarpasa.   Other ports  in  the
Marmara Region include Salipazari, a port on the European side of the
Bosphorus which serves as the main passenger port but which suffers from
limited space and its location in Istanbul's business district, and
Bandirma, a new port handling mainly bulk traffic.
2.07     In  1983,  the  total  number  of  commercial  vessels  calling  at
Haydarpasa was 666, of which 520 were general cargo liners, 108 container



-8-
ships and multi-purpose vessels and 38 bulk carriers. Total traffic in 1983
was 2.1 million tons of dry cargo, of which 1.4 million tons were general
cargo traffic. Although current container trafEic is only 12,000 TEU, there
is considerable scope for growth, Haydarpasa being the main port for import
traffic. There is currently -o ship waiting time at Haydarpasa, but there
is congestion on the quays and in the storage areas because of unclaimed
cargo. Although, performance of general cargo handling, about 500 tons per
ship day, is above average for Turkish ports, this could be improved through
more efficient handling of cargoes on the berths and in storage areas, and
training courses for dockworkers are currently run at the Haydarpasa
training school (para. 3.25). There are currently 1,050 permanent dockers
on the labor register at Haydarpasa.
Aegean Sea
2.08     The port of Izmir already handles a substantial volume of container
traffic, in the range of 50-60,000 TEU per year, primarily required to
support  agricultural  exports.   The  development  of  specialized  container
facilities at Izmir is therefore a logical step.  Izmir is located at the
head of a large protected bay soine 60 km long on the Aegean Sea and is
Turkey's main export port for agricultural products. There are presently
about 1,000 m of general cargo quays and one RoRo terminal with water depths
alongside of 10.5 m and 8.0 m respectively. A new terminal area is under
oqnstruction and will provide a further 1,300 m of berths, of which 450 m
will be 'or container ships and the remainder for multipurpose ships.
Con.-petion of the new facilities is sch'_duled for November 1986.
2.09     A total of 829 ships visited Izmir in 1983, of which 438 were cargo
liners, 274 container and multi-purpose ships and 117 bulk carriers. Total
dry cargo traffic in 1983 was 1.5 million tons of which 934,000 tons of
general cargo, including 340,000 tons in containers, and 526,000 tons of dry
bulk, mainly cereals. There was no ship waiting time in 1983 and through-
puts of around 480 tons per ship day for break bulk and 1,445 tons for
container traffic are satisfactory given the type of traffic, which is
mainly agricultural exports. The port has a total labor force of 1,080
workers.
Mediterranean Sea
2.10     There  are  two  ports  in  the eastern Mediterranean,  Mersin and
Iskenderun, both of which serve the development of transit traffic to the
Middle East.   About one-third of existing traffic is containerized,  and
total container movements in both ports have a7v'eraged about 105.fl00 TEU in
the past three years. As the area's largest port with good laiud transport
links, the port of Mersin provides the logi.al choice for container traffic
development.   The port of  Iskenderun would be developed primarily as a
support facility using heavy duty conventional equipment as it becomes
redundant at Mersin and Haydarpasa. Facilities at Mersin include 23 berths
with a total length of 3,800 m, two-thirds of which have a depth alongside
of lO m; 9 berths handle bulk cargo and the remainder general cargo. Two of
the berths totalling 400 m in length are designed for container handling and
a third berth of 250 m is to be constructed under the proposed project. The



-9-
only other facility on the Mediterranean coast is the small port of Antalya,
some 700 km west of Mersin, but which offers little scope for future
developments.
2.11     Mersin accommodated a total of 2,454 ships during 1983, including
1,444 general cargo liners, 494 container and multi-purpose Ro-Ro vessels
and 516 bulk carriers. Ship waiting time exceeded 48,000 hours or 24 hours
per ship in 1983, this being due mainly to construction work on the new
400 m berth completed in 1984.  Total traffic reached 3.3 million tons of
dry cargo including 2.1 million tons of break-bulk general cargo, 637,000
tons of container and Ro-Ro traffic and 516,000 tons of dry bulk.  Cargo
handling performance at Mersin is lower than average for Turkish ports,
being only 286 tons per ship day for general cargo in 1983. Although there
have been improvements during 1984 with the introduction of new equipment,
the low productivity is due to poor overall control by the port with many
operations being handled directly by agents using inadequate equipment.
Rates per day for container and Ro-Ro traffic reached 1,114 tons and 1,380
tons respectively.  Productivity is expected to improve farther as a result
of additional training provided under the project (paras. 3.15-3.18).  The
ports of Mersin and Iskenderun currently employ about 2,100 workers.
Black Sea
2.12     The present container traffic in the Black Sea is about 13,000 TEU
and the potential for future growth is limited mainly to transit traffic to
Iran. Of four public ports on the Black Sea Coast, two have some claim for
development as container ports, namely Samsun and Trabzon, both of which
cater to transit traffic. The other ports, Giresun located between Samsun
and Trabzon, and Hopa near the Russian Border, are minor ports which have
also begun to handle some transit traffic to Iran. As the area's main port
serving much of central Turkey, including Ankara via a relatively good road
link, development of the port of Samsun was considered under the first stage
of container port development.  On the other hand, although it serves the
less well-developed  hinterland  of Eastern  Turkey,  the  port  of  Trabzon
provides clear advantages over Samsun  for transit  traffic.   The ongoing
berth construction program at Trabzon is well advanced and road links to
Iran are about 400 km shorter than from Samsun. Consequently, it has been
decided that Trabzon should be developed in the first phase and that
development of Samsun in the second phase will depend on further growth of
transit and domestic traffic.
2.13     Trabzon has three existing berths, totalling about 400 m in length,
one of which carries a grain facility and silo. The depth alongside the
berths is 10.0 m.  Construction of a new quay about 580 m long at right
angles to the existing berths is in progress, 280 m of which will handle
containers with the remainder available for general cargo.  Completion of
the container quay is scheduled for November 1986.
2.14     A total of 293 ships visited Trabzon in 1983, including 176 general
cargo liners and 33 container ships.  Total waiting time was about 33,000
hours, or 113 hours per ship, this being due to disruption caused by a major
berth construction program as well as a substantial increase in Iran's



-1.0-
transit traffic from 260,000 tons to 433,000 tons as a result of problems on
the competing Russian overland route (para. 4.11).  Total traffic in 1983
was 730,000 tons of which 373,000 tons were general cargo traffic.  General
cargo throughput reached an acceptable level of about 420 tons per ship
day. Total employment in TDI ports in the Black Sea is about 500 workers.
D. Ports Administration
General
2.15     The 12 major ports function under two separate institutions,  one
group, i.e. the Ports of Samsun, Haydarpasa, Derince, Bandirma, Mersin and
Iskenderun are under the ports establishment of the TCDD Railway Corporation
and another group, i.e. the Ports of Trabzon, Giresun, Hopa, Salipazari
(Istanbul), Izmir, Antalya and the recently added Rize under the ports
establishment of the Turkish Maritime Organization (previously the Maritime
Bank (DB), and now known as TDI).   Construction and maintenance of port
infrastructure are tk'o responsibility of the Directorate of Ports (DLH) in
the Ministry of Publi  Works.   The Loan Agreement for the ongoing port
project  (Loan 1741-TU)  c'led  (under Section  3.06  (a) and (b)) for the
establishment of a new National Ports Institution (NPI) to take over the
ports activities of the above major ports.  However, the Government as well
as the Bank are now no longer convinced that establishment of one institu-
tion  is  the  appropriate  short-term approach  to follow.   First,  recent
attempts to establish national institutions in other sectors of the economy
in Turkey have not met with success.  Secondly, it is now clear that the
main objectives are to strengthen the basic administrative functions of the
ports organizations, including planning and accountability, and to provide
for financial autonomy.   As a result, a more gradual approach  is being
pursued by establishing the ports departments as semi-autonomous organiza-
tions although still under the control of each Board of TCDD and TDI
(para. 2.16).  This is a major step towards making the ports departments
more responsible for establishing accountability and financial autonomy, and
for meeting the needs of the economy.
TCDD and TDI Ports Establishments
2.16     Under Decree No. KHK 233 of June 8, 1984, both TCDD and TDE ports
operations have been transformed, with effect from January 1, 1985, into new
semi-autonomous entities to be named TCDD Limanlar Izletmesi Muessesesi or
TCDD Ports Establishment (Demirliman), and TDI Liman Isletme ve Gemi Kurtama
Muessesesi or TDI Ports and Vessel Salvage Establishment (Denizliman). Both
Demirliman and Denizliman will have separate ident-ties, but they will be
under the corporate control of their parent institutions as subsidiary
units. In order to ensure the operational and financial well-being of these
establishments, there is a need for them to set up, in addition to the
existing operations and technical functions, fully competent departments in
planning, project preparation and implementation, marketing, and accounting
as well as to retain funds for the adequate maintenance of port facilities
and equipmeat, debt service, capital projects and other essential require-
ments before their surpluses are distributed. A general understanding has
been reached on these principles which are included in the Action Plan



-11-
(para. 3.23). In addition, the financial viability along the above lines of
the port organizations is assured by specific financial covenants discussed
in Chapter V, paras. 5.10 and 5.11.
Ports Organizations
2.17     The attached chart (Chart 26971) shows the proposed organizational
structure of  TCDD and  the  position  of ports operations within it.  As
discussed above, TCDD ports operations will be structured as an establish-
ment to be called Demirliman (para. 2.16). It has a Board of Directors or
Executive Committee of its own appointed by the TCDD Board of Directors, an
Establishment Director who will be the chief executive, three Assistant
Directors who rill be in charge of the central departments and six Port
Directors in charge of each port.  Demirliman will prepare in advance its
operating, investment and cash budgets, a projected balance sheet and a
staffing plan for each year for approval bv the TCDD Board of Directors.
The Demirliman Board will have authority to approve expenditures up to
TL 10 million (US$20,000 equivalent) per contract or activity, beyond which
the authority rests with the TCDD board.
2.18     As far as the TDI ports are concerned, they will be functioning
under a similar organizational pattern to that of TCDD ports. The attached
chart (Chart 26972) shows the proposed organizational structure of TDI, and
the position of ports operations (Denizliman) within it.
7
2.19     The staffing in Demirliman number some 5,000 and Denizliman some
4,300 as of January 1985. Each port agency has concentrated during recent
years on training of port workers and staff, and assistance was given under
the previous port project (Loan 1741-TU) and by ILO and UNDP by providing
specialists who organized and initiated training courses. A ports opera-
tions training school was set up at Haydarpasa, and over 30 different types
of courses have been run for dockworkers, supervisors, plant operators and
maintenance technicians (para. 3.25).
E. Budgets, Accounts, Audits, Insurance
Budgets
2.20     Under their respective charters, both Demirliman and Denizliman are
subject to the budget preparation, execution and controls of the state-owned
establishments and enterprises. Annual operating and capital budgets are
prepared and approved by the Board of Directors of the parent companies
subject to annual overview by the Ministry of Transport, the State Planning
Organization and the Ministry of Finance. The budget system itself is well
conceived.  All transactions are to be pre-checked with budget provisions
before commitments are made.   However, comparisons of actual expenditures
with budget allocations are not prepared and circulated in a timely manner
to help management review actual performance. The proposed project includes
arrangements  to effect  improvements  (para.  2.22).   Both  Demirliman  and
Denizliman are expected to improve their budgetary controls as self-
accounting units.



-12-
Accounts
2.21     All organizations in the public sector are required to adhere to
the national uniform accounting system. The accounting concepts, classifi-
cations, and definitions follow generally accepted principles of accounting
and the system is, on the whole, adequate for basic financial accounting.
It does not adequately cover, however, tbe analytical aspects of accounting
which are necessary for the determination of costs and use as management
tools. Attempts under the previous project (Loan 1741-TU) to introduce cost
accounting in the TCDD and TDI ports operations were not completely success-
ful, but they did result in the introduction of procedures for activity-
based costing, e.g. determining the time units of each major activity at
each port such as loading, unloading and shifting of cargo, pilotage,
berthing, etc.  Based on these time units, cost and tariff revenue calcula-
tions are made for determining the financial contributions made by each
major activity at each port.
2.22     Both TCDD and TDI's centralized accounting units produce quarterly
income statements for each port, and annual income statements for each port
and for the TCDD and TDI's ports department as a whole, as well as notional
annual balance sheets for the ports operations extracted from the general
accounts.   In addition, they prepare approximate monthly operating results
based on time allocations of the various activities at each port.  In conti-
nuation of the efforts under the previous project and in the context of
setting up the new ports establishments, the proposed project will include
consultancy assistance for a diagnostic review to be followed by the intro-
duction of approved proposals for the improvement of the financial, account-
ing and costing, and management information systems, methods and procedures
to serve the needs of management decision-making, budgetary control, accoun-
tability and  tariff-setting (para. 3.18).  During negotiations,  agreement
was reached that TCDD and TDI will introduce the approved proposals no later
than January 1, 1988 (para. 5.10).
Audits
2.23     Annual audits are conducted by the Financial Inspectors attached to
the Ministry of Finance, and Controllers and Sworn Banking Auditors attached
to the Treasury Department. Under the previous project (Loan 1741-TU), both
TCDD and TDI were required to submit annual audited financial statements for
their respective port operations within six months after the end of each
fiscal year. Submissions of these annual reports have been delayed in the
past,  reportedly  due  to  insufficient  numbers  of MOF  inspectors.   These
problems were discussed with the inspectors and understandings r-ached on
the  timing  and  format  of  future  audit  reports.   During  negotiations,
assurances were obtained on the annual audit of the financial statements of
the port operations of each of TCDD and TDI.
Directorate of Ports, Public Works Ministry (DLH) and Customs
Department - Budgets, Accounts and Audit
2.24     DLH, which is a part of the Ministry of Public Works, and Customs
Department, which is a part of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), prepare their
own annual budgets for the recurrent and capital expenditures. The approved



-13-
budgets are closely controlled by the agencies and the ministries concerned,
and their accounts are audited by MOF  inspectors.   During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that DLH and the Customs Department each will main-
tain detailed accounts by sources, currencies and dates on a current and
cumulative basis, of project expenditures incurred for equipment, facili-
ties, training and technical assistance for items financed under the
project. Assurances were also obtained that DLH and the Customs Department
each will have the project accounts audited annually and submit the audited
statements to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year.
Insurance
2.25     TCDD, TDI,  and DLH each maintain adequate  insurance  for  their
equipment.   During  negotiations,  assurances were  obtained  that adequate
insurance coverage will be provided for equipment and facilities financed
under the project.



-14-
III. THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A. Port Investment Program
3.01     The Government has just completed the Fourth Five-Year Development
Plan, 1980-84, and has now embarked on a rolling plan basis for the five-year
period 1985-89.   The plan will be reviewed annually,  thereby introducing
much needed flexibility in the planning process.   Total investment in the
transport sector during 1985-89 is expected to remain at about the same
level as under the earlier plan (1980-84), namely at about 18-20% of the
public investment program.
3.02     Investments  in ports during  the Fourth Development Plan 1980-84
averaged about TL 18.8 billion annually (US$54 million) in 1984 prices. The
main emphasis during this period was on the rehabilitation of the ports,
particularly of conventional cargo handling equipment and storage facili-
ties.   However, during the latter part of the plan, construction of new
berth facilities began in several ports in order to cater for expected
increases in general cargo and container traffic (para. 3.13).  Investments
in these facilities as well as the balance of the equipment renewal program
represent the bulk of the current spillover of ongoing investments into the
Fifth  Development  Plan   1985-89,   equivalent   to   about   TL 25 billion
(US$70 million) in 1984 prices.
3.03     Table 3.1 shows  the outline port investment program for 1985-89
based on the 1985 budget figures recently approved by Parliament:
Table 3.1: Outline Port Investment Program: 1985-89
(TL million 1984 prices)
Expected        Average Annual
Budget      Expenditures         Expenditures
-1985         1986-89              1985-89
TCDD
Ongoing Investments        2,195
New Projects               2,305          24,980
Total TCDD              4,500          24,980            5,896  (US$16.8 m)
TDI
Ongoing Investments        5,254           2,174
New Projects               1,700          16.463
Total TDI               6,954          18,637            5,118  (US$14.6 m)
DLH
Ongoing Investments        6,506           8,622
New Projects               6,494          38,403
Total DLH              13,000          47,025           12,005  (US$34.3 m)
TOTAL                 924,454           0,642           23,019  (US$65.7 m)



-15-
3.04     It is expected that investment levels in ports during 1985-89 will
average about TL 23 billion annually (US$66 million) in 1984 prices, a
slight increase in real  terms over levels during 1980-84.  However,  this
level is well below the initial proposals of the port  agencies.   These
proposals were based on continued investment in general cargo handling
facilities and equipment while at the same time providing for the develop-
ment of container handling facilities on a relatively broad front. Detailed
discussions on the port investment program were held with the Bank during
preparation of the proposed project as well as during a Transport Investment
Review Mission in October 1984. The Bank's views were subsequently consi-
dered by the port agencies and the State Planning Organization (SPO) in
finalizing the 1985 Budget. The latter essentially limited the new projects
introduced into the 1985-89 Plan to the proposed container port development
program and to the essential renewal of conventional cargo handling equip-
ment and high priority floating equipment for DLH.  In view of the uncer-
tainties over container traffic flows, especially in international transit,
a phased approach has now been adopted for the development of container port
facilities (para. 2.02). This program, which covers the years 1985-88, is
expected to account for about 60% of the 1985-89 port investment plan. The
remainder concerns mainly equipment renewal, particularly for DLH, ongoing
bulk berth construction, and provision for new facilities in the Istanbul-
Marmara Region towards the latter part of the plan.  In general, all items
in the plan appear justified except that the development of bulk mineral
facilities at Izmir should possibly be deferred or reconsidered.  Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Government will provide the Bank with
draft annual programs and budgets for the ports subsector during the period
of project implementation (para. 3.26) and that any proposed new investments
will be supported by adequate feasibility studies.
B. Project Objectives
3.05     Bank  lending  to Turkey  aims  to  support  the  country's  current
economic policies with specific emphasis on an export-oriented development
strategy, quick-yielding new investments, restraint on public investment
levels  and  improvements  in  the balance of payments.   Assistance  in  the
country's port development program will provide direct support for export
development of both industrial and agricultural products and will ensure
foreign exchange savings on sea freight rates for both exports and imports.
Moreover, the development of modern container handling facilities serving a
growing demand for international transit traffic will provide Turkey with
valuable foreign exchange earnings accruing to Turkish shippers, road
transport companies and port agencies.   A Banik-assisted port  development
project will therefore provide substantial suppo-t for increased foreign
exchange earnings and positive effects on the balance of payments situation.
At the same time, the introduction of improved planning in the ports sector
will enable the port agencies to direct scarce investment resources to
current priorities and to improve port operations.
3.06     The basic rationale for Bank lending to Turkey's transport sector
is to support the development of an efficient transport system capable of
meeting the needs of the economy and to continue institution-building



-16-
efforts.  Particular emphasis is being placed on improvements in organiza-
tional and operational efficiency, the implementation of balanced investment
plans and the introduction of cost-based  tariffs.   These goals are being
pursued primarily through ongoing project implementation and preparation in
highways,  railways  and  ports.   Additional  assistance  is  being  provided
through a proposed Agricultural Sector Loan, which provides for the intro-
duction of improved planning procedures for Turkey's vast rural road
network.   In  the  ports  subsector,  the  following  specific  goals  are  of
importance:
(i)   the introduction of improved cargo handling methods,  specifi-
cally through the provision of specialized container handling
facilities in a number of selected ports;
(ii)   agreement  with  the  Government  and  the  port  agencies  on  a
realistic investment program for the Fifth Development Plan
covering the period 1985-89;
(iii)   implementation of a comprehensive action plan for the introduc-
tion of container handling technology, including operational
procedures, equipment maintenance, and modified customs regula-
tions; and
(iv)   the, introduction of institutional reforms which would include,
as a first -phase, the strengthening of planning capabilities
and the separation of port accounts from those of other activi-
ties managed by TCDD and TDI, and the introduction of a
cost-related tariff structure at commercially feasible levels
for container traffic.
C. Description of the Project
3.07     The components of the proposed project are:
(i)   specialized  equipment  for  handling  and  clearing  container
traffic at four selected ports--Izmir, Haydarpasa, Mersin and
Trabzon--including nine standard container gantries, five
lightweight gantries, and appropriate supporting equipment;
(ii)   renewal of high priority items of floating equipment necessary
for the maintenance and construction of port facilities;
(iii)   civil works  for container berth facilities  at  the  ports  of
Izmir, Mersin and Trabzon; and
(iv)   technical assistance for the introduction of container handling
technology including documentation and operational procedures,
maintenance  and   training,   the  establishment  of  improved
accounting, financial, costing and management information
systems, meLhods and procedures, and the development of a
series of inland container depots.



-17-
Equipment and Materials
3.08     The proposed container port development program to be implemented
during thc period 1985-88 provides a least-cost solution for meeting antici-
pated container traffic demands up to 1989/90.  The proposed program takes
into account overall traffic patterns, hinterland linkages, ongoing port
development schemes and the suitability of existing ports for development in
the medium term.   The  list of container handling equipment for the four
ports has been established based on detailed traffic forecasts for national
and transit traffic and the expected productivity of new equipment. Details
of  traffic  forecasts  are  given  in  Chapter IV.   The  proposed  equipment
program is summarized below for each port:
Izmir.   The development program at Izmir calls for a three-crane
operation to cater for a forecast of 88,000 TEU in 1989. The project will
finance two standard container cranes which will work the main 450 m berth
currently under construction, delivery being scheduled for May-June 1987.
In addition, because of the current throughput of 50-60,000 TEU, TDI is
providing for early procurement of two lightweight cranes using its own
resources.   These cranes will operate a multi-purpose berth beginning in
mid-1986. In line with an overall Action Plan for the project (para. 3.23),
TDI will assess the need for four cranes at Izmir in 1988 with a view to
relocating one  lightweight crane at that  time  to  another  facility.   In
addition. to the two standard cranes, the project will finance support
equipment for a three-crane operation, including six transtainers, 15 towing
units, 18 trailers and two Belotti-type container mobile cranes.
Haydarpasa.   Expected  traffic  developments  in the Istanbul area
call for the establishment of a three-crane operation capable of handling
88,000 TEU in 1989, a major increase over the present level of 12,000 TEU.
The project will finance two standard cranes for use of the recently
completed 300 m berth and one lightweight crane which will work on an
adjacent multi-purpose Ro-Ro berth. Support equipment to be financed by the
project includes six transtainers, 15 towing units, 18 trailers and two
Belotti-type cranes.
Mersin.  As the main transit port for Iraq as well as serving a
major export demand from southeastern Turkey, the proposed container
development program at Mersin calls for a five-crane operation.   Forecast
traffic for 1989 is 200,000 TEU, compared with a current level of about
105,000 TEU  through  the  ports  of Mersin  and  Iskenderun.   The  proposed
project will finance five standard container cranes, 11 transtainers, 21
towing units, 23 trailers and two Belotti-type cranes.
Trabzon.  Forecast traffic in the Black Sea is limited essentially
to transit traffic to Iran and is expected to increase from about 13,000 TEU
at present to about 40,000 TEU in 1989. Because of uncertainties over the
level of transit traffic and the rate of container penetration, a minimum
container operat-vn based on two lightweight cranes is proposed for Trabzon.
In addition to the two quay-side cranes, support equipment to be financed by
the proposed project includes four transtainers, seven towing units, ten
trailers, and one Belotti-type crane.



-18-
3.09     Assessment of the balance between the numbers of gantry cranes and
support equipment was made on a basis of five tractor/trailer units and two
transtainers per gantry crane. The assumptions made and method used is set
out in Annex 5, Table 6.  Other support equipment  to be financed by  the
proposed project includes 41 forklift trucks, including seven of 10/12 ton
capacity and 34 of 2 ton capacity. Additional support equipment is already
available in TCDD and TDI ports and includes 12 ton, 28 ton and 42 ton
forklift trucks, and some container tow tractors and trailers purchased
recently either under the Ports Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1741-TU) or
from the agencies' own resources (see Annex 1, Table 2).  The project would
also finance crane rails for the gantry cranes as well as miscellaneous
itemis  such as special temporary storage facilities which will free planned
container areas.
3.10     With  the  substantial  increase  in numbers  of  containers  to  be
handled through the project ports during the coming years, customs will need
to review closely and modify their existing procedures  for clearance of
containers as well as increase staff,  since  the expeditious clearance of
containers will be of paramount importance to the effectiveness of the
project as a whole. This may be achieved through improved clearance methods
in the ports by use of specialized surveillance equipment and systems, and
by the use of inland container depots established at strategic points in the
ports hinterland where sealed import traffic containers are transported
directly from ship to depot at which location they are opened, unloaded and
cleared by Customs officers  (para. 3.18).   The simplification  of Customs
procedures including the ratification of a 1972 Customs Convention for
Containers, which allows for duty-free import and export of container boxes,
the need to recruit and train additional Customs officers, and equipment
required to facilitate clearance of containers have already been discussed
with Customs and the agencies.  A list of equipment  for Customs,  and an
Action Plan for implementing revised Customs procedures and recruitment and
training of additional officers were discussed and confirmed at negotia-
tions.   Initially, about 25% of the proposed equipment will be obtained to
enable field tests to be carried out at specific locations to verify that
the  equipment  as  designed  will  meet  all  customs  requirements.   It  is
intended that the system would be installed at the four project ports as
well as at the four main land borders handling container traffic.
3.11     DLH has carried out a study of its new equipment needs for the
period of the Fifth Development Plan 1985-89. DLH's current floating equip-
ment fleet includes some 115 items with a total replacement value of about
US$200 million (Annex 1, Table 3). With over 100 items over ten years old
and 60 items are over 20 years old, much of the fleet is beyond its useful
economic life and a backlog of esselntial maintenance work, especially
dredging,  has  built up  over  the years.   The equipment needs have been
established based on a detailed program of maintenance and construction for
the period 1985-89. During this period, DLH will concentrate its resources
increasingly  on  maintenance  operations,   with  construction   activities
allocated mainly to contractors.  From these equipment requirements, a list
of high priority items has been selected for financing under the proposed
Bank loan up to a total CIF cost of about US$26 million. The list of equip-
ment includes two 90-ton floating cranes, three bucket dredgers, six



-19-
back-hoe dredgers, as well as diesel engines for tugboats and dredging
barges. Details of the DLH equipment fleet and proposed work program are in
the Project File (Document No. B.2 and B.3).
3.12     Detailed lists oF equipment for TCDD, TDI and DLH are included in
Annex 5.  The  lists  were  discussed  and  confirmed  at negotiations.   The
project will allow for possible revision of support equipment requirements
during implementation depending on operational experience and traffic
developments.
Civil Works
3.13     The new container quays, and storage areas at each of the project
ports have been financed from the agencies' own resources, and has been
constructed either by DLH or under DLH's supervision.  At Haydarpasa,  the
new container area has been completed apart from some regrading of areas
designated  for  storage  of containers  (see Chart 18679).   At Mersin,  two
berths are already available and a third berth is to be constructed by
extending an existing berth and reclaiming the area behind the new quay (see
Chart 18678). At Izmir, construction of the main container quay is nearing
completion but reclamation of the main container storage area behind the
quay  will  not  be completed  until  1986  (see  Chart 18676).   At  Trabzon,
construction of the new container quay as well as a new general cargo quay
is in progress and will be completed in 1986 (see Chart 18677).
3.14     Dredging alongside the quays where necessary  at Haydarpasa, Mersin
and Trabzon has been or will be carried out by DLH dredgers as part of
routine maintenance requirements within the ongoing works, but that at Izmir
will be undertaken by contract awarded through International Competitive
Bidding (see para. 3.27).  This tzmir dredging will be the only civil works
financed from the proposed loan and was orig .ally to have been carried out
by DLH under the ongoing Izmir port development financed from the agencies'
own  resources.   However,  completion of  the dredging  (estimated at about
5 million mi3) within  the  requisite  time  frame  is  beyond  the  resource
capacity of DLH, and it has therefore been included in the project for Bank
financing to ensure timely completion in accordance with the overall
program.  The depth of water in the existing port varies between 10.5 and
11.0 meters at the existing general cargo berths and about 6 meters to the
north and west of the new berths.  Dredging off the new 450 m container
berths will be to a depth of 13 meters consistent with the design depth of
the berths, and suitable for container ships in the forecast capacity range
with drafts of up  to about  12 meters  (para. 4.18).   The  area  off  the
adjacent 600 m multi-purpose berths will be dredged to 12 meters consistent
with the berth design and rorecast shipping.  About 1.5 km of channel from
the port will require dredging to 13 m depth to reach natural deep water.
Additional dredging to achieve a 13 m deep channel will be required near
Yenikale some 11 km downstrean from the port where the channel narrows and
shoals. The general limits of dredging are shown on the chart at the end of
the report.  Material unsuitable for reclamation purposes will be deposited
at the designated spoil dumping ground some 15 km from Izmir (para. 3.30).



-20-
Technical Assistance
3.15     To assist the Turkish authorities in setting up modern container
port operations, about 172 man-months of specialized consulting services
have been included under the proposed project (see Annex 5. Table 7). This
program is critical to the establishment of satisfactory modern container
handling methods and is carefully phased to maximize on-the-job training in
line with the planned delivery schedule for equipment. Although considera-
tion was given during discussions with the agencies to the possibility of a
management contract for handling containers, specialist technical assistance
was deemed to provide the best alternative, bearing in mind staff training
already undertaken (para. 2.19). the likely increased adverse impact of a
management contract on the port labor force (para. 3.31), and the desirabi-
lity of achieving early commercial orientation and expertise of port staff
(para. 2.02).
3.16     Technical  assistance  for container  operations  will  cover  three
principal  areas:   (i) container documentation and control;  (ii) physical
container handling on ship and shore; and (iii) establishment of procedures
for engineering operations, maintenance and repairs, and stores inventories.
Port personnel from TCDD, TDI and Customs will be trained in these areas
through a series of pilot schemes. The initial pilot scheme in documenta-
tion and control systems would require a specialist for about 8 months
commencing at Izmir in about January 1986 in anticipation of the deliveFy of
TDI's own-resource  financed equipment  in April  1986.   The  documentation
specialist would then transfer in about September 1986 for a further period
of 8 months to Mersin to run a second pilot scheme there, so that trained
staff would be available at both Izmir and Mersin to assist in implementing
the operations pilot schemes which would follow consecutively at each port
and be run by operations specialists.  These operations pilot schemes would
commence prior to the start-up of container operations, and would each run
for about 8 months, first at Izmir from about May through December 1986, and
then at Mersin from January through September 1987.  An estimated 72 man-
months of operations specialists would be required for the two operational
pilot schemes, including four man-months for review of the documentation and
operations systems set up at Trabzon and Haydarpasa by staff trained earlier
at Izmir.   Finally,  specialists  in  repair and maintenance  of  container
handling equipment will establish a training scheme for maintenance proce-
dures at Izmir, beginning in April 1986, for a period of about eight months.
The maintenance team will then transfer to Mersin in about November 1986.
About 55 man-months of equipment maintenance specialists would be required
for  the  pilot  maintenance  schemes.   The  details  of  target  dates  and
man-months r--uired for the pilot schemes (documentation, operations and
maintenance) are  set out in Tables  7 and 8 of Annex 5.  A further 10
man-months of foreign consultant time would be required for general
supervision and to organize and supervise a series of overseas technical
visits for key personnel from the various agencies involved with port
operations (para. 3.17).
3.17     The proposed project would finance about 80 man-months of overseas
technical visits for port staff, customs officials and DLH personnel to
provide training in container operations and in container terminals design



-21-
and layout. A preliminary series of visits would be made prior tc implemen-
tation of the pilot schemes with a further program for management staff
during the operational phase (para. 3.25).
3.18     Additional technical assistance would be included under the project
for further improvements to accounting procedures and analyses.  About 15
man-months of local consultants would be required for this purpose.   The
project would also finance a study which would assess the need for inland
container depots to be used in the collection and distribution of container
traffic and for customs clearance of goods. This would include a review of
the use of an existing area at Icerenkoy near Istanbul which is presently
operated by TDI. An estimated 20 man-months are required for this study.
3.19     It is expected that technical assistance for container operations
will be provided by a single specialized firm. Draft Terms of Reference are
shown in Annex 6 and these were discussed and confirmed at negotiations.
Outline terms of reference for the financial study and the container depot
study (3.07(iv)) are in the Project File (Document Nos. C4 and C5). These
terms of reference as well as the organization of overseas training visits
were discussed and confirmed at negotiations and will be carried out in
accordance with a schedule agreed in the Action Plan for the project
(para. 3.23).
D.  Cost Estimates
3.20     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$174 million with a
foreign exchange component of US$143 million (82%), the balance comprising
local costs, taxes and duties. The proposed Bank loan of US$134.5 million
would cover 96% of the foreign exchange cost of equipment, the foreign cost
of the Izmir dredging contract, and 99% of the cost of technical assistance.
The costs of civil works and of two lightweight cranes which are being
financed by the agencies are included in the project cost, since it is
essential to the project that these works and items of equipment are under-
taken and provided by the requisite time. Cost estimates have been adjusted
to reflect January 1985 prices. A detailed project cost table is shown in
Annex 5 and is summarized below:



-22-
Table 3.2: Summary of Project Cost Estimates
Bank
TL Million                      US$ Mil,ion                Loan
Local      Foreign       Total    Local      Foreign   Total       US$ mill.
A. Equipment
(a) TCOD                   2,155.84   19,402.52   21,558.36    5.04        45.33    50.37          45.33
(b) TDI 1/                 1,230.07   11,070.65   12,300.72    2.87        25.87    28.74          21.88
(c) DLH                    1,885.77   10,860.07   12,745.84    4.41        25.37    29.78          25.37
(d) Customs                  380.92    3,428.28    3,809.20    0.89         8.01     8.90           8.01
Subtotal                   5,625.60   44,761.52   50,414.12   13.21    104.58   117.79            100.59
B. Civil Works
(a) Izmir Dredging           918.06    5,202.34    6,120.40    2.15    12.16         14.30        12.16
(b) Izmir Berth/
Rcclamation 2/        1,715.00       735.00    2,450.00    4.01       1.72      5.72          --
(c) Mersin Berth           1,000.70       428.87    1,429.58    2.34       1.00      3.34          --
(d) Trabzon Berth 2/         574.53       246.23       820.75    1.34      0.58       1.92         --
(e) Haydarpasa Berth 2,'    257.25        110.25       367.50    0.60      0.26      0.86          --
(f) Supporting Infra-
structure             1,549.36         --       1,549.36    3.62      --        3.62          --
Subtotal                   6,014.90    6,722.69   12,737.59   14.06    15.72        29.76         12.16
C. Technical Assistance/
Training                   5.78       821.55       827.32    0.01      1.92       1.93         1.92
Tztal Base Costs          11,673.27   52,305.76   63,979.03   27.27   122.21    149.48            114.67
D. Contingencies
(a) Physical                 137.71       780.35       918.06    0.32      1.82      2.15          1.82
(b) Price                  7,008.35   37,293.15   44,301.50    3.46    18.85        22.31         17.98
Subtotal Contingencies    7,146.06   38,073.50   45,219.56    3.78    20.67         24.46         19.80
TOTAL PROJECT COST          18,819.33   90,379.26  109,198.59   31.05   142.88    173.94            134.48
I/ Includes two lightweight cranes to be procured independently by TDI.
2/ Ongoing works.
(4214D)



-23-
3.21     Equipment costs are based on recent price experience for similar
types of equipment provided by foreign manufacturers. Dredging costs are
derived from preliminary estimates which will be updated based on detailed
investigations,  which will be available  prior  to negotiations.   Because
dredging costs depend upon the availability of suitable contractors, an
additional contingency of 15% has been allowed. A provision of 10% has been
made for most spare parts with 15% for equipment which will be subject to
heavy wear and tear.   Technical assistance costs for expatriates  include
salaries, fees, international travel and subsistence. The average man-month
rate for local consultants includes the cost of logistic support.  For costs
expressed in Turkish Lira, price contingencies have been estimated assuming
annual price increases of 30% in 1985, 25% in 1986, 20% in 1987, 15% in
1988, and 10% in 1989 and 1990 and when expressed in US Dollars, 5% in 1985,
7.5% in 1986 and 8% for 1987 through 1990. During negotiations, the project
costs estimates were discussed and confirmed.
E. Financing Plan
3.22     The proposed Bank loan of US$134.5 million would cover 94% of the
total foreign exchange cost (para. 3.20).   The remaining foreign exchange
costs relate to the indirect foreign costs of ongoing berth construction
programs which are being met under DLH's investment program and the CIF
costs of two lightweight container cranes currently being procured by TDI
with their own resources. All local costs will be met from the budgets of
the respective agencies.  All- items related to the proposed project are
included in the 1985 Budget and rolling plan documents recently approved by
Parliament.   During the period of project implementation,  the Government
will discuss the annual budget estimates with the Bank in order to ensure
adequate budgetary allocations to cover planned expenditures (para. 3.04).
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that all local costs as well
as all cost overruns would be met by: (i) the Government in the case of the
components to be implemented by DLH (Ministry of the Public Works), and by
the Customs Department of the Ministry of Finance and Customs, and (ii) by
the TCDD and TDI Ports Establishments for their respective share of the
components to be implemented by them.
F. Project Implementation
3.23     With the involvement of four different agencies  in the project,
close coordination of efforts will be essential and the Government has
already set up a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) chaired by a Deputy
Undersecretary of the Ministry of Transport. This Committee includes senior
representatives of each agency and technical staff will also be recruited by
MOT.   The PCC will  be responsible  for  implementing and monitoring  the
project in line with the comprehensive Action Plan shown in Annex 5. The
PCC will also ensure that civil works at the project ports are completed as
scheduled in line with the main implementation program.  The PCC will be
specifically responsible inter alia for overall coordination of project
activities, and of implementing the technical assistance component and
coordinating the preparation of a draft second phase container port develop-
ment  program.   Specific  Terms  of Reference  for the FCC  (Annex 7) were
discussed and confirmed at  negotiations.   In  addition,  assurances  were



-24-
obtained at negotiations that the Action Plan (Annex 5) will be implemented
as agreed with the Bank and updated from time to time.
3.24     Procurement of container handling equipment will be undertaken on a
consolidated basis by TCDD on behalf of TCDD and TDI in accordance with a
signed protocol.  DLH and Customs will each be separately responsible for
the procurement of their equipment to be financed from the loan. Assuming
that all bid documents for equipment are prepared promptly and cleared by
the Bank, orders for some equipment would be placed by the end of 1985.
Based on estimated manufacture periods from date of ordering of 12 months
for container cranes and 8 months for transtainers and other support equip-
ment, and a commissioning and testing period of 3 months, the equipment
should become operational starting in March 1987 and all be available by
October 1987. The timetable for project implementation as agreed with the
Government and project agencies (Chart, Annex 5) set targets for which the
agencies should aim to enable the new facilities to become operational as
soon as possible. The implementation period has been extended by six months
to allow for start-up delays, and also one year has been added to allow for
unforeseen delays giving a total implementation period of 4-1/2 years (from
the date of Board presentation).
3.25     To enable the technical assistance pilot schemes for setting up
container documentation, operations and engineering maintenance and subse-
quent training to be completed in time to coincide with forecast equipment
deliveries, a specialist firm will need to be recruited and appointed as
soon after the date of effectiveness of the loan as possible so that the
main assignment may be completed by mid-1987 in accordance with the schedule
shown in the Action Plan (Annex 5, Tables 1 and 8). The target dates for
supply of equipment, completion of civil works and provision of assisted
technical assistance have been detailed in Table 8 of Annex 5 to demonstrate
the need for close coordination between these three components, and to act
as a checklist for updating or modifying as found necessary during project
implementation.   TDI  will be responsible for technical assistance to be
provided for both TCDD and TDI, and implementation will be organized by a
small joint TDI/TCDD executive committee. Additional operational training
for port workers will be given at the existing port training school at
Haydarpasa where courses for port workers and technicians have been running
since its inauguration during the previous Ports Project (Loan 1741-TU) and
at other ports (para. 2.19). Overseas operational training will be planned
in two phases, a first phase to be implemented in late 1985 prior to
start-up of the pilot training scheme in Turkey. However, the main part of
the overseas training program will be implemented from April 1987 through
1988 so that it does not conflict with the training schemes i-: the project
ports (Chart, Annex 5).
3.26     The PCC will submit to the Bank  quarterly  progress  reports  on
overall project implementation which will include progress of construction,
manufacture and delivery of equipment, technical assistance and training,
traffic statistics, financial statements and disbursement schedule, and port
performance indicators.  The format was discussed and agreed at negotia-
tions.   The  PCC  will  be  responsible  for  submitting  annual  investment
programs ard budgets to the Bank (para. 3.04). In addition, during project



-25-
implementation, the PCC will ensure that the necessary records of relevant
data are kept for the preparation of the PCR. The PCR should be submitted
not later than six months after the closing date.
G. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
3.27     Procurement of equipment and dredging works at Izmir to be financed
by the Bank will be carried out on the basis of ICB in accordance with
current Bank Guidelines for Procurement (August 1984). The equipment will
be tendered for in separate packages as appropriate for: (i) standard
container cranes; (ii) lightweight container cranes; (iii) transtainers;
(iv) trailers  and  towing  units;  (v) forklift  trucks;  (vi) Belotti-type
cranes;  (vii) crane  rails  and  fasteners;  (viii) dredgers;  (ix) diesel
engines for tugboats; (x) outboard propulsion units; and (xii) specialized
customs inspection and examination equipment. Contracts for each type of
equipment will be large enough to attract foreign suppliers and to ensure
standardization of the equipment concerned. Consideration will be given to
including an item in equipment bid documents for price quotations by manu-
facturers for maintenance contract engineers on a year-to-year basis.
Smaller items of equipment of a specialized nature may be procured under
limited international bidding contracts of less than US$50,000 up to a total
of US$1.0 million for the whole project. The dredging work at Izmir will be
tendered under one contract on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Guidelines.   In evaluating  international
bids for equipment contracts, domestic manufacturers will be allowed a
preferential margin of 15% of the CIF landed price of competing imports, or
the prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower.  Specialist consultants
will be recruited in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Table 3.3 shows
procurement methods for the project elements.
Disbursement
3.28     Disbursements  tmder  the  proposed  loan will  cover  100%  of  the
foreign exchange costs of equipment procurement, equivalent to the CIF cost,
and the foreign costs of the Izmir dredging contracts estimated at 85% of
total costs. Disbursements against technical assistance will cover 85% of
local and 100% of foreign expenditures. The disbursement schedule has been
developed from the implementation schedule shown in Annex 5 and assumes the
project will be effective in September 1985. Much of the civil works has
been completed or is under construction with completion expected by mid- to
late-1987, and the capital dredging at Izmir by the end of 1987. Most of
the equipment will be procured within the first three years of the project.
Hence a disbursement period of 5-1/2 years is reasonable, and the period
corresponds to about 80% disbursement under the Regional sector profile.
Table 3.4 reflects the corresponding rates of disbursement.   The disburse-
ment schedule was discussed and confirmed at negotiations.



-26-
Table 3.3: Procurement Method
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method                 Total
Project Element        ICB         LCB         Other     N.A.       Cost
Civil Works                18.70      16.87 1/       --       --        35.57
(16.02)     (_)          C--)      (--)     (16.02)
Equipment                 136.11        -           0.10      --       136.21
(116.22)     (--)        (0.10)    (--)    (116.32)
Technical Assistance        2.16        -            --       --         2.16
(2.14)     (-}()                    -       (2.14)
Total                     156.97      16.87         0.10      --       173.94
(134.38)   (-)           (0.10)    (--)    (134.48)
Figures in parenthesis are for the proposed Bank loan.
1/  Financed from agencies' own resources - all contracts except for berth
extension at Mersin-are already ongoing.



-27-
Table 3.4: Schedule of Disbursements
Fiscal Year and                                   US$ million
Quarter Ending                           Amount            Cumulative
FY1986
December 31, 1985                               2.8                  2.8
March 31, 1986                                  4.3                  7.1
June 30, 1986                                   5.7                 12.8
FY1987
September 30, 1986                              7.8                 20.6
December 31, 1986                               8.5                 29.1
March 31, 1987                                  9.2                 38.3
June 30, 1987                                  11.4                49.7
FY1988
September 30, 1987                             10.6                60.3
December 31, 1987                               9.6                 69.9
March 31, 1988                                 10.3                 80.2
June 30, 1988                                   7.8                88.0
FY1989
September 30, 1988                             10.0                 98.0
December 31, 1988                               8.5               106.5
March 31, 1989                                  6.4                112.9
June 30, 1989                                   6.1               119.0
FY1990
September 30, 1989                              4.5               123.5
December 31, 1989                               4.3               127.8
March 31, 1990                                  2.2               130.0
June 30, 1990                                   1.5               131.5
FY1991
September 30, 1990                              1.5               133.0
December 31, 1990                               1.5               134.5
l



-28-
3.29     The Goverrnment of Turkey would be the borrower of the Bank loan for
the whole project. For the portion of the loan pertaining to DLH and the
Customs Department, there would be no relending arrangements since their
respective ministries are parts of the Government and are not revenue-
earning entities.  However, the portions of the loan covering the components
pertaining to TCDD and TDI Ports Establishments would be relent by the
Government to these agencies respectively under the same terms and condi-
tions as the proposed Bank loan to the Government, with the foreign exchange
risk on interest charges and loan repayments being the responsibility of the
borrowing agencies.  Signing of the subsidiary loan agreements, acceptable
to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
H. Environmental Impact
3.30     The development of container handling facilities will reduce the
need  for  majcr  expansion  of  port  facilities  which  would  normally  be
necessary for general cargo operations.  In addition, berth occupancy tor
container facilities generally does not exceed 30%,  thereby reducing the
amount of time spent by ships in port and the related dangers of pollution
and oil spills.  No environmental problems  are expected  from  the  Izmir
dredging operations as unsuitable materials will be deposited in a desi-
gnated spoil area some 15 km from Izmir (para. 3.14).
I. Impact on Employment
3.31     The  introduction  of  modern  container  handling  facilities  will
reduce the need for labor in the project ports.   The port agencies are
already anticipating the reductions in labor and they do not foresee any
problems with the introduction of multiple-shift operations. It is expected
that the savings in labour will be achieved partly through attrition and
partly through redeployment in other port activities or in other sectors of
the economy.  The overall program would require a reduction in the labor
force of about 1,000 workers (paras. 2.19 and 3.15). The estimated reduc-
tion in labor range from about 11% at Izmir to about 30% at Haydarpasa with
the transit ports in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Black Sea requiring
reductions  of  about  20%.   It  is  essential  that  agencies  should  start
planning as soon as possible how any excess labour may be transferred to
other tasks to minimize adverse effects.  However, following expansion of
port traffic, additional employment may be created in such activities as
trucking, storage and freight forwarding.



-29-
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
4.01     This chapter summarizes  the economic evaluation of the  proposed
investment in container handling facilities in Turkish ports.  As discussed
in Chapter II (paras. 2.02 and 2.05), TCDD and TDI had originally proposed
container port development on a broad front involving as many as nine
ports.   However,  taking  into account  present  traffic  patterns,  it  was
subsequently decided that a sounder basis for container port development
would be to limit container handling facilities under a first phase to
essentially one port in each major hinterland area. The first phase, to be
implemented during the period 1985-88, would provide an opportunity for
traffic developments to be monitored and appropriate adjustments to be made
under a second phase of development during the period 1988-91 (para. 3.23).
Equipment requirements have been established in order to meet the forecast
container throughput for 1989/90 through to 1992, taking into account
minimum operational requirements in each of the project ports.  Details of
the methodology used in establishing traffic forecasts and in the economic
evaluation are given respectively in Annexes 2 and 3.
4.02     As  the proposed  project  is concerned with  the  introduction of
modern container handling technology in Turkish ports, the focus of the
traffic analysis and economic evaluation is on general cargo traffic and the
impact of containerization on this traffic. Although the four project ports
currently handle only about 60% of total general cargo traffic, their share
of container traffic is expected to be about 85Z of total traffic due to
diversion from other ports within the traffic shadow area of the project
ports. Detailed forecasts of general cargo and .-ontainer traffic have been
prepared for all ports.  Forecasts of other traffic have been prepared on a
more global basis in order to obtain a complete traffic picture for Turkish
ports for the period through 1992.
B. ExistinR Traffic
4.03     Turkey's foreign trade has increased sharply during the 1970s in
line with a GDP growth  rate  of about  7% per year.   However,  Turkey's
economic structure and growth process proved to be exceedingly vulnerable to
various external factors during the late 1970s, including increases in oil
prices, stagnation in western Europe and a deterioration in the terms of
trade.  A period of stagnation in foreign trade during 1978 and 1979 was
followed by the introduction of a stabilization program and structural
adjustment process in 1980 designed to introduce greater reliance on market
forces and policies to achieve high export growth rates. Since tthe intro-
duction of this process, foreign trade has picked up and the upsurge in
exports in 1981 has continued through 1984, with industrial exports leading
the way. In addition, the removal of restrictions on imports during 1984
has lead to growth in import demand, particularly for raw materials required
by export-oriented  industries.   This  growth  in  imports  is  expected  to
continue at a moderate rate in the medium term.



-30-
4.04     During  1983,  the  12 TCDD and TDI ports handled a total of some
22 million tons of cargo. Dry cargo amounted to 15.3 million tons, includ-
ing 8.5 million tons of foreign trade, 4.1 million tons of transit traffic
and 2.7 million tons of coastal traffic.
Table 4.1: Traffic at TCDD and TDI Ports 1979-83
('000 tons)
Annual Growth Z
1979     1980      1981      1982    1983        1979-83
Dry Cargo
Foreign         6,336    6,179    6,901    7,641    8,477            7.5
Transit           627    1,242    2,365    3,496    4,051          59.4
Coastal         2,702    2,881    2,644    3,065    2,771           0.6
Total       9,665   10,302   11,910   14,202   15,299           12.2
Liquid Bulk
Foreign         2,341    3,291    3,696    4,314    4,539          18.0
Coastal         2,354    2,484    2,415    2,841    2,721           3.7
Total       4,695    5,775    6,111    7,155    7,260           11.5
Grand Total        14,360   16,077   18,021   21,358   22,558           12.0
4.05     Since 1979, foreign dry cargo traffic in Turkish ports, excluding
transit traffic, has increased from 6.3 million tons to 8.5 million tons in
1983, an average increase of about 7.5% per year. Much of this growth has
been made up of exports of general cargo, particularly iron and steel and
manufactured goods. Total general cargo traffic increased from 4.5 million
tons in 1979 to 6.1 million tons in 1983, an annual increase of about 8%.
During the same period, transit traffic to Iran and Iraq increased dramatic-
ally from 630,000 tons in 1979 to just over 4 million tons in 1983. Coastal
traffic, mainly bulk commodities, is currently at about 5 million tons
having increased at a low rate of just over 2% per year since 1979.
4.06     Despite  Lhe  1-ck  of appropriate  handling  technology,  container
traffic has shown rapid growth in Turkish ports. Actual container movements
increased from 77,000 TEU in 1979 to a little over 200,000 TEU in 1982, but
then declined to 160,000 TEU in 1983, partly in response to inadequate
handling facilities. Estimates of potential containerizable cargo have been
made for each year of the period 1979-83 based on an assessment of the
physical chara_teristics of the major cargo categories (Annex 2). Containe-
rizable cargoes at the 12 ports are estimated to have increased from
2.2 million tons in 1979 to 4.9 million tons in 1983, largely due to the
development of transit trade.



-31-
Table 4.2:  Estimated Containerizable Cargo at TCDD and TDI Ports 1979-83
('000 tons)
Annual Growth X
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983         1979-83
Turkish Trade
Imports            1,052   1,163   1,332   1,215   1,271            4.8
Exports              775     822   1,206   1,313   1,395           15.8
1,827   1,985   2,538   2,529   2,666            9.9
Transit Trade
Discharged           302      649   1,270   1,775   2,043          61.3
Loaded                31       52      98      101     161         51.0
333     701   1,368   1,876   2,204           60.4
Total
Discharged         1,354   1,812   2,602   2,990   3,314           25.1
Loaded               806     874   1,304   1,414   1,556           17.9
2,160   2,686   3,906   4,404   4,870           22.5
4.07     On average,. penetration of containerizable cargo has reached about
20% in 1983,  the highest level of around 50% being at the port of  Izmir
where a large share of the agricultural exports is already containerized.
Izmir is currently the only port handling a significant volume of container
traffic related to Turkish foreign trade, namely some 50-60,000 TEU per
year.  Most of the remaining container traffic is transit traffic through
the Mediterranean ports of Mersin and Iskenderun with a combined total of
about 105,000 TEU per year.
C. Traffic Forecasts 1988-1992
General
4.08     The main focus of  the analysis is on establishing  forecasts of
containerizable cargo, for both Turkish foreign trade and transit traffic,
and estimating the penetration of this traffic by containers following the
introduction of modern container handling methods. No attempt has been made
to make separate estimates of Ro-Ro traffic through the project ports. All
ports include Ro-Ro ramp facilities and at least one container crane in each
port will be located adjacent to the ramp in order to provide for simulta-
neous handling of containers and Ro-Ro trailers carried by multi-purpose
vessels. Ro-Ro traffic has not developed to a great extent in the Eastern
Mediterranean because of the long haul distances from Western European ports
and it is expected that there would be little further development once
specialized container handling  facilities are established.   Traffic fore-
casts have been prepared for each of the years during the period 1988-1992.
Detailed traffic forecasts are given in Annex 2.



-32-
Turkish National Traffic
4.09     Forecasts of national general cargo traffic are based on a conti-
nuation of the stabilization program through 1985, followed by a strategy
aimed at a 5 to 6% per year growth in GDP through the period of the Fifth
Development Plan, 1985-89. Central to this strategy is a sustained growth
in exports of about 8% per year with the main increases coming from
non-traditional exports such as machinery, intermediate goods and processed
foods.   Industrial  goods  are  forecast  to  increase  at 10% per year and
agricultural exports at 5% per year.  Import growth is expected to increase
at about 8% per year during the period 1985-90.   These growth rates have
been applied  to  the existing general cargo traffic  for each  port.   The
average share of containerizable cargo over the three-year period 1981-83
was used as a basis to forecast containerizable cargo traffic (para. 4.06).
Transit Traffic
4.10     Any accurate assessment of the likely future development of transit
traffic through Turkey is hardly possible in view of the changes which could
occur in the physical, political and economic situation in the Middle East.
Although transit traffic to Iran and Iraq has currently reached some
4 million tons, there have been considerable fluctuations in recent years
reflecting changing demand for imports and the competing effects of alter-
native rputes  (Annex 2, paras. 6 and 7).  Average transit  traffic volumes
during the 1981-83 period amounted to about 3.2 million tons of which
2.4 million tons transited through the Mediterranean ports of Mersin and
Iskenderun, primarily to Iraq, and 800,000 tons of traffic to Iran through
the Black Sea ports of Trabzon,  Sansun,  Giresun and Hopa.   These  flows
represent about 30% and 10% of the foreign trade of Iraq and Iran,
respectively.
4.11     The  Mediterranean  route  through Mersin  and  Iskenderun  to  Iraq
competes with the route through Jordan using the port of Aqaba. Both these
routes handle comparable volumes of traffic in the range of 2.5 million tons
of general cargo.   The Black Sea route to Iran competes mainly with the
Russian overland route using the Volga River system and the Caspian Sea.
The Russian route currently handles some 3.5 to 4 million tons of transit
traffic to Iran, but in the past two years this route has experienced diffi-
culties which have resulted in diversion of traffic through the Turkish
ports on the Black Sea.  Clearly, improved services in the Black Sea ports
will encourage some of this traffic to continue using the Turkish route.
4.12     A comprehensive assessment of transit traffic to Iran and Iraa :nd
the role and position of alternative routes is given in Annex 2 (Map
IBRD 18778).   The Turkish routes are now well established with relatively
efficient port operations and well organized road transport services.   Sea
freight rates via Turkey are lower than via Aqaba or the Gulf ports.
Moreover, land transport distances to the main centers of population and
economic activity in Iran and Iraq are comparable for all the major routes,
including through the Gulf ports. Following the end of the Gulf War, it can
be expected that total traffic to Iran and Iraq will increase, particularly
for materials needed for reconstruction.  Subsequently, it can be expected



-33-
that Iran and Iraq would wish to develop their.own ports but the rehabilita-
tion of these facilities would probably take several years. This would also
be true for Beirut, should this port reopen for traffic.  In addition, both
Iran and Iraq would probably wish to maintain alternative routes through
Turkey  for strategic reasons.   Under such a scenario, these routes might
account for 10 to 20% of total foreign trade in the longer term with traffic
volumes possibly at substantially the same level as at the present time.
4.13     Although the natural advantages of the Turkish transit routes could
be made more attractive with the provision of modern container handling
facilities, an accurate assessment of traffic prospects is not possible.
Under these circumstances, a simple approach has been adopted to establish
transit traffic levels for the first phase of container port development.
This involves simply taking the average traffic levels for the three-year
period 1981-83, of 2.4 million tons for the Mediterranean route and 800,000
tons for the Black Sea route, and assuming that they will remain unchanged.
The transit traffic flows represent about half of the container traffic
potential in the Mediterranean ports and almost all of the container traffic
potential in the Black Sea. While a fall in traffic to Iraq in the longer
term would be offset by rapidly increasing export traffic from Southeastern
Turkey, the Black Sea coast offers very little potential for growth of local
traffic. Port development in the Black Sea represents, therefore, the major
risk element  in  the project (para. 4.26).  During project implementation,
traffic levels would be monitored with a view to adjustment of the container
port program during a second phase,  as required by traffic developments
(para. 3.23).
Container Traffic Forecasts
4.14     It is assumed that without the development of modern facilities,
container penetration would not increase above its present level in each of
the project ports (Annex 2, Table 4).  Under this assumption, it is antici-
pated that although total containerized cargo would increase from about
900,000 tons to 1.3 million tons, container movements would remain at about
200,000 TEU.   However, with the provision of specialized facilities, con-
tainer  penetration  is expected  to  increase  rapidly.   Based  on  previous
experience in container port development, the level of penetration is
assumed to follow an "S" curve, the details of which are given in Annex 2
(para. 13).  The number of TEU has been estimated using a standard load of
12 tons per TEU. Calculations were made separately for national and transit
traffic based on the dominant flow patterns.  Detailed forecasts are shown
in Annex 2, Table 5, port by port, while Table 4.3 below summarizes the
estimated containerized cargo and number of containers for the principal
types of traffic:



-34-
Table 4.3:  Estimated Containerised Cargo at Project Ports:  1990
Turkish Trade   Transit Trade    Total
General Cargo ('000 tons)                   10,980           3,200          14,180
Containerizable Cargo ('000 tons)            3,900           1,770           5,670
Without Project
Containerized Cargo (X)                    201             29Z           23Z
'000 tons                               800              508         1,308
'000 TEU                                110               86           196
Residual Containerizable Cargo
('000 ton)                            3,100            1,262         4,362
With Project
Containerized Cargo (S)                    63X             64Z           63Z
'000 tons                             2,460           1,133          3,593
'000 TEU                                328              186           514
Residual Containerizable Cargo
('000 tons)                            1,440             637         2,077
4.15     The individual port forecasts for container movements  are summa-
rized in Table 4.4 below for the "with" project scenario:
Table 4.4:  Container Traffic Forecasts 1988-1992 ('000 TEU)
Mersin 1/    Trabzon 2/    Haydarpasa 3/    Izmir    Total
Actual
1981               97            10               12             36       154
1982              138            11               14             38       201
1983               78            13               12             57       160
Forecast
1988              162            31               58             78       329
1989              201            40               88             88       417
1990              242            50              123             99       514
1991              287            59              163            112       621
1992              335            70              209            126       740
L/ Includes Iskenderun traffic.
2/ Transit traffic for all Black Sea ports; export traffic for
Trabzon, Hopa and Giresun.
3/ Includes Salipazari (Istanbul) traffic.



-35-
4.16     The traffic forecasts show that containerization would increase its
share of general cargo traffic, rising from the present 8% of traffic to 25%
in  1990.   Total  container movements  would  increase  from 200,000 TEU at
present to about 420,000 TEU in 1989 and 740,000 TEU in 1992, an annual
increase of about 181. The detailed port by port traffic forecasts shown in
Annex 2, Table 5 indicate that after the introduction of the new facilities
in 1988, residual general cargo would cease to increase in most ports,
remaining at about 10.5 million tons annually.
D. Project Benefits
General
4.17     The main benefits accruing to port users following the introduction
of container handling facilities include savings in ship service time and
reductions in cargo handling costs. Similarly, dredging of the Izmir port
will provide access for larger and more economical vessels thereby providing
further reductions in ship demurrage costs.  These savings are ultimately
passed onI to producers and consumers through lower sea freight rates and
port handling charges.  The project would have a marked effect on cargo
handling rates on cargoes otherwise handled as gen.eral cargo, with major
reductions in the average time vessels spend at the berth and savings in
port  labor costs.   Other benefits might include reductions in potential
congestion in the ports, with benefits accruing either in the form of
savings- in ship waiting time or avoided construction of additional general
cargo facilities.  Port operating statistics for 1983 indicate that ship
waiting time reached high levels at three ports--Mersin, Iskenderun and
Trabzon-but this was due to a combination of inadequate pre-planning of
ship arrivals and berthing, unusual peaks in transit traffic, and ongoing
berth construction programs (Annex 3, Table 1). Moreover, with improvements
in productivity following the major equipment renewal program under the
1980-84 Fourth Development Plan and the recent construction of berth facili-
ties at the four projects ports, originally for general cargo purposes, it
is anticipated that ship waiting time would remain at acceptable  levels
during  the next five to seven years.  Benefits related to reduced port
congestion have not therefore been included in the analysis.  Similarly,
other benefits such as net reductions on cargo losses, savings in packaging
costs, reductions in transit times and the value of increased security, have
not been assessed. By limiting therefore the quantification of benefits to
ship service time and handling cost savings, the evaluation has understated
total benefits and, therefore, the rate of return.
Main Assumptions
4.18     The following describes the main parameters and assumptions used in
the economic evaluation: further details on each of the parameters used in
the analyses are shown in Annex 3.
(a)      Ship Costs.  Two ship types bave been selected as representative of
those normally employed on general cargo traffic to and from Turkish ports.
Currently ships on the Mediterranean routes are in the 3,000-7,000 DWT
category, while smaller ships may be employed in the Black Sea and sometimes



-36-
larger  ocean-going  vessels  are  engaged  for  long distaa;ce  traffic.   On
balance a 5,000 DWT ship has been taken as representative, with an estimated
opportunity cost at port of US$4,660 per day.  For container ships, it is
expected that most will be multi-purpose vessels in the 300 to 800 TEU
range, handling both containers and Ro-Ro trailers.  Again, smaller vessels
are expected in the Black Sea while large third generation vessels may
appear at Mersin. A 400 TEU capacity ship has been chosen as representative
with an opportunity cost at port of US$7,170 per day.
(b)      Cargo Handling Rates - Ships' Time.  The main basis of the economic
analysis lies in estimating the time taken to load and unload cargoes in the
"with" and "without"t project scenarios and the corresponding savings in
ships time.  Calculations of ship service time are based on an analysis of
conventional cargo handling rates in Turkish ports as well as expected rates
with modern facilities. Conventional general cargo handling rates currently
range from 270 to 720 tons per day in the project ports.   However,  some
improvements in these rates are expected following the implementation of the
Second Port Project (Loan 1741-TU) and a rate of 800 tons per day has been
adopted as a conservative assumption for the economic evaluation. Container
handling rates are assumed to be 7 TEU per hour using ships' gear or conven-
tional facilities, 20 TEU per hour for a standard container crane and 15 TEU
per hour for a lightweight container crane, with modern container cranes
usually working in pairs.
(c)      Labor Costs.  Cargo handling costs have been estimated based on
actual labor costs provided by TCDD, taking into account typical gang sizes
required  for various operations.   Handling  costs  for break-bulk general
cargo are estimated at US$2.70 per ton, while containers handled with
conventional equipment would provide an equivalent cost of US 80 cents per
ton. Handling costs with modern facilities would be on the order of US 30
to 40 cents per ton.  Because of uncertainties as to whether labor savings
will be achieved in full through redeployment to other port activities or
other sectors of the economy and through attrition, only half of the labor
cost savings have been included in the evaluation.
Distribution of Benefits
4.19     About two-thirds of the forecast container traffic in 1990 will be
related to Turkish foreign trade, with the remainder concerned with transit
traffic. Currently about 40% of Turkish foreign trade, excluding petroleum,
is handled by Turkish vessels, but plan targets call for this share to
increase to about 60% by the end of the Fifth Development Plan in 1989. It
is expected therefore that about half of the savings in ship service time
related to Turkish foreign trade will accrue directly to Turkey.   Of the
savings accruing to foreign ship owners, it is expected that a large share
of these savings will ultimately accrue to Turkey through much slower
increases in sea freight rates than would have otherwise occurred.  These
savings would be reflected in the lower cost of imports and the increased
competitiveness of exports. Although some of the savings in ships' service
time would be retained by foreign shipping lines, these benefits have been
included in the evaluation as a surrogate for benefits accruing to Turkey in
other forms.  These benefits would include foreign exchange  earnings  on



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as ot January 1, 1985)
Currency Unit    =  Turkish Lira (TL)
TL 1             =  100 kurus (krs)
US$1             =  TL 428
TLI              =  US$ 0.002336
TL 1,000,000     =  US$ 2,336.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)      =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) =  0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)  =  2.20 pounds (lbs)
FISCAL YEAR
(of TCDD and TDI)
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DB           -     Turkish Maritime Bank (Denizcilik Bankasi)
DLH          -     General Directorate of Railways, Ports and Airports
Construction, Ministry of Public Works. (Demir
Yollari Limanlar Hava Meydanlari)
I)WT         -     Deadweight Tonnage
GDP          -     Gross Domestic Product
IG3          -     International Competitive Bidding
ILO          -     International Labour Organisation
I'AFRA       -     Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural
Affairs
MUF          -     Ministry of Finance
M-OT         -     Ministry of Transport
iPI          -     National Ports Institution
NPMP         -     National Ports Master Plan
NTMP         -     National Transport Master Plan
PCC          -     Project Coordination Committee
SPO          -     State Planning Organization
TCDD         -     Turkish State Railways
(Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Devlet Demir Yollari)
TCL          -     Turkish Cargo Lines
TDI          -     Turkish Maritime Organization
1'EU         -     Twenty-foot Equivalent Units
THY          -     Turkish Airlines
(Turk hava Yollari)
TSM          -     Transport Sector Memorandum
UJNDP        -     United Nations Development Programme
Demirliman   -     TCDD Ports Establishment (Limanlar Izmetmesi
Muessesesi)
Denizliman   -     TDI Ports and Vessel Salvage Establishment
(Liman Isletme ve Gemi Kurtama Muessesesi)






