Docwncrntof
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13647
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(LOAN 2535-TU)
OCTOBER 28, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                  -           Lira (TL)
At Appraisal (March 1980)      -
US$1                           -           TL 70
TL 1000                        -           US$14.29
June 1990:                     -
US$1                           -           TL 2610
TL 1000                        -           US$0.3831
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DSI         -     Devlet Su Isleri (State Hydraulics Agency)
EIB         -     European Investment Bank
GOT         -     Government of Turkey
RFW         -     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MENR        -     Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
PCR         -     Project Completion Report
SEE         -     State Economic Enterprise
SPO         -     State Planning Organization
TER               Turkiye Elektrik Kurumu (Turkish Electricty Authority)
TKI         -     Turkuye Komur Isletmeleri Kurumu (Turkish Coal Authority)
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WO)LD aNK
WmbNon, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Turkey
Third Ports Proiect (Loan 2535-TU'
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Turkey - Third Ports Project (Loan 2535-TU)
prepared by the Europe and Central Asia Regional Office, with Part HI contributed by the Borrower
which gives a detailed account of project peration, implementation and results. The US$134.5
million equivalent loan was signed in May 1985. After three extensions, the Loan was closed on
December 31, 1992. US$77.8 million equivalent was cancelled.
The project was to introduce institutional reforms and container handling technology in four
ports. The involvement of four different agencies (Turkish State Railways; The Turkish Maritime
Organization; the General Directorate of Railways, Ports and Airport Construction; and the Customs
Department) required close coordination, which was not always forthcoming. According to the PCR,
the performance of all four agencies was below expectations. The project did contribute to increasing
containerization in Turkish ports, more in Hyadarpasa and Izmir than in Mersin and Trabzon. But
it largely failed on institutional reform.
According to the PCR, the Bank's performance was affected by the pressure to lend and was
therefore unsatisfactory during project preparation. Project implementation was hampered by delays
in procurement and installation of equipment and defects in some of the equipment supplied; lack
of adequate local financing; inability of implementing agencies to make quick decisions; Borrower
reluctance to abide with Bank guidelines on procurement; failure to carry out the proposed dredging
of the Izmir access channel due to both environmental and political problems; delays in contracting
out studies and in hiring training experts. The cancellation of several important components, and the
partial completion of others, makes it impossible to compare estimated and actual costs and benefits.
Even to sustain the limited benefits of the project would involve further costs. The outcome of the
project is rated as unsatisfactory, its sustainability as unlikely and its institutional impact as negligible.
The Borrower questions some of the above conclusions, believes that loan closing ought to
have been extended for an additional year, and faults the Bank for not having granted this extension.
The project may be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diaclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
THIRD PORE PROJECT
(Loan 2535-TU)
Table of Contents
PREFACE  ..................................................................   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   ...........................................  ii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity ........................................... 1
B.      Background .............................................  1
C.      Project Objectives .      ........................................   2
D.   Project Description ......................................... 3
E.      Project Design and Organization ................................   5
F.      Implementation Schedule and Procurement .........................  6
G.      Project Results . ..........................................  11
H.      Project Sustainability .       ...................................... 12
I.   Bank Performance . ........................................ 13
J.      Borrower's Performance .           ....................................  15
K.      Consultants' Performance ...........               .........................  15
PART II. BORROWER'S REVIEW OF THE PROJECT
L.      Turkish State Railways (TCDD) ................................ 17
M.      Turklish Maritime Organization (TDI)  ............................ 22
N.      General Directorate of Railways, Ports and Airports Construction (DLH) .
Ministry of Transport .25
0.      General Directorate of Customs, Ministry of Finance and Customs .26
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1         Previous Bank Loans in the Turkish Port Sector .29
Table 2         Container Traffic in TEU: Appraisal Estimates and Actuals .30
Table 3         Cargo Handling Performance (Container): 1983 vs 1992 .31
Table 4         Timetable for Project Implementation .32
Table 5   Project Implementation .33
Table 6    Civil Works - Terminal Preparations .35
Table 7    Estimated Project Cost and Financing .37
Table 8         Project Cost Estimates and Amounts Disbursed .38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table  of  Contents  (Cont'd)                                                                        Page  No.
Table 9          Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  ..................... 39
Chart I          Planned and Actual Disbursement Schedules as Compared with.
EMENA  Ports Profile  ...................................... 40
Table lOalb    TCDD/TDI: Financial Performance Relative to Appraisal Estimates  ...                       ..... 41
Table 11         Status of Legal Covenants .................................... 42
Table 12    Mission Data ............................................. 43
Map              IBRDR1 8675  ............................................ 44



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(Loan 2535-TU)
PREFACE
This is an Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Third Ports Project in Turkey, for which
Loan 2535-TU in the amount of US$134.50 million equivalent was signed on May 29, 1985. It was
closed on December 31, 1992 after three extensions (original closing date: December 31, 1990).
Out of the above loan, US$56.66 million equivalent was disbursed and the balance of US$77.84
million equivalent was cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the
Infrastructure Division of Country Department I, Europe and Central Asia Region. Part II was
prepared by the four implementing agencies (DLH, TCDD, TDI and Customs Department).
Preparation of this PCR started during the final supervision mission in August 1993, and is
based, inter-alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report dated April 24, 1985, the Loan and Project
Agreements dated May 29, 1985, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, discussion with Bank staff responsible for the project, and data
provided by the Turkish authorities.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(Loan 2535-TU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   Project Objectives
1.   The main objective of the project was to introduce modern container handling technology to
four ports in each of the major hinterland areas of Turkey so as to accommodate the forecasted rapid
growth in container traffic and support the export-oriented development strategy of the country. The
specific goals of the project included:
* the introduction of improved cargo handling methods, specifically through the provision of
specialized equipment for handling containers at four selected ports (Izmir, Haydarpa4a,
Mersin and Trabzon);
e agreement with the Government and the port agencies on a realistic investment program for
the Fifth Development Plan covering the period 1985-89;
i mplementation of a comprehensive action plan for the introduction of container handling
technology, including operational procedures, equipment maintenance, and modified
customs regulations; and
* the introduction of institutional reforms which would include, as a first phase, the
strengthening of planning capabilities and the separation of port accounts from those of
other activities managed by TCDD and TDI, and the introduction of a cost-related tariff
structure at commercially feasible levels for container traffic.
B.    Implementation Experience
2.    The Third Ports project followed two other Bank-financed projects in the ports sector in
Turkey. The first one (Loan 28-TU) was approved in 1950, followed by a Ports Rehabilitation
Project (Loan 1741-TU) in 1978. The Ports Rehabilitation Project was still on-going when the Third
Ports Project (Loan 2535-TU) was appraised and approved by the Board in 1985 (see Part III:
Statistical Data,Tablel).
3.    The Third Ports project involved four different implementing agencies. These were the
Turkish State Railways (TCDD), Turkish Maritime Organization (TDI), the General Directorate of
Railways, Ports and Airports Construction (DLH) and the Customs Department. A Project
Coordination Committee (PCC), created specially for the project, coordinated the activities among the
four implementing agencies. It comprised of representatives from each agency and was chaired by a
Deputy Undersecretary of the Ministry of Transport.



iii
4.    The project was planned to be completed in 4'h years, including six months to allow for
start-up delays, and 12 months to allow for unforeseen delays. The implementation period was shorter
than the Region's standard profile of 7 years for port projects. When appraising the project the fact
that this was the third project in the sector and a large share of the loan (75%) was for equipment
procurement, may have been the rationale for the shorter implementation period. However, the
bankruptcy of one of the main equipment suppliers, and the environmental issues surrounding the
dredging of the entrance channel of the Izmir Bay, delayed implementation. In addition, the
institutional shortcomings of the implementing agencies were not factored in adequately during
appraisal'.
5.     The Bank extended the closing date for this loan three times for a total of two years. And
finally, after 6½h years, with several components of the project unfinished, the Bank decided to close
the loan on December 31, 1992. The main reasons for closing the loan are explained in paras 7 and
8 below. The key issue was the deadlock on dredging of Izmir Bay due to the inability of the
Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Environment, and the Mayors of the two potential dumping
sites, to reach agreement on the location for dumping the dredged spoils. In addition, several
important recommendations, such as the hiring of experts to assist the port agencies to efficiently
operate the container handling equipment, were not implemented. In the last three years of project
implementation, 1989-1992, the port agencies could not comply with the financial covenant of the
loan. Loan disbursements in the last three years of implementation (1989 to 1992) amounted to only
5% of the total loan amount. The Bank, with the concurrence of the Turkish Treasury, decided not
to extend the loan closing date for a fourth time, and cancelled the remaining, undisbursed loan
amount of US$77.84 million equivalent. Out of the total loan of US$134.5 million equivalent, only
US$56.7 million equivalent was disbursed.
6.    The Borrowers are of the view that had the loan closing date been extended by two years in
one step, instead of the three step extension, they would have been able to carry out some components
of the project that required an implementation period exceeding six months2. The reason for the last
two extensions being only for six months each, was to exercise pressure on the executing agencies
and the concerned Turkish authorities to resolve the major problems facing project implementation
(mentioned in para 5 above). At the end of the first six months the Bank believed that the
implementing agencies and the concerned Ministeries were close to resolving some of the pending
issues and extended the loan for another six months. When no tangible results in resolving the
problems of the project were seen, the Bank, with agreement from the Turkish Treasury authorities,
decided not to extend the loan for a fourth time. It is our view that the approach pursued by the Bank
was reasonable and under the circumstances justified.
7.     The project faced several problems during implementation. These included: (a) the inability
of the four project agencies to make timely decisions as a result of their complicated bureaucratic
organization; (b) their reluctance to abide with Bank procurement guidelines and regulations; (c) the
lack of experienced staff that could be entrusted with preparing comprehensive tender documents
including technical specifications for container handling equipment, computer equipment for the
I/    Please see comments of the Iznplemenling Agencies - TCDD and DLHI in Part U.
I/    Tbe implementing agencies believe that the last two loan extensions of six month periods caused uncertainty in the tender
procedures, and this kept them from taking action on the unfinished project components.



iv
Customs Department, and for dredging of the entrance channel of Izmir Bay; (d) resistance to hiring
external consultants with requisite expertise; (e) deadlock on dredging of Izmir Bay because of
disagreement on appropriate dumping site for dredged spoils; and (f) the inability of local shipyards to
build floating equipment mainly as a result of their financial difficulties.
8.    The above described constraints, resulted in: (a) delays in procurement and installation of
equipment; (b) delays in fabrication of container cranes and bucket dredgers due to contractual
disputes; (c) inability to carry out the dredging of Izmir access channel; (d) delays in deciding on the
kind of equipment to be procured by the Customs Department, which resulted in lag in preparing
tender documents and bid evaluation reports and inability to procure the computers before final loan
closing; and (e) delays in contracting out the studies, resulting in inability to introduce institutional
reforms such as strengthening of planning capabilities, and establishment of improved accounting,
financial, costing and management information systems.
C.    Project Results
9.    Procurement of container handling equipment, though delayed, was carried out in the four
ports and despite the implementation problems it should be highlighted that the project did contribute
to increasing containerization in Turkish Ports. Container traffic rose from 19,234 TEU in 1984 to
232,365 TEU in 1993, and in Izmir Port from 80,205 TEU in 1988 to 212,949 TEU in 1993. The
increases in containerization expected at appraisal were realized in Hyadarpasa and Izmir. However,
the increases in containerization at Mersin (due to the blockade against Iraq since the Gulf War) and
Trabzon port (due to unrealized growth in traffic) were less than half the appraisal estimates (see Part
III: Statistical Data - Table 2).
10.   The main benefits expected to accrue to the project from the higher percentage of
containerization of traffic were reduction in ship service time and cargo handling costs. The
performance on cargo handling efficiency (see Part III: Statistical Data - Table 4 ), shows some
improvements in Hyadarpa4a, Izmir and Mersin. The lack of traffic and equipment in Trabzon, did
not allow for similar efficiency gains in Trabzon. These results would have been much closer to
expectations had all the project components, which were complementary to each other, been
completed.
11.   The staff training component of the project was completed, but it was carried out before the
container handling equipment was put into use, thus reducing the benefits of such training. The
financial performance of the port agencies were relatively good up to 1988. After 1989, the
Governnent's policy of transferring surpluses out of the ports, the rising wage and salary bill, and the
increasing interest burden, left TCDD and TDI with inadequate resources to cover investment needs.
D.    Sustainabilitv
12.   As described above, the project partially succeeded in completing certain components.
Whether these achievements can be sustained will depend on further actions to be taken by the
Government and the port agencies. The objective of introducing cargo handling method has been
met through the provision of specialized equipment for handling containers at the four ports.
Additional equipment needed for achieving project objectives were added in the second half of 1990
but could not be procured due to loan closing.



v
13.     Over the next few years, the project is expected to generate benefits mainly from an
increase in container traffic. If the container handling equipment procured under the project is well
maintained, the ports could handle a large share of the Turkish exports and imports for the next
decades. To sustain this benefit (a) the defective equipment delivered by the supplier should be
replaced, especially the defective spreaders that are essential for container handling; (b) maintenance
workshops would need to be upgraded; (c) experts should be hired to train staff to carry out routine
maintenance essential to keep equipment in working order; and, (d) turnaround of trained staff should
be reduced by introducing appropriate incentives. If the above actions are not taken, the institutional
weaknesses of the port management agencies coupled with financial constraints will continue to
adversely affect port efficiency.
14.   The project envisaged financing the computerization of the Customs Department for efficient
customs clearance. Since this component was not completed before the loan was closed, it is unlikely
that the objective of efficient customs clearance will be met in the near future. The slow and tedious
pace of customs clearance has been quoted by users as one of the main handicaps of the Turkish
ports. Any improvement in container handling efficiency would be fully realized and sustained only
if complementary improvements in the customs clearance procedures were implemented.
15.   The Government and the Bank both agree on the need for investment in making the port
sector in Turkey more efficient. The Turkish government has indicated a need for building new ports
and may consider some private sector involvement. However, no concrete steps have been taken
towards making the much needed institutional changes in the existing ports. The Bank staff had
suggested, within the scope of the project, that Hydarpa4a could be taken as a pilot for privatization
of certain activities. Unfortunately, the loan closed before this suggestion was accepted and acted
upon by the Turkish authorities.
16.   One of the major objectives of this project was to implement institutional reforms such as
strengthening of planning capabilities of the port authorities, introducing an effective cost accounting
system with cost-related tariffs at commercially feasible levels. During the course of the project, the
port authorities maintained separate accounts. The control by the headquarters of the ports in terms
of setting tariffs and controlling investments inhibited market based tariff setting. In addition, in the
second half of 1990, Bank suggested six studies of which TCDD agreed to three - Cost Accounting,
Trade Facilitation and Port Marketing, Port Organization and Privatization. The TOR for these
studies were prepared, but the studies could not be contracted out before loan closing. Both the Bank
and the implementing agencies concur that the most sustainable option for improving port
performance would be to privatize port construction and operations.
E.    Findings and Lessons Learned
17.   The project preparation should have taken into account the lessons learned from the previous
Ports Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1741-TU) which was still on-going when the Third Ports project
was appraised. The borrower's difficulties with preparing tender documents were also a problem of
the previous project. Based on this experience, the Bank should not have submitted the Third Ports
project for Board approval, until the preparation (bidding documents etc.) for the major contracts had
been completed.



vi
18.   The environmental aspects of dredging and the need for involvement of communities that
could have been affected by dumping of dredged spoils should have been given greater attention prior
to and during project implementation.
19.   In future Port projects, greater attention should be paid to institutional arrangements in the
sector. Both the Bank and the implementing agencies are of the view that privatization of the port
services would be the most effective means of increasing port efficiency.






PROJECr COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(Loan 2535-TU)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Name                :      Third Ports Project
Loan Number                2535-TU
Loan Amount                US$134.5 million equivalent
RVP Unit            :      Europe and Central Asia
Country             :      Turkey
Sector              :      Transport
Subsector           :      Ports
B.    Background
1.    Turkey's long coastline of 7,300 km has many ports and landing facilities, including 12 major
public ports, about 20 small municipal and other public ports, and about 35 specialized ports owned
and operated by industrial complexes. This large number of ports is necessary because the country is
surrounded by the sea on three sides and land transport links are difficult as a result of adverse inland
topography (Map IBRD 18675).
2.    Foreign trade relies almost entirely on maritime transport, most of which is served through
the major public ports. The 12 major ports function under two separate institutions. The Turkish
State Railways (TCDD) is responsible for the ports of Samsun, Haydarpa*a, Derince, Bandirma,
Mersin, Iskenderun and container terminal operations of Izmir . The Turkish Maritime Organization
(TDI) is responsible for the ports of Trabzon, Giresun, Hopa, Salipasari (Istanbul), Izmir, Antalya
and Rize. Construction and maintenance of infrastructure are the responsibility of the Directorate of
Ports (DLH) in the Ministry of Public Works.
3.    Bank lending to Turkey in the Port Sector began in 1950 with a loan (Loan 28-TU) for port
development. A supplementary loan was provided in 1954. These projects were followed by the
Port Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1741-TU), approved in 1979, which included replacement and
modernization of general cargo handling facilities.
4.    In 1983, just before project appraisal, the ports handled altogether about 22 million tons of
cargo, including about 10 million tons of general cargo and transit traffic, and about five million tons
of coastal traffic. Between 1979 and 1984, foreign cargo increased at a high rate of 11 % annually,
while coastal traffic increased at only 2% annually. As a result of the Iraq/Iran war, transit traffic to
these two countries increased dramatically from 600,000 tons in 1979 to over four million tons in
1983. Container traffic also increased from 77,000 TEUs in 1979 to about 200,000 TEUs in 1984,
and the potential for further expansion looked strong.



2
5.    In light of the developments, the Bank decided to continue its efforts to support Turkey's
export-oriented development strategy through the introduction of modern container handling facilities
which were the main component of the Third Ports Project (Loan 2535-TU). At the time of project
appraisal, Turkish ports generally had adequate capacity, and ship waiting time was tolerable, mainly
as a result of the Bank's previous Port Rehabilitation Project which was then scheduled for
completion in 1985. Consequently, no major infrastructure works or general cargo equipment were
recommended in this project.
6.     The Loan Agreement for the preceding Port Rehabilitation Project called for the establishment
of a new National Ports Institution to take over activities of the above major ports. However, by the
time of appraisal of this project, the Government, as well as the Bank, were no longer convinced that
this would be the right approach mainly because: a) of unsuccessful previous attempts to establish
national institutions in other sectors of the economy; and b) priority was being given to strengthening
the basic administrative functions of the port organizations, including planning accountability, and
financial autonomy.
7.     The National Ports Master Plan prepared by consultants in 1983 proposed the development of
several container ports, while separate plans of TCDD and TDI proposed a total of nine ports. The
growth of foreign trade combined with major increase in international containerized traffic, required
the introduction of a modern container handling system and improvement of traffic control.
Dredging works were considered particularly critical for continued access to the ports by the recently
introduced larger container vessels. However, given the specialized nature of container facilities and
the uncertainty over the development of traffic, especially transit traffic, it was decided to focus only
on four ports, one in each major hinterland area. The four chosen ports - Haydarpasa, Izmir,
Mersin and Trabzon - handled about 60% of the total general cargo traffic at the time of project
appraisal, and were anticipated to handle at least 85% of the total container traffic upon project
completion.
t-.    Project Obiectiyes
8.    The main objectives of the project were inspired by the National Ports Master Plan and were
consistent with the objectives of the Government's 1985-89 Investment Programn for Port
Development. Both the Bank and the Borrower agreed that the project's objective of introducing
modern container handling technology would enable Turkey to efficiently accommodate the forecasted
rapid growth in container traffic. The specific goals of the project included:
* the introduction of improved cargo handling methods, specifically through the provision of
specialized equipment for handling containers at four selected ports (Izmir, Haydarpasa,
Mersin and Trabzon);
* agreement with the Government and the port agencies on a realistic investrnent program for
the Fifth Development Plan covering the period 1985-89;
* implementation of a comprehensive action plan for the introduction of container handling
technology, including operational procedures, equipment maintenance, and modified
customs regulations; and



3
* the introduction of institutional reforms which would include, as a first phase, the
strengthening of planning capabilities and the separation of port accounts from those of
other activities managed by TCDD and TDI, and the introduction of a cost-related tariff
structure at commercially feasible levels for container traffic.
D.    Project Description
9.    The project consisted of the following components:
Part A: Provision of Equipment
(1) For TCDD Project Ports:
Provision of seven standard cranes and one lightweight container crane, associated
mobile cargo handling equipment, support and maintenance equipment and
necessary spare parts.
(2) For TDI Project Ports:
Provision of two standard cranes and two lightweight container cranes, associated
mobile cargo handling equipment, support and maintenance equipment and
necessary spare parts.
(3) For DLH:
Provision of two floating cranes, three bucket dredgers, six back-hoe dredgers,
about twelve diesel engines and gear boxes for tugboats, about sixteen outboard
propulsion units for barges, ancillary maintenance equipment and necessary spare
parts.
(4) For Customs Department:
Provision of specialized equipment required to facilitate customs clearance of
containers and ancillary equipment.
Part B: Construction and Rehabilitation
(1) For TCDD Project Ports:
(a) Havdarpasa
(i) completion of construction work on the new container berth and storage
area;
(ii) repaving the existing storage area.
(b) Mersin
(i) extension of the existing quay to the west of the grain facility to form
the new container berth of about 270 meters long;



4
(ii) reclamation of the container storage areas behind the new berth;
(iii) construction of an adjacent retaining wall about 275 meters long; and
(iv) paving of the areas behind the new 400 meter container berth as
necessary to facilitate safe and efficient access of equipment between
quays and storage areas.
(2)  For TDI Project Ports:
(a) Jzmk
(i)  completion of construction of the new 450 meter and 250 meter quays,
and reclamation and paving of the container storage area behind the
quays; and
(ii) dredging at the quays and deepening of the inner harbor and the
approach channel to Izmir Port from the Aegean to provide a depth of
generally 13 meters.
(b) Trabzon
Completion of construction of the new container berth about 280 meters
long, and reclamation and paving of the container storage area.
(3)  Installation of crane rails on the container berths at the Project Ports, and providing
all electrical and other services required for the efficient operation of the new
facilities.
PART C: Provision of Consulting Services, Technical Assistance and Training
at the Proiect Ports
(1)  Initiating pilot schemes designed to train port personnel from TCDD, TDI and
Customs in the new container documentation and operational procedures and
practices as follows:
(a) Introducing efficient documentation and control systems for container
handling and storage;
(b) Establishing new port operational systems and practices adapted to container
technology; and
(c) Improving engineering maintenance procedures and spare parts inventory
control to ensure optimum availability of the new container equipment.
(2)  Simplifying customs clearance procedures for containers and associated training of
customs officers.



5
(3)  Carrying out of an overseas training program and technical visits for personnel from
(a) TCDD, TDI and (b) DLH and Customs, to provide training in and associated
with container operation and container terminal layout and design.
(4)  Carrying out of studies for:
a) Assessing the feasibility of a network of inland container storage and distribution
depots; and
b) Establishing and improving financial, accounting, costing and management
information systems, methods and procedures at the ports.
10.   The Bank provided a loan of US$134.5 million equivalent to the Government of Turkey to
finance the project, and the Government undertook to provide US$39.5 million equivalent to finance
counterpart project costs. The loan and project agreements were signed on May 29, 1985 and became
effective on October 4, 1985. The project was expected to be completed by December 31, 1989.
The Bank loan was to finance all items included in Part A (equipment) and Part C (Consultant
Services), whereas the Government was to finance Part B (Civil Works), except for dredging of Izmir
port and access channel which was also to be financed by the Bank loan.
E.    Proiect Design and Organization
11.   The project was designed to introduce modern container handling facilities and operating
methods in four major Turkish ports. Given the envisaged increase in containerized traffic, the
container facilities were expected to provide a least-cost solution for meeting the anticipated increase
in transit and trade traffic. The project also included the provision of specialized consulting services
for establishment of satisfactory container handling methods, setting up container documentation,
operations and engineering maintenance systems. Training programs for port operating staff both
abroad and on-the-job, were an integral part of the project design.
12.   The involvement of four different agencies in the project, required close coordination among
these agencies. Consequently, the Government set up a Project Coordination Committee (PCC)
chaired by a Deputy Undersecretary of the Ministry of Transport, which included representatives of
each agency. The Committee was responsible for monitoring all project activities from design to
completion, in line with an agreed comprehensive action plan and in accordance with specific terms of
reference. The PCC formed a technical committee which visited all of the project ports and reported
in detail the defects in equipment procured under the project loan, and recommended actions to be
taken. Based on the PCC's recommendation, some corrective measures were taken.
13.   Preparation of tender documents for container handling equipment for both TDI and TCDD
was the responsibility of TCDD in accordance with a signed protocol. DLH and the Customs
Department, each prepared tender documents for equipment financed through the loan. Number and
capacities of container handling equipment for the four ports were established on the basis of
optimistic schedules for equipment delivery and productivity of the existing and new equipment. At
the time of appraisal, it was assumed that all tender documents would be prepared promptly, and even
orders for some equipment placed by the end of 1985. Based on the above assumption, it was
envisaged that all equipment would become available and operational by October 1987. This was also
the criterion for the appraisal estimated schedule of disbursement (see Chart No. 1).



6
14.   The only civil work that was to be financed by the Bank loan was the dredging of the Izmir
Port's basin and access channel. Dredging alongside berths at the ports of Hydarpasa, Mersin and
Trabzon, was carried out and completed by DLH dredgers as part of routine maintenance
requirements. Dredging at Izmir was also originally to have also been carried out by DLH dredgers
and financed from federal government resources. However, during appraisal, it was decided to have
the dredging done through an expert who would be contracted through International Competitive
Bidding, and financed by the Bank, to ensure timely completion and early accrual of the benefits of
servicing larger ships at Izmir.
F.    Implementation Schedule and Procurement
15.   Procurement of Eguipment During the first year or two, project implementation seemed to be
moving along according to the estimated schedule (refer Part III: Statistical Data - Tables 4 and 5).
TCDD sent draft bidding documents for the supply and installation of container gantry cranes to the
Bank for review in April 1985. These included nine standard container gantry cranes, three
lightweight container gantry cranes, 27 mobile container stacking yard gantry cranes, 1620 meters of
crane rails, and a crane rail fastening device. Bank comments on the bidding documents were sent to
TCDD on June 3, 1985 recommending correction of certain technical and administrative deficiencies.
Bids were submitted on December 20, 1985. Out of 18 bids, TCDD rejected nine for noncompliance
with administrative specifications. Since most bidders were reputable suppliers, one must conclude
that the administrative specifications were unduly limiting. TCDD recommended a contract award for
12 container gantry cranes on July 28, 1986, seven months after receiving the bids. However, as a
result of complaints received from several bidders, a consultant was retained in August 1986 to
review the technical proposals for the gantry cranes and the 27 rubber-tired container cranes. The
consultant recommended that additional inquiries should be made before the contract was awarded.
The Bank was able to agree to the contract award on October 2, 1986. These examples illustrate the
considerable delays due to problems with preparation of tender documents 3. In addition to the above
equipment, TCDD also procured and put into use other equipment within the project such as mobile
cranes, special portable warehouses, tugmasters and trailers and spare parts. In the second half of
1990, the Bank and Borrowers decided to add the procurement of additional equipment which were
considered to be essential to realize the full benefits of the project. These were to be financed from
the cost-savings from procurement of equipment by TCDD. However, these additional equipment
could not be procured before the final loan closing date.
16.   Container cranes were fully erected in Mersin, partially in Haydarpasa and Izmir and not at
all in Trabzon. The equipment suppliers did not finish erection of the container cranes due to their
precarious financial situation. TCDD finally cancelled the contract with this supplier and the problem
is being settled in court. The equipment which was delivered had certain defects which were not
realized since the equipment was installed a year after delivery when the guarantee period had run
out. It would have been more appropriate if contracts for procuring container cranes would have
included delivery, erection and testing to ensure timely container handling operations. Staff training
was carried out before the container handling equipment was installed, thus reducing the benefits of
such training.
3i    TCDD is of the view that there were delays on the Bank side as well for approval of tender documents, and all final tendering
were done on the basia of Bank approved tender documents.



7
17.   Draft tender documents for three bucket chain dredgers, six backhoe (dipper) dredgers and
two floating cranes were sent to the Bank by DLH on December 30, 1986, but final tender documents
were not available until January 1988. In early 1988, several dredger manufacturers objected to the
specifications of the bucket dredgers being extremely restrictive. A high level meeting took place in
the Bank on April 25, 1988 with representatives of US manufacturers to discuss the issue.
Subsequently, the Bank employed an independent consultant to advise it on the type of dredger
suitable for maintenance works. The consultant reported on June 6, 1988 that under the existing
condition a chain bucket dredger is more suitable for the job than a wheel dredger with a hydraulic
pump. This opinion was confirmed by two other internationally recognized experts. Bank files show
that between February 1987 and April 1988, there were 33 exchanged telexes and/or meetings related
to the procurement of floating equipment for DLH. Bids for the floating equipment were opened on
April 21, 1988. It seems that the technical specifications were not precise resulting in a wide range
of bids as follows:
- three bucket dredgers: US$12.6 to 28.3 million;
- six backhoe dredgers: US$13.1 to 26.8 million; and
- two floating cranes: US$6.2 to 19.2 million.
The local shipbuilder, responsible for constructing the bucket dredgers proved to be
incompetent. DLH gave the firm an opportunity to improve performance by completing at least 50%
of the hulls of the three dredgers by December 1991. Due to the inability of the firm to meet this
minor obligation, and the unlikelihood of completing construction of the dredgers before December
31, 1992 (the extended closing date), this project component was cancelled. In addition, TCDD
proposed in mid-1988 cancellation of procurement of two floating cranes (US$6.8 million) and
ancillary equipment (US$4.5 million) because the cost of the three bucket dredgers and three backhoe
dredgers reached US$25.5 million, whereas the amount allocated in Category 2c for all floating
equipment was limited to US$25.4 million.
18.   Implementation of Civil Works: The new container berths and storage areas at each of the
four project ports were financed from budget allocations to DLH from the Federal Government. The
container berths were designed and constructed either by DLH or under its supervision. This
arrangement often led to delays in badly needed civil works such as the pavement of the container
terminal in Izmir. The delay in completing the pavement at Izmir meant that the equipment already
delivered could not be used, and by the time they were used, the one-year guarantee period had
expired, and defects in the equipment could not be corrected or compensated. Bank missions spent
considerable time following up on the subject of adequate counterpart funds with the State Planning
Organization and the Treasury, but this did not speed up construction of the pavement in Izmir.
19.   Although it was agreed during negotiations that DLH would handle all preparatory work for
Izmir dredging contract themselves, the Bank concluded later that DLH had an overly complex
bureaucratic system and a shortage of qualified and experienced staff '. DLH's performance was less
than satisfactory, requiring extensive assistance from Bank staff. To address the problem, the Bank
financed the service of a dredging expert to assist DLH with drafting technical specifications and
4/     DLH is of the view that as it had carried out drdging in other Turkish ports, either by itself or by using consultanls, it was
qualified to handle the lzmir dredging contrct as well.



8
associated documents. However, despite such assistance, DLH was unable to finalize the bidding
documents and consequently the Bank agreed in February 1987 to a Government request to amend the
loan agreement to include technical assistance to prepare the bidding documents. Draft tender
documents were received in the Bank on March 31, 1987.
20.   An issue that later arose, which proved to be very difficult to resolve, was that of dumping
the dredged spoils. Environmental authorities and local communities objected to dredged material
from Izmir bay being dumped into the open sea. The 9th September University of Izmir prepared an
Environmental Assessment (EA) and indicated that the adverse environmental impacts could be
mitigated and recommended the best dumping site, which was acceptable to the Ministry of
Transport. The Ministry of Environment, which had been created recently, did not accept the
recommendation of the EA. The 9th September University carried out another assessment that
identified further alternatives, which the Ministry of Environment accepted, but only after the loan
was closed. The local communities who could potentially be affected were not keen to accept any
alternative. Due to these reasons the dredging issue was not resolved.
21.    During project preparation, the Bank's criteria for handling environmental issues had not yet
developed to their present state. Today, an environmental assessment and action plan, involving
consultation with the affected communities would have been required prior to Board presentation.
Lack of such assessment affected the timely implementation of this important component. The
benefits to be obtained from receiving bigger container ships in Izmir have been foregone, although a
deeper channel was the basis on which investments in Izmir container terminal, as conceived in the
loan agreement, were justified.
22.   Implementation of Technical Assistance: The technical assistance component included the
hiring of a specialist on container handling to establish satisfactory container handling methods and to
provide on-the-job training for port operators. As late as 1991, the two experts who were to be hired
by TCDD had not been hired. By the time, the consultants where short-listed, their proposals
evaluated and selection completed, the final loan closing date of December 31, 1992 had expired. In
addition to training, the technical assistance component was originally envisaged to finance two
studies. In mid-1990, the cost-savings from procurement of equipment by TCDD resulted in
additional resources which were allocated to finance six studies suggested by Bank staff to address the
institutional arrangements of the Ports sector. The port agencies were not keen on carrying out the
six studies, but finally they agreed on three, focusing on cost accounting, trade facilitation and port
marketing, and port organization and privatization.5 Bank staff prepared detailed Terms of Reference
for each of these studies. By the time the port agencies decided to act on the implementation of these
studies, the decision to close the loan was already anticipated.
23.   In conclusion, implementation of the project was hampered mainly by: (a) delays in
procurement and installation of equipment and defects in some of the equipment supplied; (b) lack of
adequate local financing for completing required civil works; (c) inability of project implementing
agencies to make timely decisions; (d) reluctance of project agencies to abide with Bank guidelines on
procurement; (e) failure to carry out the proposed dredging of Izmir access channel due to problems
associated with selection of dumping grounds; (f) delays in fabrication of container cranes and bucket
S/    Please see Part U: Project Review from Borrower's Perspective on Project Implementation which comments on why they did not
want the six studies.



9
dredgers due to contractual disputes; (g) delays in selection of type of equipment for customs resulting
in delays in preparing tender documents and bid evaluation reports thereof; and (h) delays due to lack
of interest by the implementing agencies in contracting out the studies and in hiring of experts for
training of operators on modern container handling methods.
24.    Implementation Schedule: The project was planned to be completed in 4'h years, including
six months to allow for start-up delays, and 12 months to allow for unforeseen delays. The
implementation period was shorter than the Region's standard profile of 7 years for port projects.
The rationale for the shorter implementation period, at appraisal, was that this was the third project in
the sector, and that a large share of the loan (75%) was for fairly straightforward equipment
procurement.
25.   The Bank extended the closing date for this loan three times for a total of two years. And
finally, after 6'h years, with several components of the project unfinished, the Bank decided to close
the loan on December 31, 1992. One of the main reasons for closing the loan was the deadlock on
the dredging of Izmir Bay due to the inability of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of
Environment, and the Mayors of the two potential dumping sites, to reach agreement on the location
for dumping the dredged spoils. In addition, several important recommendations, such as the hiring
of experts to assist the port agencies to efficiently operate the container handling equipment, were not
implemented. In the last three years of project implementation, 1989-1992, the port agencies could
not comply with the financial covenant of the loan. Loan disbursements in the last three years of
implementation (1989 to 1992) amounted to only 5% of the total loan amount. The Bank, with the
concurrence of the Turkish Treasury, decided not to extend the loan closing date for a fourth time,
and cancelled the remaining, undisbursed loan amount of US$77.84 million equivalent. Out of the
total loan of US$134.5 million equivalent, only US$56.7 million equivalent was disbursed (see Chart
1 and Table 9 in Statistical Data - Part III).
26.   The Borrowers are of the view that had the loan closing date been extended by two years in
one step, instead of the three step extension, they would have been able to carry out some components
of the project that required an implementation period exceeding six months6. The reason for the last
two extensions being only for six months each, was to exercise pressure on the executing agencies
and the concerned Turkish authorities to resolve the major problems facing project implementation
(mentioned in para 25 above). At the end of the first six months the Bank believed that the
implementing agencies and the concerned Ministeries were close to resolving most of the pending
issues and extended the loan for another six months. When no tangible results in resolving the
problems of the project were seen, the Bank, with agreement from the Turkish Treasury authorities,
decided not to extend the loan for a fourth time. It is our view that the approach pursued by the Bank
was reasonable and under the circumstances justified.
Project Costs
27.    During the extended project period of six and a half years, the rate of exchange went from
TL522=US$1 to TL 8564 = US$ 1 by the end of 1992, when the loan was finally closed. Also, as
6/    The imnplemcnting agencies believe that the lst two loan extensions of six month periods caused uncerainty in the tender
procedures, and this kept them from taking action on the unfinished project components.



10
mentioned earlier in the text, several important components of the project were cancelled. This, in
addition to the rapid depreciation of the Turkish Lira, makes it meaningless to compare the original
estimates (Part III: Statistical Data - Table 7) and actual costs in local currency. Table 8 (Part III:
Statistical Data) compares the amount of the loan actually disbursed for each category with the
project cost estimate and the original loan allocation.
Disbursements
28.    Actual disbursements for the project were on average only 40% of appraisal estimates as
shown in Chart 1, and in Tables 8 and 9 in Part III: Statistical Data. The appraisal estimates were
based on the short implementation schedule assumed for the project. The revised disbursement
schedule (February 1992) was also unrealistic. It assumed that US$62.2 million would be disbursed
in one year between 1991 and 1992 whereas the actual total amount disbursed was only US$56.66
million in six years. Of the disbursed amount, 97% was spent on equipment, and the remaining 3%
was spent on training and technical assistance.
Financial Performance
29.    Out of the four project implementing agencies, only two, the TDI Ports establishment and the
TCDD Ports establishment were direct revenue-earning entities and the financial evaluation has been
limited primarily to these two agencies. TCDD and TDI had an increasing trend in profitability
during the period 1985 to 1988, and the operating ratios were favorable relative to the targets set in
the appraisal report. (see Part m: Statistical Data - Tables 10a and 10b). In the case of TDI, the
favorable earnings position was partly due to substantial revenues (about 50% of operating revenues)
from pilotage activities which are clubbed together with port operating revenues. After 1989, both
ports suffered a deteriorating trend in profitability, with TCDD ports making losses since 1990, and
TDI with negative profits in 1991.
30.    The main reason for the decline in profitability in TCDD and TDI in the latter years of
project implementation was the significant increase in wages and salaries, whose share in working
expenses increased from 61% in 1985 (68% in the case of TDI) to 80% in 1992. The number of port
employees declined during the project implementation period. However, since the salaries of
employees covered by the Civil Service Law are determined nationally, the port agencies could do
very little to arrest the escalation in employee costs. On the revenue side, tariffs were set in US
dollars while the costs incurred (salaries, etc.) were in Turkish Liras(TL). Tariffs were set centrally
by the Port authorities, and the individual ports needed to get approvals from the central authorities to
adjust tariffs, which adversely affected the ports' ability to price according to the market.
31.   The financial estimates in the SAR were based on a transfer of 50% of net operating revenues
to the Government from the ports. Since 1988, the actual transfers from the ports to the Government
have been 100% of all surpluses. In the case of TCDD, surplus funds went to the Railways which
had, and still has, heavy operational losses. The only funds left with TCDD ports were the
depreciation allowance which was insufficient for investment financing. This may also explain the fact
that interest expenses in TCDD increased considerably during the last three years of project
implementation (1989 to 1992). Given the above, the TCDD ports had little incentive to earn profits
and were unable to meet the cash covenant of the Project Agreement. The Bank did not raise this as
a major issue, but it was one of the factors that led to the problem rating assigned to the project and
eventually to the decision not to further extend its closing date.



11
Performance against loan covenants (see Part III: Statistical Data - Table 11)
32.   Operating Ratios for TCDD and TDI ports were favorable relative to appraisal estimates as
indicated in tables 10a and 10b, during the years 1985 to 1989. However, for reasons mentioned
above, a deteriorating trend set in after 1988 and operating ratios were considerably worse than
appraisal expectation.
33.   Cash Covenant, as stated in Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement, the ports were required
to generate adequate resources to meet operating and maintenance costs, overhead costs, debt service
or depreciation of fixed assets or whichever was greater, and a contribution of at least 35% to future
rehabilitation, replacement and/or expansion of fixed assets. TCDD met the cash covenant up to the
year 1988; but in subsequent years the policy of the Government to transfer surpluses to the Railways
resulted in non-compliance of this covenant to the end of the project. In the case of TDI, the
incomplete separation of some of the accounting heads between TDI ports and TDI-global made it
difficult to check whether this covenant was met. If TDI ports and TDI-global are combined, the
cash requirements were adequately met.
34.   Asset Revaluation: During loan negotiations, it was agreed that fixed assets belonging to the
port organizations would be revalued at least once every three years. Assets were revalued annually
by an inflation coefficient given by the Ministry of Finance. Up until 1988, these revaluation
coefficients were considerably lower than inflation, so that fixed assets were undervalued and
depreciation, calculated on the basis of gross fixed assets, was underestimated. Since 1988, the
revaluation coefficient has been more in line with local inflation and depreciation expenses increased.
G.    Proiect Results
35.   The main benefits expected to accrue from the project were to arise from a higher percentage
of traffic being transported in containers, which in turn would reduce ship service time and cargo
handling costs. The increase in container traffic in Hydarpasa, as indicated in Table 2 (Part III:
Statistical Data), has been rapid and it is estimated that in 1993, at least 220,000 TEUs were handled;
the appraisal forecast for 1992 was 208,000 TEUs. The traffic in Izmir at 163,000 TEU in 1992,
was higher than the appraisal estimate of 126,000 TEUs. On the other hand, container traffic in
1992 in Mersin port at 105,000 TEUs was less than half the appraisal estimate of 335,000 TEUs.
The embargo on Iraq since the Gulf War has adversely affected traffic flow to Mersin. Trabzon,
which was known at appraisal to be the risky element of the project proved to be so and, performed
well below expectations, due to inadequate traffic flow. In 1992, Trabzon Port handled 1,900 TEUs
compared to the appraisal expectation of 70,000 TEUs. On the whole, the four port projects reached
total container traffic of 450,000 TEUs which is about 61 % of the appraisal estimate of 740,000
TEUs. It is important to note that according to the SAR, the "without project" scenario would have
resulted in containerized traffic of about 200,000 TEUs for the project ports by 1990. Therefore, it
may be concluded that there were benefits from the project in terms of increased container traffic.
The container handling equipment procured under the project, if well maintained, could probably
handle the increasing trend in container traffic for several years to come in the ports of Mersin and
Izmir.
36.   The resulting efficiency gains from the increased container traffic show good results (Part III:
Statistical Data-Table 3). Hourly rates of unloading more than doubled in Mersin and increased by



12
about 80% in Izmir and Hydarpasa from 1983 to 1992. Many of the cargo handling performance
indicators would have improved even more if the customs clearance process had been made more
efficient through the procurement of computers and installing an on-line system. However, this was
one of the components cancelled because it was not implemented by the loan closing date.
37.   In evaluating the results of this project, it is important to realize the high degree of
complementarity of its different components. Dredging approach channels of ports and construction
of deep water berths, while essential, do not constitute the sole criteria for bringing bigger vessels to
the port. Improvement in operational aspects of ports and in trade facilitation, would also need to
take place. Port operations would have to further improve, including ship-to-shore handling of
containers. Operations would need to be computerized and dwell time of containers decreased
through substantial increases in tariffs. Similarly port areas would have to be discouraged from being
used as inexpensive storage areas and current laws which provide a legal basis for such practices
would need to be revised.
38.   The cancellation of several important components of the project and partial completion of
other components, makes it impossible to compare the actual costs and benefits of the project with the
appraisal estimates. Even to sustain the limited benefits of the project (see Section H on
Sustainability), would involve further costs. For these reasons, the ex-post economic benefits of the
project should be considered marginal.
39.   A positive development, which took place in early 1993, has been the elimination of 'Rihtim
Resmi' (an ad hoc tax, collected by the Government, equal to 3% of the value of goods, supposedly
earmarked for port development, but usually spent on other objectives). This should attract more
container ships to visit Turkey. Further attention should be paid to the ratification by Turkey of the
1972 Container Convention as soon as possible. The Container Convention would require getting rid
of a number of customs clearance hurdles that are currently in place. The development of door-to-
door container operations, which in turn would significantly reduce port congestion.
40.    Creation of free trade zone areas in the ports was constructive; however, limiting this activity
to a small area appears to be counterproductive due to limitations of space; declaring the whole area
of some ports a free trade zone should be considered and tried on a pilot basis.
41.   In view of the rapid developments in containerization in Turkey, it is necessary to initiate
feasibility studies as soon as possible to determine the appropriate staged development of Turkish
Ports, and to study future privatization of ports to promote efficiency improvements and speedier
implementation of technological improvements.
H.    Project Sustainability
42.    As described above the project succeeded in partially completing certain components.
Whether these achievements can be sustained depend on further actions to be taken by the
Government and the port agencies. The introduction of cargo handling methods obiective, has been
met through the provision of specialized equipment for handling containers at the four ports. Over
the next few years, the project is expected to generate modest benefits mainly from increase in
container traffic. If the container handling equipment procured under the project is well maintained,
the ports could handle a large share of the Turkish exports and imports for the next decades. To
--   ---



13
sustain this benefit (a) the defective equipment delivered by the supplier should be replaced, especially
the defective spreaders that are essential for container handling; (b) the maintenance workshops should
be upgraded; (c) experts should be hired to train staff to carry out routine maintenance essential to
keep equipment in working order; and, (d) turnaround of trained staff should be reduced by
introducing appropriate incentives. If the above actions are not taken, the institutional weaknesses of
the port management agencies coupled with financial constraints will continue to pose a threat to port
efficiency.
43.    To ensure that the container handling equipment would be fully utilized by the port agencies,
the project included financing for the hiring of two experts on modem methods of operating container
facilities. After several years of persuasion from Bank staff, TCDD decided to hire two experts.
Unfortunately, by the time the decision to hire these experts was taken and the candidates were short-
listed, the loan was closed. The port agencies would, even at this stage, benefit from having
container operating experts to assist them in further on-the-job training in operating and maintaining
container handling equipment. Such training, as mentioned in para 42, would contribute towards
sustaining the partial benefits derived from implementing the project.
44.    The project envisaged financing the computerization of the Customs Department for efflcient
customs clearance. Since this component was not completed before the loan was closed, it is unlikely
that the objective of efficient customs clearance will be met in the near future. The slow and tedious
pace of customs clearance has been quoted by users as one of the main handicaps of the Turkish
ports. Any improvement in container handling efficiency would be fully realized and sustained only
if complementary improvements in the customs clearance procedures were implemented.
45.   The Government and the Bank both agree on increasing port capacity to make the port sector
in Turkey more efficient. The government's approach would be to build new ports, which could
consider some private sector involvement. However, there are no concrete steps being taken towards
making the much needed institutional changes in the existing ports. The Bank staff had suggested,
within the scope of the project, that Hydarpasa could be taken as a pilot, for privatization of certain
activities. Unfortunately, the loan closed before this suggestion was accepted by the Turkish
authorities.
46.    One of the major objectives of this project was to implement institutional reforms such as
strengthening of planning capabilities of the port authorities, introducing an effective cost accounting
system with cost-related tariffs. During the course of the project, the port authorities did maintain
separate accounts for each port. But the control by the headquarters of the ports inhibit market based
tariff setting and provide no incentives to improve the port organization. The functional separation -
that is, construction activities under DLH, and operation activities under the port agencies - led to a
lack of accountability. The Bank and the implementing agencies are of the view that the most
sustainable option for improving port performance would be to privatize port construction and
operations.
I.     Bank Performance
47.   The Bank's performance in the project was unsatisfactory in terms of project preparation.
The project was pre-appraised in mid-October 1984 and appraised in early December 1984. The
estimated implementation schedule in the SAR, was two and a half years less than similar Bank-
financed projects in the region. The previous experience of the Bank in the Ports Sector in Turkey,



14
especially Loan 1741-TU, had indicated the need for lead time for project preparation.
48.   During project preparation, the Bank should have made a more realistic assessment of: (a) the
difficulties the four project agencies would encounter in making timely decisions as a result of their
complicated bureaucratic organization; (b) their reluctance to abide with Bank procurement guidelines
and regulations; (c) the lack of experienced staff that could be entrusted with preparing comprehensive
tender documents including technical specifications for container handling equipment, computer
equipment for the Customs Department, and for dredging of the entrance channel of Izmir Bay; (d)
resistance to hiring external consultants; and, (e) possible environmental impacts of dredging of Izmir
Bay and selection of dumping site.
49.   The Bank's decision not to further extend the closing date was taken on December 14, 1992.
The main reasons were the delays in resolving the dredging issue in Izmir, and in implementing the
technical assistance components, such as hiring of experts for training on modern container handling
methods, which would have enhanced the benefits of the project. In addition, since 1989, TCDD and
TDI were in default of the financial covenant in the Loan Agreement.
50.   With respect to the dredging issue, the Bank also tried to get the Ministry of Transport and
the Ministry of Environment, to resolve the deadlock on dredging. After the closing of the loan, the
Bank continued to pursue this issue and organized a workshop on dredging. Two experts from
Netherlands spoke on methods of dredging that minimize negative environmental impacts to an
audience comprising representatives from all the project agencies, the two concerned Ministries, and
the Mayors of the communities who could potentially be affected. The workshop concluded with a
set of recommendations on how to proceed with dredging in Izmir, which were presented to the
Ministry of Transport and Environment.
51.   The main lessons that emerge for the Bank from the project are the following:
a)  the pressure to lend does not justify agreeing to a project which is not adequately
prepared. Ideally, the Bank should ng1 have submitted the project for Board approval,
until the contracts for the various project components were ready. Such preparations
could have been financed using Project Preparation Facility or retroactive financing;
b)  the need for agreement with the implementing agencies, prior to Board presentation, on
the use of consultants for certain components where local expertise was lacking;
especially since, in Turkey, traditionally there has been a reluctance to hire outside
consultants;
c)   during the appraisal stage, need to develop a clear understanding on how to address
fundamental institutional problems affecting the efficiency of performance of the project
implementation agencies, both to ensure sound project implementation and to enhance
sustainability of achievements after completion; privatization of the port services may
have been one way to increase port efficiency; and
d)   need for greater community involvement, and early resolution of differences between
the community and the implementing agencies on potentially divisive issues (such as
dredging of Izmir bay).



15
52.   It should be noted that Bank staff through 15 missions in the six years of project
implementation, put in considerable effort to achieve project objectives. Despite these efforts, the end
assessment of Bank performance must focus on actual achievements, and hence must be regarded as
unsatisfactory.
J.     Borrower's Performance
53.   The performance of each of the four project implementing agencies was below expectations.
Several months, and, in some cases, several years, were wasted while the four implementing agencies
were preparing tender documents that later had to be amended by the Bank, and, in several cases, by
consultants financed by the Bank. In most cases, the technical specifications for equipment were not
precise or clear to the degree that the majority of bids, some from reputable manufacturers were
rejected on technical grounds. For example, out of 20 bids submitted on October 16, 1991 for
procurement of 50 forklifts (2½/2 ton capacity), TCDD rejected 19 bids as technically unacceptable;
TCDD thus decided to cancel the whole bid because of lack of competition. Again, out of nine bids
submitted on October 15, 1991 for five mobile container cranes (reach stackers), TCDD decided that
eight bids were technically unacceptable, however, in this case TCDD recommended awarding the
contract to the only accepted bid. In addition, TCDD decided on May 1, 1992 to cancel bids for 34
general cargo forklifts (2.0 ton capacity) because no bids were submitted as a result of the ambiguity
of the tender documents. Moreover, it took the Customs Department six years to decide on the type
of computer equipment needed to facilitate clearance of containers; bids were invited only on
December 15, 1991 and equipment was not procured by the extended closing date, because the bids
received were not evaluated by the closing date, thus this component was also cancelled.'
54.   The Borrowers, particularly DLH, have at times, expressed the view that the Bank's
procurement guidelines are not according to what they are used to in Turkey, and there was
resistance to follow Bank procurement procedures. Considering that this was the third project in the
sector, all project implementing agencies should have already been familiar with Bank procurement
guidelines and standards for project implementation.
K.    Consultants' Performance
55.   Out of several technical assistance components, only two contracts were signed between TDI
and two consulting firms:
(a)  a contract with a local firm to provide technical assistance for improving financial,
accounting, costing, management information system and port operations at concerned
ports. The contract was signed on January 20, 1987, however it was later cancelled on
February 17, 1988 as TDI was not satisfied with the performance of the consultants.
TCDD accepted the recommendations of the consultants and were willing to implement,
but only if TDI would also implement the recommendations. The reluctance on the part
of TDI to accept the recommended accounting system was that it would affect their
monopoly on certain types of port traffic. TCDD agreed to go ahead and contract out
a new study, but by the time the process was initiated, the final loan closing date had
expired;
7/    See TCDD's views on this iaue in Part U1



16
(b)  a contract with a German firm to provide training to TDI and TCDD personnel on
container handling operations including documentation, maintenance and overseas
technical visits. Work started in March 1987 and was completed in November 1988
using nine expatriate experts for a period totalling 130 man-months. The training
component, although implemented, had limited value because: (i) training was carried
out before the container handling equipment financed by the project, were put into use;
(ii) the candidates to be trained were often replaced without providing for continuity;
(iii) training was administered by TDI, resulting in unsatisfactory training for TCDD
ports; and (iv) the maintenance manual prepared by the consultants has not been applied
by the project ports resulting in major equipment being in need of urgent repairs.
56.            The issue of contention in both of the above consultancy contracts, was the
resistance from the Port Agencies to accept consultants and their recommendations. There is a deep
seated feeling within the port agencies that they know their own problems and do not need others to
tell them what needs to be done.



17
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(Loan 2535-TU)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
L.   TURKISH STATE RAILWAYS (TCDD)
Prepared by                 Turkish State Railways (TCDD)
Project Name                Third Ports Project
Loan No.                    2535-TU
Total Loan Amount           U$134,500,000
The Amount
Allocated to TCDD           By the Transfer Agreement signed between Undersecretariat of
Treasury and Foreign Trade on 19.8.1985, the amount allocated to
TCDD is US$ 53.322.487.
The Organizations           Ministry of Finance and Customs
General Directorate of Customs (DLH)
Ministry of Transport
General Directorate of Railways, Ports and
Airports Construction (TCDD)
General Directorate of Turkish State Railways (TDI)
General Directorate of Turkish Maritime Organization
Objective                   The main objective of the project was to introduce modern container
handling technology to four ports in each of the major hinterland
areas of Turkey so as to accommodate the forecasted rapid growth in
container traffic and support the export-oriented development strategy
of the Country.
Summary of the Project      The Loan Agreement was signed on 18.1.1985 and the works in the
Implementation               scope of the project was expected to be completed by the end of
1989. Due to the fact that the Loan Agreement covers 4 separate
organizations, the project components to be accomplished by each
organization were defined separately. In accordance with these
definitions, TCDD has undertaken the procurement of equipment
belonging to itself and TDI. The list of equipments planned to be



18
procured by TCDD is submitted in Annex 1. All the equipments
specified in the mentioned list, except 5 gantry cranes and 34 short-
masted forklifts, have been procured within the period defined in the
project (before 1989) and put into operation. The total cost of the
equipment procurement were US$27.490.969. As the cost of
equipment procured by TCDD were well below the cost defined in
the project, a saving of US$18.5 million has been provided in the
project portion of total TCDD share. Upon the occurrence of such
an amount of savings, in line with the Bank's remarks, the
accomplishment of new additional works which TCDD require came
to the agenda. Therefore, the requirements of TCDD have been
determined and special emphasis has been given to the equipment
procurement by TCDD. Within this framework, new works, such as
the procurement of new additional equipments, realization of
additional studies, hiring of two experts, were added to the project in
the second half of 1990 and a sum of US$24.24 million was planned
for the fulfillment of these additional works. As the Transport
Master Plan regarding Southeast Anatolian Project (GAP) has not yet
been available, the Ports Master Plan Study and Inland Container
Terminals study have been excluded from the scope of the project as
they are the subsystems of the Transport Master Plan study. On the
other hand, as the study concerning the computerization has already
been carried out by Data Processing Department of TCDD and has
been at the implementation stage, this study, has also become
unnecessary.
In light of the above and in the scope of US$24.24 loan portion,
additional three studies, together with additional equipment such as 5
reach stackers, 21 spreaders, 2 empty container forklifts, and 60
short-masted forklifts, 2 mobile cranes of 25 tons capacity and spare
parts, and completion of the deficiencies of the gantry cranes and
forklifts of 2 tons capacity have been included into the project. The
last two loan extension periods each with six months have been the
major factor for the inability to realize the works specified in the
project. Another important factor why the mentioned works could
not be completed is that the Bank closed the project as of 31.12.1992
mainly due to the dredging problem of Izmir basin and access
channel without leaving any possibility to complete the additional
works which, by the time, were at the tender stage.
The Performance of         As mentioned in the summary of project implementation, a great
the Borrower               majority of the equipments to be procured by TCDD have been
accomplished. The required results could not be achieved only in the
procurement of 5 units gantry cranes and 34 forklifts due to the
disputes with the firms which were awarded the contracts. In order
that the great amount of savings obtained from the project could be
benefitted, the procurement of additional equipments and additional
works have been included into the project. The works mentioned



19
above have been subjected to a time schedule as stated in the Aide
Memoire prepared by the Bank as a result of the visit of Bank
Mission to Turkey between August 20 - September 2, 1990 and in
accordance with this time schedule, the tender documents have been
prepared and sent to the Bank for approval on time. However, as the
approval process has taken a long time, the tender procedures so
delayed. Although the tender procedures have been carried out in a
speedy manner and though some works take more than one year, the
extension of the project closing dates with 6 monthly periods, have
caused a dead end in the completion of the additional works.
Although the necessary correspondence have been made with the
Bank regarding the matter, the attitude of the Bank regarding the
extension period remained unchanged.
Within the framework stated above, only additional five reach
stackers could be procured from the additional works included into
the project.
On the other hand, also the establishment of a direct link and
relationship between the continuation of the whole project and the
dredging of Izmir Bay which is under the responsibility of General
Directorate of Railways, Ports and Airports Construction (DLH), has
affected the fulfillment of the additional works negatively due to the
fact that the project was closed.
As it is known, the tender documents covering the technical and
administrative specifications have been prepared by TCDD and sent
to the Bank for review. The Bank has made necessary reviews and
made several recommendations on the matters which will affect the
competition and as well as on the technical matters. Necessary
corrections have been made by TCDD in the documents by
examining these recommendations and then the specifications have
been approved by the Bank. From time to time, some bureaucratic
time losses have occurred on TCDD side, but these losses have been
kept at minimum levels.
Generally speaking, when the TCDD's share in the works taking
place in the project definitions are taken into consideration, a great
portion of the works have been fulfilled on time and the remaining
portion could not be accomplished due to the disputes with the firms.
Basically, the progress in the additional works, has been affected by
the matters which were out of the control of TCDD.
The Performance of         The Bank missions, during their visit to Turkey, have taken up the
the Bank                   matters in detail and exerted great efforts for producing the solutions.
Especially, the Bank's positive approach to the additional
requirements of TCDD and inclusion of these requirements into the
project by the Bank have contributed to the realization of the project.



20
Besides, the Bank missions have placed emphasis on some of the
works that are not taking place in the project definition but affecting
the project, and fulfillment of these matters by TCDD have brought
additional positive contributions to the project.
The Bank has caused bureaucratic delays especially in making the
correspondence, in the completion of tender documents for the
additional works and in the approval of the contract for reach
stackers. So, from time to time, delays have occurred in the timely
implementation of the project.
Although the project covers four different ports and the works
belonging to these ports, the Bank's persistence to handle the
dredging of lzmnir bay in such a way to affect the whole project, has
hindered the realization of the project at the desired scale. If this
matter had been handled to affect only the Port of Izmir and the
works belonging to the other ports had been allowed to be continued,
the additional portion of the project would have been realized at more
satisfactory levels.
After the completion of tender procedures, though the execution of
additional works require some certain periods, the persistence of the
Bank on the extension (the last two extensions) of the project closing
date with six monthly periods, has created an uncertainty and affected
the overall result.
Lessons Learned        :     During and after the project implementation, it has been observed
that the main factor in the success of the projects is the formation of
separate projects belonging to each organization instead of such a
great and fairly complex project involving 4 separate independent
implementing organizations. On the other hand, it has been
understood that there are great benefits in making more detailed
appraisal studies before starting the implementation of such great and
complex projects.
Conclusions:                 By the infra and superstructure facilities provided and the knowledge
gained through this project, rapid container traffic increases and
service demands, especially at the ports of Haydarpasa and Izmir
have been met. In addition, this project itself has contributed much
to the container traffic growth at the project ports and the objectives
have been achieved. The container traffic being 19.234 TEUs at the
port of Haydarpasa in 1984 rose to 232.365 TEUs in 1993 and the
traffic being 106.809 TEUs at the port of Izmir in 1989 rose to
212.949 TEUs in 1993. The embargo imposed on Iraq due to the
Gulf crisis has obstructed the expected container traffic increases at
the port of Mersin. In spite of this, again the container traffic being
65.201 TEUs in 1984 also rose to 116.799 TEUs in 1993.



21
PROJECr COMLETION REPORT                                                Annex I
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
THIRD PORTS PROJECr
(Loan 2535-TU)
List of Container Handling Eguipment for TCDD. T1I
Location                     T                              L               DA of           Delivery 
Contrat           Date
Heydarpau          Standard Conainr Ca                     2                20.2.1987       PTO1-1612-1988                                }
Mersin              Stndard Conaine Crans                  5                20.2.19S7       7r02-10-01-1989                             NH*r
kznir              Standrd Corainr Cnes                    2               20.2.1987        PT03-1 1-02-1989                           Mersin
Haydarpass         Light Weight Cat. Crans                 I               20.2.19S7        PTO-1903-1989                              Menia
Trabzon             Light Weight Cat. Cranes               L20.2.19S7                       FOS-19-0-1989                              Mn
Toa                                   12                                FIK-0984-1989                              Marii
Haydarpau          Tranatainers                            6                1.12.1987       14.01.19S6-4 unit 22.7.19S8-2 unit         H
Mnasin             Trnsainenr                             11                1.12.19S7       14.12.1987-6 unit-30.4.1988-3 unit         Menin
Mznir               TranAins                               6                1.12.19S7       01.07.1987-3 unit-24.4.198-2 unit         Izmnir
Trabzon            Tranainers                              4                1.12.1987       24.11.19S8-2 unit-09.06.1988-2 unit        Trahzon
Total                                 27
Haydarpasa         Towing Units                           IS                14.5.1987       21.08.1987
Mersin              Towing Unitc                          21                14.6.1987      1.11.1987
Iznir               Towing Unite                          is                14.5.1987
Trabzon            Towing Units                             7               14.6.1987
Total                                 5a
Haydmrpaua         Tnailerc                               18                14.6.1987      24.07.1987-10 unit                          H
Hyersin            Trailers                               23                14.6.1987       21.08.1987-23 unit                         Manin
Izmeir             Trailers                               IS                14.6.19S7       24.07.1987-18 unit                         kmir
Tabzon             Tailera                                10                14.6.19S7       21.08.1987-10 unit                         Traszo
Tota                                  69
Haydarpasa         Reach Stackers                          2                6.5.1987        6.10.1907-2 unit                              t
Morsin              Reacb Stacker6                         2                6.5.1987        6.10.1987-2 unit                           Mersin
izinir             RoAch Stacken                           2               6.5.19S7
Trabzon             Roach Stacken                          1                6.5.19S7
Tota                                   7
Haydarpas           10112T. FLTrucks                       2                18.6.1987       4.3.198S
Mersin              10/12 T. F/I. Trucks                   3                18.6.1987       2.6.1988
Izmnir             tO/12 T FIL Trucks                     L                 10.6.1987
Totd                                   7
Haydarpau          2 T. F/L Truks                         12               23.6.19S7
Mearin             2 T. F/L Trucks                         6                23.6.1987
Iznir              2 T. F/L Trucks                        12               23.6.19S7
Trabzon            2 T. F/L Trucks                         4                23.6.1987
Total                                 34
Ray bagiantr elenmnimni  (il festububg devices)                            24.4.1988
Vinc rayi              (Crane ril)                                         30.6.198S
Ozel ambar            (Special storag facilities)                          22.4.1987
Dcniz upi uetmutaca    (Marine tender)                                      1.S.1987



22
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(Loan 2535-TU)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
M.  TURKISH MARITIME ORGANIZATION (TDD
A.    TDI (rurkish Maritime Organization) on the behalf of Borrower has carried out Accountancy
Consulting Services Project and Container Operations Training Project.
B.     Evaluation Of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
The Project Engineer, with the advantage of his good knowledge of Turkish, being acquainted
with our country, having good dialogue with people and his experience has closely supervised
Container Operations Training Project and ensured to obtain, the maximum benefit from the project
with his good recommendations for removing breakdowns of the project. He has visited the Project
Ports together with his counterparts and has tried to find solutions for the problems together with
counterparts. In fact he, sometimes, has compromised the parties executing different parts of the
project on discussions.
C.    The Major Lessons Learned
Technical visits to Project Ports, port users and top managers by Bank's mission in
predetermined times and exchange of views have increased seriousness and performance of the
project.
D.    Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
The contract of Accountancy Services Project:
The contract has been signed between TDI (Turkish Maritime organizations) and PROTEK,
A.S. ANKARA on the date of January 20, 1987 for improving Financial, Accounting, Costing and
Management Information System methods at the ports and ports operations headquarters. The firm
PROTEK has begun the work February 9, 1987. The cost of the contract is $29,000 +
TL38,581,837.
The expenditures of the contract is $25,447 while it has been cancelled on February 17, 1988.
The Project is consisted of three parts:
1.    An Analysis and assessment of current practices in port handling operation at
concerned ports;
2.    A description of deficiencies and requirements of Accounting, Financial Planning,
control and management Information systems in port operations; and



23
3.    Providing expertise and technical assistance for the adoption and/or implementation of
new and improved systems, methods and procedures.
The first and second part of the Project have been carried out from February 9 to April 9,
1987 and 'starting Report" comprising of findings has been given to TDI on April 10, 1987. The
parties have agreed on the works to be carried out there after the firm has given TDI the report
concerning part three of the project August 24, 1987, but TDI has not accepted this report and
requested the firm to review the report. The firm has reviewed the report, thereafter the contract has
been cancelled by February 17, 1988.
E.    Container Operations Training Project
The contract in the amount of DM 2,771,258; $1,378,458 + TL86.465.400 was signed
between TDI and HPC (Hamburg Port Consulting) GmbH, Hamburg on December 16, 1986 for
introduction, application modern container operations systems and methods and training personnel in
the Ports of Izmir, Trabzon, Mersin and Haydarpasa, which belong to TDI and TCDD (Turkish
Railway Company).
HPC, the consultancy firm has started on March, 1987 and successfully completed the work
on November, 1988 within 20 months with 9 foreign experts and 130 man-month, and the
expenditure of S1.447.968. The difference between the amount of contract is resulting increase from
dollar. During the project period, the counterparts of TDI and TCDD have worked together with the
foreign experts at the project ports and they learned container operation systems from the experts.
The project has been completed with no delay as planned in predetermined time. The project is
consisting of documentation, operation, maintenance and overseas technical visits. Although a
maintenance manual has been prepared by the firm there was not any chance to apply it at the
concerned ports, therefore maintenance part was not as successful as the other parts. On the other
hand all the 46 documentation forms have been implemented at the Ports.
F.   RBol
Since Accountancy Consultancy firm has not fulfilled the contract conditions, that project has
been cancelled by TDI. The following consequences have been obtained from the container Project.
-     A documentation and operation manual consisting of 46 forms;
-     A maintenance manual;
-     Layouts of the concerned ports and practices, 120 personnel of operation and
documentation parts have been trained at the Ports of Izmir and Mersin.
-     73 personnel have been trained at the technical visit to overseas ports of Germany and
Europe.



24
G.    The Major Lessons Learned:
Loan 2535-TU - Ports III Project is comprising of DLH (Sea and Air Ports), TCDD, TDI and
Customs General Managements. We propose the following statements:
Because of difficulties in coordination and sharing of responsibilities, execution of separate
projects concerning with one organization rather than many organizations.



25
PROJECI COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
THIRD PORThS PROJECT
(Loan 2535-TU)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
N. GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF RAILWAYS. PORTS AND AIRPORTS CONSTRUCTION)
(DLH)
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
1.    Throughout the implementation of the Project, a good communication has been
established between the Bank and the Borrower, so wherever a problem had arisen, efforts for
solutions were put from both sides. So in general we were able to solve minor problems under this
understanding.
2.    Yet in some cases, to reach an agreement with the Bank took a lot of time. We tried to
fulfill the requirements of the Bank regulations to the extent the Turkish laws permit.
3.    The major delay in DLH  component of Ports IH Project has been experienced in lzmir
Port Dredging Work.
4.    Although the original loan agreement did not involve any consultancy services for this item,
the Bank insisted on including consultancy services during the implementation period of the
agreement. The involvement of Consultancy Services for Izmir Dredging Work created a
great effect on the delay of the realization of the ICB for Dredging Work, as well as the
environment problem
5.    At conclusion, we can suggest the following, as remedies to expedite the implementation of
World Bank Project.
The Bank has to revise the regulations, in order to provide flexibility in decisions
towards the requirements of the Borrower;
-     Bank has to take into account the requirement of Borrowers existing Laws; and
-     The Bank should give more priority to the preferences of the Borrower.



26
PROJECT COM[PLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(Loan 2535-TU)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
0. GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF CUSTOMS. MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND CUSTOMS
Project Name         Third Ports Project
Loan No              2535-TU
Establishment        Ministry of Finance and Customs, General Directorate of Customs
Project Cost         $8,000,000
A.  Purs             To accelerate loading and unloading works in the ports by making use of
modern technologies and increasing productivity of the mentioned ports,
withdrawal of containers from these ports/customs by means of giving
incentives to container transportation, establishing container terminals and
providing special equipment in order to accelerate customs operations in this
respect.
B. Performance
of Borrower:    Related to the amount allocated to General Directorate of Customs for
purchase of special equipment in order to facilitate customs and operations in
the scope of accelerating container transportation at the ports mentioned
above.
1)    Research for the purchase of X-Ray equipment in order to use in
examining and control of the goods that are carried in containers
since 1985, however, as a result of the tests performed on the
equipment failed to give expected benefits.
2)    In the year 1988, necessary tests and checks for the purchase of
Sniffer Equipment which is newly developed for the purpose of
examining and making controls of the materials in the containers.
Yet, we failed to obtain expected performance from this equipment
also.



27
3)    In the years 1989 - 1990 purchase of computer systems and
equipment to provide synchronized work with ports managements and
to accelerate customs operations both at the mentioned ports and at
the customs that are connected to these ports is decided and this
matter is approved by yours. After the numerous negotiations and
correspondences that are performed with the Bank, necessary
preparations were carried out for the purchase of computer systems
and equipment in 1991 and a bidding for purchasing of computer
system and equipment consisted of one main computer system and
28 computer systems is opened, in February, 1992.
However in the meeting held by World Bank in
November/December 1991, the Bank stated that project has failed
to reach at target due to its present performance and deep
scanning that is to be performed in Izmir Port was not performed.
Since the Bank extended the period of credit temporarily depending
on deep scanning to be performed in Izmir Port. Until May, 1992 the
bidding of computers that requires at least one year is suspended and
as its known due to closure of credit on December 31, 1992
previously opened bidding is cancelled. Due to some uncertain
conditions in the period 1985 - 1990 General Directorate of Customs
failed to realize sufficient performance in use of credits. The
problem is absence of clear alternations on how to act and what
kind of equipment to buy from the view of facilitating customs
operations by making use of mentioned credit. Another point is
lacking adequate experience and knowledge using the credit.
However, especially in the period 1990 a great deal of effort was
spent on purchase of computer. Yet, closing of credit on
December 31, 1992 because of the reasons stated above caused
failure of these of efforts.
C.   Performance
of Bank        :      In general the Bank had positive and friendly approaches from the
credit supplying date to the closing date of the credit as a result of
second extension. At the beginning by means of its positive
approaches to the characteristic change in the credit allocation for the
use of computer became a matter of concern.
D.   Conclusion            1)  Turkish Custom  Administration has enjoyed very much
having quite valuable information and experience to carry out such a
project made with the World Bank in the framework of Ports III
Project and attitude of the World Bank during the project and the
collaboration realized.
2) Turkish Custom Administration is aware that simplification and
acceleration of custom operations is an important factor in facilitating
and accelerating the commerce in the world and Turkish Commercial
life. It is believed that this simplification and acceleration is possible



28
through modern technology, qualified labor, training and judicial
regulations, for this reason computerization taken into
consideration. In this regard, necessary studies are being carried out
for model customs administrations and to apply standardization of
knowledge and certification by using computerization as a
thrusting force.
3) Turkish Custom Administration needs financial resources in order
to realize the matters mentioned above in the scope of
computerization and hopes to collaborate with the World Bank in the
matter of automation and modernization of Turkish Custom
Administration   and  establishment of  model  customs
administrations which are being planned to be realized in near future.



29
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
THIRD PORTS PROJECT
(Loan 2535-TU)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Previous Bank Loans in the Turkish Port Sector
Loan Number and ritle                           Purpose                         FY       Status
Loan 28-TU                Port development, extension of Salipazari, Haydarpasa    50  Completed
First Ports Project       and Izmir ports, construction of a new port at Samsun,       1962
mechanical equipment for loading/unloading grain, ore
and coal at Iskenderun, essential repair and replacement
of cargo-handling equipment in the above ports and
some harbor construction equipment for the Ministry of
Public Works.
A supplementary loan for port development No. 28-TU,
Supplement No. 1 dated February 28, 1954, which
increased the original loan to US$16.3 million to meet
increases in project cost estimates arising from agreed
changes in the project and price increases after 1950.
Loan 1741-TU              Ports rehabilitation, which included replacement and  79    Completed
Ports Rehabilitation Project  modernization of cargo-handling equipment, storage      mid-1985*
facilities and floating craft to improve efficiency of port
operations at ten major ports, and to assist the Borrower
in port subsector planning for future investment
programs and improvement in port management
techniques.
* Though the PCR for this project was written in 1985, the project was not fully complete. According to the PCR,
the project was to be fully completed by June, 1986.



TABLE 2
CONTAINER TRAFFIC IN TEU: APPRAISAL ESTIMATES AND ACTUALS
YEAR           HYDRAPASA                   MERSIN                     IZMIR                    TRABZON                    TOTAL                   %
Appraisal      Actual    Appraisal        Actual    Appraisal       Actual    Appraisal       Actual    Appraisal       Actual  Actual/Appraisal
1988        58000       49,066       162,000      81,251        78,000       80,405       31,000           25       320000      210,747         66%
1989        88000       59,869       201,000      94,527        88,000      106,809       40,000                    417000      261,205         63%
1990       123000      111,805       242,000     113,559        99,000      122,503       50,000                    514000      347,867         68%
1991       163000      146,046       287,000      102,733      112,000      143,109       59,000                    621000      391,888         63%
1992       209000      177,601       335,000      105,820      126,000      162,507       70,000         1,900      740000      447,U28         61%



3).
TABLE 3
CARGO HANDLING PERFORMANCE (CONTAINER):1983 vs 1992
HYDARPASA              MERSIN                  IZMIR               TRABZON
1983       19         1983 1992             1983        19         1939       1992
NO. OP SHIPS                 106        642         181        699        216        833         33           1
SERVICE TIME
Hours                       2550      20302       7141       10254       5660      13274       1434         151
Hours/Ship                    24         32         39          1S         26         16         43         151
TONNAGE
Total                      91000    1348153     327000    1088908      341000    1443777      35000        2989
Ton/Ship                     861       2100        1776       1558       1576       1733        1050       2989
% Ship Tine Worked            53         89         70          75         78         41      -             4.6
Gangs/Shift/Ship               1        1.02        1.1       0.79        0.7          1      -           7.571
Tons/Ship hour              36.9         66        46.4        106       60.2        109        23.5     19.535
Tons ship day                886       1584        1114       2544       1445       2616        564         469
Tons/png hour               81.8       65.63       66.9      201.6      104.4        258      -          56.396
%time idlc                    37          9         43          51         45         66      -            11.3
Tons/meter of quay           441       188.2       829       226.8      -            114      -           2.317



Table 4
TURKEY
PROPOSED THIRD PORTS PROJECT
limietable fof Projecl Impkemeniafion
IVIIS                              59                                 1987                     1_Va
A~~~~~~~ D M  F M                              -1 S I 0 J   f   |M  A M | i1 J  |  f     I||     N | D J I f I   A     
& CPfbJ Dmm6wmS a uproot f"aw.
I SDoC lo fD 
2 f6RD  fMc                                  -  _-
I Od krAOMkiw 
4 f _k_ 
6 fU .-d     D    C C-
6 CA      C                                                            **  -
K*UNMWS4 -Q-                                                                                        -        -        -  
I Cf-W A                                                                                                              -
2 Srd Canw                                                                                                    _ tIwl
3 Md. SwWs.                                   ................-
4 btIbn Qu Cvfcu                                      ........ .. ........   -    _                 -  _.
5   fdwui QuY  5d COre bfc 
HAYtAPASA
I  WoYy " M      N Op-                                                             -  
2. L41.g CI  E_.cI
3 A-         Om A V      a                                       ...... .....
a 51pdC     adI                                                                                                               _
I C4ftP    m Ojcjr £uBixii-AvA,uo                                -
S f^CmOa f,oyl.hSoek.,$             - -. -   -                                  -           --
2 t QhvN ,5ndc         f C_                                                             _                       _    _h
3 C<X-*     flYof>" _n _- _c p                                                             _      _
4    f>;tk                                            ........ ....... ._...
5m A_M, S... k. A   ....                       ...... ....._
IZ"t-Aeft QCf alk SJOkX F_An
2 L~*hkok C,u bucamn
C. OtWEtMIUfW     9ENIL
I- Unko lo SWI 
I awhom
I ki                                        _ -    -            .      .
5 Om             Ct                                                       - _   _    _
0. AmUd f}Cttkm
1. .CUjLoe to tS                                                    _
,I Ed h.goki
4 "akwo
:, fOm   S DC F -  w,W   3mw
t, A.ad d C
L UOHNCAL ASOANPK
I. FVKa KI, 
2 ff t               
1 fica /t _.
3,                                                                          _  _                             _Ita
A~ OKp*o VCou*VI
1.                                                                _ n.                 hk   
I
(I *w   l ,                   -vvC    -            '  t   mt t            h f
'.a    Go    Y           aL. '   bY Isl w2cl  t                             p    10 ta fod a, 1pfL



33
Table 5
Page 1 of 2
Project Implementation
Following is the original implementation schedule as estimated during project appraisal; details are
given in Table 4.
Procurement of Equipment
1. Preparation of Specifications and Bidding Documents for Container Cranes and Transtainers
March - April 1985                Specification and Bidding Documents prepared and submitted
to Bank for approval
April - May 1985                  Approval from Bank
September - October 1985          Receipt of Bids
By Effectiveness Date             Complete bid evaluation, and obtain agreement of contract
award
By December 1985 - January 1986    Orders placed for container cranes and transtainers
Specifications and bidding documents for support equipment were to be prepared and submitted for
Bank approval to enable bidding, award of contracts and manufacture and delivery to be coordinated
with operational availability of container cranes and transtainers.
2. Delivery of Main Eguipment
Action                       Container Cranes              Transtainers
Manufacturers design period,      say 3 m to March 1986             2 m to March 1986
Manufacture period,               say 9 m to December 1986          6 m to September 1986
Installation and testing,         say 3 m to March 1987             3 m to December 1986
Assume different manufacturers for standard and lightweight cranes.



34
Page 2 of 2
Table 5
3. Proposed Allocation
Heavy Cranes in Operation                      Light Cranes in Operation
Number        ISQr          By Date             Number  FM             By Date
2           Mersin         03/87                2        Izmir       04/86 I/
2           Mersin         04/87                1       Haydarpasa  04/87
1           Izmir         05/87                 1       Trabzon      09/87) /
I           Izmir         06/87                 1       Trabzon      10/87)
I           Haydarpasa   07/87
1           Haydarpasa   08/87
1           Mersin         09/87
4.     Supply of Support Eguipment to Coincide with the Foregoing
A. Transtainers      6 - Mar. 87       3 - Oct. 86     2 - Apr. 87      2 - Sep. 87
2 - Apr. 87       1 - May 87     2 - Aug. 87      2 - Oct. 87
2 - May 87        2 - Jun. 87    2 - Sep. 87
1 - Oct. 87
B. Tractors          9 - Mar. 87       5 - Nov. 86    5 - Apr. 87       4 - May 87
4 - Apr. 87      5 - Jun. 87     5 - Aug. 87      3 - June 87
4 - May 87       5 - Jul. 87     5 - Sep. 87
4 - Oct. 87
C. Trailers          6 - Jan. 87       7 - Feb. 87     6 - Mar. 87      5 - Apr. 87
6 - Feb. 87      7 - Apr. 87     6 - June 87      5 - May 87
6 - Mar. 87      6 - May 87      6 -July 87
5 - Aug. 87
D. Other Support    By Jan. 87         By Feb. 87      By Mar. 87       By Apr. 87
Eguipment
Note: CFS equipment to be provided to meet start of CFS operation (including for customs).
I/        Ertimeted date of availability of cranes financed from TDI own resources.
Delivery timing haa been estimated to coincide with expected availability of civil works.



35
Page 1 of 2
Table 6
Civil Works - Terminal Preparations
A.    Mersin Main Ouay
July 1986           Quay completion with crane rails installed and area cleared to
facilitate crane erection; lighting towers and foundering to be
installed.
October 1986 -
March 1987          Receiving crane parts, erection and testing of three standard
cranes.
August 1986         Administration and maintenance facilities together with supply
of operating and maintenance equipment to be completed.
B.    Mersin Extension Ouay
April 1987          All civil works completed and crane rails installed ready to
receive and erect cranes.
April -
August 1987         Receiving crane parts, erection and testing of two standard
cranes.
C.    Hadpasa
Sept. 1986          Quay construction completed including installation of crane
rails together with adequate lighting towers and foundering.
November 1986 -
April 1987          Receiving crane parts and carry out installation and testing of
one lightweight crane.
January 1987        Administration and maintenance facilities together with supply
of operation and maintenance equipment to be completed.
January -
June 1987           Receiving, installation and testing of two standard cranes on
main quay.
D.    Izmir
October 1986        Completion of 600 meter quay with crane rails installed, berth
foundering, and lighting supplied. Back up area fill completed
and paved.



36
Page 2 of 2
Table 6
March -
June 1986           Receiving crane parts, installation and testing of two
lightweight cranes (purchased from TDI own resources) on
south end of quay.
July 1987           Main quay completed with crane rails installed, lighting and
foundering completed. Backup area completed. Backup area
completed and paved. Priority dredging completed.
January 1987        All administration and maintenance buildings together with
operational and maintenance equipment to be completed.
January -
July 1987           Receiving crane parts, installation and testing of two standard
cranes.
December 1987       Balance of port and entrance channel dredging completed.
E.    Trabzon
November 1986       Completion of all civil works, paving, etc. including
installation of crane rails, foundering and lighting.
November 1986 -
May 1987            Receiving crane parts, installation and testing of two
lightweight cranes.
January 1987        Completion of all administration and maintenance buildings
together with equipment.



37
Table 7
Estimated Proiect Cost and Financins
TL Million                            USS Million                USS M
Bank
LoDan
Local       Foreign        Total         Local       Foreign      Totl
A. Equipment
(a)   TCDD                       2,155.84      19,402.52    21,558.36         5.04        45.33       50.37        45.33
(b)   TDI                        1,230.07      11,070.65    12,300.72         2.87        25.87       28.74        21.88
(c)   DLH                        1,885.77      10,860.07    12,745.84         4.41        25.37       29.78        25.37
(d)   Cuos                         380.92       3.428.28     3809.20          0.89         8.01        8.90         8.01
Subtotal                              5.652.60     4476152      5041412           13.21      104.58       117.79       100.59
B. Civil Works
(a)  Izmir Dredging                918.06       5,202.34     6,120.40         2.15        12.16       14.30        12.16
(b)   lmir Berth Rectamation '
1,715.00        735.00     2,450.00          4.01        1.72        5.72         -
(c)   Mersin Berth               1,000.70        428.87      1,429.58         2.34         1.00        3.34         _
(d)   Trabzon Berth "              574.53        246.23       820.75          1.34         0.58        1.92         .
(e)   Haydarpass Berth 1           257.25        110.25       367.50          0.60         0.26        0.86         _
(f)   Supporting Infraszrcture
1,549.36                   1.549.36         3.62         =           3.62
Subtotal                               6        S                                 14.06       15.72       29.76         12.16
C. Technical Assistance/Truininz         5.78         821.55       827.32          0.01        1.92         1.93         1.92
Total Base Coasu '                   11,667.50     51,484.21    63,151.71         27.27      120.30       147.55       112.75
D. Contineencies
(a)   Physical                     137.71        780.35       918.06          0.32         1.82        2.15         1.82
(b)   Price                      7A.035       37.293.15    44,301.50          3.46        18.85       22.31        17.98
Subtotal Contingenci                  7,146.06     38,073.50    45,219.56          3.78       20.67        24.46        19.80
TOTAL PROJECT COST                   S.813.56      8     7       j37.27           31.05      140.97       1  o2.0
_  Ongoing works.
v USS1 - TL 428



38
Table 8
Ptoc  CotVtm tsand                   0 AmontsI     rsbu-rnd
USS NilLion                   Bm* Loon          Loon         Disbursed
LccI        f2Forei        Ttl          US mill.        C_t             tSS o_L
A. Ecuic ont
(a)  TCW                      5.04         45.33        50.37            45.33         2(a)             30.82
(b)  TDI                      2.87         25.87        28.74            21.88         2(b)              13.85
(c)  DHL                      4.41         25.37        29.78            25.37         2(c)              10.52
(d)  C4utoms                  0.89          8.01         8.90             8.01         2(d)                 --
SubtotaL                      13.21        104.58       117.79          100.59                           55.19
B. Cix1l works
Ca)  Izmir Drecding           2.15          12.16       14.30            12.16          (1)
(b)  Imir Berth               4.01           1.72        5.72               -
Recl m_tionl/
(c)  Nermin Berth              2.34          1.00        3.34
Cd)  Trabzon Cfthi/            1.34         0.58          1.92
(e)   Ilayderpa Bwthl/        0.60          0.26         0.86
f)  Suqporting                3.62                       3_62_--
Infrastructure
SubtotaL                      14.06         15.72       29.76            12.16
C. Technical Assistwice
Training                       0.01          1.92         1.93            1.92          (3)               1.4
Total Base Costs             27.28        122.22       149.48           114.67                          56.66
D. Contiroencie
(a)  Physical                 0.32          1.82         2.15             1.82
(b)  Price                    3.46         18.85        22.31            17.98
SubtotaL Contingencies        3.78         20.67        24.46            19.80          (4)               0.00
TOTAL PROUECT COST               31.06        142.89       173.94           134.47
1/ Ongoing works.



39
Table 9
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS million)
1986     1987   1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Appraisal Estimate            12.80    49.70  88.00  119.00  131.50  134.50  134.50  134.50
Revised Estimate               -       17.70  40.80   55.80   64.30   67.30  129.50  129.50
EMENA Ports Profile           0.67     4.03   20.85   51.78   82.72  114.32  132.48  134.50
Actual                        7.93    18.74  45.22   50.18   51.48   57.33   56.66   56.66
Actual as % of
Revised Estimate               -        106    111      90       80      85      44      44
Actual as % of
Appraisal Estimate              62       38     51      42       39      43      42      42
Date of Final Disbursement: 06/09/1993



40
Chart 1
Planned and Actual Disbursement Schedules
as Compared with EMENA Ports Profile
US$M
140 T
120
100
E30~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -- /
40
0
1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992         1993
* Appraisal ° Actual    * EMENA



41
Table 10a
TCDD: Financial Performance Relative to AoDraisal Estimates
(Current TL Billions)
Year   Operating Revenue      Operating Expenses    Net Operating          Operating Ralio  %
Appraisal    Actual   Appraisal    Actual   Appraisal    Actual   Appraisal    Actual
1985   33.6         43.9      13.3         13.2     20.3         30.7
1986   39.1         58.5      16.3         17.1     22.8         41.4     42            29
1987   47.5         78.5     20.4         26.4      27.0         52.1     43            34
1988   51.8         123      24.4         44        27.5         79       47            31
1989   56.4         204      26.6          107      29.8         97       47           52
1990   62.7         280      30.7         221       31.9         59       49           79
1991   69.7         561      35.2         443       34.5         118      50           79
76.8        981       38.4         839      38.4         142       50           86
Table 10b
TDI: Financial Performance Relative to ARoraisal Estimates
( Current TL Billions)
Year   Operating Revenue      Operating Expenses    Net Operating__   Operating Ratio  %
| Appraisal    Actual   Appraisal    Actual   Appraisal    Actual   Appraisal    Actual
1985   29           41       13           15        16           25       46           37
1986   33           41        17          18        17           23       49           44
1987   37           61       20           26        17           35       53           43
1988   40           99       23           42        17           57       57           42
1989   44           100      27           69        17           31       62           69
1990   46           154      29            132      17           21       63            86
1991   50           249      32           284       18           -35      65            114
1992   54           495      36           455       19           40       65           92
=       -                    .            .  ...__-



t
42
Table 11
H. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
COMMENT        ORIGINAL      REVISED
SECTION         DATE          DATE                  DESCRIPTION                             COMMENTS
3.04 B1(a)        04,187        06/84      Construction of new berth and storage area  Completed.
in Haydarpasa.
3.04 B1(ai)       04/87         12/89      Regrading of area in Haydarpasa.       Completed.
304 B1(bi)        04/87         C9/87      Extension of existing quay to West of grain   Completed.
l _______________  ______________           facility.
3.04 Bl (bii)     04/87         C9/87      Reclamation of area in Mersin.         Completed.
3.04 B1(biim)     04/87         C9/87      Construction of adjacent retaining wall In  Completed.
Mersin.
3.04 B1 (biv)     04/87         09/87      Pavement of areas behind the new 400m  Completed.
container berth in Mersin
3.04 B2(ai)       04/87         09/91      Complebion of 450m and 250m quay,      Completed.
reclamation and paving in Izmir.
3.04 B2(aii)      04/87         12/88      Dredging of quay, inner harbor in Izmir.  Completed.
3.04 82 (b)       04/87         04/89      Construction of new container berth    Completed.
reclamaion and pavement In Trabzon.
4 B3            04/87         09/90     Installation of crane ris In al projects.  Completed in all project ports except for
Trabzon.
2 C2           Not specified    09/91      Study on simplification of customs     Not In compliance.
clearance of containers.               Remainder will be addrssed In the new
studies to be undertaken.
3.05           Continuous    Continuous   PCC to furnish each year annual Investment  Continuous.
programs and budgew for ports by August
3.06           Not specified    12/90      Study on inland container storage and  Not In compliance.
distribution depots
3.07 (4b)      Not specified    12/SO      Establishment of financil accounting,  TDI lost the court case agant PROTEC
costing and management informatlion    engaged to cery out the study. TOI I
systems, methods and procedures.       Improving finandal, acoouring and
costing system on their own.
Project 4.01 (a)   Continuous    Continuous   TCDD and TDI to maintain accounting  Being done.
records.
-  4.01(b)    Continuous    Continuous   TCDD and TDI to supply Bank with audited   Done for 1991. 1992 Audited Accounts
financial statement by June each year.  are overdue since June 30, 1993.
4.02          1986      Continuous   TCDD and TDI shall take measures to     Not In compliance.
produce revenues high enough to cover
operating costs, debt serAce and 35% of
Investment requirements to be retained by
port operations in each agency,      I
X * U:W.*j.X3 12



43
Table 12
G. Mission Data
Number   Weeks
Month       of        in            1/          a/                 4/      Date of
Year      Stnff     Field    Specialization   Status   Trend   Probnm  Rewrt
Prepation               06/82          3      2        EN, FA, EC      -        -        -          06/22/82
Identification          06/83          3      2        EN, FA, EC      -        -        -          06/19/83
Appraisal                12/84        3       2        EN, FA, EC      -        -        -          04/24/85
Supervision 1            10/85        2       2        EN,FA           1        2        -          11/25/85
Supervision 2           02/86         3       2        EN,FA, MS       1        2        -          04/04/86
Supervision 3           07/86         3       2        EN, MS, CS      1        2        -          09/19/86
Supervision 4            12/86        4       2        2EN, FA EC      1        2        -          02/04/87
Supervision 5           01/87          1      2        EN (limited)    1        2        -          02/04/87
Supervision 6           06/87         2       1        EN,FA            1       2        -          06/29/87
Supervision 7           07/87         2       2        FA, EC          2        3        M,F        09/16/87
Supervision 8           01/88          3      2        EN, FA, EC      2        2        T, M. F    03/04/88
Supervision 9            11/88        3       2        EN,FA, MS       2        2        T, M, F
Supervision 10          04/89          1      2 1/2    EN              2        2        T, M       08/07/89
Supervision 11           10/89        3       3        EN, FA, EC      2        2        T, M       12/29/89
Supervision 12          06/90          1      2 1/2    EN              2        2        T, F, M    07/19/90
Supervision 13          08/90          1      2        EN              3        3        T, F, M    10/18/90
Supervision 14          09/91         3       2        EN, FA, EC      3        3        T, F, M    10/18/91
Supervision 15           12/91        2      2         EN, FA          3        3        T, F, M    02/11/92
Completion              06/93         2      2         EN, FA          3        3        T, F, M    08/20/93
11    EN  = Port Engineer, FA = Financial Analyst, EC = Economist, MS = Management Specialist,
CS = Customs Specialist
2/    1  = Problem free or Minor Problems, 2 = moderate problems, 3 = major problems
3/    1  = Improving, 2 = Stationery, 3 = Deteriorating
4/   T  = Technical, F = Financial, M = Managerial






IBRD 18675R
B U L G A R I A     r- A~ ..                                                              o crS  e  o                                                                                               \\IR     65
El l _,,   Q,irl                                                                        Ibl            inop                                                                                         GEORGIA
_                           -                                                                                  HR  PORT  IROJEC
<~YCPRUS                                                                                          THR   OT RJC
i                 ,d                                                                                       Proect Ports
4_   R                                                                       )  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Operated byThrkisbMdritine Onganiaation(TOI)
,)                                            $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~±  Operated by TotistiStat. Railways (TODO)
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *,Operoted by Turkish Store Railways (TCDD)
Main ttuflk roads
Bo.di,rno                                                  -s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..ltroioa   oudre
O  50    10e    iso    200o   250   3olo00 400                                                  .       TJ
'  '              r~~~~~KLtoTECes/
ma bwwwdada  awl..            ..   a  K*.t~ahy .tw
X_~~~~~~~~~~~~ on                                                                                                                                                                                                    IRAN/
a  do  a.  ;  on dei 0d. e.e d    ss    d
G.aae~ -1    -o tl_.0, 1..w_ -.    -r T...O..w  a/ waEe
wela..waa.0 a. w~~~~wTaea al wad, haKeme,dny
30'                                                                35*                                                                       5 
im-e-  I   --  /-    I                                                                                              iAAS lW,
Fin,-ike  T.         An~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lu 9



