                                                                                 49351



                       THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 


     THE SECOND POVERTY ALLEVIATION FUND PROJECT TO SUPPORT 

    PARTICIPATORY DEVELOPMENT THROUGH SOCIAL MOBILIZATION 


                                       DATA SHEET

 Date: June 29tn, 2009                          Task Team Leaders: Kevin Crockford/ 

 Country: Pakistan                              Imtiaz Alvi 

 Project Name: Additional Financing for         Sector ManagerlDirector: Adolfo Brizzi/ 

 the Second Poverty Alleviation Fund            John Henry Stein 

 Project to support Participatory               Country Director: Yusupha Crookes 

 Development through Social Mobilization        Environmental category: B 

i Project ID: P082977
  Borrower: Islamic Republic ofPakistan
  Responsible agency: Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund                                  J

I Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FYfUS$m)
                                                                                         I

        FY          2004     2005    2006    2007    2008     2009 2010      Remarks
  1. PPAF II          -       84      91       33   I  30      -     -
  US$238 m                                                   i
  2. 1st              -        -       10      91      -       -     -     The actual
  Additional                                                               disbursement
  Financing                                                                exceeds the
  US$100 m                                                                 original
                                                                           amount due
                                                                           to SDRfUS$
                                                                           exchange
                   i
                                                                         . fluctuations
                           I

  3. 2nd              -        -       -       50      88      -     -
  Additional
. Financing
                   I

  US$138 m                 i

  4.3rd               -        -       -        -      15      40   20
  Additional
  Financing
  US$ 75 m                                                                               ;
                           !                                J            I               i
 Total                -    J  84     101      174     133      40   20   i               I

  Cumulative          -       84     185      359     492                                I
                                                             I532   552 :                I
  Current closing date: June 30, 2010
                                                                                         I
  Revised closing date: N/A                                                              I

  Indicate if the amendment is:
  Board Approved: _     (pending)                                 - Yes _No
  Regional Vice President Approved                                X Yes  -   No


  Does the amendment require any exceptions to Bank policies?     - Yes X No
  Have these been approved by Bank management?
  Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                            I


                                              2 


Revised project development objective/outcomes:
The original Project Development Objective and outcomes remain the same, however the
proposed amendment will introduce the following additional outcomes:
1.  In twenty-five of the Recipient's poorest districts:
    a.    At least 20% of federated Community Organizations (COs) report effective
          linkages with markets and private sector; and
    b.    2,000 infrastructure schemes completed with mature institutions of the poor
          and communities are maintaining infrastructure
2.  In the four districts ofthe Sindh Coastal Areas Development (SCAD) program:
     a.   Number of COs reaches 1,050 in the selected 750 settlements of the SCAD
          districts and at least 65% federate into Village Organizations and 25% ofthese
          federate at the Union Council level;
     b.   65% of all CO members are from the poor and poorest households and more
          than 40% of overall CO membership is female;
     c.   25% of CO leadership and/or managerial positions are held by poor and
          poorest households;
     d.   Over 1,200 new infrastructure schemes including 975 conventional
          Community Physical Infrastructure (CPIs) have been completed;
     e.   At least 1,000 poorest families benefit from improved health and education
          under the Social Sector Development projects (SSDPs);
     f.   At least 1,000 individuals trained to improve their productive skills and
          increase their incomes either through establishment/strengthening oftheir
          existing income sources or gaining employment; and
     g.   At least 20% of federated COs report effective linkages with markets and the
          private sector.
Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? No.
                             Revised Financing Plan (US$m.)
                  Source                     I    Local                    J
                                                            i   Foreign          Total
                                       No Change




                                            3 


I.   Introduction

1.   This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the
     following changes in the Pakistan Additional Financing for the Second Poverty
     Alleviation Fund Project to support Participatory Development through Social
     Mobilization (Credit No. 3834-3-PAK and Credit No. 3834-4-PAK) (P082977)
     and accompanying amendments to the project's legal documents. Funds from this
     additional financing will be used to carry out all originally planned development
     activities that were specifically earmarked for the twenty-five (25) of the
     Recipient's poorest districts. No community organizations or members will be
     dropped due to this proposed amendment, but instead additional geographical
     areas and rural communities in the Sindh Coastal areas will be added as project
     beneficiaries.

2.   Of the SDR 16.6 million allocated under Credit No. 3834-4, 55 percent has
     disbursed since the Board approval in December 2007, and of the SDR 32.5
     million allocated under Credit No. 3834-3, no disbursements have been made to
     date. This has been primarily due to delays in setting up satisfactory operational
     and monitoring mechanisms specific to social mobilization activities. The project
     timeline however is generous enough to allow for all the original outcomes plus
     additional ones, proposed below, to be achieved before the project closes. The
     project team's assessment is that the original and additional outcomes will be
     achieved. However in an effort to ensure that funds allocated under this additional
     financing are fully utilized before the closing date of June 30 2010, this
     amendment proposes to (in addition to the social mobilization activities):

     (a)     include 'Grant' activities for Small-Scale Community Infrastructure
             Development (SSIP) and Social Sector Development Projects (SSDP) ,
             which are activities already under Parts A.2 and A.3 ofthe original Second
             Poverty Alleviation Fund Project (PPAFII) (Credit No. 3834-PAK),
             among the activities to be financed by the additional financing; and
     (b)     allocate SDR 10.5 million for the implementation of social mobilization
             and grant activities under section (a) above in the four districts in the
             Sindh Coastal area where PPAFII is currently implementing the Sindh
             Coastal Areas Development Program (SCAD) - an initiative being
             implemented by funds allocated under the original PPAFII.

3.   The Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF) will continue to be the
     implementing agency for all project activities as it has been for PPAFII and the
     additional financing.

4.   The proposed changes are based on the discussions and agreement between the
     World Bank task team, Country Management Unit, Government of Pakistan and
     the PPAF, reached on February 20,2009.




                                           4 


II.    Background and Reasons for Amendment

5.      Since 2000, the World Bank has provided funds totaling over US$550 million to
       the Government of Pakistan for two projects and three tranches of additional
        financing which have been implemented by PPAF. Under these projects, PPAF
        has built strong outreach mechanisms with over 70 Partner Organizations (POs)
       that have in tum organized over 92,000 Community Organizations (COs) in
        32,000 villages/rural and urban settlements in 112 districts of the country. To
       these clients, PPAF has provided over 1.9 million micro-credit loans; over 16,000
        grants for Social Sector Development Projects (SSDP) and Small-Scale
        Community Infrastructure Development (SSIP); provided capacity building for
        over 230,000 individuals in skill development and managerial training; and
        provided grants under the emergency housing reconstruction program in the
        aftermath of the 2005 earthquake to rebuild over 110,000 damaged houses and
        over 1,000 infrastructure schemes.

6.      The Credit Nos. 3834-3-PAK and 3834-4-PAK additional financing was approved
        on October 11,2007 and became effective on 17 February 2008. Historically, the
        PPAF I and II Projects which included social mobilization, grant type activities
        (for SSDPs & SSIPs) and micro-credit loans, have disbursed well before the
        closing date and surpassed targets set at appraisal. However under Credit Nos.
        3834-3-PAK and 3834-4-PAK, funds had only been earmarked for social
        mobilization costs (such as consultant services, equipment, vehicles) in twenty
        five of the Recipient's poorest districts in the country. However the nature of
        social mobilization in rural poor communities has proven to be slow to build
        momentum. Similarly, slow progress can also be attributed to the unanticipated
        time required to mobilize communities during design and delays in reaching
        agreement on monitoring and operational mechanisms between the PPAF and
        their Partner Organizations. By adding 'Grant' type activities and additional
        geographical areas to this additional financing, it is expected that funds will be
        able to be utilized before the closing date of June 30, 2010 - in addition to
        achieving all the original and new outcomes.

7.      In recent years and in response to the findings of the Inspection Panel report on
        the NDPl and multifarious environment and water management problems in the
        Sindh coastal areas, under the PPAFII, the SCAD Program was designed and
        implemented by the PPAF at the World Bank's request, as a targeted and urgent
        response. The program aims to provide sustainable development interventions
        (such as social mobilization and Grants for SSDP and SSIP activities) in the
        Sindh Coastal areas and to the communities living around the Left Bank Outfall
        Drainage (LBOD).

8.      Since October 2006, the SCAD program has successfully engaged a strong
        network of ten local POs, and is working in four districts in the Sindh Coastal
        Areas, which covers 37 Union councils (out of a total of 52). A total of 515


    Inspection Panel Investigation Report, Pakistan National Drainage Program (NDP) Project, World
    Bank,2006

                                                    5

      infrastructure schemes have been implemented (65% in the LBOD Region) which
      are directly benefiting 503 settlements (or over 170,000 people). Through strong
      social mobilization, over 660 community organizations are functioning, which are
      the foundation upon which donor-funded and community-driven interventions can
      be efficiently implemented by poor communities with higher levels of
      sustainability. The World Bank reallocated US$3.39 million from the PPAFII
      project towards SCAD with a minimum of 65 percent prioritized for work in the
      LBOD Backwash Region.


9.    Since there have been no new World Bank funds available to implement activities
      under the SCAD program, PPAF has been supporting the 10 POs through
      operational assistance to enable them to retain their SCAD dedicated personnel.
      However, chronic poverty and recurring natural disasters remains a stubborn
      problem in the Sindh Coastal areas and additional development finance is
      urgently needed. It is therefore proposed that this amendment also allow for SDR
      10.5 million funds from the undisbursed Credit No. 3834-3-PAK to be used for
      activities under the SCAD Program, which is also part of PPAFII. Funds under
      the proposed amendment will therefore benefit rural communities in twenty-five
      (25) of the Recipient's poorest districts and four (4) districts under the SCAD
      program all of which will be implemented by the PPAF.

10.   PPAF continues to maintain adequate and acceptable financial management
      processes and funds will continue to be disbursed under the procedures that meet
      high transparency and accountability standards as adhered to under all PPAF
      operations.

III.  Proposed changes

11.   The project's components, activities and scope are proposed to be modified by: (i)
      including the financing of "grants" for Small-Scale Community Infrastructure
      Development Projects (SSIPs) and Social Sector Development Projects (SSDPs),
      which are current components and activities of PPAFII; and (ii) expanding the
      scope of the project to include an additional four districts in the Sindh Coastal
      Areas (which fall under the PPAFII-SCAD Program)




                                           6

 12      The fimancmg IS proposedtbea11ocae
                                     0         td as £11ows:
                                                      0

                                          Amount of        Amount of
                                         Portion A of     Portion B of
                                          the Credit       the Credit       Percentage of
                                          (No. 3834       (No. 3834-4)     Expenditures to
                                          3)Allocated       Allocated        be Financed
                Category                 (Expressed in    (Expressed in     (Inclusive of
                                             SDR)            SDR)               Taxes)
 (1) Grants for SSIPs and SSDPs;          22,000,000       16,600,000           100%
     social mobilization cost;
     consultants' services, equipment
     and vehicles for PPAF and POs;
     training for PPAF and POs; and
     Incremental Operating Costs for
     PPAF and POs in twenty-five (25)
     ofthe Recil!ient's (!oorest
     districts
 (2) Grants for SSIPs, SSDPs, social      10,500,000                            100%
     mobilization cost; consultants'
     services, equipment and vehicles
     for PPAF and POs; training for
     PPAF and POs; and Incremental
     Operating Costs for PPAF and POs
     in the four (4} districts ofthe
     SCAD Prof!ram

iTOTAL AMOUNT                             32,500,000       16,600,000


 IV.     Expected Outcomes

 13.     There is no change to the Project Development Objective. As a result of the
         proposed changes, the original project outcomes will remain as 'a', and additional
         outcome targets introduced are 'b' and 'c' as follows (no indicators are dropped):


    a.   Original outcomes are:
    1.   An additional 50,000 COs will be formed by PPAF and Partner Organizations
         (POs);

    11.  65% of all CO members are from the poor and poorest households and more than
         40% of overall CO membership is female;

   111.  25% of CO leadership and/or managerial positions are held by poor and poorest
         households;

   IV.   65% of COs federated into Village Organizations (VO) and 25% ofthese
         federated at Union Council level (Local Support Organization level (LSO» to
         access private & public sector services and resources;
    v.   55% of COs, VOs and LSOs rated as 'good' or above in the annual performance
         audit in terms of transparency and accountability;
   vi.   25% of COs engaging in larger scale and innovative development activities with
         local government and private sector


    h.   In twenty-five of the Recipient's poorest districts, the following additional
         outputs are expected:

                                              7

 1.   At least twenty percent of federated COs report effective linkages with markets
       and private sector; and

  11. Two thousand infrastructure schemes completed with mature institutions of the
       poor and communities are maintaining infrastructure.


  c.  In the four districts of the SCAD Program, the following targets will be
      achieved through social mobilization and grant activities:


   1. Number of COs reaches 1,050 in the selected 750 settlements of the SCAD
      districts and at least 65% federate into Village Organizations and 25% of these
      federate at the Union Council level;

  11. Sixty-five percent of all CO members are from the poor and poorest households
      and more than 40% ofoverall CO membership is female;
 lll. Twenty-five percent of CO leadership and/or managerial positions are held by
      poor and poorest households;
 IV.  Over 1,200 new infrastructure schemes including 975 conventional Community
      Physical Infrastructure (CPIs) have been completed;
  v.  At least 1,000 poorest families benefit from improved health and education under
      the Social Sector Development projects (SSDP);
 VI.  At least 1,000 individuals trained to improve their productive skills and increase
      their incomes either through establishment! strengthening of their existing income
      sources or gaining employment; and
Vll.  At least twenty percent of federated Community Organizations report effective
      linkages with markets and private sector.

V.    Benefits and Risks

14.   Funds under the proposed amendment will benefit rural communities in twenty
      five (25) of the Recipient's poorest districts and four (4) districts of the SCAD
      Program. The project plans to reach the originally planned for coverage of
      geographical areas and no communities or community members will be dropped
      because of this proposed amendment. As highlighted above, additional
      geographical areas will be covered, as well as additional community groups that
      will benefit from this project. All activities proposed under this amendment are
      already part of the PPAFII project (such as small-scale infrastructure drinking
      water supply, link roads, and health and education projects) and will continue to
      be implemented through a Community Driven Development approach.

15.   In terms of risks, deteriorating security conditions are a hindrance to the progress
      of social mobilization and access to certain parts of the country. Similarly the
      possibility ofnatural disasters (recurring floods, droughts), especially in the Sindh
      Coastal Areas and mountainous areas in the North may delay implementation of
      development activities. PPAF is aware of these risks and will proceed bearing in
      mind that poor/deteriorating security conditions and natural disasters could delay
      work. PPAF and the Partner Organizations will implement and report against the
      results monitoring framework and ensure that significant delays or disruptions to
      work will be reported and not ignored.

                                            8

