                                                                                                     93475
Boosting Pakistan’s Rebuilding Efforts
                                                                                                     May 7, 2012




    Pakistan: Poverty Alleviation Fund Rehabilitates and Develops Services in
    Challenging Regions


Overview
Since the inception (April 2004) of the Second Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund, until its
closure June 30, 2011, approximately five million people benefitted from the World Bank’s
Second Poverty Alleviation Fund Project, with half of them being women. The Bank’s efforts
helped extend 4.7 million micro-loans with a 78% Return on Investment (RoI). The Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) on infrastructure sub-projects was 23.8%. 129,000 children (more than
half of them girls) enrolled in schools; and the project also supported the reconstruction of
110,534 completely destroyed houses and 10,000 partially damaged houses were restored.
The project trained 17,475 skilled laborers and restored 676 damaged community infrastructure
schemes in earthquake-affected areas.


Challenge
A generally insecure environment and the
deteriorating security situation in conflict areas,
especially in FATA, Balochistan and Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa, created major hurdles and delays
in effective project implementation. At times
partner organisations had to pull out of troubled
areas, suspend work temporarily and close field
offices. The POs also had to maintain contact
with the local administration and security forces
so as to ensure ability to continue and/or return
to the disturbed areas. A delicate balance had to     MORE
be managed to allow them work with the people           Uplifting Flood Affected Lives in Pakistan
who were in dire need of assistance in those            Documentary: Hope to Reality
areas.
Another major hindrance is the prevalent
extremely rigid and conservative local traditions and practices
and any imitative out of the ordinary is received with               More Results
negative propaganda and suspicion. Through trial and error,
POs were able to make inroads by molding the religious and
political elements in the favor of development and welfare of
people by means of approaching them, and involving them in
community groups.                                                    4.7
                                                                     million
 
Approach
The project was implemented through the Pakistan Poverty          microcredit recipients receieved
                                                                  support
Alleviation Fund working with non-governmental
organizations as its partners in reaching out to the poor.
Financing was provided to partner organizations with good

                                                                  110,534
track records of working with communities and building their
capacity to handle grants, micro-credit, implement and
maintain small scale infrastructure, livelihoods development,
                                                                  destroyed homes reconstructed
rehabilitation & reconstruction and support social sector
interventions.

Results                                                           MORE INFORMATION

                                                                    Third Poverty Alleviation Fund
As a whole, more than five million people benefitted from the
                                                                    Documents
project, with women comprising exactly half this group. Of
the 4.7 million microcredit borrowers, 82 percent saw a             Second Poverty Alleviation Fund
positive return on their investment, averaging 78 percent.          Documents
More than 129,000 children were enrolled in schools, and 55         Pakistan Blog Entries
percent were girls. Moreover, 110,534 completely destroyed
                                                                    Country Website
houses were reconstructed and 10,000 partially damaged
houses restored in earthquake-affected areas. The project           Connect with us on Facebook
also trained 17,475 skilled laborers and restored 676               Talk to us on Twitter
damaged community infrastructure schemes in earthquake-
affected areas.
Voices


     The project helped provide furniture and a roof for my village
   girls' school. We now have three teachers teaching 75 students.
    
                                   — Reshma, Teacher in Rural Pakistan


Bank Contribution
The IDA allocated and disbursed US$ 375.2 million to the Second Pakistan Poverty Alleviation
Fund for the Micro-Credit & Enterprise Development (MED) Loans, Small Scale Infrastructure
Projects, Education & Health Projects, Training and Skill Development, Capital and Operating
Costs of PPAF, and Equity for PPAF components.  

Partners
The Bank worked with the Government of Pakistan through the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation
Fund, which channeled the financing for the project.

Toward the Future
PPAF’s achievement of most target indicators provide significant evidence that the approach
used for PPAF-II is appropriate and effective in the context of Pakistan. The overall design of
the Third PPAF project and the specific components within it, have drawn on both the positive
and negative lessons from the PPAF-I and II public goods delivery. Along with the financial
support from IDA, the Third PPAF was started in July 2009 and will be ending on 31 January
2015. 
PPAF-III’s development objective is to empower the targeted poor with increased incomes,
improved productive capacity, and access to services to achieve sustainable livelihoods.  A
stronger focus on the marginalized groups of the most vulnerable and poorest households
including women, and through integrated approaches to livelihood enhancement that learned
from PPAF-II.
To ensure continued support for social and economic empowerment of the poor the project
design of PPAF-III actually built on the work done in PPAF-II and adopted a more holistic
approach to development at the village levels.
