Report No. PID11140
Project Name             Afghanistan-National Community Empowerment...
Program
Region                   South Asia Regional Office
Sector                   Irrigation & Drainage; Community Action
Program; Rural Roads; Other Transportation
Project ID               AFPE77533
Borrower(s)              AFGHANISTAN INTERIM ADMINISTRATION
Implementing Agency
Address
Afghanistan Assistance Coordination
Authority (AACA), Ministry of
Interior, Ministry for Rural
Reconstruction and Development (MRRD),
Ministry of Public Works, Ministry of
Irrigation
Address: Kabul, Afghanistan
Contact Person: Ashraf Ghani, Director,
Afghanistan Assistance
Coordination Authority (AACA)
Tel: none available
Fax: none available
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        April 19, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      April 21, 2002
Bank Approval Date       June 4, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The Afghanistan reconstruction effort has a daunting task ahead of it. Not
only has a tremendous amount of infrastructure been destroyed and lands
rendered unproductive, but government's development functions in many
areas have withered and capacity is now very low and will remain that way
for some time to come. Government is further weakened by pressures that
come from regional power centers not under government control, from ethnic
tensions and other ongoing forms of conflict, from the illegal drug trade,
and by the lack of budgetary resources and systems. If the situation is
bad, it is nevertheless far from hopeless. There is a broad-based wish for
peace in Afghanistan. In many areas trade is already reviving. The
international effort to rebuild Afghanistan will provide Afghanistan with
additional skills and services to help with the reconstruction. The Afghan
diaspora may also be expected to contribute capital and skills. If the
government can maintain the current stability, it is expected that
investment will increase at all levels of Afghanistan's economy.
Community-level reconstruction and development will be a complex operation
that involves close coordination between technical service agencies, the
humanitarian relief community, non-governmental service providers, and the
Interim Administration. However, successfully negotiating the transition
will hinge on whether the interim government can channel productive



resources into the countryside, both as emergency support for unemployed
villages, and to re-start village level investments in farming and trade.
Some of the challenges facing Afghan communities include:n
Decapitalization of the rural economy and/or rises in farmer indebtedness
because of the drought, conflict and the lack of competition to
traditional suppliers of rural finance;n Large-scale population
displacement;n Breakdowns in local leadership, social capital, and local
governance;f Growing levels of ethnic polarization and rural violence;n
Lack of basic productive infrastructure and little maintenance of what
exists;f Little government presence outside of Kabul and minimal line
agency capacities to channel and manage development resources;f Need for
vocational skills to support off-farm income sources; andn Avoidance of
aid dependency within villages (local wage inflation, undermining of
community institutions, etc.).On the positive side, Afghanistan's villages
and neighborhoods have proven to be strikingly resilient. Livelihoods do
continue, and even throughout the Taliban period, many communities
continued to receive development services from NGOs and private sector
providers who worked with community organizations. Afghan villagers have
always relied on extensive trading networks, and these can revive quickly
once there is peace and opportunities to recapitalize both themselves and
their clients. NGO experiences in Afghanistan show that community-driven
projects can succeed even in the most inhospitable environments in a wide
variety of sectors, provided that certain principles of participatory
planning are followed. Methods to ensure financial sustainability and good
technical planning exist in Afghan community work and are increasingly
practiced.The sectoral challenge for the reconstruction effort, therefore,
is one of providing effective development services to villages - but even
more importantly, one of making communities active players in rebuilding.
The Interim Administration recognizes this and has taken a strong stance
on the role of local-level development. Government policy provides both a
central role for community empowerment over the reconstruction period and
a specific set of prescriptions for achieving it. The centerpiece of the
IA's community development strategy will be a nationwide program of block
grants to communities. These will support a participatory planning process
that allows villages and neighborhoods to fund local priorities and
identify opportunities for government, NGO, and donor support. At the same
time, to respond to the overwhelming poverty and the need to restart the
rural economy, the government urgently proposes a series of labor
intensive public works programs that can offer employment and start repair
of basic productive infrastructure.
2. Objectives
The purpose of the project is to recapitalize villages and neighborhoods
so that they can return to normal levels of activity within their usual
economic and trading systems. The core of the project consists of two
components:A fast-starting employment program for unskilled workers to
maintain provincial and district roads and irrigation systems; andA
community block grant program that supports village level reconstruction
and development planning.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank can help the government develop a national community development
program for a variety of reasons. First, relevant analytical and
operational work has been carried out in a range of other post-conflict
settings and, more generally, in supporting village and district-level
- 2-



capacity building and institutional strengthening. Second, the government
has requested support not for a specific project, but for developing a
government owned, national framework into which different kinds of donor
support could fit. Third, the Bank has experience elsewhere with linking
emergency public works programs to relieve pressure for fast action to
longer term recovery and community development strategies that require a
longer-term institutional perspective. Last, the keys to building up
local-level planning processes within public sector management systems lie
in tight supervision of financial management, disbursement, and technical
reviews. Few aid agencies or NGOs have the capacity to carry out these
functions on more than a highly localized scale.
4. Description
The $45 million project is divided into two linked activities. A. Labor
Intensive Public Works -- Approximately $20 million will fund a labor
intensive public works program. Allocations will be made by districts to
fund priority works. A transparent allocation process is necessary for
fairness across districts: (i) a maximum of $100,000 equivalent per
selected district; (ii) amounts proportional to estimated district
population; (iii) amounts set to provide a desired number of man-days
based on the cost composition of the priority subproject; and (iv) the
amount, within the maximum, should cover the cost of the selected
subproject.   Each district would receive funds at least once, and some
twice, once in 2002 and once in 2003.The focus of the technical assistance
initially focuses on Afghanistan's many qualified engineers who have left
government service and private sector companies because of the conflict
but can now be brought back into professional functions. International
technical assistance for the project will therefore be limited and
concentrated on establishing the system. Thus, only a small group of
foreign engineers will be hired from a reputable construction or
consultant firm to prepare the procedures/paperwork, MIS, etc., and for
the process of screening and "certifying" the Afghan engineers, who will
help the districts design and cost the works, provide technical support to
participating villages and small contractors, and to supervise works,
expenditures, and payment reporting. A small number of vehicles,
computers, related IT support and basic office equipment and supplies at
the central and provincial levels will be funded. This component will
phase out at the end of two years. The second year would include a program
for introducing labor intensive techniques into the main central works
departments, which would allow a much broader reach of development
resources than current approaches do.B. Community Empowerment Program --
The $25 million community grant program will finance a community-led
planning process for deciding on priority investment proposals:n public
infrastructure improvements or reconstruction of houses destroyed by
conflict; andn developing community assets, such as replanting lost
orchards and vineyards, recapitalizing small businesses, establishing
revolving funds, and buying training or technical services.Grant uses will
be restricted by a negative list that bans weapons, civil service
payments, land acquisition, poppies, and items specifically forbidden by
World Bank policies. Grants also cannot be used to repay debt. Grants will
travel through two stages:n An initial, small grant
($1,000-$5,000/village) that will be used for top priority activities and
to launch the planning process; andn Larger grants of approximately
$12,500/village/year for an initial commitment of three years, to be used
for productive investments developed through a 2-4 month participatory
-3 -



planning process.This first-phase project will cover approximately 600
communities. Approximately two districts will be selected in each province
so that each province is covered and can begin to make adaptations to
local contexts. A follow-on project is expected to build on these
adaptations within a year, and the government will coordinate project
development with other donors and NGOs through its community development
working groups. Technical assistance will be provided by facilitators
contracted and trained as consultants to the government from NGOs, the
private sector, and universities. The project management structure would
include an oversight consultant, who would train and manage provincial and
district facilitation teams. Facilitation will require skills both in
community participation and in technical design. Community proposals will
also be expected to include funding for additional specialized technical
assistance up to a maximum of 10t of the grant amount, which will be
procured and managed by communities. The facilitator's selection and
training program incorporates the gender action matrix proposed by the
joint donor mission on community development. Project monitoring will be
by an internal management control system, independent civil society
groups, and a long-term evaluation program managed through Afghan
universities.The community planning process builds on indigenous processes
of decision-making, mediation, and consultation. As confidence and
capacity develop, other development actors such as government technical
agencies, international and national aid groups, and other service
providers will be brought into the process. This initial project is meant
to pioneer participatory planning methods and will therefore be used to
gather additional planning information in order to assess the government's
larger, programmatic community development proposal within approximately
one year. The two components, at least for this first grant, are both
targeted on the poor. The public works program is designed to quickly
reach the large number of destitute and near-destitute people in villages
and small towns who need paid employment even to recapitalize family farms
and households. The community grants program will also focus on rural
villages.   Poor peri-urban communities may also be covered by
complementary interventions working through municipal governments.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $0.00
IBRD
IDA                      $45.00
Total Project Cost       $45.00
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented by the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination
Authority (AACA) on a transitional basis, the Ministry of Public Works
(highway maintenance), Ministry of Irrigation (canal rehabilitation) and
by the Ministry of Rural Reconstruction and Development (community
grants). The two components will be implemented concurrently, beginning in
July, 2002. Overall reporting on the Project implementation will be the
responsibility of the AACA.
7. Sustainability
This project and the larger follow-on project that is also expected to be
financed through IDA resources are meant to put in place the government's
request for a long-term framework and methodology for providing direct
-4 -



support to villages. Project budgets will appear in the development
budget. After a three-year trial, the government will evaluate the
approach and will make a decision about setting the program into the
recurrent budget (at a lower level) and whether supporting legislation is
needed. However, as with all Afghan finances, the program will be
requiring external support for many years to come.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Community-driven investment projects have an increasingly strong record in
Asia, although this should not mean that they are easy to prepare and
manage. Key positive lessons are that communities are usually more capable
than expected to prepare and manage small development projects provided
that design procedures adapt standard formats to local needs and
capacities. There is also a growing body of evidence that community-based
planning approaches promote local-level reconciliation in areas of high
social conflict, a feature of great importance in contemporary
Afghanistan.Projects planned and managed by communities typically show
rates of return higher than those planned by government agencies for these
same villages. In countries with weak contract management and redress,
community rather than contractor managed procurement and construction is
often of higher quality and lower cost. Projects selected through a local
planning process usually get maintained better than projects built on the
basis of an external master plan, particularly in countries with tight
budgetary constraints for local maintenance work. Five lessons of special
relevance stand out for the proposed project:n Public works programs that
provide employment must also ensure that the infrastructure built provides
economic benefits and meets technical standards.n Public works programs
must not draw people out from existing employment.n Advance clarification
of all community procurement, disbursement, and financial management
procedures is essential not just for the success of the overall program,
but even for the success of the community planning approach.n Technical
support and training is needed to introduce better-quality infrastructure
designs, to pre-qualify engineers, agronomists and other potential
supports for the villages, but if this step is done there is no reason why
villages cannot procure and manage high quality TA.n Prompt and decisive
use of sanctions is needed for communities and project officials not
following agreed-upon rules.There is also a relevant set of negative
lessons learned, only some of which can be mitigated:n Risks of elite
capture of benefits are high, particularly in communities with pronounced
class differences. Mitigation measures include external facilitation, a
focus on public rather than private goods, and an intense program of
outreach and transparency.n Eliminating corruption and other forms of
leakage is a long-term process, regardless of how many control and
sanctioning mechanisms are deployed.n Communities do not usually have much
access to formal systems of redress. Community based projects thus depend
on transparency and social controls to prevent corruption and fraud.
Support from civil society groups (NGOs, legal advocacy organizations,
press, academics, etc.) must be designed in from the outset or else local
problems will not be signalled upwards, particularly if local government
and/or TA staff are involved.n Communities with long histories of aid
dependency or in areas of extensive government service delivery will not
willingly provide large contributions or maintenance.Lessons gained from
consultations with NGOs and community workers that will be applied to this
project include:n Give communities enough time during planning to ensure
full understanding and ownership of the process. Pressures to "do
- 5 -



something" quickly undermine the need to create spaces for negotiation and
mediation.n Most NGOs build in a process by which communities select
additional representatives to shuras.n Most Afghan villages can purchase
technical services and project inputs on the open market. n Be selective -
areas which are effectively controlled by warlords or single-family elites
should be excluded from the program. There will also be deeply traumatized
or disrupted areas which will require extra facilitation before community
planning can be initiated. Timetables and budgets should reflect the need
for this kind of flexibility.n Projects should build in performance
incentives and "maturity" measures that allow communities to take on
larger tasks as they gain experience with community based planning and
management.Lessons gained from consultation with the Interim
Administration include:n Project designs should reflect a long-term rather
than a short term vision, with a special focus on developing more
representative and democratic forms of local leadership and a long-term
research capacity that helps the government understand macro-social
changes in the countryside.n It is premature to do more than basic
planning/coordination with districts, even though eventually community
planning should involve the district administration for larger
investments.n Capacity support provided to provincial and district
government should focus on strengthening their planning, monitoring, and
coordination roles but not on implementation, which is the responsibility
of community organizations and the private sector. Local government should
be centrally involved in a long-term process of responsiveness to
bottom-up demand.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No significant environmental impacts are
anticipated. The public works programs only involves cleaning and
rehabilitation of existing roads and canals. Village level subprojects
built through the community grants will all be small, and for the most
part will involve items such as road, bridge, and canal repair, shallow
wells for clean water, facilities repair and construction, etc. For these
items, environmental concerns will be addressed through the project's
technical manual and supervision. Environmental screening will be carried
out through the proposal review process, and environmental management will
be part of the oversight teams' training and terms of reference. An
implementation review will be carried out at the end of the first year.No
involuntary land acquisition is anticipated since the grants go through
villages, which do not have the power to exert eminent domain. Land
acquisition in the grants program can only take place on a consensual
basis. There should be no involuntary land acquisition under the public
works program either, but there may be cases of voluntary land surrender
during the infrastructure improvement programs. Again, these amounts will
be small. The site survey manual will include a checklist to report any
cases of land acquisition. Anything more than very minor widenings will be
reviewed on site. The project will adopt a land acquisition policy and
procedural framework that meets all requirements of World Bank policies.
The project has been given a preliminary environmental rating of B.Bank
policies on indigenous people are met by the design of the project itself,
which provides all decision-making power and resources directly to local
communities themselves. There are, however, likely to be some areas where
within-village stratification marginalizes ethnic minorities. These will
- 6 -



be monitored closely an addressed on a case by case basis using
specialized facilitators and independent monitoring by social scientists
and indigenous organizations, where these exist. Reviewing their success
will be part of the 6 month review, which will also build on ongoing
consultations with community representatives in such areas as these are
identified.The project has a free-standing gender-action framework which
is available in project files and will be placed on the Bank's website.
Women will benefit from the rise in household income, which targets the
very poor. Women will participate in and receive benefits from the
community grants program.Risks and alternatives: Implementation is
expected to be difficult. Conditions in Afghanistan are far from stable,
and all levels of society have been disrupted by the conflict and drought.
Sanctioning, monitoring, and legal systems do not work. For both
components, leakages are to be expected given the dispersed nature of
activities, the desperation of the people, and the lack of administrative
control in large areas of the country. Measures to mitigate these risks
include a binding transparency policy on all project financial records,
close supervision by the Association and by independent monitors, and an
enforced system of local review and sanctions. Given the high level of
need throughout the country and the limited coverage of NGOs and other
private service deliverers, no next best option appears feasible.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Scott E. Guggenheim
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 62-811-862-650
Fax: 62-21-521-93111
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
April 26, 2002.
-7-



