ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWor1d Fre, oi PovrtyV
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 06/04/2002                          24268
Section I - Basic Information                                 June 4, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: AFGHANISTAN                              Project ID: P077533
Project: Emergency Communitv Empowerment and      Task Team Leader: Scott E. Guggenheim
Public Works Project
Authorized to Appraise Date: April 22, 2002       IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 6, 2002                       IDA Amount ($m): 42.00
Managing Unit: SASEI                              Sector: Al - Irrigation & Drainage; MC - Community
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)  Action Program; TR - Rural Roads; TY - Other
Status: Lending                                   Transportation
Theme: SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT; POVERTY
REDUCTION; TRANSPORT; WATER
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
Project objectives are to:
(a) Community Empowerment: support a broad based investment program of village reconstruction and
development through the provision of block grants ($22 million); and
(b) Public Works: support a public works employment program using labor-intensive methods to rehabilitate
provincial roads and irrigation systems ($20 million).
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Public Works program wiMl fund a labor intensive public works program that rehabilitates existing
provincial infrastructure, primarily highways and irrigation canals. Allocations will be made by districts
to fund priority works. A transparent allocation process is necessary for fairness across districts: (i) a
maximum of $ 100,000 equivalent per selected district; (ii) amounts proportional to estimated district
population; (iii) amounts set to provide a desired number of man-days based on the cost composition of
the priority subproject; and (iv) the amount, within the maximum, should cover the cost of the selected
subproject. These amounts are used to fund the rehabilitation of existing roads and irrigation canals
based on design surveys carriecl out by engineers hired by the project.
The second part is a Community Empowerment program that consists of direct cash transfers to
individual villages against a facilitated planning process. It develops community capacities to plan and
manage development projects, ;nd to coordinate with technical agencies and other service providers.
Grant sizes are estimated to be about $15,000-20,000 per village per year, which is sufficient to
rehabilitate basic tertiary infrastructure. Menus are open, except for a negative list (which includes
pesticides). Menus will be open for a short negative list, but are expected to go primarily for basic



2
ISDS
village infrastructure rehabilitation and improvements, house and farm reconstruction, very small
business development, and the repair of farm to market roads.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project is a national project The public works program will cover all provinces, and will cease functioning
at the end of two years or less since it's purpose is to provide short-term emergency employment.
No new construction is envisaged.
The initial Community Empowerment operation will cover approximately two districts in each of the country's 31
provinces. These will be selected on criteria of poverty, accessibility, and absorption of refugees. However, a
follow-on operation is planned lor CY2003, which will scale the operation up to a national level following a
review of this pilot. The safeguard procedures proposed for the current operation are prepared with this future
scale-up in mind.
B. Check Environmental Class,fication: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OPYBP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes C No       TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                          Yes * No      TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                  Yes * No      TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                    Yes *No     ,TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      Yes *No    JTBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                          Yes *No       TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Yes *No    'STBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                    Yes *No     .TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*    d         Yes * No    Z' TBD
Projects in International WatemFays (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         3 Yes 0 No     '-- TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obr'ain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scalle, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No significant environmental impacts are anticipated. The Public Works Program only involves cleaning and
rehabilitation of existing roads and canals. Village level subprojects built through the community grants will all
be small, and for the most part will involve items such as road, bridge, and canal repair, shallow wells for clean
water, facilities repair and consl:ruction, etc. For these items, environmental concerns will be addressed through
the project's technical manual aind supervision. The project will not construct or repair dams. Environmental
screening will be carried out through the proposal review process, and environmental management will be part
of the oversight teams' training and terms of reference.



3
ISDS
There are no large-scale impacts from the Community Empowerment Program either. The maximum size of
a village grant will not exceed $15,000-20,000. The large majority of activities are expected to be tertiary
infrastructure repair, housing repair, and households or community businesses. The project negative list includes
pesticides and new construction with protected areas. An implementation review for both components will be
carried out at the end of the first year.
The three relevant safeguards for this project are Environmental Assessment, resettlement, and
"indigenous
people". For all three, the project design follows the criteria and norms laid down in the "Revised
Guidance
Note on Application of Safeguard Policies for the Afghanistan Program". Because individual subproject
investments are not known in a(dvance, GoA will adopt a programmatic approach, with the following
characteristics:
(a) Environmental impacts are expected to be those associated with the construction of very small
infrastructure (i.e. waste-water disposal, tertiary canal cleaning, etc). Such impacts can be
addressed by incorporal ing standard environmental operating procedures into the project manual
and technical training courses. Implementation is pursued through terms of reference and
checklists for the oversight engineers, who are also responsible for carrying out preliminary
environmental screenings during on-site training and dissemination. The project will assess and
monitor water quality where water supply projects are built. The project does not envisage
funding for pesticides, which are on the project negative list, or for dams.
(b) Resettlement- No involuntary resettlement is anticipated. This project does not allow the use of
state powers of emineni domain to acquire land. However, in some cases subprojects such as
access road widening oi straightening out tertiary canals may require very small amounts of land
acquisition. Such cases must include signed documentation of voluntary surrender, and in any
case may not include more than 10% of an individual's land. This approach is largely
self-enforcing since subproject proposals are voluntary and can only come from the proponents
themselves. However, confirmation of voluntary surrender will be a criterion on the proposal
review list and will be supervised by the oversight consultants and independent monitors. Bank
supervision missions will verify that these guidelines are followed. The project's Operational
Manual will include a free-standing guideline on land acquisition. The project will include a
process framework for managing land acquisition of any type, voluntary or involuntary, that will
be reviewed by the Bank at appraisal.
(c) Indigenous People - Regional guidance proposes two specific mechanisms to deal with ethniic
diversity in the Afghan project: (a) balanced targeting to prevent exclusion; and (b) promotion of
community-driven development (CDD) approaches. This project meets both criteria: provinces
and districts will be equally balanced across the country; and the project itself is a CDD project.
Two concerns that will be monitored during the first year of implementation are problems of
within-village exclusion of vulnerable populations; and mechanisms for dealing with nomadic
minority groups.
Although it is highly unlikely that the project could cause any adverse impacts on minorities, a pro-active
position is needed to help ensure that minorities participate in the project and receive benefits from it.
Minority exclusion will be addressed through the facilitation process but whether this is sufficiently
effective or whether additional measures are needed will be re-evaluated after the first year of
implementation. Of special concern for both the government and the Bank team is how to provide
culturally appropriate benefits to nomads. The problems facing nomadic groups arc that (a) they will be



4
ISDS
excluded from project benefits because they do not have village identities of their own; and (b) there are
no obvious packages to offer them (studies of nomadic groups have delineated the problem clearly
enough, but there do not appear to be replicable successful CDD-type experiences. However, global as
well as Afghan experience shows that premature interventions will nearly always cause more harm than
good because of the highly delicate nature of nomadic ecosystems. This is especially true in Afghanistan
because the closure of borders to neighboring countries and the drought has badly upset local carrying
capacities.
At the government's request, therefore, the project will include a series of special ethnographic studies to
identify opportunities to extend project benefits to nomadic groups without producing the unintended
adverse impacts that typically accompany intervention in highly fragile ecosystems. These studies will
also monitor any possible long-term adverse impacts which the project could be trigger (i.e. fewer poor
people in settled areas usually nmeans less open rangeland available for nomads). Results and
recommendations from these studies and project monitoring in minority areas will be an agenda item in
project annual reviews. Project monitoring will also assess whether within-village minorities are being
systematically excluded from project benefits
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
No cumulative impacts are expected. The public employment only covers existing infrastructure. Grants
are to individual villages. Follow-on projects might be able to promote more inter-village cooperation but
at present and given the priority of within-village reconstruction investments, this is very unlikely to
happen.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The major potential long-term impact would be reduction in the water table if large numbers of adjacent
communities opt for water resource development subprojects. Afghanistan's water resources are,
however, well-mapped, although the recent four year drought has lowered water tables well below their
historical levels. Control over this potential impact will be through the district and provincial level
coordination boards, which include the ministries of irrigation and rural development. Any water
diversions must have their approval. Both ministries will be fortified by consultant specialists in the near
future who will be working on larger systems rehabilitation. This project also includes clualified
irrigation engineers, and they will enter the dialogue. Wells and other extractive mechanisms will comply
with provincial planning where such plans exist; in other areas they will be registered with the agencies
and reviewed by qualified specialists. This issue will be addressed at appraisal.
Il.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The key fact that is relevant for a proper treatment of safeguards in Afghanistan is that de facto there is
essentially no government implementation capacity. Thus, the approach adopted by this project is to
require issuance of a policy framework that sets down criteria, but then to incorporate safeguard
procedures into the terms of reference and oversight of the consultants who will be executing field
activities. Independent reviews will be provided by NGO and university monitors, and their TOR will
also include attention to safeguard issues. Bank missions will be very frequent for this project, probably
on a bi-monthly basis for the first year. They will routinely include a safeguard specialist (i.e. at least 2
times per year), and safeguard performance will be assessed during annual programming reviews.



5
ISDS
IL.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The key stakeholders are the affected villagers. The design of the project itself is one that depends on
extreme consultation throughout the entire process. Disclosure mechanisms include facilitated village
meetings, inter-village workshops, written and oral media, and a national awareness campaign. The IA
agency that is implementing this project is also setting up a government-NGO task force on community
development; safeguards, esp. proposals for vulnerable minorities, will be one of the items this group
addresses.
E. Safeguards Classification. C ategory is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[  S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institulionally manageable
[  S3. -No safeguard issues
[X] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



6
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental AssessmentlAna,fysis/Management Plan:              Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                      4/16/2002      4/30/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                  5/31/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop                                   6/5/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Suammary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                              Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Developmeit Plan/Framework:                    E.xpected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                            Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any cf the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
The dates listed in the above disclo:;ure requirements (under Environmental AssessmentlAnalysis/Management Plan)
refer to the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework. Consultation and disclosure requirements will be
simplified to meet the special needs, of these operation. Prior to Board, the Framework will be disclosed in English,
Pashto, and Dari to the Infoshop and discussed with stakeholders in country. Although none are expected, for
sub-projects triggering safeguard policies, necessary mitigation plans (EA, RAP, etc.) will be prepared and disclosed
during implementation, but in all cases, before approval of the sub-projects. Waiver of normal disclosure
requirements will be requested froni MDs (on the advice of ESSD and SAR VPs) on grounds of urgency. In all
cases where waivers are granted, they will time-bound (e.g., 6 months), and noted in the MOP. The Framework will
serve as the operational instrument for managing social and environmental issues. The borrower will establish a
senior level position within the implementing organization to oversee and manage environmental and social
development issues.
Signed and submitted by          Name                                           Date
Task Team Leader:               Scott E. Guggenheim                             March 27, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Paul Martin                                  May 25, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                    Name                                            Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: L. Panneer Selvam                              June 4, 2002



7
ISDS
Sector Manager/Director:         Vincent Gouarne                                 June 4, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
StARCH          FEE-ACK         -ffE MAP        SHWCASE         X



