                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 33120-AF.

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (GRTD-H0090 TF-51247 TF-51429)

                                            ON A

                                           GRANT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR33.7 MILLION

                              (US$42 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                              TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF

                                       AFGHANISTAN

                                          FOR THE

        EMERGENCY COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT




                                         July 27, 2005




Agriculture and Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective as of May 23, 2005)

                              Currency Unit = Afghani (AFN)
                                   50.0 AFN = US$ 1
                                       US$ 1 = 50.0 AFN

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 March 21    March 20

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AACA    Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority
ADB     Asian Development Bank
AIA     Afghanistan Interim Administration
ARTF    Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
CDC     Community Development Council
CDD     Community Driven Development
CDP     Community Development Plan
EC      European Commission
IDA     International Development Agency
JSDF    Japan Social Development Fund
MIS     Management Information System
MOPW    Ministry of Public Works
MRRD    Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation & Development
NEEP    National Emergency Employment Program
NEEPRA  National Emergency Employment Program for Rural Access
NGO     Non Government Organization
NRVA    National Risk & Vulnerability Assessment
NSP     National Solidarity Project
PRR     Priority Reform and Restructuring
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
TSS     Transitional Support Strategy
UK      United Kingdom
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
UNHCR   United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
USAID   United States Agency for International Development

                             Vice President:    Praful Patel
                           Country Director     Alastair McKechnie
                            Sector Manager      Gajanand Pathmanathan
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Asger Christensen

                                          AFGHANISTAN
                 Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
   6. Sustainability                                                                15
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
   9. Partner Comments                                                              20
   10. Additional Information                                                       20
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
   Annex 8. Comments from Cofinancing Partners                                      35
1

Project ID: P077533                                                  Project Name: Emergency Community Empowerment
                                                                     and Public Works Project
Team Leader: Asger Christensen                                       TL Unit: EASSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: July 27, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Community Empowerment and                      L/C/TF Number: GRTD-H0090; TF-51247;
                            Public Works Project                                                     TF-51429
   Country/Department: AFGHANISTAN                                                        Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (50%); Irrigation and drainage (23%); Roads
                            and highways (23%); Central government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (P); Conflict prevention
                            and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Small and
                            medium enterprise support (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/05/2002                                     Effective: 06/11/2002                06/11/2002
     Appraisal: 04/22/2002                                         MTR: 06/20/2003
      Approval: 06/06/2002                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          AFGHANISTAN INTERIM ADMINISTRATION/MINISTRY OF RURAL
                                           REHABILITATION & DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:      Cofinancing partners: ARTF (EC, UK, USA, Canada, Germany), Denmark, Japan

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Alastair J. McKechnie                          Alastair McKechnie
Sector Manager/Director:        Constance A. Bernard                           Vincent Guarne
Team Leader at ICR:             Asger Christensen                              Scott E. Guggenheim
ICR Primary Author:             Asger Christensen


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objectives and design of the Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project
responded to a country context that urgently required (i) quick impact activities in rural areas to generate
employment and rehabilitate infrastructure and livelihoods after two decades of conflict exacerbated by a
severe drought from 1999 till 2002 , (ii) a strengthening of local level governance with emphasis on
inclusive participation of villagers in the planning and execution of project activities to foster alternatives to
the "warlordism" that had come to characterize local leadership, and (iii) activities that would build
confidence by demonstrating to the population in the rural areas that the new Afghanistan Interim
Administration (AIA) was capable of addressing the massive needs for rehabilitation and development
assistance in the country's villages. As indicated by the project name, it comprised two separate main
components, which were originally planned as two free-standing projects, and which have correspondingly
distinct (though complementary) objectives:

Objectives of the public workscomponent:
   l Provide employment in rural areas at a minimum wage, as a safety net, to as many people and in as
         short a time as may be feasible;
   l Rehabilitate in a sustainable way irrigation capacity and provincial- and district-level roads.


Objectives of the community empowermentcomponent:
   l Support participatory planning and the strengthening of local governance structures.
   l Help villages rebuild their capital base through the provision of sub-grants, and empower villagers
         to plan for, and decide on, the investments to be made with the proceeds of the sub-grants.
   l Provide a mechanism for linking community development needs with line agency and NGO service
         providers.

The two sets of objectives reflected priorities identified by the AIA (now the Islamic Republic of
Afghanistan) in its draft National Development Framework and in IDA's Transitional Support Strategy
(TSS), both dated April 2002. AIA's strategy featured community development as a centerpiece
supplemented by short-term labor intensive public employment programs. The key objectives in IDA's
TSS were to assist the authorities establish capacity in areas essential to facilitate the reconstruction
program, to support high-priority reconstruction activities that could also help jumpstart economic activity,
and to continue to build IDA's knowledge base to allow for developing a well-designed program of future
assistance.

The objectives for both main components were relevant and realistic, and since they were fairly general,
they could accommodate the modification of institutional and implementation arrangements that took place
after project effectiveness to accommodate Afghan realities. These arrangements are described in the
Technical Annex for the Emergency National Solidarity Project (P084329, IDA Grant H072-AF), which
became effective on April 5, 2004, and which constitutes the follow-up project to the community
empowerment component. Likewise, the final implementation arrangements for the public works
component are described in the Technical Annex for the National Emergency Employment Program - Phase
I (P091036, MULT 50973), which became effective on March 14, 2003 (a second follow-up project
became effective on July 22, 2004).

The related Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) financed TF51247 (NGO Support Program) and
TF51429 (Capacity Building for National Solidarity Program) are not covered by this ICR, since the



                                                       - 2 -

closing dates for both projects have been extended beyond December 31, 2004.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Not applicable

3.3 Original Components:

The two main components of the project each consisted of sub-components as follows:

Public Works Component:

A. District Grants for Sub-Projects (US$18.4 million): The grants would cover the cost of labor,
materials, tools, transport costs, and rental equipment for approved sub-projects. About 130 of the
country's total 325 districts would be assisted with a ceiling of US$130,000 equivalent per district.

B. Technical Assistance for Implementation (US$0.6 million): To assist the Ministries of Public Works
(MOPW) and Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation & Development (MRRD), which are responsible for the
overall program implementation of sub-projects, consultants would be hired to provide support regarding
overall implementation planning, supervision, and financial management, as well as with regard to design
and costing of sub-projects, technical support to villagers and small contractors, and supervision of works
and payments to local labor.

C. Monitoring and Preparation of a Longer- Term Program Proposal (US$0.5 million): Independent
monitoring and review would be undertaken of all aspects of the project to prepare a proposal for a
labor-intensive program, that the government could implement on a longer-term basis.

D. Incremental Operating Expenses (US$0.5 million): Funding for incremental expenses for provincial
departments to enable their participation in the project.

Community Empowerment Component:

A. Village Grants Program (US$16.0 million): Block grants for village sub-projects could be used for
public infrastructure, community assets and revolving funds, social services, and training. Grant amounts
would depend on village populations and location, and grants would be transferred directly to a community
account. Sub-project proposals would receive technical and financial screening.

B. Implementation Support (US$4.8 million): This would comprise recruitment and training of technical
and social facilitators to provide oversight, community organizing, and training to beneficiary communities.
Initially, program management would be concentrated in Kabul, but with a fast rollout, small provincial
project management offices would be set up. The component would also provide (a) training in basic
procurement, financial management, and planning for provincial, district, and village organizations; (b)
support to involve government service providers, NGOs, and the private sector in village planning and
implementation; and (c) advice on microfinance and small business management to communities. Finally,
it would support the implementing Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD) to rebuild,
equip, and train staff in the office where the program would be housed.

C. Monitoring and Evaluation Studies (US$1.2 million): This would include four main activities: (i) a
series of data collection exercises to gather baseline information on living standards and household



                                                      - 3 -

expenditures, basic needs, population variables, and development activities, (ii) contracts with Kabul and
provincial universities to develop a program of evaluation studies to examine socioeconomic changes taking
place in communities to allow for refinements to the overall program, particularly with respect to marginal
and vulnerable groups, (iii) collection of baseline data to support impact evaluation studies for the
follow-on program including cost-benefit reviews of infrastructure, maintenance evaluations, and returns on
investments, and (iv) project monitoring by independent parties.

The general conceptualization and design of both main project components were linked to and supported
the achievement of the project objectives. The simple basic project design notwithstanding, implementation
under the complex and volatile post-conflict conditions in Afghanistan proved challenging. Assumptions
about the capacity of the implementing ministries, and in particular of MRRD, to assume direct
management with its own staff of activities under the community empowerment component within a six to
twelve month period were too optimistic. Thus, while the project design provided for involvement of
contracted technical assistance to furnish management, implementation facilitation, and capacity building
support, this assistance had to be both more substantial and of longer duration than originally envisaged.
This need for substantial technical assistance became further accentuated by the decision of the AIA to
scale up implementation of the community empowerment component much faster than originally envisaged.

3.4 Revised Components:

An amendment of the project components were made on December 2, 2002, to enable the start-up of
critical rehabilitation activities of the Salang Tunnel, which constitutes the principal link between the
northern and southern parts of Afghanistan, prior to effectiveness of the planned Emergency Transport
Rehabilitation Project. A reallocation between components was undertaken on December 18, 2003, to
provide funding for the expanded use of contracted technical assistance to enable the scaling up of
implementation of the community empowerment component. This reallocation, which shifted funds from
community sub-grants to consultant services was done with the expectation, that a follow-up IDA Grant
would be in place in time to cover the disbursements to community sub-projects over and above what was
now provided for under IDA Grant H009. This was done with the IDA Grant H072. A third reallocation
was undertaken in December 2004 to enable full disbursement of the Grant by the project closing date.

Components (figures in million SDR)          Origina  Dec.       Dec. 2003     Dec. 2004 Rating
                                             l        2002
1. Sub-Grants
Part A ­ Public Works                         14.80      8.10         9.00         8.49        S
Part B ­ Community Empowerment                12.80      12.80        4.50         5.73        S
2. Consultant Services & Training
Part A ­ Public Works                         0.80       4.90         2.75         2.92        S
Part B ­ Community Empowerment                4.40       4.40        13.95        14.00        S
3. Operating Costs
Part A ­ Public Works                         0.40       0.40         0.50          0
Part B ­ Community Empowerment                0.40       0.40         0.20         0.11
4. Unallocated                                0.10       0.10         0.00         0.00
5. Part C ­ Salang Tunnel                     0.00       2.60        2.80          2.46        S
Total                                         33.70      33.70       33.70        33.70




                                                       - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at Entry is rated satisfactorybased on (i) the consistency between project objectives and the
priorities of AIA's National Development Framework and IDA's TSS, (ii) the appropriateness and
simplicity of the basic project principles regarding participatory community involvement, which drew on
international experience, and which were compatible with the subsequent changes in implementation
arrangements that the Afghan context required, and (iii) the collaboration beginning at the design stage with
other donors represented by the EU, ADB, UNDP, UNHCR, and UNICEF. In hindsight, more use could
have been made of experiences by Afghan and international NGOs with a long implementation history in
Afghanistan, and a more realistic assessment could have been made of the implementation and management
capacity of the involved line ministries, as well as of the capacity of the private sector to provide technical
assistance to communities in areas such as engineering designs for sub-projects.

The project was an emergency operation prepared over two months under OP 8.50 for Emergency
Recovery Assistance, and no QAG assessment of Quality at Entry was undertaken. Subsequently, a
Quality of Supervision Assessment was undertaken in September 2004, which provided an overall rating of
2 and found the project design at entry to be sound, that there was client commitment, and that the project
was ready for implementation at approval. At the same time, the QAG assessment questioned the realism
of the assumption, that the project could achieve its development objective within the closing date of the
Grant. However, it should be kept in mind, that the project was conceptualized as a large scale piloting
exercise, that constituted a potential precursor to a national community development program, which would
continue assisting the communities reached during the pilot while expanding overall coverage (Technical
Annex p. 18). Thus, when the project came to an end, follow-up projects for both the community
empowerment and the public works components were in place and disbursing (see Section 5.4 and Annex
2).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Achievement of the project development objectives is rated satisfactory based on the implementation
outputs under all three components. For both the public works and the community empowerment
component, the output targets have been substantially met, or even surpassed, and follow-up operations
with cofinancing from other donors have been put in place, thereby increasing the likelihood that
sustainable institutional arrangements and management capacity can be built in the concerned line
ministries, and that local governance arrangements can become sustainable. The results achieved by the
project and the development of follow-up operations for both public works and community empowerment
address the priorities in AIA's National Development Framework, as well as the key objectives in IDA's
TSS of assisting the authorities to establish capacity in areas essential to facilitate the reconstruction
program, and of building IDA's knowledge base to enable further development of a well-designed
assistance program.

Considering the extremely difficult context in which the project has been implemented, and the initial delays
in the start-up of implementation on the ground, the achievements are noticeable. However, as discussed in
supervision mission Project Status Reports, significant risks continue to apply, and these may negatively
affect the achievement of sustainable institutional outcomes both in terms of line ministry capacity, and in
terms of inclusive and participatory local level governance. One key risk is the lack of security across parts



                                                      - 5 -

of rural Afghanistan, where conditions in some areas appear to have deteriorated rather than improved, and
this may affect the ability to implement both the public works and community empowerment activities. The
other key risk concerns continued government commitment to the community empowerment activity. The
community empowerment component in its present form was developed in response to a demand by the
AIA for a national Community Driven Development (CDD) program, but following changes in the cabinet
after the October 2004 presidential elections the commitment to such a program appear less certain.

The midterm review scheduled for June 2003 was not undertaken, since implementation on the ground of
the community empowerment component was by then only about to start, and implementation of the public
works component was at a very early stage. Instead, it was decided to undertake a midterm review by
April 2005 of the CDD activities, which were continued under the follow-up operation H072. This
midterm review has been delayed, and at the time of writing this ICR, procurement of a consultant for this
exercise is in its final stages. However, an assessment of the performance of service providers involved in
facilitation of CDD activities was completed by August 2004, and two assessments of the public works
activities have been undertaken, one which was completed by September 2004, and the other by May 2005.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Public Works

A. District Grants for Sub-Projectsis rated satisfactory. The public works components and the successor
NEEP projects have successfully contributed to pilot and scale up approaches to labor intensive
infrastructure creation resulting in large scale employment generation under difficult operational and
topographic conditions. Activities were implemented in 33 of the country's 34 provinces, and the
implementation status by project closure was:

                                                Target      Output by Dec. 31, 2004
                 District coverage                130                 179
                 Labor days created          3.77 million         3.88 million


Implementation took place under two management subcontracts. Under the largest of these, a total of 289
road repair sub-projects totaling 3,824 km of roads were completed, and under the smaller contract 46
sub-projects were completed involving 332 km of road repair, plus repair of irrigation systems (10),
schools (16), and water storage facilities (40).

Notwithstanding the successful delivery of emergency employment benefits and infrastructure
rehabilitation, issues remain (which the successor NEEP projects are attempting to address) regarding
vulnerability targeting both in terms of areas and sub-groups, and regarding the sustainability of the
infrastructure provided.

Geographical coverage and targeting: While the the geographical outreach has been satisfactory,
geographical targeting and equity have been problematical. The relative funding allocations in each
province have been inequitable, and coverage was primarily achieved to demonstrate the political
commitment to provide tangible development activities throughout the country, rather than being based on
any area targeting mechanisms, which would focus investment towards the poorer and more vulnerable
regions of Afghanistan.

Vulnerability targeting: In order to attract the poor and to avoid problematic negotiations with


                                                      - 6 -

communities (particularly in the absence of robust labour market data), a daily wage rate was fixed at US
$2 on the assumption that this figure approximated the going rate for unskilled casual labour in most parts
of the country and in most seasons, and would enable a self-targeting of the poor and vulnerable. However,
this wage rate failed to account for the considerable regional and seasonal variation in labor payments that
exist in Afghanistan. Due to topographical and climatic conditions, public works activities coincide with
peak agricultural and construction activities, providing workers with lucrative alternative employment
opportunities (e.g. in poppy). Moreover, the public works activities have failed to solicit the participation of
excluded groups such as women, since they are restricted from participation in sub-project activities due to
cultural norms. They have also failed to involve the pastoral nomadic population (many of whom have had
their herds decimated during the drought period), since they are socially and spatially separated from the
sedentary communities, where the sub-projects take place. Finally, they have largely failed to reach the
disabled, and although efforts have been made to reserve employment space for disabled people on work
sites in some provinces, this practice remains the exception rather than the norm.

To address these issues, trials are being piloted under the successor NEEP activities to test
community-based social targeting instruments, through the utilization of participatory rural appraisal
methods to support communities in the identification and selection of their poorest members for
employment on NEEP infrastructure programs. In addition, a more fair mechanism for wage payment has
been developed based on productivity norms, whereby workers are divided into work gangs and the overall
payment to each gang is commensurate with the type of material used and the amount of work done.
Workers have expressed their preference for this piece rate system and project staff also reports a
significantly higher progress of work in areas where such norms are operational. However, since these
norms are not standardized or officially ratified by either of the participating ministries, their use remains
ad hoc.

Sustainability: Some of the infrastructure investments have compromised on initial serviceability and hence
on their remaining life. Many factors have contributed to this: the need for rapid implementation
throughout Afghanistan, emphasizing labor content against initial quality, the lack of contractor capacity
and input price control mechanisms, and lack of standards and supervision. However, while Labor Based
Appropriate Technologies (LBAT) have recently been introduced on a pilot basis to address this concern,
the public works component (and the successor NEEP activities) have not so far managed to effectively
ensure its non-transfer impacts by improving initial delivery quality and highlighting the importance of
maintenance. As a result, the sustainability of the economic benefits of the infrastructure investments
remains doubtful. The successor NEEP activities need to progressively focus more on maintenance issues,
and develop a rural roads maintenance management system and use the current donor development
contributions for annual maintenance budgets while developing a maintenance financing and
implementation mechanism.

B. Technical Assistance for Implementationis rated satisfactory. The component was implemented
through the following arrangements:

   l MRRD contracted CARE International as Oversight Consultant to manage implementation of
         multi-sectoral sub-projects (of which 70% were for road repair, and the balance involving repair of
         schools, irrigation, and drinking water) through Afghan and international NGOs. Implementation
         started in October 2002, and was completed by March 2004.
   l The Ministry of Public Works contracted United Nations Office for Project Services to help
         oversee contracts for road repair with small private sector firms or communities. Implementation
         of activities under the public works component started in January 2003, and was completed by
         December 2004 (but is ongoing with regard to other NEEP activities).


                                                      - 7 -

However, while labor intensive public works projects have been delivered across Afghanistan, these outputs
have been provided in a policy vacuum, since they are not linked to a cohesive rural transport or rural
development policy. There has been an attempt to rationalize the investments in rural access by using
standard allocation parameters and consultative mechanisms, but the absence of a policy framework is
highlighted by the absence of planning regarding the maintenance and future sustainability of the
investments. This situation reflects the need for line ministries such as MRRD and MOPW to establish the
division of roles that would exist between themselves and contracted service providers under "normal"
circumstances, in which the line ministries undertake policy development and strategic planning while
contracting service providers to implement their policies and plans.

C. Monitoring and Preparation of a Longer-Term Programis rated satisfactorywith regard to the
preparation of a longer-term program, but unsatisfactory with regard to monitoring. The public works
component has funded the first phase of the government's National Emergency Employment Program of
labor intensive public works (primarily rehabilitation of rural roads) to provide employment for vulnerable
groups across the country. The longer term program involves two follow-up projects. The first is a grant
of US$25.4 million from the multi-donor Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) which became
effective on March 14, 2003, and the second is an IDA Grant of US$39.2 million, which became effective
on July 22, 2004. An adequate Management Information System (MIS) has not been established for either
the public works component or the successor NEEP projects to enable timely implementation monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting.

Community Empowerment

A. Village Grants program is rated highly satisfactory. The original project target as defined in the
Technical Annex for the community empowerment component was 600-800 villages. However, in late
2002 the Afghan government requested the project to be implemented on a national scale in order to
address the enormous rehabilitation and development needs in the rural areas, as well as the expectations by
the rural population of a "peace dividend" after the fall of the Taliban regime. In response to this request,
preparations were made to scale up the community empowerment component (called the National Solidarity
Program) to cover 4,500 villages in three selected districts in each of Afghanistan's provinces during the
first year of implementation, and to cover all of Afghanistan's estimated 20,000 villages within a four year
program period.

Preparations for the start-up of implementation, which were already delayed when the decision was made to
scale up, required additional time, since service providers had to be procured to assist MRRD with overall
program management, capacity building, and facilitation of community involvement in elections of
representative local councils, sub-project planning, implementation, and management. Field
implementation took off in August-September 2003, and by December 31, 2004, implementation was
ongoing in 101 districts in 33 of the country's 34 provinces (the remaining province of Uruzgan is an area
of high security risk). Districts were selected based on existing vulnerability data (drought impacts) and
refugee return. Overall achievements during the project period are as follows:




                                                      - 8 -

Outputs                                                            1st Year      Outputs:   Outputs:
                                                                   Target by    Aug. 31,     Dec. 31,
                                                                  Aug. 31, 04     2004        2004
Villages with elected Community Development Councils                4,500         5,506       6,181
Villages with Community Development Plans                           4,500         5,405       6,181
Sub-projects meeting appraisal criteria and funded                  3,000         1,423       5,962
Block Grant disbursement (US$ million)                               72.0          29.1        59.3
Block Grant commitment (US$ million)                                 72.0          62.0       120.0
Community members trained in either procurement, FM, O&M            >9,000        17,000     27,350
Facilitating Partner field staff trained                            >3,000        2,052       2,607
MRRD staff trained                                                   >120          310         714


While outputs including the election of Community Development Councils (CDCs) which support the
governance dimension of the project have exceeded targets, those supporting the community rehabilitation
and development dimension have been lower than expected with regard to block grant disbursements. This
situation derives mainly from five factors: (i) most communities do not choose to use their block grant for
one sub-project, but for successive smaller sub-projects (this is expected to have positive governance
impacts, since communities undertake planning and management of sub-projects more than once with their
initial block grant), (ii) problems encountered by communities with opening of and withdrawals from bank
accounts in provincial branches of the National Bank, (iii) operational procedures for release of block
grants including second and third installments causing delays, (iv) insufficient engineering capacity with
Facilitating Partners to assist communities develop quality sub-project proposals, and (v) insufficient field
engineering capacity with the program Oversight Consultant and MRRD provincial offices for appraisal of
submitted sub-projects leading to delays in approvals and revisions. While the first factor is the
prerogative of community decision making, and mitigation of the second and third factor has been partly
achieved, the limited national supply of engineering capacity continues to impose restrictions on the
recruitment of qualified engineers (high demand for skilled engineers from better paying UN agencies and
USAID contractors have resulted in high turn-over of engineers and recruitment constraints).

The rapid expansion of project coverage to meet the expectations of villagers regarding a "peace dividend",
has confronted project implementation with the challenge of maintaining engineering quality standards in
the preparation and implementation of sub-projects to ensure that villagers get value-for-money. Since the
principal measure to manage this challenge, namely increased recruitment of engineers, could only be
partially accomplished, other measures were introduced. One was the introduction of a technical manual
with standard engineering designs to assist communities develop quality sub-project proposals. The other
was a more limited expansion than originally envisaged to new communities during the 2nd year of field
implementation, combined with continued intense facilitation and capacity building in 1st year communities
to support quality sub-project proposals and implementation along with increased attention to adequate
arrangements for operation and maintenance of community assets including cost recovery. Field visit
findings indicate that the project needs to manage this challenge very carefully to ensure implementation
quality and that operation and maintenance arrangements are in place where required.

Income generation: The original project design envisaged that village block grants would finance revolving
funds for income generation supported by advice from service providers on microfinance and small
business management. To gauge the feasibility of using block grants for income generation, which would
address the income rehabilitation needs of households as distinct from the needs of communities for
rehabilitation of public goods, an assessment was undertaken in early 2004. It concluded that in the
short-term, the inclusion of income generating schemes and microfinance in the project menu would (i)


                                                     - 9 -

severely strain project delivery capacity, (ii) entail increased risks of elite capture, (iii) entail significantly
increased delivery costs since more intensive and longer facilitation would be required compared to
sub-projects primarily involving small-scale infrastructure, and (iv) introduce a mechanism that might
undermine the market-based provision of microfinance promoted by another IDA supported project.
However, in view of the need for income generation to stimulate economic growth and employment, the
assessment recommended that the use of block grant funds for income generating schemes together with
linkages to the existing IDA supported microfinance operation be reassessed at a later date. In the
meantime, income generation utilizing part of a block grant was permitted for women and disabled, but not
for the community as a whole, to ensure that these vulnerable groups were not marginalized, and that they
would directly benefit from the block grant investments. Experiences to date indicate that most of the
income generation activities selected by women (e.g. tailoring, carpet weaving, poultry raising) are not
likely to generate anything more than a minimal income. Additional work is needed to (i) train the
Facilitating Partners operating at the village level to assist women and disabled in the assessment, planning,
and supervision of income generation activities, (ii) develop simple and robust methodologies to support
income generation and enable villagers to plan realistically regarding the financial viability of specific
income generating schemes, and (iii) identify economically viable income generation options that can yield
a meaningful income.

Gender: While the participation by women in the election of Community Development Council (CDC)
representatives has generally been remarkably high (above 80% of the women eligible to vote), their ability
to directly influence decision making in ways that made use of the provisions in the Operational Manual on
the use of block grants for income generation for women has been limited. Usually, the female CDC
representatives have endorsed the choice of infrastructure investments such as irrigation repair, drinking
water supply, and road construction, which benefit whole households rather than a specific gender.
However, where women have expressed a preference for use of part of the block grant for income
generation, their choice has often been ignored by the male CDC representatives. Thus, while the project
has initiated a process towards enhanced influence on local affairs, which appear to be universally
embraced by women wherever they are enabled to participate, this process is still in its early stages and
needs careful nurturing by skilled facilitation in ways that are not construed as a threat to cultural values on
gender relations. Since the scope for involvement of women in governance and as beneficiaries of block
grants differ between local contexts with regard to opportunities and constraints defined by socio-cultural
conditions and leadership attitudes, the project needs to draw on experiences by Facilitating Partners to
refine its facilitation techniques to better address such variations to promote women's participation.

Community Development Plans (CDPs) are prioritized medium term investment plans, which constitute the
first step in the planning by the CDCs. They are intended to guide the CDCs regarding the selection of
sub-project investments funded by the block grants, and at the same time to (a) form the basis for the
interaction between CDCs and other line ministries and programs regarding additional assistance, and (b)
be grass-roots inputs to a sectoral planning at the provincial and national level. These potential uses of the
CDPs have not yet been fully realized, partly because effective coordination with other line ministries is
only in its infancy, and partly because the project Management Information System is not yet capable of
generating the synthesizing analysis that could contribute to sectoral planning at higher levels. In addition,
to be fully useful as instruments for coordination and sectoral planning, the CDPs need to be revisited and
updated in the light of the experiences that communities have gained through implementation of their first
sub-projects.

Linking CDCs with state administration: At the initiative of MRRD and Ministry of Education, a new
block grant window for District School Construction and Rehabilitation was established in mid 2004 as a
pilot in eight districts to test the feasibility of joint planning involving elected community representatives


                                                          - 10 -

and district level administration. Initial results from this pilot indicate that a joint planning process is
feasible, and could have a significant potential as a mechanism to link communities with the lowest level of
the administrative structure in joint planning regarding activities within different sectors (e.g. irrigation,
rural roads, natural resource management, and health in addition to education).

B. Implementation Supportis rated satisfactory. After more than two decades of conflict, exodus of
trained staff, low pay, and lack of exposure to new approaches such as CDD, the institutional capacity of
the implementing ministry - MRRD - was extremely low at project effectiveness. Apart from the top
leadership of the ministry and a couple of contracted advisers, there was no exposure within MRRD to
CDD type operations, and very limited capacity regarding procurement and financial management. The
institutional implementation arrangement selected to address this situation was performance based
contracting of service providers, both for implementation at the community level and for project
management assistance together with capacity building for MRRD staff. A total of 21 Facilitating Partners
comprising Afghan and international NGOs plus UN-Habitat were contracted based on a competitive
short-listing, to assist communities establish inclusive CDCs through secret ballot elections, reach
consensus on their rehabilitation and development priorities in a CDP, develop eligible sub-project
proposals, and implement approved sub-projects in accordance with engineering standards and agreed
operation/maintenance plans. An Oversight Consultant was contracted through international competitive
bidding to assist MRRD with day-to-day project management including block grant disbursements to
communities, liaison with Facilitating Partners, establishment and operation of a MIS, progress reporting,
and capacity building for the staff of MRRD and Facilitating Partners. The substantial results achieved on
the ground in terms of both community governance and sub-project implementation indicate that the
institutional model selected to provide implementation support has been appropriate.

C. Monitoring and Evaluation Studies are rated unsatisfactory because the project MIS is not yet fully
operational and capable of furnishing analysis as needed of sub-project implementation (e.g. sector-wise
and geographical distribution of sub-projects), or of data on village baselines and CDC composition for
assessments of impacts (e.g. with regard to involvement of women in governance and as beneficiaries of
block grants). However, monitoring and reporting on block grant disbursements is satisfactory, and
monthly status reports are furnished on the overall implementation and disbursement status. An
independent evaluation of the performance of Facilitating Partners was completed by August 2004 as an
input to the process of contract amendment for the second year of field implementation. The midterm
review, which would include an assessment of impacts and form a key input to the midterm review, and
which was scheduled for April 2005, has been delayed by protracted procurement of a consultant for the
external evaluation,. The planned collection of baseline information on living standards and household
expenditures, basic needs, and population variables was not undertaken under the project, but has been
done as part of the National Risk & Vulnerability Assessment (NRVA) carried out by MRRD with IDA
support in 2003. The proposed contracts with Kabul and provincial universities regarding monitoring and
evaluation studies were not initiated, since this assumed a higher skills level than actually exist. Instead it is
planned to establish internships with the NSP (MRRD, Oversight Consultant, and Facilitating Partners) to
provide capacity building in rural development and project management for students with a relevant
background (social science, engineering, administration) as a measure to reduce the existing gap between
demand and supply for skilled Afghans.

Salang Tunnel repair

Repair of the Salang Tunnel is rated satisfactory. Works were completed in early July 2004, and the tunnel
is now operational. The scope of work for the tunnel rehabilitation included construction of rehabilitation
of snow galleries, rehabilitation and activation of the drainage system, road surface repairs, ceiling works,


                                                      - 11 -

insulating lining for water seepage protection, lighting, ventilation, safety equipment and control systems,
repair of the administrative office north of the tunnel, provision of diesel generators, and winter
maintenance equipment. Additional funding of these activities was provided under the parent project, the
Emergency Transport Project (P078284, Cr.3735-AF).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Projects prepared under OP 8.50 for Emergency Recovery Assistance do not require calculation of the
economic rate of return. However, this will be assessed during the planned midterm review by an external
consultant.

Community empowerment component: The involvement of contracted service providers as Facilitating
Partners to support implementation at the community level and as Oversight Consultant to assist MRRD
manage this large national program raises the question of the cost efficiency of the overall activity. A
simple juxtaposition of the project "delivery costs" comprising the aggregate value of the Facilitating
Partner and Oversight Consultant contracts with the value of block grants delivered for the 1st year of field
implementation, which was a period of establishment, learning, and expansion, shows a ratio of roughly
one to one ­ it took $1 to deliver $1 of block grants to communities. For the 2nd year of field
implementation the ratio between "delivery costs" and the value of block grants is expected to be 26%, and
if the two year period of field implementation is considered, the ratio is 22%.

However, the above calculation does not take into account that the "delivery costs" (i.e. costs for
consultants) are not simply administration and management costs, since they directly contribute to produce
outputs that support the two project objectives, namely (a) improved local level governance through
formation of CDCs and community capacity building for planning and management of sub-projects, and
(ii) preparation of sub-project proposals for block grant investments in village level infrastructure leading
to improved service delivery and poverty reduction. An analysis of the distribution of program delivery
costs between (a) head office/administration and project management costs, and (b) local
governance/facilitation costs, would indicate a split between the two cost categories of 55% for head office
administration and project management costs, and 45% for local governance/facilitation costs. If this split
is applied to an analysis of the costs for the 1st year of field implementation, the costs of the governance
output and block grants would amount to 72% of the expenditures, while consultant
management/administration would constitute 18%. For the 2nd year, the costs for governance and block
grants would constitute 88% of overall costs, with 12% for consultant management/administration costs.
For the two year program period, the consultant management/administration costs would constitute 13% of
the overall costs.

Noteworthy is also, that a break-down of the remuneration costs in consultant contracts for the 1st year for
both Facilitating Partners and the Oversight Consultant show that 86% of these costs are for Afghan staff.
In addition to providing employment, the salaries also fund what constitutes a significant exercise in
capacity building for Afghans on project management, planning, and monitoring, as well as on community
development.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:




                                                      - 12 -

The expected institutional development impact is rated substantialand comprises four areas: (1) the
establishment of a framework for inclusive participatory decision making at the village level, (2)
strengthening of project management capacity at the level of MRRD and MOPW, (3) strengthening of
capacity in civil society organizations regarding project management, planning, and implementation, and
(4) strengthening of small private sector contractor entities. The above rating is primarily justified on the
basis of results achieved with regard to the establishment of a framework for inclusive participatory
decision making at the village level. The institutional development impact in the three other areas is
incipient, and will require additional time and support to materialize. However, in all four areas, the full
realization of the institutional development impact will be contingent on achievement of the sustainability
conditions described in Section 6.1.

1. The establishment of a framework for inclusive participatory decision making at the village level has
    been achieved through the secret ballot election of Community Development Councils (CDCs) at the
    village level, something for which there is no precedent in Afghanistan. A total of 6,161 villages had
    elected CDCs by the end of December 2004, and both supervision field visits, monitoring reports, and
    independent assessments indicate, that participation in the elections has been high, that the composition
    of the councils is generally inclusive in terms of socio-economic and ethnic diversity, that the councils
    do not simply replicate existing leadership patterns but include new actors, and that villagers appreciate
    the process as vital for achieving consensus on priorities and actions. The involvement in sub-project
    planning and implementation by communities that are usually largely illiterate has contributed to create
    local capacity regarding transparent management of procurement and record keeping, although
    substantial additional capacity building is required to make the CDCs self-reliant in these areas.

2. Strengthening of project management capacity at the level of MRRD and MOPW has started through
    on-the-job training and through the recruitment of external advisory capacity for key planning and
    management functions. Prior to the start of the project, CDD operations were not implemented by
    MRRD (or any other branch of the Afghan government). MRRD has established a Community-Led
    Development Department to eventually take over management of the National Solidarity Program,
    which is physically located with the Oversight Consultant to facilitate capacity building through
    on-the-job training. This department is included in the government's Priority Reform and Restructuring
    (PRR) initiative, which provides added incentives including higher salaries compared with "normal"
    branches of government, and a Lateral Entry Program to facilitate recruitment of skilled staff.
    However, implementation of the PRR initiative has not progressed very far, and emphasis on capacity
    building of MRRD staff has till now taken a second seat to the pressure for fast roll-out of
    implementation of the community empowerment component. Increased emphasis needs to be placed on
    rationalizing the existing staffing set-up in both MRRD and MOPW as well as on building the capacity
    to enable this staff to assume generic core functions comprising policy development, strategic planning,
    contracting/procurement, financial management, MIS, and personnel management.

3. Strengthening of capacity in civil society organizations regarding project management, planning, and
    CDD implementation has been created through the contracting of Afghan and international NGOs as
    service providers for the implementation of the community empowerment component, and to a lesser
    extent of the public works component. Through this engagement, a large number of Aghans have
    received both training and practical exposure on different aspects of community development
    operations, that will constitute a long-term asset for Afghan society irrespective of whether this
    capacity is eventually utilized in the private/NGO sector or in government.

4. The substantial demand generated by both the community empowerment and public works components
    for small scale civil works and associated goods has provided a stimulus for the establishment and
    growth of small private sector contractors and suppliers. The extent of the impact by the project and its



                                                     - 13 -

    follow-up operations on the growth of the private construction sector has not yet been assessed, but can
    be assumed to be of some consequence.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

High security risks in the rural areas, and particularly so in the Eastern and Southern parts of the country,
have to some extent influenced the outreach and coverage of the project both with regard to the community
empowerment and public works components. However, while security risks have prevented activities
altogether in the province of Uruzgan, and have required that districts prioritized for implementation in
accordance with project selection criteria were replaced with less risky districts in particular provinces,
implementation has progressed continuously across 33 of Afghanistan's 34 provinces. The primary reason
why this outreach could be maintained has been the remarkable commitment by most Afghan field staff
tasked with facilitating project implementation to benefit their compatriots in the rural areas.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Strong commitment and action from champions in the government have enabled the project to scale up
substantially and exceed the targets defined in the project Technical Annex for the community
empowerment component. This commitment and action have in turn convinced other donors beside IDA to
provide the cofinancing that underwrote the expansion of project activities. This commitment
notwithstanding, the initial serious delays in payments to NGO service providers by Ministry of Finance
and MRRD (which are not entirely overcome) did pose a reputational and practical risk for the government
and IDA, since this engendered the perception among NGOs, who had till then never partnered with an
Afghan administration or with IDA, that implementation of government managed projects would entail
bureaucratic complications and financial risks compared to working with bilateral donors.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

One dimension of MRRD's commitment to the community empowerment component has been a willingness
to engage in consultations with the Facilitating Partners both on the approach for the CDD operation and
on lessons learned during implementation. A series of workshops on the Operational Manual in
January-February 2003 with agencies short-listed as Facilitating Partners did much to establish a basic
consensus regarding key implementation principles for the CDD operation, which in turn has contributed to
the commitment demonstrated by most Facilitating Partners during implementation. Subsequent
consultations on implementation issues and lessons learned have served to maintain this buy-in to the
approach, although consensus was not always achieved regarding all issues (e.g. time-frames allotted for
community facilitation, or the scope for use of block grants for income generation). At the same time, the
non-convening of the NSP Steering Committee has meant, that a potential mechanism for building a
broader buy-in to the CDD program among other line ministries with regard to the institutionalization of
the CDCs as local governance bodies, and with regard to strengthened coordination by utilizing the CDCs
as an entry point for program delivery at the village level has not been utilized.

5.4 Costs and financing:

IDA financing: The decision in late 2002 to scale up the community empowerment component to a national
four-year CDD program required a substantial increase in overall funding beyond the US$22 million
allocated in the project budget (final figures increased due to exchange rate changes). Since the scaling up



                                                     - 14 -

required an expansion of the use of technical assistance for implementation and management, a reallocation
between components was undertaken (see Section 3.4), and a follow-up IDA Grant (H072-AF of US$95
million equivalent) was prepared to enable uninterrupted continuation of implementation. During
preparation of this grant, IDA committed that "while the project period will be three years, the full amount
would be available to be committed and disbursed as quickly as can be absorbed. In the event, that the
scale and speed of implementation would require fast disbursement of the full amount (e.g. during the first
year or so), a reallocation of the grant categories would be undertaken to adjust to this situation, and a
repeater project could be prepared to ensure continuation of the program" (IDA Management Letter to
Government of November 11, 2003). The public works activities were likewise scaled up, and four
additional free-standing operations were prepared totaling US$84.2 million. By December 31, 2004, the
IDA Grant H009 was 99.99% disbursed. The public works component received additional IDA funding of
US$39.4 million (IDA H054-AF and IDA37990), which became effective on July 22, 2003.

Co-financing for the community empowerment component has been provided through three different grant
arrangements. The first is the direct bilateral funding to MRRD by Denmark with US$9.2 million. The
second is the cofinancing of initially US$ 27 million provided by the EC, UK, USA, Canada, and Germany
through the ARTF (later increased to US$42 million), and the third is the cofinancing of a US$11 million
grant provided by Japan through the Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF), which had not yet become
effective by the project closing date. Cofinancing for the public works component comprises a US$25.42
million grant from ARTF (MULT 50973), which became effective on March 14, 2003, and a US$19.60
million grant through JSDF (TF53414), which became effective on August 28, 2004.

  Funding Source                                                  Amount      Disbursement
                                                               (US$ million) by 12/31/2004
  Community Empowerment
 H009-AF - Community Empowerment Component                         26.89          26.89
 IDA Grant H072-AF - National Solidarity Project                   95.00          50.62
 ARTF MULT 53939- National Solidarity Project                      27.00          12.58
 JSDF TF54367- National Solidarity Project                         11.00           0.00
 Denmark- National Solidarity Project                              9.20            5.60
TOTAL                                                             169.09          95.69
 Public Works
 H009-AF - Public Works Component                                  16.78          17.33
 MULT 50973 ­ NEEP ­ Phase 1                                       25.42           8.32
 IDA Grant H054-AF - NEEPRA                                        18.80          10.08
 IDA Credit 37990-AF ­ NEEPRA                                      20.40          10.86
 JSDF TF53414 ­ NEEPRA                                             19.60           0.00
TOTAL                                                             101.00          46.59
 H009-AF - Salang Tunnel                                           3,62            3.81
 IDA Credit 37350 ­ Transport Rehabilitation Project              108.00          72.64



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project sustainability is rated as likely, but is critically dependent on seven conditions, the first of
which is largely outside the control of government, the second subject to government control, and the last
five are subject to the control of the implementing agency. The seven conditions are that:



                                                       - 15 -

     1. The security situation in the rural areas does not deteriorate to a level where facilitation of project
          implementation becomes unfeasible.
     2. The Afghan government continues to champion the National Solidarity Program and requests
          allocation of substantial IDA funding which can in turn continue to leverage additional cofinancing
          from other donors.
     3. MRRD pursues with the Oversight Consultant the finalization and implementation of the capacity
          building plan for MRRD staff, that is included as a key element in the amended contract with the
          Oversight Consultant.
     4. MRRD pursues the institutionalization of the Community Development Councils (CDCs) as local
          governance entities by actively promoting coordination with other relevant government and
          bilateral donor programs, so that these bodies are used as the entry-point for village level
          assistance. Enhanced coordination will require that:
              l the Community Development Plans are revisited and refined as proper prioritized, medium
                   term development plans, that can serve as the basis for engagement with government line
                   ministries and bilateral donor programs both at the village level and at the level of districts,
                   provinces, and line ministries, and
              l the NSP Steering Committee is activated with participation of relevant line ministries as a
                   forum for discussion and planning of coordination of activities targeting the rural areas to
                   promote the institutionalization of the CDCs as local governance bodies, and their role as
                   entry points for program delivery at the village level.
     5. MRRD makes use of the lessons from the pilot activities linking CDCs and district administration
          in joint planning activities to replicate this governance model on a larger scale, and promotes the
          formalization of this arrangement as part of the Afghan system of local governance.
     6. MRRD continues to strengthen measures to promote the involvement of women in local
          governance with regard to participation in the CDC elections, participation in decision-making on
          the use of block grants, and as beneficiaries of block grant investments.
     7. MRRD continues to take steps to ensure adequate engineering capacity to assist communities
          develop and implement sub-projects with quality civil works, to ensure that appraised and
          approved sub-project proposals comply with engineering standards and include adequate
          arrangements for operation and maintenance, and to undertake effective field supervision of
          implementation.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

A key task in the amended contract with the Oversight Consultant for the period from December 2004 till
September 2006 is assistance to MRRD to develop a plan for capacity building of MRRD's
Community-Led Development Department at the central and provincial levels, and to undertake the related
capacity building of MRRD staff. The capacity building plan, which is still to be finalized, will include a
phased transfer of specific management functions (e.g. management of Facilitating Partners, field
supervision, sub-project appraisal, operation of the MIS and reporting, management of block grant
disbursements, procurement) triggered by achievement of performance milestones. Full transfer of
management functions is planned to take place four to six months before the end of the Oversight
Consultant's assignment, and during the remaining period the Oversight Consultant (with a reduced staffing
set-up) would assist MRRD in supervising the performance of the Community-Led Development
Department to identify weaknesses, advise on remedies, and provide follow-up actions on these. Parallel to
this, capacity on procurement and financial management is being strengthened in the designated central
departments of MRRD with technical assistance from other donors. Since the capacity building of MRRD
staff is taking place under the follow-up projects (H072 and MULT 53939), IDA will be involved in



                                                         - 16 -

supervision of this exercise, and MRRD capacity will also be assessed by the external consultant to be
contracted for the upcoming midterm review.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

IDA's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal stages was satisfactory. IDA responded
promptly to the request from AIA for assistance to prepare operations involving CDD and labor intensive
public works activities, and the project was prepared within a two month time-frame under OP 8.50 for
Emergency Recovery Assistance drawing on a team with a good skills mix, and on collaboration with other
donors represented by the EU, ADB, UNDP, UNHCR, and UNICEF in the identification. The project
objectives and design corresponded with the priorities of AIA's National Development Framework and
IDA's TSS, and the Quality at Entry was satisfactory. The Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6)
from September 2004, found project design at entry to be sound.

7.2 Supervision:

IDA's performance during supervision of the project was satisfactory. During the first six months following
project effectiveness supervision was provided through frequent missions involving Bank staff from various
country offices and consultants. From November 2002 onwards, the task team leader has been located in
the Afghanistan country office, and during 2003 the staff handling procurement, disbursement, and
financial management also finally became part of the Kabul based staff. The assignment of key Task Team
staff to the Kabul office has enabled IDA to become more effective in providing the extensive ongoing
support, which was required by the initial unfamiliarity of the client with Bank operations and procedures,
and by the pressure to move quickly towards implementation on the ground with an operation which was
substantially expanded in scale and complexity after project effectiveness at the request of the government.
The Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6) from September 2004, rated overall IDA supervision of
the project as satisfactory (rating of "2" on a 1-6 scale), and found candor and quality of project
performance ratings and supervision of social aspects to be highly satisfactory("1").

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

IDA's overall performance is rated satisfactory based on the fast preparation in response to the
government's request of an operation with satisfactory Quality at Entry, as well as on satisfactory
supervision involving intensive ongoing client support.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The client's performance in connection with the preparation of the project is rated satisfactory based on the
quality of the guidance and feed-back provided to the IDA Task Team during the development of project
objectives and components.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The government's performance during implementation is rated satisfactory based on the strong support for
the project from champions in the Cabinet in terms of mobilization of cofinancing partners, and guidance
on central design issues when the project scope was expanded regarding both the public works and



                                                     - 17 -

community empowerment components.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory based on a strong commitment and
ownership, which has been evidenced by the ongoing dialogue between by key ministry actors and IDA on
strategic and implementation issues related to the project, and by the willingness to engage in consultations
on the community empowerment component with the Facilitating Partners both on the approach for the
CDD operation and on lessons learned during implementation. Constraints encountered derive primarily
from unfamiliarity with IDA policies and procedures particularly regarding procurement, and the slow pace
of involvement of regular ministry staff in management and implementation. There is concern that the
implementing agency need to take decisive action on a number of key conditions to ensure the sustainability
of the institutional development dimensions of the project (as discussed in Section 6.1). MOPW has not
shown the same extent of ownership with regard to the portion of the public works component for which it
has been the implementing agency, but has been more of a "passive driver" in terms of the considerable
results achieved.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory based on the quality of involvement in both project
preparation and implementation.

8. Lessons Learned

1.       A key lesson is, that in a difficult post-conflict situation characterized by limited government
capacity, the project's choice of institutional arrangements featuring performance based contracting of
service providers for implementation and management has lend itself to a rapid scaling up of both CDD and
labor intensive public works activities. A related lesson is, that the establishment of such arrangements
takes time, and expectations regarding how quickly operations can begin on the ground need to be realistic.
Both of these lessons would be applicable to comparable post-conflict situations elsewhere.

2.       In a post-conflict context, where delivery of a "peace dividend" and the building of capacity in
government agencies to manage the delivery of this "peace dividend" are both critical elements, the
challenge of balancing these two aims needs to be carefully managed, so that the incentive to provide rapid
results on the ground does not take precedence over the capacity building, that may be the condition for
sustainable and cost-effective delivery of development interventions in the medium and longer term, when
donor funding shrinks and implementation has to rely primarily on domestically generated revenue.

3.       Likewise, in a post-conflict context where rapid delivery of a "peace dividend" is critical to
establish or maintain the credibility of government vis-à-vis the population, implementing agencies need to
manage the challenge of maintaining engineering quality of sub-projects (as has been the issue in the
community empowerment component) or of providing meaningful sub-projects (as has been the issue in the
public works component, where villagers have questioned the usefulness of types of road repair that would
only bring short-term benefits).

4.       Consultations with agencies that have prior experience of working in the local context is crucial for
developing a sound implementation approach, and contributes at the same time to establish buy-in and
commitment to key project principles in situations, where such agencies are involved as partners in project
delivery. A continuation of consultations during implementation will both serve to distill lessons that can



                                                      - 18 -

improve the project approach, and at the same time reinforce the buy-in and commitment among partners.

5.       While individual project champions can play a decisive role in enabling the introduction of
innovative development approaches, these need to be supplemented in the medium and longer term with
institutional arrangements that serve to build a larger constituency, which will support the
institutionalization of such innovations as part of the government's development policies.

6.       While the involvement of women in the CDCs has initiated a process towards enhanced influence
in local affairs, which seems to be universally embraced by women wherever they are enabled to
participate, this process needs careful nurturing by skillful facilitation in ways that are not construed as a
threat to cultural values on gender relations in order to give women genuine influence on decisions
regarding the setting of priorities and the use of block grants. Since the scope for involvement of women in
CDC governance and as beneficiaries of block grants differ between local contexts with regard to
opportunities and constraints defined by socio-cultural conditions and leadership attitudes, the project needs
to draw on experiences by Facilitating Partners to refine its facilitation techniques to better address such
variations to promote women's participation.

7.       Institutional sustainability of the elected CDCs as local level governance bodies is not likely
beyond the period when project grants are provided, unless the role of the CDCs is regularized through
coordination with different line ministries as the entry-point for other development interventions targeting
communities (infrastructure, health, education, natural resource management), and through linkages with
the existing local government apparatus (e.g. joint planning exercises on resource allocation and
accountability measures such as monitoring of government service provision).

8.       Overall, the experience of the public works component (and the successor NEEP operations)
highlights issues associated with agendas for `state building', and `reconstruction' including the
requirement to (i) rationalize ministerial mandates around infrastructure investments; (ii) address private
sector capacity constraints; (iii) accelerate sub-national public sector institutional strengthening initiatives;
(iv) increasingly transfer a degree of ownership to provincial governance structures; (v) promote pro-poor
participatory planning processes in support of community driven development; and (vi) ensure that
responsibilities and capacities for the management of assets created are in place to enable the sustainability
required for durable poverty impact.

9.       The public works component like all workfare programs has been a blunt instrument for providing
a "safety net" in the form of targeted social protection, and expectations regarding targeting of the extreme
poor and vulnerable (women, disabled, and impoverished pastoral nomads) have been unrealistic. The
design of the public works component is such that it would neither able to act as a long-term income
transfer program for the extreme poor and vulnerable, nor respond sufficiently quickly when "shocks"
(such as drought, floods, or earthquakes) occur. Available data from the NRVA suggest that underlying
structural causes of rural poverty and vulnerability are numerous, and that short term transfers, like those
through the public works component and NEEP, can provide only a short-term palliative mechanism to
alleviate income and consumption shortfalls.

10.      Finally, World Bank efficiency in delivery of assistance to weak client governments in post-conflict
situations is critically dependent on having both operational and procurement, disbursement, and financial
management staff on long-term assignments in the country office from the start of the operational presence.

9. Partner Comments



                                                      - 19 -

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The report sets out correctly the major conclusions and we have no major comments to add (a final project
evaluation report is therefore not included).

MRRD and the Oversight Consultant has experienced the period till end 2004 as highly intense. The
Bank's role has been highly supportive and helpful. This assessment is widely shared by the other
stakeholders. As a matter of fact NSP has been a pilot activity with inherent risks for all the stakeholders.
The way the Bank acted and the unusual flexibility it demonstrated in the start up phase and the
implementation of the program is to be considered as a highly positive example to be recommended for
other programs. It is the hope of the concerned actors that this attitude of bringing things forward and the
efficiency will continue to characterize the performance of the Bank in NSP after the end of 2004.

(b) Cofinanciers:

Comments from partners who cofinance the NSP have been received from the European Commission,
Canada, and Denmark. The comments are summarized below, and included in their entirety in Annex 8.

The three cofinancing donors agree that the ICR presents a fair assessment of the status and issues of the
project. They highlight the following areas as important to ensure implementation progress and
sustainability:

    1. Establishment of broader government ownership through involvement of and coordination with
         other line ministries to promote both the sustainability of the program, and more effective delivery
         of rural development assistance to communities.
    2. Measures to strengthen and mainstream the involvement of women with regard to governance and
         decision-making in the CDCs and as beneficiaries of block grant investments.
    3. Establishment of an effective monitoring and evaluation system that can provide data on
         results/impacts (governance and poverty reduction) in addition to outputs.
    4. Emphasis on sustainability of investments through establishment of linkages between government
         entities and CDCs to obtain support for operation and maintenance.
    5. Capacity building for CDCs regarding financial management and procurement to promote
         transparency and accountability, and regarding operation and maintenance to promote
         sustainability.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

The consulted Facilitating Partners agree with the analysis and comments of the report. One of the major
Facilitating Partners explicitly states: "At the levels where we have been actively involved in the project, the
document reflects the outcomes well and it draws the right conclusions. Please herewith take note of our
satisfaction with the document and of our sincere hope that NSP can be continued until we have all together
been given the opportunity to contribute and reach the final goal."

10. Additional Information




                                                       - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
PUBLIC WORKS - Sub-projects in about        130 Districts (150 Districts),              179 Districts,
130 selected rural districts providing        3.66 million labor days                      3.88 million labor days
employment
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT -                     Year 1: 101 Districts (5,800 villages)      Year 1: 101 Districts (5,506 villages),
Implementation during 1st year of field                                                  Dec. 31, 2004: 101 Districts (6,181
implementation in 100 districts with 4,500                                               villages)
villages providing improved local governance
and reconstruction/development sub-projects




Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Public Works Component                      Sub-projects completed: 341                 By December 31, 2004:
                                                                                        Sub-projects completed: 335, involving repair
                                                                                        of 4,156 km of road, 10 small irrigation
                                                                                        systems, 16 schools, and 40 water storage
                                                                                        systems.
                                                                                        Labor days: 3.88 million
Community Empowerment Component             YEAR 1 target: Districts: 100; Villages:    By December 31, 2004:
(NSP)                                       4,500;                                      Districts reached: 101,
                                            CDCs elected 4,500; Block Grants            CDCs elected: 6,181,
                                            disbursed: $60 m                            Sub-projects funded: 5,962,
                                                                                        Block Grants disbursed: US$59.3 million




1End of project


Outputs for Community Empowerment Component                                     1st Year       Outputs:        Outputs:
                                                                                Target by     Aug. 31,         Dec. 31,
                                                                              Aug. 31, 04        2004            2004
Villages with elected Community Development Councils                              4,500           5,506         6,181
Villages with Community Development Plans                                         4,500           5,405          6,181
Sub-projects meeting appraisal criteria and funded                                3,000           1,423          5,962
Block Grant disbursement (US$ million)                                             72.0            29.1           59.3
Block Grant commitment (US$ million)                                               72.0            62.0          120.0
Community members trained in either procurement, FM, O&M                          >9,000         17,000         27,350
Facilitating Partner field staff trained                                          >3,000          2,052          2,607
MRRD staff trained                                                                >120             310            714




                                                               - 21 -

Outputs for Public Works Component                       MOPW  MRRD   Total

Total labor-days planned (Million)                        2.77  1.00  3.77
Labor-days generated (Million)                            3.17  0.61  3.88
Sub-projects contracted                                   307    50   357
Sub-projects completed                                    289    46   335
Planned length of road repair (Km)                       3,824  306   4,130
Actual length of road repair completed (Km)              3,824  332   4,156
Schools completed                                                16    16
Irrigation systems repaired                                      10    10
Water storage facilities completed                               40    40
Provinces with public works activities                    29     12    33
Districts with public works activities                    179    24




                                               - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                             Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                        Component                           US$ million     US$ million
1. SUB-GRANTS
Part A - Public Works                                         18.40            12.37               67
Part B - Community Empowerment                                16.00              6.18              39
2. CONSULTANT SERVICES & TRAINING
Part A - Public Works                                          1.00              2.68             268
Part B - Community Empowerment                                 4.00            17.80              445
3. GOODS
Part A - Public Works                                          0.00              1.64             164
Part B - Community Empowerment                                 1.50              2.81             187
4. OPERATING COSTS
Part A - Public Works                                          0.60              0.00            -100
Part B - Community Empowerment                                 0.50              0.10              20
5. UNALLOCATED                                                 0.00              0.00                0
6. PART C - SALANG TUNNEL                                      0.00              3.58             358

Total Baseline Cost                                           42.00            47.16
                           Total Project Costs                42.00            47.16
                     Total Financing Required                 42.00            47.16
Disbursements for Community Empowerment Component by 12/31/2004 (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                  Actual for   Disbursement   Disbursement      Total for
                                                    H009           from           from       Community
                                                                   H072        MULT 53939   Empowerment
                                                                                             Component
                    Component                     US$ million    US$ million   US$ million  US$
                                                                                           million
1. SUB-GRANTS
Part A - Public Works                                12.37            -              -       -
Part B - Community Empowerment                       6.18           43.54          10.21    59.93
2. CONSULTANT SERVICES & TRAINING
Part A - Public Works                                2.68             -              -       -
Part B - Community Empowerment                       17.80           7.06          2.35     27.21
3. GOODS
Part A - Public Works                                1.64             -              -       -
Part B - Community Empowerment                       2.81            0.02          0.02     2.85
4. OPERATING COSTS
Part A - Public Works                                0.00             -              -       -
Part B - Community Empowerment                       0.10            0.00          0.00     0.10
5. UNALLOCATED                                       0.00
6. PART C - SALANG TUNNEL                            3.58             -              -       -
         Total Project Costs                         47.16

Total Disbursements for Community                    26.89          50.62          12.58    90.09
Empowerment




                                                - 23 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 1
                                                       Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                              Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00                0.00            0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                                0.00               0.00                1.50            0.00              1.50
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)             (1.50)          (0.00)             (1.50)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00                5.00            0.00              5.00
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)             (5.00)          (0.00)             (5.00)
4. Village/District Grants              0.00               0.00               34.40            0.00              34.40
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)            (34.40)          (0.00)            (34.40)
5. Incremental Op. Costs                0.00               0.00                1.10            0.00              1.10
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)             (1.10)          (0.00)             (1.10)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00                0.00            0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)
    Total                               0.00               0.00               42.00            0.00              42.00
                                       (0.00)              (0.00)            (42.00)          (0.00)            (42.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 1
                                                      Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2        N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                             Other
1. Works                                0.00               0.00               2.37            0.00              2.37
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.37)           (0.00)           (2.37)
2. Goods                                0.17               0.00               3.07            0.00              3.24
                                       (0.17)             (0.00)             (3.07)           (0.00)           (3.24)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00               35.25           0.28             35.53
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (35.25)           (0.00)           (35.25)
4. Village/District Grants              0.00               0.00               2.19            0.00              2.19
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.19)           (0.00)           (2.19)
5. Incremental Op. Costs                0.00               0.00               0.00            0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00               0.00            0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
    Total                               0.17               0.00               42.88           0.28             43.33
                                       (0.17)             (0.00)            (42.88)           (0.00)           (43.05)

NOTE: The figure of $35.25 million under the expenditure category "Services" includes a total of $16.24 million
for "Village/District Grants". One contract under Public Works (MPW/048/TA) and one under Community
Empowerment (130/MRRD/NSP) comprised both a "Services" and a "Village/District Grants" expenditure
category, with the service provider contracted to disburse grants to villages and districts.
 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



                                                       - 24 -

100% financing of all components by the IDA Grant.




                                               - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Projects prepared under OP 8.50 for Emergency Recovery Assistance do not require calculation of the
economic rate of return. However, the planned midterm review by an external consultant will assess the
economic rate of return of block grant investments.

Community empowerment component: The involvement of contracted service providers as Facilitating
Partners to facilitate project implementation at the community level and as Oversight Consultant to assist
MRRD manage this large national program raises the question of the cost efficiency of the overall activity.


One way of making this assessment is by a simple juxtaposition of the project "delivery costs" comprising
the aggregate value of the Facilitating Partner and Oversight Consultant contracts with the value of block
grants delivered. If this comparison is done for the 1st year of field implementation, which was a period of
establishment, learning, and expansion, the ratio between "delivery costs" and the value of block grants
was roughly one to one ­ it took $1 to deliver $1 of block grants to communities. For the 2nd year of field
implementation the ratio between "delivery costs" and the value of block grants is expected to be 26%, and
if the two year period of field implementation is considered, the ratio is 22%.

However, the above calculation would not take into account that the community empowerment component
has two objectives with two deliverables. The "delivery costs" (i.e. costs for consultants) is not simply
administration and management costs, since they directly contribute to produce outputs that support the
two project objectives, namely (a) improved local level governance through formation of CDCs and
community capacity building for planning and management of sub-projects, and (ii) (ii) preparation of
sub-project proposals for block grant investments in mainly critical village level infrastructure leading to
improved service delivery and poverty reduction. If the program delivery costs are divided into the two
components of (i) head office/administration cost and project management cost, and (ii) local
governance/facilitation cost, an analysis of remuneration, reimbursable costs, training expense, travel and
miscellaneous expenses, and equipment, this would indicate a split between the two cost categories of 55%
for head office administration and project management costs, and 45% for local governance costs.




                                                     - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              February 2002           12     TTL; TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (2),
                                             MONITORING (1); COUNTRY
                                             PROGRAM MANAGER (1);
                                             GENDER SPECIALIST (1); EU
                                             (1); ADB (1); UNDP (1);
                                             UNHCR (1), UNICEF (1)
              March 2002                6    TTL; TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (2);
                                             COUNTRY PROGRAM
                                             MANAGER (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              April-May 2002          11     TTL; TRANSPORT                   S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT (2); FM
                                             (2); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                             LEAD COUNCEL (1);
                                             STAFF ASSISTANT (1);
                                             COUNTRY PROGRAM
                                             MANAGER (1)

 Supervision
              October 2002              1    TTL; FM (1); TRANSPORT           S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TRUST
                                             FUND SPECIALIST (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              November 2002             1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)         S               S
              January 2003              1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)         S               S
              Feb-March 2003            2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             TRANSPORT ANALYST (1)
              April 2003                7    TTL, SOCIAL DEV. (1);            S               S
                                             MONITORING (2); CDD (1);
                                             FM (1); IEC (1); TRANSPORT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              July-Sept. 2003           1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)         S               S
              October 2003              5    TTL, SOCIAL DEV. (1);            S               S
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPECIALIST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1); FM
                                             (1); MICROFINANCE (1);



                                              - 27 -

                                                         ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                                         (1)
               November 2003                        1    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)                S          S
               Jan-Feb. 2004                        5    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);               S          S
                                                         SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                                         CONSULTANT (1);
                                                         TRANSPORT ANALYST (1);
                                                         ENVIR. SAFEGUARDS
                                                         CONSULTANT (1); HUMAN &
                                                         INST. DEV. CONSULTANT (1)
               February 2004                        4    TTL, SOCIAL DEV. (1);                   S          S
                                                         ENGINEERING, SOC. DEV.
                                                         (1); SOCIAL DEV. &
                                                         SAFEGUARDS (1); DEPT.
                                                         MINISTER, MRRD (1)
               June-July 2004                       2    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);               S          S
                                                         SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                                         CONSULTANT (1)
               July 2004                            8    TTL, SOCIAL DEV. (1);                   S          S
                                                         ENGINEERING, SOC. DEV.
                                                         (1); FINANCIAL
                                                         MANAGEMENT (2); DEPT.
                                                         MINISTER, MRRD (1);
                                                         COMMUNITY
                                                         PROCUREMENT (1); BUDGET
                                                         DIRECTOR, MOF (1); DEV.
                                                         OFFICER, CIDA (1)
               Aug-Nov. 2004                        6    TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1);               S          S
                                                         SOCIAL PROTECTION
                                                         CONSULTANT (1); FM (1);
                                                         WORKSHOP SPECIALIST (1)
               December 2004                        3    TTL, SOCIAL DEV. (1);
                                                         ENGINEERING, SOC. DEV.
                                                         (1); COUNTRY ECONOMIST
                                                         (1)

Note: The Procurement Specialist in the Kabul Resident Mission has been providing ongoing supervision and
support regarding procurement issues relation to both the public works and community empowerment components,
but did not participate in any field visits. Supervision of Social Safeguards for the community empowerment
component was generally handled by the TTL.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                              Actual/Latest Estimate
                                              No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                         30.32                         333,932
  Appraisal/Negotiation                              14.00                         154,190
  Supervision                                        91.47                         374.785
  Total                                            137.79                          871,707




                                                          - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Participation and Civic
Engagement
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Supervision mission Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports.

Technical Annex for a Proposed Grant of SDR33.7 million (US$42.0 million equivalent) to Afghanistan
for an Emergency Community Empowerment & Public Works Project, Report No: T7535-AF, May 13,
2002.


Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a Proposed Grant of SDR33.7 million (US$42.0 million equivalent) to Afghanistan
for an Emergency Community Empowerment & Public Works Project, Report No: P7535-AF, May 13,
2002.


Development Grant Agreement (Emergency Community Empowerment & Public Works Project) between
Afghanistan and International Development Association, Grant No: H009-AF, June 8, 2002.

Technical Annex for a Proposed Grant of SDR66.1 million (US$95 million equivalent) to Afghanistan for
an Emergency National Solidarity Project, Report No: T7609-AF, November 26, 2003.

Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a Proposed Grant of SDR66.1 million (US$95 million equivalent) to Afghanistan
for an Emergency National Solidarity Project, Report No: P7609-AF, November 26, 2003.

Development Grant Agreement (Emergency National Solidarity Project) between Afghanistan and
International Development Association, Grant No: H072-AF, January 20, 2004.

Afghanistan: Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework.

National Solidarity Program Operational Manual, June 15, 2003.

Assessment of Microfinance and Income Generating Schemes as an Option for Community Sub-Projects
under the Emergency National Solidarity Project. Kabul, January 2004.

Assessment of NSP Facilitating Partners: Common Final Report (including appendices on Lessons Learned
and Key Recommendations), Altai Consulting, Kabul, August 2004.

From Subjects to Citizens: Local Participation in the National Solidarity Program.
Afghanistan Research & Evaluation Unit, Working Papers, Kabul, August 2004.

Value-Based Development in Afghanistan: Method and Pilot.
Civic Engagement, Empowerment and Respect for Diversity (CEERD) Initiative, World Bank, December
19, 2004.

Labour Intensive Public Works Program - September 2002 to June 2004: Final Report.
Care International, September 2004.




                                                   - 31 -

National Emergency Employment Programme - Final Review Report (November 2004-March 2005), May
2005.

Quality of Supervision Assessment (QSA6), October 15, 2004.




                                              - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. Comments from Cofinancing Partners

European Commission (Kabul office):

The Implementation Completion Report seems a fair assessment of a program which may have faced
daunting tasks to get the ball rolling in the first place, particularly, in a post-conflict scenario.

On community empowerment and formation of CDCs more could have been achieved if linkages with other
line ministries / departments would have been elaborated and strengthened.

On public works programs, it is always difficult to reconcile technology levels with the labor days when
really the prime concern is maximum short term employment opportunities. Anyway, it is heartening note
that around 3 million labor days were created to provide a great relief to poor and vulnerable groups.

Due to weak M&E systems, it is obvious that the true extent of impact on poverty mitigation is not known.
The follow up phase may ensure that these short comings are well taken care and MIS well placed to
adequately monitor developments of the program.

Canada (Embassy of Canada, Kabul):

The implementation completion report provides a fair overview of the status of NSP as one of the most
successful national programs of the Government of Afghanistan, it covers most of the achievements and
challenges which lies ahead of this program, if not all of them.

Overall, there is less concern, at this stage of the project, about the process and efficiency factors although
without these the project would not be as successful as the ICR reflects. Of importance are the
effectiveness and impact of the NSP, in terms of economic and social benefits to the rural communities; the
efficacy of the CDCs in earning for the Central Government the loyalties of the remote rural communities,
the latter being a critical factor in securing and stabilizing the country by connecting the Central
Government with the people in the districts and villages and establishing its authority across the country.
These aspects we can explore only if we build a results and performance measurement framework.

Apart from the above, below are listed a few issues that should be addressed for the sustainability and
further success of National Solidarity Program.

1.       On the Public Works component of this project, the ICR could focus more on the following issues:

   l Operation and Maintenance of Public Works Projects: Suggest that more effort be deployed to
         ensure operation and maintenance of small scale infrastructure and electricity supply projects at
         village levels and explore options for training the communities in maintenance of such
         infrastructure.
   l Coordination of Infrastructure Projects with Local Government Departments for Sustainability:
         Suggest Certain infrastructure projects- school buildings, bridges and culverts- be discussed and
         coordinated in advance with relevant Government institutions so that they can provide the
         necessary support for operation, maintenance and sustainability on an ongoing basis.

2.       On Community Development and Local Governance component of this project, the following
issues might play a critical role in contributing to the effectiveness of NSP:



                                                       - 33 -

    l Cabinet Ministers Education and CDCs Ownership: Efforts should be made in educating and
         ensuring that government Cabinet Ministers are aware of the objectives and activities of the NSP at
         the grass roots level in order to get more government buy-in for this project. Cabinet support to the
         NSP will contribute to the CDCs' sustainability and perhaps utilization of the CDCs to deliver
         basic services at the grassroots level by other ministries that can engender people's participation in
         the development process.
    l Women CDCs: As determined by the two supervision missions - further measure should be
         undertaken to enhance the roles and responsibilities for strengthening of female CDCs across
         Afghanistan.
    l Further Training and Capacity Building of CDCs: Financial management, project administration
         and procurement trainings should be provided to the members of various CDCs to further
         strengthen transparency and accountability.

Denmark (Office of the Representative of Denmark to Afghanistan):

Denmark is overall truly pleased with the NSP program and its progress in implementation as outlined in
the ICR. The work undertaken so far by the World Bank, the Oversight Consultant and Facilitating
Partners is very impressive, especially when considering the complexity and scale of the program.

Our comments to the ICR are thus limited and concerns the sustainability of the governance component and
gender aspects of the NSP program:

With regards to the governance component we fully agree with the ICR that the sustainability of this
component is likely and critically dependent on the seven conditions set out under section 6.1. of the ICR.

However, we do not agree that the institutionalization of the CDCs as local governance bodies depends on
MRRD solely as the implementing agency. The meeting in June between donors, MRRD and cabinet
members would indicate that not all cabinet members are equally enthusiastic about NSP due to its
potential/danger to catalyze new and board based political forces and agendas. We suggest that it could be
made clearer in the ICR that the institutionalization of the CDCs depends on a broader support/buy-in from
the cabinet that goes beyond the control of MRRD, and is properly at this point in time the absolutely
critical factor in the sustainability of the NSP program.

We can agree on the comments of the ICR on women involvement in the CDCs, however we are wondering
why the ICR is rather abstract with regards to recommending action besides reference to the need for
"careful nurturing by skillful facilitation". We would prefer if there was a clear and strong recommendation
for adjusting the program through development of a gender mainstreaming strategy with a clear M&E
framework - just as the joint Aide Memoire, which was the outcome of the joint supervision trip of
WB/Donor/MMRD, is recommending.




                                                     - 34 -

- 35 -

