Document of
The World Bank
Report No: T7535-AF
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED GRANT
OF SDR 33.7 MILLION
(US$42.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
AFGHANISTAN
FOR
AN
EMERGENCY COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT
AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
MAY 13, 2002



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(exchange rate is Quetta based open market buying rate
effective as of April 20, 2002)
Currency Unit =      Afghani
US$1        =    37,000 AFA
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
March 21-March 20
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AACA          Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority
ADB           Asian Development Bank
AGO           Auditor General Office
AIA           Afghanistan Interim Administration
ARTF          Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
DFID          Department for intemational Development
IDA           Intemational Development Association
IFC           International Finance Corporation
IMF           Intemational Monetary Fund
IOM           Intemational Organization for Migration
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOPW          Ministry of Public Works
MRRD          Ministry of Reconstruction and Rural Development
NGO           Nongovemmental Organization
TSS           Transitional Support Strategy
UN            United Nations
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNHCR         United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF        United Nations Intemational Childrens' Emergency Fund
Vice President   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director   Alastair McKechnie
Sector Director   Vincent Gouarne
Afghanistan Reconstruction Manager   Philippe Dongier
Team Leader     Scott Guggenheim



AFGHANISTAN
EMERGENCY COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT
AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
PAGE
NUMBER
I.     BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ................................................................... 1
THE CONFLICT AND TRANSITION TO PEACE ..................................................................1
RURAL POVERTY AND UNEMPLOYMENT ................................................................... I
II.    AIA STRATEGY: EMERGENCY AND DEVELOPMENT ......................................,.,.,,.,,.,,,,. 2
m.     IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ........................6
AFGHANISTAN'S RELATIONS WITH IDA ................................................................... 6
AFGHANISTAN'S ARREARS TO IDA ...................................................................7
THE TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT STRATEGY ................................................................... 7
LEGAL BASIS FOR ASSISTANCE TO NON-ACCRUAL MEMBERS ......................................7
PROGRAM OF IDA GRANTS FOR EARLY SUPPORT TO POST-CONFLICT RECOVERY ......  8
IV.    PART A: THE PROPOSED PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM ..............................................................8
PROGRAM OBJECTIVES ...................................................................8
PROGRAM COMPONENTS ...................................................................8
PROGRAM READINESS ...................................................................9
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS ..................................................................  11
DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS BY COMPONENT .................................. 11
PROGRAM RATIONALE ..................................................................  13
INFRASTRUCTURE BENEFITS ..................................................................  13
EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS ..................................................................  14
RISKS AND PROGRAM ALTERNATIVES ..................................................................   15
COMPLEMENTARY PROGRAMS ..................................................................  15
MONITORING AND EVALUATION ..................................................................  16
V.     PART B: THE PROPOSED COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROGRAM ....................................... 16
PROGRAM OBJECTIVES .1..................................... 16
PROGRAM DESCRIPTION .16
DESCRIPTION OF COMPONENTS .19
PROGRAM BENEFITS .19
COMPLEMENTARY ACTIVITIES .20
COORDINATION WITH OTHER DOORs .20
LESSONS LEARNED FROM OTHER PROJECTS .21
ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED .23
VI.    ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS .................................. 23
ANNEX 1. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS ................................,,.,.,.,,,,,,,...,.,.,,,,,,,,....,.,.,.,.,,.,.,.,. 25
ANNEX 2. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDIT ARRANGEMENTS .37
ANNEX 3. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ........ 42
ANNEX 4. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS FRAMEwoRK .44






I.     BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
THE CONFLICT AND TRANSITION TO PEACE
1.    Afghanistan is one of the poorest and longest-suffering countries among the members of the
World Bank. An estimated 7 million people remain vulnerable to hunger and very large numbers are
dependent on a massive inflow of food and humanitarian aid. Afghanistan's infrastructure has been
destroyed or degraded; its human resource base severely depleted; and its social capital eroded. State
institutions are largely nonfunctional, and the economy and society have become increasingly fragmented.
2.     September 11, 2001 precipitated wholesale changes in the political and military situation in
Afghanistan, transforming the overall context for national reconstruction and for World Bank support to
Afghanistan. The collapse of the Taliban regime was followed by the conclusion on December 5, 2001, in
Bonn, Germany, of the Agreement on Provisional Arrangements in Afghanistan Pending the Re-
establishment of Permanent Government Institutions (the Bonn Agreement), an agreement among the
different groups in opposition to the Taliban regime on a new structure of government and a process that
would lead to the election of a fully representative government within a period of about 2 and Y2 years.
3.     Fully vested with the sovereign functions of government, the Afghanistan Interim Authority, of
which the AIA is a part, peacefully took over central administration on December 22, 2001, with the
expectation that it would be in power for 6 months. An emergency Loya Jirga will take place in June
2002. The Loya Jirga will decide on a Transitional Authority that is expected to pave the way for a new
constitution and an elected, fully representative government for Afghanistan within 2 years. The Interim
Authority has the power to repeal and amend laws and regulations by decree.
RURAL POVERTY AND UNEMPLOYMENT
4.     For about 80 percent of Afghanistan's population, which lives in rural areas, incomes are at
subsistence level due to high pressure on cultivable land. About 75 percent of Afghanistan's area is
uninhabitable, (highly mountainous or desert); 14 percent is suitable for agriculture, and only 4 percent is
cultivated in any given year (some areas remain fallow while others are used for pasture). Part of this
arable land is in narrow mountain valleys and the rest is in flat lowlands, mostly in the country's north
and west regions. Water is a limiting factor, so much so that villages are sometimes defined as those
households sharing a water source. Settlements tend to expand linearly along rivers and along drainage
basins that rise into foothills, occasionally on terraced slopes that lead to high-plateau villages. A few
settlements benefit from larger irrigation schemes in lower areas. A rural population estimated at about 20
million persons (no census has been undertaken for more than a decade) and a total land area of about
650,000 square kIn, results in a density of about two persons per hectare of arable agricultural land.
5.     The drought that has lasted since 1999 has further reduced the already low rural incomes and
depleted assets. After losing land, houses, orchards, cattle, and family members, many Afghans have
effectively lost their means of livelihood and depend on food aid support, have migrated, or rely on
remittances. Malnutrition and mortality rates appear to have risen sharply. An estimated 3 million
persons are vulnerable to hunger and life expectancy is said to have decreased to only 41 years. Many
families are effectively below subsistence level. Unemployment and underemployment are widespread.
Rural populations have a desperate need for alternative paid work.
6.     The impact of conflict is a layer deeper than that of drought, having lasted longer. Many families
have been displaced internally or to neighboring countries, but people are returning to Afghanistan-
returnees and ex-combatants put additional pressure on resources. Trading, a traditional activity, has been
constrained but seems to be reviving. Some borders may not be crossed easily or at all, and in some
places "tolls" are also being exacted. Telecommunications and other utility services taken for granted
I



elsewhere are almost nonexistent in Afghanistan. Credit is rarely available, and hardly worth the risk,
available via mortgages or suppliers' credits, implying high interest rates. Commercial banks do not
function-transactions need to be in cash or barter.
7.     Poor and deteriorated infrastructure further increases costs to rural populations. For many years,
public infrastructure has not been maintained. Irrigation canals have accumulated sedimentation and in
many places structures are in need of repair. Both of these conditions reduce water flows and hence
agricultural productivity. Unpaved provincial and district roads are poorly surfaced and hinder access,
even if their total length of about 18,000 km may be adequate given the population's concentration in
relatively small areas. The 3,000 km national paved network, almost circling the high mountains and with
spurs to neighboring countries, also is in poor condition, although scant motorized traffic has limited
serious deterioration. These roads permit only low speeds; often a short trip requires an overnight stay.
Non-motorized transport seems as important as motorized means in many parts of rural Afghanistan.
8.     While imported grains are needed, food aid is reported to be depressing farmer prices, lessening
incentives to put in the great effort required to produce wheat in risky times of drought, and increasing the
relative cost of acquiring non-farm goods by way of selling crops. Unfortunately, poppy cultivation
tolerates drought best because poppies can be grown almost anywhere in Afghanistan, is labor intensive,
and opiate products fetch a high price. In other words, poppy cultivation is a highly attractive source of
income given local circumstances, even though traders rather than farmers are the main beneficiaries.
However, about 75 percent of Afghanistan's opium production comes from only 2 of the country's 32
provinces.
II.    AIA STRATEGY: EMERGENCY AND DEVELOPMENT
9.     Despite being hampered by its very limited capacity, and a difficult security situation in many
parts of the country, the Afghanistan Interim Administration (AIA) has made considerable progress and is
gaining widespread international recognition and some moral authority. In April 2002, the AIA presented
a draft National Development Framework to the Interim Donors Group, which laid out the
administration's development strategy. It should be noted, however, that expectations among the
population for a "peace dividend" are high, and if the AIA and its successor do not deliver results
relatively quickly, the prospects for further progress and the peace process are likely to dim.
10.   Beyond popular expectations for a peace dividend, developing a strong framework for
strengthening local governance and promoting community development will be essential to reduce
poverty and to promote social cohesion in the country. AIA policy statements and follow-up actions
highlight the balance that must be struck between acting quickly on the humanitarian and reconstruction
agenda, and ensuring that emergency relief does not overwhelm the longer-term objective of creating
conditions that will promote economic growth, build sound administrative and financial institutions, give
people a voice in political decision making, and develop local capacities for action.
11.   The AIA has made community development a centerpiece of its development strategy. At the
Tokyo meeting, the Chairman of the AIA presented a bold vision for a national comnmunity development
program
We intend to implement a local empowerment program that would allow
communities to manage their own resources .... Such a program would
allow legitimate leaders to emerge to deal with issues facing their
communities and to form the basis for consultative democracy in the
future. Block grants would be distributed to villages and districts, and
allocated to projects through inclusive and participatory processes and on
the basis of simple criteria.
2



12.    To help integrate this vision into the reconstruction program, AIA invited a joint donor mission to
Afghanistan in March 2002, in order to initiate design of a national community development framework
and program of actions. The joint mission included participants from the Asian Development Bank
(ADB), the European Community, the World Bank, the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP), the United Nations International Childrens' Emergency Fund (UNICEF), and the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR).
13.   During the joint donor mission, a broad range of Afghan and international stakeholders were
consulted. It was found that there was strong support for a coordinated approach to community
development, including support for helping the AIA devise a national "single window" framework for
channeling support to communities through public transfers. This approach does not inhibit Non-
governmental (NGO) or other donor efforts, but rather provides a systematic approach for government
budget support, thus strengthening sustainability. The mission's recommendations were accepted by the
AIA.
14.    The AIA's proposal for a national village empowerment program will take place amidst a broad
set of community development activities. The overall picture of community development activities in
Afghanistan includes:
*  Sectoral activities that will respond to community needs. One group of activities will strengthen
government line agencies, particularly their ability to establish sectoral objectives, normnative
standards and regulatory capacities;
*  Afghan and international NGOs have for many years provided a broad range of basic services to
villages and are expected to continue doing so. NGOs at present cover all major service sectors:
rural development, water supply and sanitation, health, education, energy, and, to a lesser extent,
farm-to-market road construction. Approximately US$125 million has been programmed to go
through NGOs for community development activities during the next 2 years.
o Humanitarian and relief efforts to help returning refugees and internally displaced people adapt to
their new communities. Approximately US$180 million has been programmed to go through the
UNHICR and International Organization for Migration (IOM) to work with returning international
refugees and the internally displaced within Afghanistan.
*  Short-term public employment programs, such as labor-based road and canal maintenance. The
U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), UNDP, and the Department for
International Development (DFID) have funded or are expected to soon fund approximately
US$10 million each for targeted labor-based works programs.
15.    Because of the focus on ongoing relief and humanitarian programs, less attention has been given
to ways to strengthen the sub-national units of government-the administration of villages, districts, and
provinces. Over time, however, the Government of Afghanistan will need to build up a decentralized
service delivery system that fosters the respective "comparative advantages" in activities at these levels.
This is the niche within which the proposed program of community and local government development
actions will fit.
16.   Key to the success of this strategy will be whether programs can strike a proper balance between
supporting the local government's technical capacities to plan, manage, and monitor, and the need to
promote legitimate, acco'mtable local institutions. At present, however, districts remain extremely weak
or are controlled by regional warlords. Therefore, the short-term strategy covered by the community
program will focus on deveioping community and intercommunity capacities. Although some capacity
3



development, particularly at the provincial level, will take place during the transitional period covered by
the proposed program, in general, province- and district-level strengthening programs will proceed
cautiously and on a case-by-case basis, as determined by the AIA.
4



TABLE 1
SCHEMATIC OVERVIEW OF DRAFr SUB-NATIONAL GOVERNMENT
DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK
Infrastructure and Service Provision Roles,         Broader Local
Local              ~~~Implementation and,        Gvrnne
Local Planning Process    - Implementaffon and;        Institutional
Plannin  ProManagement
_  _                                      ll~~~~~~~~~~~evelo'pment-<
*   Entry and base of Local  *  "client" role in  *   Management of natural
Planning Process:        implementing village     resources, dispute
Identification of needs   and some District       resolution, etc.
and priorities            menu investments:   *   Providing
*   Approval of "village      (a) subcontract or      representation to ad hoc
menu" proposals           agreement with          inter-village interest
(within village grant     privlNGO/gov't or       bodies to manage inter-
ceiling)                  (b) direct              village resources, etc.
*   Forwarding others to     implementation by    *   Representatives to a
District and dialogue     village/community       District Development
with District on these    agency                  Committee which
*   Involvement in        *   management and          engages and monitors
deciding details of all   maintenance of          District administration
approved proposals        village investments,
(siting, design)          with own labor and
*   management of all
intra-village
economic activities
*   Support to village    *   support for         *   Informal District
planning process          implementation. of      Development
(facilitation, tech       some types of village   Committee to oversee
options, costing, ..)     investment              district admin and
*   Appraisal/approval of  *  Client role in          ensure link to
proposals from village    implementing some       communities (i.e.,
which are on "District    District (especially    forerunner of a District
menu", within District    intervillage or more    council)
budget/grant ceiling      tech. comnplex)      *  Management and
*   Securing line dept       investments;             regulation of
budgets or staff      *   Management and          intervillage natural
*   Forwarding other          maintenance of          resources, dispute
proposals to province     District investments    resolution, etc;
*   Dialogue with villages                        *   Representation in ad
and provinces                                     hoc inter-district
interest bodies
*   Support to village and  *  Support for some   *   Interdistrict
district planning         types of local          consultative body to
process (facilitation,    investment              advise provincial
tech options, costing  *  Client for some         administration
b Securing line dept          Provincial
budgets or staff          investments
*   Other proposals to and  *  Management and
dialogue with Center      maintenance of
Province investments
5



17.   Rebuilding Afghan communities will be a complex operation that will require close coordination
between technical service agencies, the humanitarian relief community, nongovemmental service
providers, and the AIA. Specific sectoral issues in Afghan community development include:
*  Decapitalization of the rural economy and rises in farmer indebtedness because of limited
competition to traditional suppliers of rural fmnance;
*  Breakdowns in local leadership, social capital, and local govemance;
*  Growing levels of ethnic polarization and rural violence;
*  Lack of basic productive infrastructure such as farm-market access roads, or tertiary canals; and
*  Need for vocational skills to support off-farm income sources;
18.   In many areas, the conflict has seriously damaged the agricultural base on which rural livelihoods
depend, either directly because of mines or ruined crops, or indirectly, because productive infrastructure
was not maintained or large segments of the rural population have fled. Traditional landlord-patron
exchanges have tipped in favor of landlords and moneylenders and levels of anger are high among rural
populations. In the wake of demobilization, unemployed and armed youth are at risk of tuming to crime
and violence. Furthermore, while the country comes to grips with the large inflow of grant aid,
reconstruction must be done in an environment where the risk of aid dependency is high, and the
incentives for building sustainability into community projects is low.
19.   On the positive side, Afghanistan's villages and neighborhoods have proven to be strikingly
resilient. Livelihoods have continued, and even during the Taliban period significant parts of the country
continued to receive development services from NGOs and private sector providers who worked with
community organizations. Afghan villagers traditionally have relied on extensive trading networks, and
these are expected to revive quickly once peace has been established and the villages have had
opportunities to recapitalize themselves. NGO best practices in Afghanistan have demonstrated that
community-driven projects can succeed even in the most inhospitable environments and in a wide variety
of sectors, provided that certain principles of participatory planning and technical quality management are
followed. Methods to ensure financial sustainability and good technical planning have been demonstrated
in Afghan community work and increasingly are being applied to other efforts.
III. IDA ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
AFGHANISTAN'S RELATIONS WITH IDA
20.    Afghanistan is a member of the Intemational Development Agency (IDA), the Intemational
Finance Corporation (IFC), the Intemational Monetary Fund (IMF), and the ADB. Afghanistan became a
member of IMF and the World Bank in 1955. IDA has provided 21 development credits to Afghanistan
since 1964; the last two, for roads and rural development, were approved in June 1979. IDA operations in
Afghanistan were suspended shortly after the 1979 Soviet invasion; of the US$230 million approved by
IDA, US$83 million was disbursed and US$147 million was subsequently canceled. Afghanistan has
repaid US$9.2 million to IDA and was up-to-date on debt service payments until June 1992, when it went
into non-accrual status. Although IDA has not extended any credits to Afghanistan since 1979, it has
remained engaged with the assistance community. Efforts included continuous monitoring of political and
economic developments; managing selective investments in the Afghan refugee communities; working
closely with the United Nations and donors; undertaking knowledge-building and knowledge-sharing
activities; and providing analytical and strategic inputs for the work of the wider assistance community.
6



AFGHANISTAN'S ARREARS TO IDA
21.    Resuming normal financial relations with IDA will require Afghanistan to clear outstanding
arrears which, as of January 31, 2002, total around US$51 million (including US$25.2 rnillion to IDA,
US$16 million to the ADB, and US$9.8 million to the IMF). The AIA is committed to clearing its arrears
to IDA before the end of 2002.
22.   IDA has not extended any credits to Afghanistan since 1979 although it has remained engaged
with the assistance community. Activities included continuous monitoring of political and economic
developments; managing selective investments in the Afghan refugee communities; working closely with
United Nations agencies and donors; undertaking knowledge-building and knowledge-sharing activities;
and providing analytical and strategic depth for the work of the wider assistance community.'
THE TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT STRATEGY
23.   IDA's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), which was presented to the Board on April 4, 2002
with the Public Administration Technical Assistance Project, is predicated on the need for well-
coordinated efforts by Afghanistan's development partners to realize Afghanistan's reconstruction and
development priorities. IDA's key assistance objectives in Afghanistan over the next 6 to 9 months are to
assist the authorities in establishing capacity in areas essential to facilitate the reconstruction program; to
support high-priority reconstruction activities that can also help jumpstart economic activity; and to
continue to build IDA's knowledge base to allow for setting a well-designed program of future assistance.
To deliver assistance outside of Kabul, it will be vital to utilize the experiences and networks of NGOs
and United Nations agencies, and to develop mechanisms to channel funds directly to community groups
or traditional governance structures.
24.    Assistance to Afghanistan, for both recurrent and capital expenditures, is likely to be received
from various donors and delivered through a variety of mechanisms. Hence, aid coordination will be
essential to ensure a comprehensive and unified budget that is in line with agreed national priorities. One
mechanism to assist in such coordinated funding is the multi-donor, IDA-administered Afghanistan
Reconstruction Trust Fund that will provide financing for priority expenditures, including recurrent costs.
Donor funding for recurrent expenditures, including wage payments, is an essential element of the support
needed because the scope for own-revenue collection is at present very limited.
LEGAL BASIS FOR ASSISTANCE TO NON-ACCRUAL MEMBERS
25.    Under IDA's Twelfth Replenishment Resolution, IDA-12 donor funds may be used for post-
conflict grants under the following conditions: (i) the proposed grant has been designed in accordance
with OP 2.30; (ii) early performance is promising as evidenced by the recipient country having taken
convincing steps towards social and economic recovery; (iii) arrears to EBRD and/or IDA are large and
protracted, and cannot be easily or quickly cleared using domestic resources; (iv) a concerted
international effort to provide positive financial flows and other assistance is underway, and other
creditors have agreed not to make net withdrawals of financial resources from the country; and (v)
alternative sources of financing for post-conflict recovery are inadequate or available only on
inappropriate terms.
26.    With respect to the first two criteria, the proposed Grant has been designed in accordance with
OP 2.30, given that Afghanistan is in the midst of establishing a path towards social and economic
recovery. As for Afghanistan's arrears to IDA, it has been in non-accrual status since June 1992, with
outstanding principal of US$74.7 million and overdue principal and charges of US$25.2 million. In terms
See Afghanistan: World Bank Approach Paper, November 2001 for more details.
7



of criterion (iii), these amounts are "large and protracted" compared with Afghanistan's capability to
service debt, and Afghanistan does not have domestic resources available to clear them. As for the last
two criteria, the proposed grant would be part of the first steps in fulfilling the pledge by the World Bank
Group institutions to contribute to the international effort to assist Afghanistan; other multilateral
creditors have agreed not to make net withdrawals of financial resources prior to arrears clearance;
bilateral creditors are not expected to make net withdrawals; and alternative sources of funding are not
adequate to meet Afghanistan's needs in the immediate post-conflict period. Thus the proposed grant is
consistent with the adopted framework for IDA's provision of post-conflict grant assistance.
PROGRAM OF IDA GRANTS FOR EARLY SUPPORT TO POST-CONFLICT RECOVERY
27.    The proposed grant is part of a program of early IDA support to Afghanistan's post-conflict
recovery. The program includes the Emergency Public Administration Project (JS$10 million) which
was approved by IDA on April 4, 2002, the proposed Emergency Education Rehabilitation and
Development Project (US$15 million), the proposed Emergency Infrastructure Reconstruction Project
(US$33 million), and the proposed Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project
(US$42 trillion). This program consists of priority activities that are scheduled to be implemented
rapidly, primarily during the next 12 months. Rather than bundling the package of emergency and quick
support into one operation, as has been done in some other post-conflict situations, the Afghanistan
program consists of several operations organized along logical groupings in order to enhance focus,
management efficiency, sustained sectoral focus during supervision, and orderly transition to normal IDA
support as lessons are learned from the various projects.
28.    Management and economic information gathered during the July-November implementation
period will be critical for preparing a larger, follow-on project for community development. This period
will also assess progress in developing provincial and district administration, and whether there is a need
for specialized targeting of highly vulnerable groups. Appraisal of the second phase should be completed
by no later than the end of 2002 so that full-scale operations can begin in 2003. A review will be made
also of possible continuation of labor based works on a routine basis.
IV.    PART A: THE PROPOSED PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM
PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
29.    The objectives are: (i) provide employment in rural areas at a minimum wage, as a safety net, to
as many people and in as short a time as may be feasible; and (ii) to rehabilitate in a sustainable way
irrigation capacity and provincial- and district-level roads. Subprojects will be prioritized and selected at
the district level, taking into account both infrastructure and employment needs. In doing this, the
program will also support local planning and the hiring of some of the currently idle Afghan engineers,
skilled workers, and small contractors. Another objective is to complete the program by the end of 2002.
PROGRAM COMPONENTS
30.    The Public Works Program includes the following components totaling US$20 million
equivalent.
31.    Component A: District Grants for Subprojects (US$18.4 million). District grants generally
will not exceed US$130,000 equivalent. They will cover the cost of labor, materials, tools, transport
costs, and rental equipment, as required to undertake approved subprojects. About 130 of the country's
total 325 districts may be assisted. If additional funding becomes available from other donors, the
coverage could be expanded as justified, following demonstrated principles and processes.
8



32.    Component B: Technical Assistance for Implementation (US$0.6 million). To assist the
Ministries of Public Works and Rural Development, who are responsible for the overall program
implementation of subprojects selected, the project will allow hiring of:
(i)    A small team of senior experts based in Kabul (four engineers, a Chief Financial Officer
[CFO], an information technology [IT] expert, and support staff). Firms, NGOs, and
experts already based in Afghanistan will be selected to assist with start-up activities and
install information systems. Firms and experts are expected to provide overall supervision
throughout implementation. Their contract will include the expenses to support engineers
who may be hired in the regions. Funding also has been allocated to cover foreign
advisory experts (about US$0.4 million equivalent).
(ii)   A core of 60 Afghan civil engineers, road engineers, and irrigation engineers, who will
assist in the provinces with designing and costing of district proposals, will provide
technical support to villagers and small contractors, and supervise works, expenditures,
and payments to workers (about US$0.2 million equivalent).
(iii)  A team of financial officers who will provide disbursements and keep accounts for the
proposed public works program and the community empowerment program. Branches of
the Da Afghanistan Bank (DAB) are expected to provide the basic disbursement capacity,
supported as required by additional temporary consultants to be hired by the DAB for
these projects (an allocation of US$0.1 million has been made in case funding is
required).
33.    Component C: Monitoring and Preparing a Longer- term Program Proposal
(US$0.5 million).
(i)    Teams of independent monitors will be needed to do spot-checks on all aspects of the
project. Intensive independent reviews will take considerable time if for no other reason
than the extensive travel involved in visiting scattered subproject sites (about US$0.25
million).
(ii)   A team of experts will work with Ministry staff to review Project progress and results of
the program and other similar programs, in order to prepare a proposal for a labor-
intensive program that the Government could implement on a longer-term basis. The
proposal may include ways to support the establishment of small contractors (about
US$0.25 million).
34.    Component D: Incremental Operating Expenses (US$0.5 million).      The provincial
departments may require funding for incremental expenses in order to participate in the program. This
allocation, if not used, will be redirected to further work in district subprojects.
PROGRAM READINESS
35.    The Government would like the employment program to start immediately, but August is a more
realistic goal given the required preparation work. The project could start in parallel with the proposed
community empowerment program. Below is the set of preparation activities being undertaken prior to
July and to begin implementation.
36.    Geographical coverage and selection. While it may be desirable to provide a short-term public
employment source in every district by July, rolling out such a program to 325 districts in 32 provinces at
once would be daunting. The number of districts to be assisted is also constrained by available funding
and by the need for meaningful minimum allocations, as explained below. Some 30 rural districts could
9



start implementation in August; and a second set of 90-110 districts could start implementation in
September. The subprojects to be implemented during the first month will be pilot projects. The program
as a whole also could be considered as a pilot, and could be expanded if needs, results, and additional
funds justify this.
37.    The district selection process will take into account population density, infrastructure needs,
number of unemployed, accessibility, absence of security problems, and presence of other programs.
Noting that the population is distributed very unevenly, the proposed Public Works Program is best suited
to high-density districts or subdistricts. The proposed approach would reach the most people, provide the
greatest benefits, and facilitate logistics. Districts with very low population densities and desert-type areas
with few roads and irrigation canals will be less amenable to labor-intensive works. It should be noted
that high-density areas are not necessarily the worst-off and leaving out provinces may be politically
difficult if other projects are not catering to these. Provincial Governors will be requested to select
districts and propose a priority list of investments for the program.
38.    District allocation decisions. Allocations per district must reflect disparate populations, needs,
and area sizes. A transparent allocation process will be necessary for fairness across districts. Allocations
would be based on US$2-3 per inhabitant in the selected districts, to allow for a 10-day employment
period per man expected to seek work. Three district allocation levels may be set. The district average is
expected to be approximately US$120,000. The selected rehabilitation subproject(s) in the district can be
sized to the funding available.
39.    Program implementation start up activities:
* Management consultants. Several NGOs that have maintained a presence in Kabul for years
have been identified as candidates for the detailed project preparation work and eventual
management of implementation, as a contractor to and in support of the Ministries of Public
Works, Rural Development, and Irrigation, if the latter needs to be involved in some
subprojects. Terms of reference have been prepared and an NGO will be selected and a
contract signed following grant negotiations.
* Civil engineers. The engineer recruitment process is expected to start in May. Identification
of engineers by the department heads will start in each province as soon as districts are
selected. It is anticipated that about four candidates per participating province (depending on
the number of districts covered) will attend a 2-week training workshop on the project
concept, ethical standards, and project paperwork and procedures, and will review work
methods and standards. The standards of the respective Ministries will be followed for the
road and irrigation canal rehabilitation programs. Engineers will be asked to pass a
"certification test" and the best candidates will be hired under individual contracts with the
management firm, to start work in the districts as soon as possible.
* Provincial or regional offices. A small office should be readied with basic capacity in the
dilapidated or empty department buildings or elsewhere, to accommodate the project
engineers. Further provincial office and equipment rehabilitation is intended under a
European Union project, but this is unlikely to be operational by the end of June.
40.    Project preparation and start-up activities (recruitment, training, etc.) would be funded under a
grant of US$100,000 equivalent. A preparation schedule has been agreed.
10



INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
41.    The Ministries of Public Works and Rural Rehabilitation and Development will be in charge of
work in their respective spheres and will be responsible for day-to-day management and implementation
of project activities, and reporting. The Ministries will be assisted by a small team of management
consultants based in Kabul. The consultants will be procured by the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination
Authority (AACA) and its procurement agent on behalf of the Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry
of Rural Development. This team will support the two ministries and help consolidate information. The
provincial departments will represent the Ministries at the provincial level. A team of provincial
departmental engineers will be involved in the program process, and a team of consultant engineers (size
depending on workload) will be recruited to be based in the provincial capitals to provide monthly
progress reports and to assist the works.
42.    The program will involve local authorities and communities. The program team will collaborate
closely with provincial- and district-level representatives during the planning stages, while line
directorates will ensure coordination with activities carried out by other development partners, to promote
efficient use of resources.
43.    Disbursements for district works are expected to be made through the DAB's provincial branches.
The DAB is currently refurbishing its branches and is expected to have trained financial staff by the time
they will be needed.
DETAILED IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS BY COMPONENT
Component A: SubDroject District Grants
44.    Priority works. Eligible subprojects are restricted to rehabilitation or upgrading of primary and
secondary irrigation canals and provincial and district roads, because of their high labor content, relatively
easy preparation and implementation and expected high benefits. Traditionally managed irrigation
schemes will be excluded. Subprojects selected should be doable within the district allocation or with
clearly identified contributions from additional districts or villages. Works also should be able to be
completed within 7-9 months, using the expected work force. Seasonality must be considered, as the
wheat harvest season is July-August, which is likely to reduce the demand for public work during those
months. Labor-intensive works may also be more difficult when the cold weather starts in November
(later in low-lying areas). Village-level infrastructure will not be eligible, as this will be covered as part of
the community empowerment program.
45.    Following a dissemination process about the proposed program and allocations to the selected
districts, each district will rank its agreed priorities. Villagers will agree on the district's priorities through
a local consultation process and traditional councils. The heads of the provincial irrigation and/or roads
departments will review the proposals, endorse the selection and inscribe the chosen subprojects in the
provincial budget. If the provincial authorities have valid reasons to object to a proposed subproject, the
council will be invited to substitute another subproject. Compiling a district list should not take long, and
the agreed list will be forwarded to the governor for information and to the project engineers assigned to
the province and district.
46.    Participating districts are likely to request the sealing of subproject roads; this would prolong the
life of the works and could be justified in certain cases. However, this would greatly reduce the funds
available for labor payments, and would likely delay work completion given that more equipment would
be required. Sealing (under the grants) could be allowed if that was the district's choice, depending on the
quality of the gravel road construction and if at least some local contributions were made for such an
effort. Alternatively, sealing could wait for additional funds from other sources.
11



47.    Subproject engineering. Civil engineers hired for the project will prepare or verify surveys, cost
estimates, work plans, and other subproject preparations, starting with the highest priority subproject on
the district's list (if the list has more than one subproject). After verifying the subproject's appropriateness
for the allocation, the engineers will prepare contracts that must be signed by the elected foreman(s) and
the provincial department engineer(s); the provincial project engineer will countersign the contract(s).
48.    Works and supervision. The contracts will state the basis for payments. Engineers will track and
keep records on progress, workers, payments, and other matters. Spacing several work groups over the
subproject area or over several subprojects (perhaps up to 10 km of road upgrading or 20 km irrigation
canal cleaning and structure rehabilitation) and sequencing over time will be required, as it is unlikely that
it will be possible for all subprojects to be done on the same days during the same period. These works
will make slower progress if labor demand is less than planned; also, fewer men are expected to seek
employment during the July-August harvest season; this should allow a gradual buildup. Faster progress
would present even greater logistical difficulties, and not enough equipment such as compactors may be
available. Work is expected to be done from July to the end of December, and in some cases beyond
December.
49.    Target group and minimum wage. Unemployed, unskilled men in selected districts, willing to
work for a minimum wage estimated at US$1.50 equivalent per day, are expected to self-select for the
activities. The average district allocation will pay some 50,000 man-days. Also, skilled workers will be
employed at higher, prevalent wages.
50.    Equipment leasing and transport. Vehicles and equipment will be leased as needed and paid from
district grant funding; the project will not finance equipment purchases, although it may encourage small
contractors to buy. Small trucks can be rented locally; road building equipment is less widely available,
but it is expected that small contractors and departments of public works can lease equipment as
necessary. Some public works department equipment can be repaired if spare parts are provided and
mechanics are paid. Small local contractors may not have adequate water tanks or compactors, but it is
expected tnat they will be able to purchase or lease from larger contractors with the backing of the
subproject grant or suppliers or commercial credit.
Component B: Technical Assistance for Implementation
51.    The project will maximize use of the pool of Afghan talent. Only one or two foreign experts will
be involved as may be needed, on an ad-hoc basis.
52.    The Management Team is expected to include six experts, four senior engineers, a senior
financial manager, a computer/database expert; and translators and secretarial support. These people will
be hired under 6 to 8 month contracts, which will have provisions for renewal if necessary. The team will
be from a reputable NGO, which will be in charge of preparation activities, management systems, and
reporting. Vehicles, computers, related IT support and basic office equipment and supplies at the central
and provincial levels will be funded under their contract.
53.   It is expected that 60 or more civil engineers will be required for the district work. Private sector
candidates will be paid for the training and screening time, and those retained will be hired under 6-month
contracts that will have provisions for extension if justified.
Component C.: Monitoring and Preparing a Lon-aer- term Program Proposal
54.    Local NGOs and some foreign independent reviewers will monitor the Project. A complaint
system will be introduced. Some savings may be achieved if monitoring can be combined with other
12



World Bank financed projects in the same geographical area. Terms of reference for monitoring work will
be agreed.
55.    A smaller program may be developed for use of labor-intensive techniques on a longer-term
basis. Employment demand by unskilled laborers is likely to persist for years, but equipment-intensive
methods may be more effective in terms of cost and quality. A cost-effective solution using as much
manual labor as feasible might be proposed for routine implementation by road departments. The
Ministry will be asked to assign selected staff to join the consultant study team. Terms of reference for
this work will be agreed.
PROGRAM RATIONALE
56.    Many destitute families need paid employment as crops have failed and assets have been
depleted. Labor-intensive works under this project could provide employment, water for irrigation, and
better accessibility to remote districts. It is likely that only the top local priorities will be completed.
These subprojects are not expected to produce a high economic return. Normally employment is not
counted as an economic benefit per se, or not even as an economic cost if the labor opportunity cost is
near zero with high unemployment. However, in Afghanistan, employment creation is essential; and will
be of equal importance as the infrastructure repairs even if lower construction costs could be achieved
with more equipment-intensive methods. The selection of districts will ensure the program a good
geographical initial targeting, and the subproject selection, through local consensus on priority works,
should enhance returns.
INFRASTRUCTURE BENEFITS
57.   Irrigation. After 3 years of drought and with about 80 percent of the population directly
dependent on the land for their livelihood, irrigation is a top reconstruction priority. Despite the
importance of water, few reservoirs and irrigation systems have been developed, because of the lack of
resources. Irrigation canals have accumulated sediment and require cleaning for effective use when water
is available; some of these canals are the responsibility of public departments who have no funds. It is
customary in Afghanistan for farmers to provide voluntary cooperative labor to clean tertiary irrigation
canals. Thus, priority major canal cleaning and repairs will be eligible for funding under district grants,
but activities that are normally done for free will not be eligible, except under extraordinary
circumstances. The benefits from irrigation works will depend on a return to more normal snow and
rainfall levels and thus cannot be predicted. However, irrigation water might allow a second yearly crop,
changing to a higher value crop, greater yields, or a first crop on previously unproductive land. Population
in Afghanistan's few cultivable areas is dense. For instance, in the Tagab District, Kapisa Province (north
of Kabul), a canal averaging 3.2 km irrigates 115 ha (some 180 m on each canal side) for 228 families,
each possessing an average of 0.5 ha. Farmers may own and depend on as little as 0.2 ha of arable land;
many men are sharecroppers paying one-half to two-thirds of their income to the landowner.
58.    Roads. Another priority will be to improve radial access between provincial and district centers,
and from district centers to main villages. The distance between villages can be as little as 5 km or as
much as 20 or more Iam, especially in mountainous areas. Some villages have only 20 or so compound
houses, or many more compounds, often in several subclusters. Only local roads serving significant
populations will be eligible for funding under the program. In some instances, tracks may be upgraded; in
other instances roads require rehabilitation after years of neglected maintenance-although light traffic
and drought have somewhat contained deterioration. District roads built to 4 m wide plus shoulders
should suffice where traffic is light, elsewhere 7 m wide may be justified. Even though motorized traffic
is currently low, motorcycle and pickup traffic is expected to increase as soon as roads are passable,
especially if water becomes more available and agricultural production increases. Main district roads also
should have good surface conditions for non-motorized transport, such as carts, bicycles, and pedestrians.
Sealing would be desirable; it may be required on slopes or be justified to protect a fine granular surface
13



topping, given the harsh climate, the expected low maintenance requirements, and the closeness of Iran,
where asphalt products can be supplied at low costs, much lower than in countries further away from
supplies. However, sealing will also depend on funding availability, and the option will have to be
evaluated in each case, based on each road's individual merits.
59.    Output. It is estimated that upgrading 1 km of gravel road, 4 m wide, would require some 4,000
unskilled labor-days, and cost about US$12,000 equivalent, or more than US$20,000 if a bitumen seal
coat is applied. It is calculated that cleaning and repairing small structures on 1 km of irrigation canal
would absorb more than 2,000 unskilled labor-days, and cost US$5,000 equivalent. Irrigation works
would be more labor-intensive than road works, and local leaders will need to take this into account when
assessing and selecting priority works-paid employment may be the overriding objective. The output in
terms of infrastructure rehabilitation should be considerable: some combination of more than 1,000 km of
roads or 4,500 km of canals.
EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS
60.    The neediest districts will be selected through a consultative process-although there will be little
risk of geographic mis-targeting, as most areas are in need. The minimum wages to be offered should
incite the poorest men to offer themselves for work. Agricultural wages tend to be 2-3 times higher than
that which will be offered. This is because agricultural wages include the unofficial labor of one or two
family members (however, these family members could continue this work outside of the project).
Women are not expected to participate in public works because of the local culture;- however, women will
benefit from higher household incomes and from other programs. The employment/safety net objective
and the basic wage rate used for the project will make labor-based works competitive with equipment-
based road works. A review of the wage level switching point will be made as part of the project study.
61.    Assuming labor is on average 60 percent of subproject cost (50 percent for road works, 70
percent for irrigation works), US$18 million in district grants would provide 7 million unskilled labor-
days, plus employment for Afghan engineers and other skilled workers. If there are 2 million rural
households in Afghanistan, (I million in districts selected for the first round of subprojects, including
returnees and ex-combatants), and one man from each household is eligible to work, excess up-front
demand should be expected even as other programs operate. The wage is expected to vary from US$1.50
to US$2 equivalent per day, because there are regional variations in the cost of living. Limiting the man-
days of work any household obtains may be necessary, as work demand is likely to exceed the absorptive
capacity. Rationing and sequencing may be required; limits will be set in such cases as practical. Ten
days' work will pay only US$15-20 and 20 days' work will pay US$30-40. This is not an insignificant
amount, however, given that per capita incomes are less than US$1 per day, and each working-age man
supports four or more family members.
US$18 million in district grants could provide US$11 million in wages:
Estimated     Ma-as        Number of Workers wlth-mork limit
Average daily   (minfionI)       20 days           10 days.-
wage (US$)
1.50          7.0        390,000 workers   780,000 workers
62.   In the future, labor-intensive public infrastructure projects may be less justified than in the current
circumstances. Better wages are expected to be forthcoming from agriculture or other private sector
activities. Anticipated future migration to cities and employment in secondary or tertiary sectors is
expected to lead to higher income levels (although the irrigation and road works will benefit those staying
in agriculture), and equipment-intensive methods may then provide lower unit building costs. However,
for some years to come, demand for work by unskilled laborers is expected to persist, and it is projected
14



that some activities can be performed well and cost-effectively using labor-intensive methods. Therefore,
project monitoring and evaluation will include a review of costs and benefits to define prospects and
future programs.
RISKS AND PROGRAM ALTERNATIVES
63.    The project builds on NGO and public works departments' experience; the approach is not totally
new in Afghanistan. Nevertheless, the project carries significant risk, given the short preparation time
available to establish work quality and financial controls. There is a risk of leakage, given the activities'
dispersed nature; and the great need for funds everywhere. Quality may be lower than intended.
Monitoring and supervision should limit diversions and payment for low-quality output. Equipment may
be unavailable within the short lead and implementation times that employment objectives dictate.
Despite the considerable risks, the project design is nevertheless preferred to other alternatives given the
importance of the employment objectives:
(i) The next best alternative to labor-intensive works probably would be welfare payments.
These have the advantages that all funds would go to needy families; that no energy would
be spent on working on public schemes, which would necessitate more food intake; and
that organizational requirements are much less under a subsidy distribution system.
However, welfare payments erode pride, lessen morale, and eventually could be addictive.
And for an estimated 35 percent more than the projected cost of a welfare scheme, the
project's labor scheme could provide and improve public assets that are expected to help
increase future earnings in rural areas.
(ii)  Food for work is not an attractive altemative. Monetizing food for work would be
preferable. The logistic cost of food aid tends to be high, more than that of labor-intensive
works on a cash payment basis, and is even higher when including the costs of transporting
food from remote intemational locations. It is possible that food aid could be provided to
areas where crops have failed due to drought, not in excess of the amounts that normally
would have been harvested, or to areas of absolute food shortage where production prices
would not be depressed by the aid.
COMPLEMENTARY PROGRAMS
64.    The project seeks to provide funding in sectors where other lenders do not. Complementary
projects include:
(i) The IDA-grant financed Community Empowerment Program (CEP) (also financed under
this Project) is planned to start at the same time as the proposed program. The CEP would
start in one or two districts per province, as selected by the govemors and distribute
community grants to villages. This public works program proposes to start work in more
districts, given the need for employment.
(ii)  Various National Road Rehabilitation Projects, for priority areas of the 3,000 km paved
road network. The projects will start later, rely on contractors, and necessarily will be more
equipment-intensive, though labor will be employed as well. A wider program in support of
agricultural development is planned for later in 2002 for support by various agencies.
(iii) Various village programs implemented by other agencies, including food for work and
opium eradication programs that were active in early 2002 (and in earlier years); i.e., the
IOM program, with a budget of US$180 million. Villagers who have obtained funds from
these programs will not have priority for employment under this project.
15



(iv) Other projects will provide for schools and clinics. Electrification, while urgently needed,
requires more complex solutions, will take longer to prepare, and will be less labor-
intensive to build; some dams could be built for small-scale hydroelectric energy schemes.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
65.    This project will include intensive scrutiny, because of the potential for leakages. The incentive to
divert funds will be high. Independent teams will monitor the various subprojects, physical outputs will
be closely compared to financial results, and the MIS system will be designed to trigger alerts. The
evaluation is also needed in case the AIA finds that it is worthwhile to continue labor-intensive efforts, in
order to implement them using the best possible design.
66.    Sanctions will be applied wherever monitors, supervisors, or other reviewers find irregularities.
Engineers involved in corruption will be fired and subproject funding will be discontinued. Use of
community grants will be limited by a negative list. The negative list will exclude any activity aimed at
poppy cultivation or marketing. The project will also seek assurance that participating communities do
not engage in poppy cultivation. Project funding would be terminated for communities which do not
comply with these agreements. The people working on these subprojects will be aware of these sanctions
as they will be a part of the information campaign that will precede the work start.
V.     PART B: THE PROPOSED COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROGRAM
PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
67.    The objectives of the 2-year community empowerment program are to:
a. Support participatory planning and the strengthening of local govemance structures.
b. Help villages rebuild their capital base through the provision of subgrants, and empower
villagers to plan for, and decide on, the investments to be made with the proceeds of the
subgrants. These subgrants could be used for:
*  Public infrastructure improvements or reconstruction of houses destroyed by conflict;
and
*  Developing community assets, establishing revolving funds, and buying training or
technical services.
c. Provide a mechanism for linking community development needs with line agency and NGO
service providers.
PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
68.    The proposed National Community Empowerment Program supports the AlA's proposal for a
single-window framework for community development. The program will launch a national program to
recapitalize villages and urban neighborhoods so that they may return to a more normal level of activity
within their usual economic and trading systems, and to provide poor rural and urban communities with
higher standards of living. Assistance design is intended to avoid creating an aid and dependency culture.
The program also seeks to restore or develop healthy linkages between communities and legitimate local
governments, including technical service providers.
69.   Implementation is expected to be difficult. Community institutions in many parts of Afghanistan
have been subject to a broad range of crises over the past 2 decades that undoubtedly have undermined
their abilities to act as corporate groups. With the additional need to reintegrate returnees, communal
decision making and cooperation may pose difficulties but also is expected to help improve
16



understanding. The program has been designed to establish checks and balances, incentives and penalties,
and community management procedures so that villages and neighborhoods can use social controls
effectively.
70.    The program will consist of a series of block grants, which will be allocated directly to villages in
pre-determined amounts and will be held in collectively owned village accounts. The grants will be used
to support proposals developed by village groups through a facilitated planning process. The program also
will provide a medium-term program of community capacity development, which over time will move to
intervillage and village-district forms of cooperative planning, as local governance improves and
revitalized state institutions take root in the countryside.
71.    Keys to the program's success are: (a) a tiered system of technical and social facilitators recruited
from NGOs and the Afghan private sector; (b) representative local bodies, with locally selected
representation; (c) a process for the technical review of subproject proposals and the provision of
technical assistance during their implementation; (d) support for village management of financial records,
procurement, and program implementation; (e) full transparency, through a proactive program of
disclosure through oral and written media and through extensive civil society involvement; (f) an
efficient, reliable and fast system for local-level disbursements; and (g) a process of continual evaluation
and review to adapt the program to Afghanistan's highly varied and changing environment.
72.    The program will build in a progressive series of steps to strengthen local governance. These will
include expansion of local councils through a democratic selection process based on merit and capacity;
the development of financial management skills; strengthening mechanisms for intervillage and, over
time village-district coordination; and a program of provincial-level activities designed to improve the
line agencies' responsiveness to village requests. Capacity development activities will also include a
broad program of networking so that villages will be linked to government, NGO, UN Agencies, and
other service providers who can respond to local demand.
73.    Site selection will be done by national and provincial government. Accessibility and security will
be major site selection criteria for the first round of subprojects. Each participating province will select
two or three districts on the basis of criteria including poverty, number of returnees, and lack of
alternative providers. Villages will be divided into three or four population bands, and grant sizes will be
adjusted to each band so that per capita amounts remain roughly constant. (Population counts will be
adjusted annually because of the large number of returnees expected to be entering village lists.)
74.    The grant cycle will proceed through two stages. The first stage consists of a 2- to 4-month
facilitated village planning process. Grant amounts will range from US$10,000 -to US$20,000 per
village, depending on the village's population. Except for a short negative list of items and sectors
prohibited by IDA policies, grant options will be kept open. Communities will be expected to contribute
but no mandatory thresholds will be established. Experience elsewhere has shown that block grants (hard
budget constraints) allow for better optimization of local participation, particularly in areas with highly
unequal abilities to contribute, such as post-conflict zones. Despite the disrupted environment, community
contributions are expected to be very high. Villages will be encouraged to obtain support from other
providers such as private providers, NGOs, UN Agencies, and govemment technical agencies before they
resort to using their own funds.
75.    Technical inputs during the planning and implementation process will come from provincial-level
consultants, and the provincial consultant teams will include engineers who can support village proposals
and prequalify commercial and NGO support. Community forums will also engage technical services
from govemment agencies as these recover as a result of the reconstruction program.
76.    The second stage of the grant cycle will not be covered by this program but will be addressed
through a follow-on project, tentatively scheduled for CY2003. As communities mature and their most
17



immediate needs are met, grant sizes will be reduced to a sustainable level, to be determined through a
joint review with the AIA. These grants can be complemented by community contributions and local
revenue sources. The development of district-level government may have progressed and could
potentially be supported by the follow-on program. By that time, the program is expected to have
gathered sufficient information to introduce formulas for poverty targeting and more accurate population
weightings.
77.   This component will be implemented by the AACA on a transitional basis, which has specialized
staff and experience with community development program. The component will move to the Ministry of
Rural Reconstruction and Development (MRRD) as soon as it has sufficient capacity; the program
includes activities to strengthen the ministry during the 6-month start-up period. Implementation of the
community grant program in the provinces will be through MVIRRD, which will also be strengthened by
the program. Provincial budgets include the costs of refurbishing and equipping a management office.
Provincial and district launch workshops will be held between July and September 2002.
78.   At the provincial level the program will be housed with MRRD, and will work closely with each
office to provide training and hands-on experience with community-led development programming.
MRRD will coordinate a multi-sectoral board that will meet each month to set standards, review progress,
and solve problems. Provincial MRRD offices will also coordinate monthly meetings of NGOs and
humanitarian agencies to provide overall progress reviews and help villages identify service providers.
Program budgets will include core funds for rehabilitating MRRD, and they will be complemented by a
European Commission commitment to help rebuild provincial and district government offices.
79.   Program operations will build on a tiered system of technical support. During the first year, the
program will be managed centrally by a national oversight consultant, who will also recruit and train the
provincial implementation teams. As these are deployed, operations managemrent will move to the
provinces, which will become autonomous management units. The national consultant will remain
responsible for financial reporting, national monitoring, training materials, information exchange, and
policy reviews. Two-person district teams will provide day-to-day support to the villages, primarily
training in technical design, facilitation, and complaints management. Serniannual workshops for regional
groupings and annual reviews for the entire team will review results and progress.
80.   Timing and Procedures. The first US$22 million operation will cover an estimated 600-800
villages and neighborhoods, depending on whether participating villages go through one grant cycle or
two. The program's field launch in 25-30 districts could begin as early as July 2002. By December 2002
another 60-90 districts might be added, provided that additional funding has been secured. A follow-on
appraisal in December 2002, to be carried out jointly with the European Commission and other interested
donors, will review GoA proposals to make this a national program that will cover all Afghan
communities.
81.   The program will begin in one or two districts in each of Afghanistan's 32 provinces, both to
provide a quick start to the national reconstruction program and to permit an assessment of how well this
design can deal with Afghanistan's diverse environment. Districts will be selected through a screening
process that will solicit proposals from local governments; these proposals will be subject to site reviews
and verification before finalization. Most villages in each district will be covered. By the end of the
current program, each province should have completed at least one full grant cycle and evaluated its
performance. In addition, preparations in an additional 70-95 districts are expected to be underway.
Assumning that funding is available and that the security situation stabilizes, national coverage could be
attained by the end of CY2005.
18



DESCRIPTION OF COMPONENTS
82.    Component A: Village Grants Program (US$16.0 million). Grant amounts will vary depending
on village populations and location. The grants can be used for public infrastructure, community assets
and revolving funds, social services, and training. Grants will be transferred directly to a community
account, although their amounts will be recorded in provincial and district budgets as these become
operative. Grant proposals will receive technical and financial screening, including site verifications.
Money will be released against the verified proposal, minutes of the final decision meeting, and a contract
between the community forum and the executing agency.
83.    Component B: Implementation Support (US$4.8 million). The program will recruit and train
technical and social facilitators whose jobs will be to provide oversight, community organizing, and
training to the communities and neighborhoods. Initially program management will be concentrated in
Kabul, but a fast rollout is expected, which will involve setting up and staffing small provincial project
management offices. This component will also: (a) provide training in basic procurement, financial
management, and planning for provincial, district, and village organizations; (b) support exercises to
involve government service providers, NGOs, and the private sector in village planning and response; and
(c) provide villages and neighborhoods with advice in microfinance and small business management.
Project budgets will include sufficient budgets to allow MMIRD to rebuild, equip, and train sections of
their office where the program will be housed, including one vehicle per office.
84.    Component C: Monitoring and Evaluation Studies (US$1.2 million). The quality of
information about local institutions and populations must be improved significantly to support the
government's policy objective of malcing community-driven programming a cornerstone of its
development policy. This component will include four main activities. First, it will support a series of
data collection exercises to gather baseline information on living standards and household expenditures,
basic needs, population variables, and development activities. Second, contracts with Kabul and
provincial universities will develop a program of evaluation studies that will examine socioeconomic
changes taking place in communities. Their purpose will be to allow for refinements to the overall
program, particularly with respect to marginal and vulnerable groups (nomadic communities would be a
special focus). Third, baseline data will be gathered to support impact evaluation studies for the follow-on
program. These will include cost-benefit reviews of infrastructure, maintenance evaluations, and returns
on investments. Fourth, the component will fund project monitoring by independent parties. Project
monitoring will gather more accurate price information for preparing the national program, in addition to
ensuring that program implementation remains on track and in agreement with its design standards.
PROGRAM BENEFITS
85.    Perhaps the most important benefit of the program will be its support to sustainable, local
institutions, in order to link villagers to the national economy without going through warlords or
clientelistic politics. Post-war recovery in Afghanistan will require new planning, mediation, leadership,
and entrepreneurial skills, all of which will be supported through the project.
86.   It is premature to calculate economic and financial benefits in such a disrupted environment. For
this reason the program will collect detailed monitoring data so that the follow-on project can make more
realistic assessments of the expected returns on individual subproject investments. Cost data reported by
NGOs working in Afghanistan suggest that the small village and neighborhood investments proposed
under the program will have a positive return, and that these benefits will increase under the proposed
design because of lower overhead costs.
87.    Beneficiaries of the program are expected to be the country's poor and near-poor. In villages and
urban neighborhoods, subproject choices are likely to be infrastructure repair and revolving funds.
However, the most immediate, measurable justification will come from the employment and re-
19



capitalization benefits that the program will provide to the poor and to very small community businesses.
Experience in other countries suggests that some 60-70 percent of program funds return to local labor,
and virtually all of the benefits from the physical works will accrue to primary producers. Thus,
approximately US$10-1 I million will be given as direct wages to the poor.
88.    Labor on physical works will be unpaid for small works that take less than a month to complete;
for larger activities a sub-minimum agricultural wage will allow for self-targeting. This policy will be
applied flexibly as there are areas of such poverty and devastation that reconstruction cannot begin
without a means of interim subsistence. Project facilitators in the provinces will negotiate solutions such
as rationing and work quotas on a case-by-case basis with their assigned communities.
89.    Startup costs are necessarily high because they will include several large one-time charges (e.g.,
establishing provincial offices, vehicle and computer purchases), which will be the same regardless of
how many districts later join the program. Total overhead for the 4-year program is expected to amount to
about 17-20 percent of costs, which is comparable to similar projects elsewhere.
90.    Management and   economic information  gathered  during  the  July-November 2002
implementation period will be critical for preparing the larger, follow-on project. This period will also
assess progress in the development of provincial and district administration capacity, and whether there is
a need for targeting of the highly vulnerable groups. Appraisal of the second phase should be completed
by no later than the end of December 2002 so that full-scale operations can begin in 2003.
91.    The community development sectoral challenge for the reconstruction effort, therefore, is one of
providing effective development services to villages and neighborhoods-but even more importantly, one
of making communities active players in the rebuilding process. Afghanistan is at a unique crossroads. In
a large, rural country such as Afghanistan, peace and development will be enhanced in village
communities when villagers recognize that government institutions can provide a better, safer alternative
to warlords and patronage.
COMPLEMENTARY ACTIVITIES
92.    The Community Empowerment component will work in tandem with the proposed Public Works
Program component, which will offer poor villagers labor-intensive employment on provincial and
district infrastructure, and the same aggregate requirements will apply to this component as well. IDA-
funded projects in rural and urban development also will complement the community project.
93.    A broad range of NGO projects will complement the activities of the community project. AACA
has established a working group that involves NGOs to help advise the project and also to provide a
mechanism for sharing information about local conditions, needs, and opportunities. The European
Commission has been especially closely involved in ensuring that communication between NGOs and the
government's proposed community program is constant and constructive.
COOPERATION WITH OTHER DONORS
94.    This project complements several types of donor reconstruction projects taking place in
Afghanistan. In 2002 approximately 26 million euros of European Community financing will go through
NGOs who will work closely with the Community Project team and offer services to participating
communities; the EC will join the appraisal of the follow-on project. The Japanese Social Development
Fund is currently reviewing a proposal to top off community projects supported by NGOs; this also works
in tandem with the proposed project. Discussions are also underway with DFID and USAID to launch the
project in areas covered by opium eradication programs, where showing the positive presence of the new
Afghan state will be a big part of making the drug control program succeed. Coordination of community
development planning has recently been significantly enhanced through the establishment of a joint AIA-
20



UN coordination structure, in which community development is a free-standing entry, and the AACA's
formation of a community development task force that it uses as a forum for discussions with
intemational and national NGOs.
LESSONS LEARNED FROM OTHER PROJECTS
95.    Projects planned and managed by communities typically show rates of return higher than those
planned by govemment agencies for these same villages. Subprojects selected through a local planning
process also usually are better maintained than projects built on the basis of an external master plan,
particularly in countries with tight budgetary constraints for local maintenance work.
96.    A growing body of evidence from Bank-financed projects demonstrates that community projects
are particularly appropriate for post-conflict environments. In the Rwanda Reintegration Project, for
example, close attention to using joint community activities to promote reconciliation between ethnic
groups has been so successful that the Rwandan Government has extended the post-conflict design into its
national development plan. Another benefit of this approach in post-conflict environments is its speed.
The East Timor Community Empowerment Project was able to attain national coverage within I year of
appraisal (albeit in a very small country), and it will be retained by the post-transition govemment. These
projects have demonstrated conflict management outcomes, reducing tensions between residents.
97.    Bearing in mind that the Afghan context is in many ways sui generis because of the extreme
levels of destruction and the long-term nature of the conflict, the proposed project draws on several
general lessons from other community development and post-conflict projects. These include:
*  Community block grant projects can be scaled up very quickly and can function in highly
diverse environments because of their modular design;
*  Establishing a participatory process and decision making body initially adds some time to
project preparation but will provide long-term and highly justified payoffs;
*  Open menus allow a better reflection of local needs than preselected ones do;
*  High quality technical support to communities makes for better outcomes and longer-term
sustainability. Private sector providers and NGOs should be used where available;
*  Community-managed subprojects are usually preferable to those involving central contracting
in environments where contract management is weak and the opportunities for enforcement
are low;
*  Community-driven projects should begin from a strategy for linking up their planning and
investments to district and provincial management, although this linkage should be sequenced
very carefully, particularly in post-conflict environments;
*  Post-conflict projects should be short, so that they can be reevaluated as the reconstruction
process takes hold.
98.    Three design and management lessons of special relevance stand out for designing the proposed
community project:
* Advance clarification and clear communication of all community procurement, disbursement,
and financial management procedures will be essential, not just for the success of the overall
program, but for the success of the community planning approach;
21



* Technical support and training will be needed to introduce better-quality infrastructure
designs, and to prequalify engineers, agronomists, and other potential supports for the
villages, but if this step is done there is no reason why villages cannot procure and manage
high quality TA;
* Prompt and decisive use of sanctions is needed for communities and project officials if they
do not follow agreed-upon rules.
99.    There is also a relevant set of negative lessons learned, only some of which can be fully
mitigated:
* Risks of elite capture of benefits are high, particularly in conmmunities with pronounced class
differences. Mitigation measures will include external facilitation, a focus on public rather
than private goods, and an intense program of outreach and transparency.
* Communities usually do not have access to formal systems of redress. Community-based
projects thus depend on transparency and social controls to prevent corruption and fraud.
Support from civil society groups (NGOs, legal advocacy organizations, press, academics,
etc) must be designed in from the outset or else local problems will not be referred upwards,
particularly if local government or technical assistance staff are involved.
* Communities with long histories of aid dependency or in areas of extensive government
service delivery will not willingly provide large contributions or maintenance.
100.   Afghanistan over the years has had an uneven record with community development, and this can
only have become more complicated in recent times with the large amount of social dislocation and
conflict that has taken place. Lessons gained from consultations with NGOs and community workers that
will be applied to this project include:
* Give communities enough time during planning to ensure full understanding and ownership
of the process. Pressures to "do something" quickly undermine the need to create spaces for
negotiation and mediation.
* "Formal" institutions such as village and district shuras form a good basis for local planning
but they also have their weaknesses. Most NGOs build in a process by which communities
select additional representatives to shuras;
* Villages should not be paid for labor on projects, especially those which can be completed
relatively quickly (i.e., under a month). Larger projects that can take several months will
require some form of stipend for labor or else the poor will not be able to afford to
participate.
* Most Afghan villages can procure technical services and project inputs on the open market.
* Be selective-areas that are effectively controlled by warlords or single-family elites should
be excluded from the program. There will also be deeply traumatized or disrupted areas
which will require extra facilitation before community planning can be initiated. Timetables
and budgets should reflect the need for this kind of flexibility.
* Projects should build in performance incentives and "maturity" measures that will allow
communities to take on larger tasks as they gain experience and capacity in community-based
planning and management.
22



101.   Lessons gained from consultation with the Interim Administration include:
*  Project designs should reflect a long-term rather than a short-term vision, with a special focus
on developing more representative and democratic forms of local leadership, and a long-term
research capacity that helps the government understand macro social changes in the
countryside;
*  It is premature to do more than basic planning and coordination with districts, even though
eventually community planning should involve the district administration for larger
investments.
102.   Capacity support provided to provincial and district government should focus on strengthening
their planning, monitoring, and coordination roles but not on implementation. Local government should
be involved in a long-term process of responsiveness to bottom-up demand.
ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED
103.  The Bank team reviewed three alternative designs, all of which also appeared to be potentially
appropriate for the Afghan context:
* A scaled-up program of NGO support;
* A Social Fund;
* Microfinance.
104.  NGOs at present cover at most about 10-15 percent of the country's villages. Bilateral and
European Commission scale-up plans for NGO support are substantial. They are already close to their
management capacities.
105.   Social funds are a reasonable option that have worked well in other post-conflict situations and in
several important respects are very close to what is being proposed here. Direct grants to communities,
however, are considered to be a more efficient management scheme for fast startups in an environment
where communications are very poor and management skills are scarce.
106.  It is likely that communities, particularly those that before the wars were deeply involved in
trading, will use their community funds to recapitalize their farms and businesses. The Consultative
Group to Assist the Poorest (CGAP) is coordinating with the project team and if a microfinance project
materializes, it will work closely with the proposed project. However, even under the most optimistic
scenario, sustainable microfinance on a large scale will take a considerable amount of time.
VI.    ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS
107.  Environment and Social Impact Management. The principles governing social and environmental
management will be applied through an Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework (the
Framework). The Framework is applicable to all activities financed under the proposed Project, and
includes: (i) key policy principles for social and environmental management; (ii) tools to help screen
subprojects for significant social and environmental impacts, and to help mitigate such impacts; (iii)
procedures to ensure that these principles and tools are appropriately applied; and (iv) guidelines for
capacity-building and monitoring. The Framework will be operationalized through the proposed project's
arrangements for implementation, capacity building and monitoring.
23



108.  No activities will be supported that require involuntary land acquisition, or the acquisition of land
requiring the resettlement or compensation of more than 200 people. Consequently no Resettlement
Action Plan will be required for the proposed project. The voluntary donation or compensated
contribution of land for subproject activities will be guided by the "Guidelines for Land and Asset
Acquisition, Entitlements and Compensation" included in the Framework.
109.   Given the nature of the operation (being processed under OP 8.50 Emergency Recovery
Assistance) and the proposed activities for Bank financing, an exemption has been obtained from the
requirement to make the Framework publicly available prior to appraisal. The Framework will be made
publicly available in Afghanistan and in the World Bank's Info Shop prior to presentation of the proposed
project to the World Bank Board.
110.  No significant environmental impacts are anticipated. Village level subprojects built through the
project will all be small, and for the most part will involve items such as road, bridge, and canal repair,
shallow wells for clean water, facilities repair and construction, etc. For these items, environmental
concerns will be addressed through the project's technical manual and supervision. Environmental
screening will be carried out through the proposal review process, and environmental management will be
part of the oversight teams' training and terms of reference. Larger-scale infrastructure, would be referred
to the district engineer for environmental review. Terms of reference for preparing the environmental
screening procedures that are extracted from relevant sections of the Environment and Social Safeguards
Framework will be incorporated into the Operational Manual.
111.  No involuntary land acquisition is anticipated. Project technical manuals for physical works will
require ex ante certification that subprojects do not involved involuntary land acquisition. A land
acquisition process framework acceptable to the Bank was appraised and is being incorporated into the
project's Operational manual.
112.   Bank policy objectives for ethnic minorities are met by the design of the project itself, which
provides all decision-making power and resources directly to local communities. There are, however,
likely to be some areas where within-village stratification prevents minorities from full participation in
decision-making. A second topic raised by the government is that the proposed design is not going to be
applicable in areas inhabited by non-resident nomadic populations. They will not be adversely affected
by the project, but, though poor, they will not be main beneficiaries from it either.
113.   Both topics will be monitored closely and addressed on a case by case basis using specialized
facilitators and independent monitoring by social scientists and indigenous organizations, where these
exist. Of special concern is to identify a possible investment program for the nomadic groups.
Experience with nomadic populations elsewhere, however, shows that great care is needed with such
programs because of their highly fragile ecology.
114.   Reviewing opportunities to provide resources to minority communities will be part of the 6 month
review, which will also build on ongoing consultations with community representatives in such areas as
these are identified. Hazara populations living in NE Afghanistan are of particular concern. Singled out
for repression by the Taliban and currently suffering from both closed borders with China and
Turkmenistan and the 4 year drought, Hazara communities have recently begun forming self-help
organizations. Appraisal of their capacities and local level support will help IDA and the government
assess whether these might be appropriate counterparts for developing specialized activities.
24



ANNEX 1
EMERGENCY COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
A.     INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
The Procurement Agent hired under the IDA Emergency Public Administration Project will assist
the Government for the procurement of goods, works, and consultancy services and for providing
guidance to the Ministry on procurement matters for the implementation of community-driven activities.
In view of the dispersed nature of work to be executed in remote location in a decentralized
manner, the procurement risk is considered high. Project supervision will include procurement expertise
in most missions over the life of the IDA Grant. Threshold limits described below have been set in
accordance with the nature of the project.
This Project has two parts, each of which has three components discussed separately below:
Part A: Public Works Program
Part B: Community Empowerment Program
B.     PROCUREMENT METHODS
The procurement arrangements and the estimated costs for the Project components to be funded
by IDA are shown in Table A. Procurement under the IDA Grant will be carried out in accordance with
the "Guidelines for Procurement under 1BRD Loans and Credits" (January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996 and September 1997 and January 1999) and "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
The "Bank's Standard Request for Proposals: Selection of Consultants" (July 1997, revised April 1998
and July 1999) will be used for consulting services. For the procurement of works and goods, IDA shall
suggest appropriate bidding documents to be used.
Part A: The Public Works Program has the following components:
Component A: Community District Grant Subprojects
Component B: Technical Assistance for Implementation
Component C: Monitoring and Preparation of a Longer-term Program Proposal
Part B: The Community Empowerment Program has the following components:
Component A: Community Grants
Component B: Implementation Support
Component C: Monitoring and Evaluation
Bl.l: Community District Subprojectsfor Part A (US$18.4 million)
The Grant allocation will be used for labor-intensive roads and irrigation works with relatively
simple preparation and implementation arrangements. The physical work will be described in the
approved subproject contract. Community organizations will be responsible for the implementation of
subprojects for physical works through the procedures as described in paragraph 1.2 below.
25



Bl.2: Community Sub-Projects for Part B (US$16.0 million)
This component consists of a Village Subgrant Program in two stages. An initial US$1,000 to
US$5,000 will be used to launch the community planning process, followed by a longer-term program to
provide annual grants of US$10,000-20,000 to villages. The subgrants will be used for public
infrastructure, community assets and revolving funds, social services, and training. Subgrants will be
transferred directly to a village account although their amounts will be recorded in provincial and district
budgets as these become operative. The physical work will be described in the approved subproject
contract. Works will be carried out by community organizations through a community-driven process and
will adopt the following procedures for physical works in accordance with para. 3.15 of the Bank
Guidelines.
For both above subprojects, community organizations will be responsible for implementing
subprojects through the following procedures for physical works (in accordance with para. 3.15 of the
Bank Guidelines):
(i)    Execute the works themselves by employing labor and by procuring the needed materials;
or
(ii)  Award the whole or part of work on Direct Contract to community organizations or
NGOs; or
(iii)  Award the whole or part of the work to qualified domestic contractors after inviting
quotations.
The value of each contract for the Public Works subproject shall not exceed more than
US$140,000 equivalent, and for the Community Empowerment subproject US$20,000 equivalent.
B2: Procurement of Goods for Part B (US$1.5 million)
The procurement of goods will consist of office supplies and equipment, including computers and
vehicles. Limited International Bidding (LIB), Intemational/National Shopping Procedures (IS/NS),
procurement through UN Agencies (UN), and Direct Contracting (DC) procedures will be used.
Limited International Bidding (LIB): This will be used for goods estimated to cost more than
US$200,000 or equivalent per contract. Bidders will be able to send their request by fax and no bid
security would be required.
International/National Shopping: This will be used for goods estimated to cost less than or equal
to US$200,000 equivalent per contract. Under Shopping procedures, the Procurement Agent will use
simplified documents and procedures for soliciting, receiving, and evaluating competitive quotation from
usually at least three suppliers (in International Shopping from two different countries). The shopping
method to be used will be based on the Bank's Memorandum of June 8, 2000 (Guidance Procurement
Notes on Handling Procurement under Shopping Methods). In view of the nature of this emergency
operation, the threshold will be higher than normal limit of US$100,000.
Direct Contracting (DC) Procedures: This will be used for goods estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 or equivalent per contract in consultation with IDA.
B3. 1: Consulting Services and Trainingfor Part A (US$1.0. million)
26



Although for consulting services the preferred selection method is "Quality and Cost Based
Selection" (QCBS), for some major consultancies such as the Project's Management Consultant, who
needs to be selected as quickly as possible, the method to be used will be Single-Source selection.
A core team of consultants, consisting of civil engineers who will provide technical support and
supervision to villagers and small contractors, will be contracted on an individual basis. "Service Delivery
Contractors" [Para 3.19 of Guidelines] is considered the appropriate selection method. In this case job
description, minimum qualifications, terms of employment, and selection procedures will be agreed with
the Bank and the value of each assignment for an individual shall be limited to US$10,000. For major
consultancies the description, estimated cost, and method of selection will be as follows:
Details on Consultancies for Public Works Program
Description of Services     Estimated Cost [US$000]    Method of Selection
A.                           Technical Assistance for Implementation
1.  Management consultant for the project      300                    SS(Firm)
2.  Core team of Afghan civil engineers        200            "Service Delivery Contractors"
(about 60)
B.                     Monitoring and Proposals for a Longer-Term Program
3   Monitoring by NGOs and independent         150                  SS(Firrn/Ind)-
reviewers (5 consultancies)
4   Consulting services for longer-term        250                      QBS
program
5   Other consultancies and trammiing          100                   SS(Firm/Ind)
QCBS:         Quality and Cost-Based Selection
QBS:          Quality-Based Selection
CQ:           Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other methods: Selection of Individual Consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Single Source
Selection of Firms, SOEs for Training, Commercial Practices, Service Delivery Contractors etc.
IDA's clearance of terms of reference and single-source selections will be mandatory irrespective
of the value of the assignment.
B3.2: Consulting Services and Trainingfor Part B (US$4.0 million):
Although for consulting services the preferred selection method is QCBS, some major
consultancies such as Training Material Design, Dissemination Media, and training management must be
selected as quickly as possible, and thus the method to be used will be Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualification (CQ). This means seeking Expressions of Interest (EOIs) based on brief terms of reference,
and specifying in the EOIs the criteria for establishing a shortlist with a view to select the firm with the
most appropriate qualifications and references. The selected firm will be asked to submit a combined
technical-financial proposal before being invited for negotiations. The EOIs for the above consultants will
be published in the UNDB online version to ensure wide dissemination.
The largest consultant item for this project is the provision of provincial and district facilitators.
These consultants will be contracted on an individual basis; "Service Delivery Contractors" [Para 3.19 of
Guidelines] is considered to be the appropriate method for selection. In this case job description,
minimum qualification, terms of employment, selection procedures will be agreed to with the Bank and
the value of each individual assignment will be limited to US$10,000. The largest consultant item for this
project will be the provision of provincial and district facilitators. These consultants will be contracted on
27



individual basis; "Service Delivery Contractors" [Para 3.19 of Guidelines] is considered to be the
appropriate method for selection.
The other large consulting contract will be the provision of oversight technical management.
Because of the Project's rapid start-up, the unique qualification of the project management team and the
risk of starting the project without having an oversight consultant in place, the Project will directly
appoint an oversight consultant for the project start-up period (approximately 6 months) as also a Chief
Financial Officer. At that point the contract will be competitively selected (QBS) covering the services in
these two areas.
For major consultancies the description, estimated cost and method of selection are described in
the following table:
28



Details on Consultancies for Community Empowerment Program
Description of Services    Estimated Cost (US$0001     Method of Selection
A.                    Support to AACA/MRRD on Project Management
1.   Consultant service for Chief             100                 SS (Individual)
Financial Officer (for immediate
services)
2.   Consultant services for technical        600                    SS (Firm)
oversight
3.   Consulting services for technical        750                      QBS
oversight and finance (long-term) _
4.   Consultant services for technical        1,500              "Service Delivery
and social facilitators                                       Contractors"
(approximately 200)
5.   Consulting services for training          100                     CQ
material design
6.   Consultancy services for                  100                     CQ
dissemination media (three radio
consultancies and one video
programming consultancy)
7.   Consultancy services for training         100                      CQ
management
B.                           Studies, Monitoring and Evaluation
8.   Consulting Services for Highly           200                    SS (Firm)
vulnerable groups (four
consultancies)
9.   Consulting services for impact           200                       CQ
monitoring (four consultancies:
economic, social, demographic,
statistical)
10.  Consulting services for                   250                      CQ
independent monitoring (10
consultancies)
II.  Consulting services for cultural          100                      CQ
heritage (three consultancies)
C.         Consultancy Services for Support to Ministry of Rural Reconstruction and
Development (MRRD)
I1   Institutional assessment                  50                  SS (Individual)
12.  Evaluation and planning                   50                    SS (Firm)
workshops (five workshops)
QCBS: Quality and Cost-Based Selection
QBS:    Quality-Based Selection
CQ:     Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other methods: Selection of Individual Consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Single
Source Selection of Firms, SOEs for Training, Commercial Practices, service delivery contractors etc.
29



IDA's clearance of terms of reference and single source selections will be mandatory irrespective
of the value of the assignment.
C.     ASSESSMENT
Cl.    ASSESSMENT OF MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS, MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT,
MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND AACA'S READINESS TO IMPLEMENT THE PUBLIC WORKS
PROGRAM
The actions taken/being taken by the above implementing agencies include:
*  Temns of reference for (i) Management Consultants, that is, national and international experts
(engineers, chief financial officers, Information Technology experts) have been finalized; (ii)
Terms of Reference for the core team of Afghani engineers to provide technical and supervision
support will be finalized by May 2002.
*  The format for draft tripartite contracts between community organizations, facilitators, and
project unit at the provincial level of ministries will be prepared by a govemment-NGO group by
May 2002.
C2.    ASSESSMENT   OF   MRRD/AACA's READINESS       TO   IMPLEMENT    THE   COMMUNITY
EMPOWERMENT PROGRAM
*  Terms of reference for the appointment of Technical and Social Facilitators have been
finalized.
*  The format for draft tripartite contract between community organizations, facilitators, and
project unit at the provincial level of MRRD has been finalized;
*  A tentative training plan will be prepared by June 2002, identifying the areas of planning,
number and types of participants to be trained and names of institutions and resource
organizations and persons.
Based on detailed discussions with ministries/AACA it has been found that satisfactory steps
have been taken to ensure the expeditious start-up of the project.
D.     PROCUREMENT PLANNING
Detailed procurement plans and schedules for the community-driven activities cannot be made
available by the time of appraisal. The Management Consultant and Technical Oversight Consultant, with
the assistance of the Procurement Agent, will guide the ministry on procurement matters to implement
community-driven activities. For the Community Empowerment Project, a procurement plan for goods
and equipment to be procured will be prepared by the Procurement Agent in consultation with
MRRD/AACA by July 2002.
E.     PRIOR AND POST REVIEW
El.    PRIOR AND POST REVIEW FOR PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM
The first three contracts and contracts above US$100,000 for community subprojects will be
subject to prior review. Consulting services contracts above US$100,000 for firmns and above US$50,000
for individual consultants will be subject to prior review by IDA. All other contracts will be subject to
post-review on a random basis during supervision missions and audits.
30



Due to the nature of this operation, the majority of contracts will be below prior review limits. It
is expected that the project will have about 150 District Grants contracts of upto US$140,000. The project
provides for audits to be conducted by independent auditors to be hired by ministries or the AACA (or
Audit Agent of the Government) for expenditures incurred as well as asset verification. In addition, the
project provides technical audits by independent consultants for community construction works on a
sample basis. The normal Bank requirement of ex-post review of one in five contracts for an high-risk
project (about 30 contracts) is expected to be met. In addition to a review of the independent self audit
reports called for in this project, Bank staff will conduct post-award reviews during supervision missions.
E2.    PRIOR AND POST REVIEW FOR COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROGRAM
Draft tripartite contract form for community subprojects, contracts for goods in excess of
US$ 100,000 and the first three contracts for goods, irrespective of value and consulting services contracts
above US$100,000 for firms and above US$50,000 for individual consultants, will be subject to prior
review by IDA. All other contracts would be subject to post-review on a random basis during supervision
missions and audits.
Due to the nature of this operation, almost all contracts will be below prior review limits. It is
expected that the project will have 3,000-7,500 contracts at the community subcontracting level, valued
between US$2,000-5,000. The project itself will provide for a self audit to be conducted by independent
auditors to be hired by MRRD/AACA for expenditures incurred and asset verification. In addition, the
project will provide for a technical audit to be carried out by independent consultants for community
construction works on a sample basis. The normal Bank requirement of ex-post review of one in five
contracts for a high-risk project (about 1,000 contracts) cannot be achieved in this project due to resource
and time constraints. Given the sheer number of contracts envisioned in this project, the Bank's resource
constraints, the mitigating effect of the self-audit and technical audits mentioned above, we would
consider the "benchmark" review level of 1 in 5 contracts to be excessively large for this type of
emergency operation. However, MRRD/AACA has agreed to conduct these post-award audit reviews at
the project level and furnish reports to the IDA. The Bank will review samples of these reports as per the
regional guidelines. In addition to a review of the independent self-audit reports called for in this project,
Bank staff will conduct post-award reviews during supervision missions.
F.     PROCUREMENT INFORMATION
The Management Consultant assisted by Procurement Agent will prepare procurement
information that will be collected and recorded as follows:
1. Prompt reporting of contract award information for the respective components; and
2. Comprehensive quarterly reports prepared by AACA indicating:
* revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost;
* revised timings of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award;
and
* completion time for individual contracts.
G.     PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS AND FREQUENCY OF SUPERVISION
The Project's elements and their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement are
summarized in Table A. Consultant Selection Arrangements are given in Paragraph B3 above.
Thresholds are given in Table B below.
31



TABLE A
PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ MILLION EQUIVALENT)1
Procurement Method                Total
Expenditur Cait'eg"o;ry                                              Cost
ICB       NCB      Oihers2  -'NBF        COSt
A. LABOR-INTENSIVE PUBLIC WORKS
1.     Village grants0.0                         0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Village grants                 (0.0)    (0.0)       (0.0)    (0.0)      (0.0)
2.                                      0.0      0.0        18.4      0.0       18.4
District grants                (0.0)     (0.0)     (18.4)    (0.0)      (0.0)
3.     Consultants                      0.0      0.0         1.0      0.0        1.0
Consultants                    (0.0)    (0.0)       (1.0)    (0.0)      (0.0)
4.     Goods                            0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0
Goods                          (0.0)    (0.0)       (0.0)    (0.0)      (0.0)
5                                       0.0      0.0        0.6       0.0        0.6
.  Incremental operating costs  (0.0)   (0.0)       (0.6)    (0.0)      (0.0)
0.0      0.0       20.0       0.0       20.0
SUBTOTAL                       (0.0)    (0.0)       (0.0)    (0.0)     (20.0)
B. COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROGRAM
I      Village grants                   0.0      0.0       16.0       0.0       16.0
Village grants                 (0.0)     (0.0)     (16.0)    (0.0)     (16.0)
2.     District grants                  0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0
2.  District grants            (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)    (0.0)      (0.0)
3.                                      0.0      0.0         4.0      0.0        4.0
Consultants                    (0.0)     (0.0)      (4.0)    (0.0)      (4.0)
4.      Goods                           0.0      0.0         1.5      0.0        1.5
.   Goods  __________________   (0.0)    (0.0)      (1.5)    (0.0)      (1.5)
5.                                      0.0      0.0        0.5       0.0        0.5
Incremental operating costs    (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)    (0.0)      (0.5)
SUBTOTAL               ~~~0.0     0.0       22.0      0.0       22.0
SUBTOTAL                       (0.0)     (0.0)    (22.0)     (0.0)     (22.0)
C. SUMMARY
1.                                      0.0      0.0       16.0       0.0       16.0
Village grants                 (0.0)     (0.0)     (16.0)    (0.0)     (16.0)
2.       .     .                        0.0      0.0        18.4      0.0       18.4
District grants                (0.0)     (0.0)     (18.4)    (0.0)     (18.4)
3.     Consultants                      0.0      0.0         5.0      0.0        5.0
3.  Consultants                (0.0)     (0.0)      (5.0)    (0.0)      (5.0)
4.       oods                           0.0      0.0         1.5      0.0        1.5
Goods                          (0.0)     (0.0)      (1.5)    (0.0)      (1.5)
5.     Incremental     . operating costs  0.0    0.0         1.1      0.0       .1.1
Incremental operating costs    (0.0)     (0.0)      (1.1)    (0.0)      (1.1)
TOTAL:           0.0      0.0       42.0      0.0       42.0
TOTAL:     (0.0)    (0.0)     (42.0)     (0.0)     (42.0)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA. All the costs include contingencies.
2  Includes civil works, goods, and services to be procured out of Force Account and through national/international shopping,
direct contracting three quotations, community participation, consulting services, training, technical assistance, incremental
costs etc.
32



TABLE BI
PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM
THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
Contracts
Expenditure         Contract Value          -     -to
Category     :                              Method-      ; Prior Review
(US$ millions)
1. Community         First three contracts  Community                Model
subprojects          irrespective of value and Participation     agreement with
contracts above       (para 3.15)            communities,
US$100.000                                     first three
contracts and
contracts above
US$100,000-
500,000
2. Services including
training:
a) Firms             Above US$100,000      Bank Guidelines as per     0.55
Paragraph B2 above.
b) Individuals       US$50,000 or above
TOTAL Value of Contracts subject to Prior Review: US$1.05 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 4 months. All procurement
will take place within the project's first year.
33



TABLE B2
COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROGRAM
THRESHOLDS FOR PROCUREMENT METHODS AND PRIOR REVIEW
Contracts
Expenditure         Contrat Value          Procurement          Subjeoctto
Category          -       osbod             Method   -       Prior Review
._. _-_-_._._U. thou.s                                             .JUS$ niilions)
1. Community                                Community              Draft tripartite
subprojects                                 participation          contract form
1. Goods              Above US$100,000 and  LIB/IS/NS/DC/UN            0.2
first three contracts
irrespective of value
2. Services including
Training:
a) Firms              Above US$100,000      Bank Guidelines as per     3.0
Paragraph B2 above.
b) Individuals        US$50,000 or above
TOTAL Value of Contracts subject to Prior Review: US$3.2 million
OveraU Procurement Risk Assessment: High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 4 months for the first
year, and once every 6 months thereafter. Almost all procurement other than the village's procurement
for the grants will take place within the project's first year.
34



TABLE Cl
DETAILED ACTIVITIES FOR PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM
Amount                    Submission of      Award/ Signing of      Completion of
AuS$nt       Selection Method      Bids/Proposals         Contracts            Package
.SO lO                             (month/year)         (month/year)         (month/year)
Component 1: Grants for Sub-projects
District Grants (Community Sub-projects)         1,840   pCoimmunatiy                July 02 ....         July 02 ....         Feb 03
Component 2: TechnicalAssistance for Implementation
Management Consultant for the Project             300     SS (Firm)                  June 02              July 02              Feb 03
Core Team of Afghan Civil Engineers- (about 60)   200     SeContractor Del           JuneO2 ...           JulyO2 ...           Feb 03
Component 3: Technical.Assistance for Monitoring and Proposals for a Longer-term Program
Monitoring by NGOs and Independent Reviewers      150     SS (Firm)                   Juy2      July           02 ....July.02.Feb 03
(S Consultancies)
Consulting Services for Longer Term Program       250     QBS                         June 02 ...          Sept 02 .Feb 03
Other Consultancies and Training                  100     SS (Firm/Individual)        July 02 ...          Aug 02 .Feb 03
35



TABLE C2
DETAILED ACTIVITIES FOR COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROGRAM
Amount                                 Submission of       Award/ Signing of        CempletIon of
US$000       Selection Method         Bids/Proposals           Contracts              Package
(month/year)          (month/year)           (month/year)
Community Grants
Initial Grant ($2,500x600)                            1,000  Community Sub-projects       November 02 .     .     ..... to  . .      ..... August 04
Round I ($S12,5OOx600)                                7,500  Community Sub-projects       November 02 .     .     ..... to  . .      ..... August 04
Round 2 (12,500x600)                                  7,500  Community Sub-projects       November 02 .     .     ..... to  . .      ..... August 04
Support to the ACA/AMMRD
Project Management
Consultant Services for Chief Financial Officer (S-T)  100  SS (Individual)              July 02 .   .     ..... August 02 . .   ..... December 02
Consultants Services for Technical Oversight (S-T)  600  SS (Firm)                       July 02 .   .     ..... August 02 . .    ..... August 04
Consultant Services for Technical Oversight         750  QBS                             July 02       [      August 02      [      August 04
and Finance (L-T)II 
Consultants Services for Technical and            1,500  Service Delivery               October 02 ......      November 02 .......     August 04
Social Facilitators                                      Contractors
Consultant services for training material design    1o0  CQ                              July 02              August 02             August 04
Consultant Services for dissemination media     l_o0     CQ                              July 02              August 02             August 04
Consultant services for training management         100  CQ                              July 02              August 02             August 04
Fumiture, office equipment and goods                300  LS/IS/LIB/UN/DC                 July 02 ...          August 02 .....       August 04
Vehicles                                          1,000  IS                             July 02 ...           August 02 .....       August 04
Studies, monitoring, and evaluation
Consultant services for studies on highly           200  SS (Firm)                       July 02 ...          August 02 .....       August 04
vulnerable groups
Consultant services for impact monitoring           200  CQ                              July 02              August 02              August 04
Consultant services for independent monitoring     250   CQ                              July 02              August 02             August 04
Support to the Minisbtry of Rural Reconstruction and Development           .
Consultants services for institutional assessment    50  SS (Individual)                July 02 .August 02 ...                      December 02
Evaluation and planning workshops (5)                50  SS (Firm)                       July 02 .August 02 ...                     December 02
Fumiture, office equipment, vehicles, and goods    200   LS/IS/LIB/DC                    July 02 ...          August 02 .....       August 04
Operating Expenses (for the project)                  500   -
'Procuremcnt will be carried out through the AACA's Procurement Agent
*Audit will be carried out through the AGO's existing Audit Agent
36



ANNEX 2
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, DISBURSEMENT, AND AUDIT ARRANGEMENTS
Country Issues
Since there is no Country Profile of Financial Accountability (CPFA) or Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Afghanistan, there is inadequate knowledge of country issues and
related strengths and weaknesses. Financial management capacity in the country is not yet fully
functional. Mitigation measures taken by the Interim Administration include the engagement of a
Financial Management Agent under the recently approved IDA-financed Emergency Public
Administration Project. Under these contracts, two Agents-Financial Management and Audit-are
responsible for working with the AIA line ministries to carry out these core functions.
Financial Management Arrangements
Financial management and audit functions for the proposed project will be undertaken through
the Financial Management Agents. The Financial Management Agent will be responsible for assisting the
MOF to maintain the accounts for all Government expenditures, including IDA-financed projects and the
proposed Project, in addition to building capacity within AIA for these functions. To supplement this
function, a Chief Financial Officer (CFO) will be engaged to coordinate financial management and
reporting for the Project. The government's budgeting and accounting systems will be used. Quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports will be prepared by the line ministries' accounting units, consolidated by
the CFO, reviewed and approved by the MOF, and supported by the FM Agent.
Strengths
The engagement of the Financial Management Agent, the CFO, and consultants at the provincial
level, along with the AIA's commitment to transparent and accountable financial management, are
strengths of the project's financial management system. A second strength is the deployment of at least
one trained financial specialist per province. Thirdly, the project's program of social controls and
independent field monitoring by journalists and NGOs will provide additional security that transgressions
will be discovered.
Project Staffing
The CFO (to be recruited through the Project) will support the MOF, the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW) and the Ministry of Reconstruction and Rural Development (MRRD) to perform the
Project's necessary financial management functions. At the provincial level, consultants will be engaged
to assist the provincial- and district-level offices. The Financial Management Agent's services will be
augmented to support the project, where necessary.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
The Project will follow standard AIA financial management policies and procedures, including
using the AIA Chart of Accounts to record Project expenditures. The use of these procedures will allow
for adequate recording and reporting of Project expenditures.
Project expenditure at the provincial level will be maintained by the provincial offices, and
monthly reports submitted to the AACA. Accounting records will be consolidated centrally by the CFO
based at the MOF.
37



Funds Flow
The project will use the existing government system as much as possible. As is the practice for
government expenditure, all project payments will be routed through the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The
Financial Management Agent will assist the MOF in executing and recording project payments.
Treasury officials at the MOF will be the authorized persons to operate the USD Special Account
of the project at the DAB; IDA funds will be deposited into the Special Account. When a project payment
is required to be made, implementing agencies (line ministries and other government departments) will
submit a standard payment request to the MOF-Treasury. Treasury officials, after verifying the
documents and checking the availability of funds in the Special Account and budget will, (a) for
payments in Afghanis issue a check in Afghanis for encashment at DAB and (b) for a payment in foreign
currency instruct DAB to execute the payment.
Project payments to communities at the provincial and district levels will also follow the
government procedure and will be accounted for by the provincial line ministries and bank accounts at the
DAB's provincial offices.
For purposes of funds flow planning, it is important that the Project's CFO, provincial financial
consultants, FM Agent, MOF-Treasury Officials, and DAB staff closely coordinate, monitor and
communicate cash flow requirements for project activities.
Due to reasons related to security, damaged infrastructure, and a breakdown in communication
between the branches and the Kabul office of DAB, the AIA will face a challenge in effecting payments
throughout the country. Although not all of DAB's branches currently fully functional, efforts are being
made to rehabilitate the branches so that the ALA's payment needs throughout the country can be met,
including making arrangements for secure transport of cash notes around the country. The 30 provincial
branches needed for the project should be operational prior to disbursements. Salary payments have
recently been made in 25 of Afghanistan's 32 provinces, and payment systems are being restarted
throughout the country. In addition, in the short term, there could be a shortage of Afghani currency notes
within the government.
Although the AIA and DAB prefer to use the normal payment systems, in the event that DAB
cannot provide payment services to all required locations, the AIA could resort to alternative systems
(e.g., Hawala) to effect payments in these locations. If the AIA chooses to use such an alternative system
for the flow of funds on IDA-financed activities, the implementation mechanisms and risk mitigation
measures will be agreed with IDA prior to the flow of funds through the alternative system.
Project Subgrants
Subgrants to communities will be given at the district and village levels. District grants will be for
rehabilitation and reconstruction of infrastructure, while village grants, limited to a maximum of
US$20,000 per village, will be used for srnall-scale community works, revolving funds, and similar
efforts. Initial disbursements against subgrants will be given as an advance on signing of the contract.
Subsequent tranches will be based on evidence of the outputs achieved. Provincial line ministries, assisted
by local consultants, will be responsible for implementing, supervising, and disbursing grant funds.
Up front, the MOF will be informed by the AACA of the authorized allocation agreed for each
project village and district following site selection by the districts that are ratified in Kabul. MOF will
inform the DAB of this allocation. DAB will thereafter inform its provincial branches of these allocations
and procedures to handle disbursements. MOF authorizes the line ministry departments to manage
disbursements.
38



The Project management will determine the amount and timing of the first grant transfer needed
to each provincial DAB, based on the expected payments under the approved contracts of villages and
districts. MOF will be informed a week in advance of this projected cash requirement. On MOF
instructions, DAB will transfer these advances in Afghanis, and will ensure that the transfer take place in
a timely way, with the physical transfers of money. Subsequent transfers will be handled in a similar way.
Villages and Districts will receive the first payment on the basis of the contracts signed by the
districts or villages; the foreman or facilitators, and countersigned by the provincial departmental engineer
responsible for the project. Disbursement requests are signed by the provincial department head, village
and the facilitator as proof that prior funds have been used correctly as evidenced by outputs, and that
further funds should be released. For all payments, the line department will write a check which will be
signed by the department head and the facilitator, which will be presented to the DAB branch for
payment. The branch will disburse funds against the check. No further checks can be issued once the
contract is at zero.
Local consultants will closely supervise the implementation of sub-grant activities, carryout
physical verification of outputs reported, and verify the records of the communities. Implementation
guidelines and criteria for usage of funds will be explained in detail in the Project Manual.
Audit Arrangements
The accounts of the Project will be audited by the Auditor General, with the support of the Audit
Agent, with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. The annual Project financial statement to
the Association would include a summary of funds received (showing funds received from all sources),
and a summary of expenditures shown under the main Project components/ activities and by main
categories of expenditures. The format of the annual Project financial statements will be similar to the
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). The audit of the Project accounts will also include an assessment
of: (a) the adequacy of the accounting and internal control systems; (b) the ability to maintain adequate
documentation for transactions; and (c) the eligibility of incurred expenditures for Association financing.
The annual Project financial statements, audited by the Auditor General, would be submitted within 6
months of the close of AIA's fiscal year. The following audit reports will be monitored in the Audit
Reports Compliance System (ARCS):
Res onsible Agenc                 Audit                     Auditors
MOF                SOE, Project Accounts and      Auditor General
Special Account
Reporting and Monitoring
Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports will be produced showing: (i) sources and uses of funds
by disbursement category and project component; (ii) physical progress; and (iii) status of procurement
activities. These will be submitted to the Association within 45 days of the end of the quarter.
39



Disbursement Arrangements
Disbursement Method. Disbursements from the IDA Grant would be transaction-based
(replenishment, reimbursement, direct payment, and payments under Special Comnuitments) with full
documentation or against statements of expenditures as appropriate. All withdrawal applications to the
IDA, including replenishment, reimbursement and direct payment applications, will be prepared and
submitted by the MOF.
Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure       Amount (SDR)     Financing Percentage
Category
Subgrants              27,600,000              100
Goods                    1,200,000             100
Consultants' services   4,000,000              100
and training
Operating costs           800,000              100
Unallocated               100,000              100
Total                  33,700,000
Financing Percentage. Since collection of tax revenue has just begun and is sporadic,
disbursement percentages have been set at 100 percent, with the understanding that MOF will submit
withdrawal applications on a net-of-tax basis. The AIA's tax structure will be reviewed within 6 months
of Grant signing, at which time standard disbursement percentages will be set and financing percentages
amended accordingly.
Retroactive Financing. Provision has been made to reimburse AIA for payments it makes, up to
SDR 600,000, between April 1, 2002 and Grant signing, for expenditures under Categories 3-A, 3-B, 4-A,
and 4-B.
Disbursement Method. Disbursements from the IDA Grant would be transaction-based
(replenishment, reimbursement, direct payment, and payments under Special Commitments) with full
documentation or against SOEs as appropriate.
Use of statements of expenditures. Disbursements will be made on the basis of SOEs for: (a)
consultants and training for contracts not exceeding US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals; and (b) goods for contracts not exceeding US$250,000; (c) subgrants, and (d) incremental
operating costs.
Special Account. A Special Account will be opened and maintained in a bank acceptable to the
Association; and will be operated by MOF in accordance with the Association's operational policies. The
Authorized Allocation of the Special Account would be US$4.5 million which represents the estimated
amount of expenditures to course through the Special Account in a 3-month period. Given the short
disbursement period and the immediate need for special account funds, the full amount of the Authorized
Allocation of the Special Account will be available to MOF upon effectiveness. In order to meet
immediate cash needs, MOF may convert Special Account funds into Afghani for distribution to
provinces outside Kabul. Such advances will be limited to estimates of the cash needs for a 30-day period
and must be reconciled within 90 days of disbursement from the Special Account.
40



Minimum application size. Applications for replenishment to the Special Account will be
submitted (a) monthly, or (2) when the Special Account balance is reduced by 40 percent, whichever
comes first. The minimum application size for withdrawal applications for reimbursement, direct
payment, or for applications for Special Commitments is 20 percent of the Authorized Allocation of the
Special Account. In the event that banking facilities are not fully functional at the time of Grant
effectiveness, IDA may, on an exceptional basis, waive minimum application size requirements in order
to accommodate urgent needs.
Authority to withdraw Grant funds. MOF will retain the right to sign and submit withdrawal
applications to the Association.
Legal Conditions
* Appointment of provincial-level financial consultants to support the provincial line ministries prior to
disbursement of subgrants in that province.
Disbursement of Subgrants
*  Appointment of a Chief Financial Officer
* Project Manual acceptable to the IDA
Supervision Plan
The Project will need intensive supervision. The focus during the supervision will be on the internal
control arrangements for the Project and functioning of accounting, financial reporting, and auditing.
41



ANNEX 3A
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM
Number of applicants"
Skilled
Unskilled
Inputs
Number of workers
Skilled
Unskilled
Man-days worked
Uns'w Jied
Wages paid
UJnskilled
Skilled
Compactor
Days
Cost
Materials, qty/Cost
Cement
Sealing
Others
Outputs:
'oads upgraded, km
District road widening (6 m wide)
District road upgrading,
Provincial road widening (7 m wide)
Roads sealed (km)
Bridges (m)
Culverts (m)
Irrigation canals (m)
M3 cleaned
Structures repaired
Notes:
1/ Each applicant not hired should be counted only once per month, even it he applies two or more times during the
month.
Data above to be available by district, by province, and total, by the 5' of every month with results of the previous
months.
42



ANNEX 3B
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FOR COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT PROGRAM
Poverty Impacts             |                  |                      |       _       _
Decrease in poverty level                       Impact evaluation, case  Evaluation will not take
studies                place until follow-on
.___________________________ _ ___________ __  __ _   project  (05)
Number of villagers receiving     >50,000       MIS
funds
Community Organizing
Number of community forums          400         MIS                    100 by 12/02
established                                                            400 by 12/03
Persons receiving training in       600         Training database      100 by 12/02
financial management                                                   600 by 12/03
Number of villages making           400         MIS
proposals
Number of proposals from            200         MIS                    50 by 12/02
women's groups                                                         200 by 12/03
Percentage of women in             >25%         MIS
community fora                     .
No. of villages receiving funds     250         MIS
Service Provision under
Grants
Number of beneficiaries (HH)       50,000       MIS
Number of units of                  300         MIS
infrastructure built
Quality of infrastructure          >80%         Technical evaluation   Sample basis
satisfactory                                    study
ERR for subprojects                >17%         Economic evaluation    Sample basis
study
Number of O&M committees           >80%         MIS
Repayment rates                    >80%         MIS
Percentage of grants disbursed     >80%                                12/03
Capacity Development
Numnber of persons trained         >2,500        Training database     500 by 12/02
2,500 by 12/03
Number of village cross audits      >100         MIS                   12/03
Percentage of villages with        >75%         MIS                    12/03
microfinance proposals that
receive microfinance training
Percentage of villages with        >75%         MIS
infrastructure subprojects that
receive O&M training
Monitoring/management                 -_._
Number of villages audited by        5%          MIS/audit report
Afghan auditors
Percentage with unqualified        >80%         Audit report
audits reports
Number of supervisory visits        >100         MIS
(villages) by national oversight
consultant                                                 .
Number ofjoumalists reporting       >20          Reports received
Number of monitoring NGOs           >15          Reports received     I
43



ANNEX 4
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS FRAMEWORK
I.     Objectives
The Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework provides general policies, guidelines,
codes of practice and procedures to be integrated into the implementation of World Bank supported
emergency reconstruction operations in Afghanistan. Consistent with existing national legislation, the
objective of the Framework is to help ensure that activities under the proposed reconstruction operations
will:
*      Protect human health;
*      Prevent or compensate any loss of livelihood;
*      Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual subprojects or their cumulative
effects;
*      Enhance positive environmental and social outcomes; and,
*      Ensure compliance with World Bank safeguard policies.
II.    General Principles
Recognizing the emergency nature of the proposed relief and reconstruction operations, and the
related need for providing immediate assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence in
managing potential environmental and social risks, this Framework is based on the following principles:
1. The proposed operations will support multiple subprojects, the detailed designs of which may not
be known at appraisal. To ensure the effective application of the World Bank's safeguard
policies, the Framework provides guidance on the approach to be taken during implementation
for the selection and design of subprojects, and the planning of mitigation measures;
2. The proposed emergency reconstruction operations will not support environmental Category A
subprojects', nor subprojects requiring land acquisition affecting 200 or more people.
Consequently, no Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) or Resettlement Action Plans
(RAPs) will be required. With the exception of support for the emergency rehabilitation of the
Kabul North-West power plant, no subprojects requiring separate, site-specific environmental or
social reports will be supported. With this exception, all proposed subprojects will be screened to
ensure that the environmental and social risks can be adequately addressed through the
application of standardized guidelines and codes of practice;
3. Activities requiring a more detailed level of assessment, such as those entailing the construction
or installation of new or significantly expanded infrastructure, will be supported under subsequent
operations. The proposed emergency reconstruction operations will finance feasibility and
detailed design studies for these subsequent investments, which will include environmental and
social impact assessments as required by World Bank safeguard policies;
4. Project design and subproject selection will aim to maintain regional balance, and equity between
genders, and ethnic and religious groups, considering variations in population density.
Employment opportunities within the projects will be available on an equal basis to all, on the
basis of professional competence, irrespective of gender, or ethnic or religious group. In all
projects which require consultations with local communities or beneficiaries, gender-separated
2 As defined in World Bank Operational Policy 4.01, Environmental Assessment.
44



consultations will be conducted to elicit the views of the female population, along with that of the
male population; and,
5. Consultation and disclosure requirements will be simplified to meet the special needs of these
operations. Prior to approval by the World Bank Board, this Enviromnental and Social
Safeguards Framework will be disclosed in Afghanistan in Dari and Pashto, and in the World
Bank Infoshop.
m.     Safeguard Screening and Mitigation
The selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation of subprojects will be consistent
with the following guidelines, codes of practice and requirements:
*      A negative list of characteristics that would make a proposed subproject ineligible for support, as
indicated in Attachment 1;
*      Guidelines for land and asset acquisition, entitlements and compensation, presented in
Attachment 2;
*      Procedures for the protection of cultural property, including the chance discovery of
archaeological artifacts, and unrecorded graveyards and burial sites, provided in Attachment 3;
*      Relevant elements of the codes of practice for the mitigation of potential environmental impacts,
presented in Attachment 4; and,
*      The requirement that confirmation is received through the Regional Mine Action Center that
areas to be accessed during reconstruction and rehabilitation activities have been demined.
In addition to these requirements, an environmental audit will be conducted as part of feasibility
study and detailed design for the rehabilitation of the Kabul North-West power plant.
IV.    Responsibilities for Safeguard Screening and Mitigation
A number of Ministries will act as the implementing agencies for the proposed operations,
including the Ministries of Reconstruction and Rural Development, Public Works, Power, and Housing,
Planning and Building. Each Ministry will be responsible for applying the safeguard screening and
mitigation requirements to its own subprojects.
Within each Ministry, a Safeguards Focal Point will be identified with responsibility for
overseeing the implementation of the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework.
V.     Capacity Building And Monitoring Of Safeguard Framework Implementation
As part of the capacity building that will be provided for implementation of the proposed
operations, the Safeguards Focal Points and relevant staff of the concerned Ministries will also receive
training in the application of the Safeguard Framework.
To assist in this capacity building, and to provide subsequent guidance and review of the
application of the Framework, GoA will contract specialist social and environmental services. During
supervision of these operations, the World Bank will assess the implementation of the Framework, and if
required will recommend additional strengthening.
VI.    Consultation and Disclosure
This Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework was prepared in consultation with the
principal NGOs and development partners participating in reconstruction activities in Afghanistan. It will
45



be disclosed by GoA in both Dari and Pashto, as well as English, and it will also be made available at the
World Bank's Infoshop.
The environmental audit to be prepared for the rehabilitation of the Kabul North-West thermal
power station will be made publicly available by GoA, and at the World Bank Infoshop. Since no other
separate environmental or social assessments will be prepared for activities under the proposed
reconstruction operations, no additional disclosure requirements will apply. In this regard, however, it is
worth noting that GoA intends to make all project documentation publicly available through the Afghan
Information Management System (AIMS).
The proposed operations will support a number of feasibility and detailed design studies for
future infrastructure investments, for which World Bank safeguard policies relating to consultation and
disclosure will apply. In particular, for environmental Category A and B investments3 proposed for future
operations, the implementing agency will consult project-affected groups and local nongovernmental
organizations about the project's environmental and social aspects, and will take their views into account.
The implementing agency will initiate such consultations as early as possible, and for meaningful
consultations, will provide relevant material in a timely manner prior to consultation, in a form and
language that are understandable and accessible to the groups being consulted.
For Category A projects, the implementing agency will consult these groups at least twice, (i)
shortly after environmental screening and before the terms of reference for the Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) are finalized, and (ii) once a draft EIA report is prepared. For the initial consultation,
the implementing agency will provide a summary of the proposed project's objectives, description, and
potential impacts. For both Category A and B projects, the implementing agency will provide these
groups with a summary of the EIA report's conclusions. In addition, the implementing agency will make
the draft reports available at a public place accessible to project-affected groups and local NGOs.
3As defined in World Bank Operational Policy 4.01, Environmental Assessment.
46



