Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GRANT NUMBER H009 AF
Development Grant Agreement
(Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project)
between
AFGHANISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 8, 2002
GRANT NUMBER H009 AF
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 8, 2002, between AFGHANISTAN (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
Page  2
(B)
the Association was authorized under Resolution No. IDA 194, adopted by its 
Board of Governors on April 8, 1999, to provide financing, under the Twelfth Replenishment, in 
the form of grants in the context of assistance to post-conflict countries, under a framework to be 
approved by the Executive Directors of the Association;
(C)
the Executive Directors of the Association approved such a framework with 
respect to post-conflict grants on July 1, 2001, and further determined that the development grant 
referred to in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the Grant) is consistent with such framework; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing to make 
the Grant available to the Recipient upon the conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit  Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (12), as 
modified below), (13) and (14), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 (as modified below) and 4.05;
(v)
Sections 5.01, 5.03 (as such sections are modified below), 5.05, 5.06 and 
5.07;
(vi)
Sections 6.02 (as modified below), 6.03 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01, 9.02, 9.03, 9.05, 9.06 (as modified below), 9.07 and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Article XII.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
Page  3
(i)
the terms “Borrower”, “Credit”, “Credit Account” and “Development 
Credit 
Agreement”, wherever they appear in the General Conditions, 
are replaced by 
“the Recipient”, “the Grant”, “the Grant Account” and 
“the Development Grant 
Agreement”, respectively; and
(ii)
the terms “Development Credit Agreement” and “development credit”, 
where 
used in Article I of the General Conditions, mean “Development 
Grant 
Agreement” and “development grant”, respectively; and
(c)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, 
or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“AACA” means the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority, an 
authority established pursuant to a Decree of the Recipient, dated March 30, 2002, as the same 
may be amended from time to time;
(b)
“AIA” means the Afghanistan Interim Administration established under the 
Agreement on Provisional Arrangements in Afghanistan Pending the Re-Establishment of 
Permanent Government Institutions, dated December 5, 2001, and any successor thereto;
(c)
“Beneficiary” means a village or neighborhood community or group which 
meets the criteria specified in the Project Implementation Manual for the making of Sub-Grants 
and to which or for whose benefit a Sub-Grant is made or proposed to be made;
(d)
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
“Framework” means the Recipient’s Environmental and Social Safeguards 
Framework which sets out, 
inter alia:
 (i) key policy principles for social and environmental 
management; (ii) measures to guide the screening of Sub-Projects (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) for significant social and environmental impacts, and to assist in the mitigation of such 
impacts; (iii) procedures to ensure that these principles and measures are appropriately applied; 
and (iv) guidelines for capacity building and monitoring;
(f)
 “MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of AIA; 
(g)
“MOPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of AIA;
(h)
“MORRD” means the Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development of 
AIA;
Page  4
(i)
“NGO” means a non-profit and privately owned and controlled legal entity, 
determined by the Recipient and the Association as capable of assisting in the fulfillment of the 
objectives of the Project;
(j)
“Part A Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 1 
(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(k)
“Part B Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 1 
(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Implementation Manuals” means, collectively, the Part A 
Implementation Manual and the Part B Implementation Manual;
(m)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(n)
“Sub-Grant”  means a Sub-Grant made under the Project for the carrying out of 
one or more Subprojects;
(o)
“Sub-Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to under paragraph B.2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(p)
“Ssub-Project” means a project or activity to be carried out under the Project 
which, having met the eligibility criteria set out in either Implementation Manual and the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, shall be eligible for financing, on a grant basis, in 
accordance with the provisions of the respective Implementation Manual.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
33,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement: (i) for expenditures made (or, if 
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and (ii) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by MOPW and MORRD on 
account of Sub-Grants in respect of which withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars 
a
special deposit account in its central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as the 
Page  5
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out    Part A of the 
Project through MORRD and MOPW and Part B of the Project through MORRD with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the Project Implementation Manuals and 
appropriate administrative, agricultural, engineering, environmental, financial and social 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, and with the environmental, social and other principles, measures, procedures and 
guidelines set out in the Framework.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 (c) of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall, not later than June 30, 2002, establish, and 
thereafter maintain, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
Page  6
the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year, audited in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Fiscal Year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section
 
4.02.
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish  
to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which:
(i)
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Grant, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of  such funds;
Page  7
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual
and planned Project implementation ; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Vice Chairman and Minister of Finance of AIA is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of     Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministry of Finance
Afghanistan Interim Administration
Kabul
Afghanistan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C  
  64145 (MCI) 
(202) 4776391
Page  9
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Kabul, 
Afghanistan as of the day and year first above written.
AFGHANISTAN
By /s/ Hedayat Amin-Arsala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL  
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ William Byrd
(Acting) Regional Vice President
South Asia Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) Sub-Grants:
(a)
Part A of the Project
   14,800,000
100%
(b)
Part B of the  Project
   12,800,000
100%
(2) Goods:
(a) Part A of the Project
0
100%
 
      (b) Part B of the Project
       1,200,000
100%
 
(3) Consultants’ services
Page  10
and training:
(a) Part A of the Project
800,000
100%
(b) Part B of the Project
3,200,000
100%
(4) Operating Costs
(a) Part A of the Project
400,000
100%
(b) Part B of the Project
400,000
100%
(5) Unallocated
100,000
TOTAL
33,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental 
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation and management, including the rental of 
office space, the operation and maintenance of vehicles, communications, office administration 
costs, utility charges, domestic travel and per diem, but excluding salaries of officials of the 
Recipient’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 600,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (3) (a), (3) (b), (4) (a) and (4) (b) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after    April 1, 2002; (b) under Category (1) (a) unless that the 
Recipient has prepared and furnished to the Association athe Part A Implementation Manual in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; (c) under Category (1) (b) unless that the 
Recipient has prepared and furnished to the Association athe Part B Implementation Manual in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; (d) under Categories (1) (a) and (1) (b) unless 
the chief financial officer referred to under paragraph A.3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has 
been employed by MOF in accordance with the terms and conditions referred to under said 
paragraph A.3; and (e) under Categories (1) (a) and (1) (b) unless: (i) the Sub-Grant to be 
financed has been made in accordance with the eligibility criteria, and on terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the respective Implementation Manual and the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; and (ii) a Sub-Grant Agreement has been signed in respect of such Sub-Grant.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent for consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for individual consultants; (iii) Operating 
Costs; (iv) training; and (v) Sub-Grants, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  11
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) provide employment in rural areas at a minimum 
wage, as a safety net, to as many people and in as short a time as may be feasible; and (b) 
commence the process of helping villages rebuild their capital base through the provision of 
Sub-Grants, and empower villagers to plan for, and decide on, the investments to be made with 
the proceeds of the Sub-Grants. 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A
: Labor Intensive Public Works
1.
The making of Sub-Grants to about 130 selected rural districts for the carrying out of 
priority Subprojects.
2.
The utilization of the services of: (i) a team of management experts to assist in the 
commencement of start-up activities under the Subprojects and their overall management, and in 
the installation and operation of the requisite information systems; and (ii) a core team of locally 
recruited road and irrigation engineers in each of the Recipient’s provinces to assist with: (a) the 
design and costing of Subproject proposals; (b) the provision of technical support to villagers and 
small contractors carrying out Subprojects; (c) the supervision of works; (d) the making of 
payments under the Subprojects; and (e) the management and control of expenditures under the 
Subprojects.
3.
The establishment of a monitoring team to exercise monitoring functions in respect of 
the Subprojects, including a review of the results of the Subprojects; and the employment of a 
consultant to make recommendations as to what labor-intensive programs could be designed and 
carried out after the Subprojects have been implemented.
Part  B
: Community Empowerment
1.
(a)
The carrying out of a program in about 60 districts involving the establishment 
of collectively owned village accounts and the payment into the said accounts directly to village 
groups of pre-determined amounts to finance public infrastructure, community revolving funds, 
social services, training and other eligible proposals developed or designed by the village groups.
(b)
The carrying out of a medium-term program of community capacity 
development, including: (i) the provision of consultant services to oversee the implementation of 
the Project; (ii) the recruitment and training of technical and social facilitators from NGOs and 
the private sector; (iii) establishment of representative local bodies; (iv) strengthening procedures 
for the technical review of Subproject proposals; (v) support for village management of financial 
records, procurement and Project implementation, including provision of training in basic 
procurement, financial management, and planning for provincial, district and village 
organizations;                  (vi) facilitating transparency through the use of oral and written media 
and the extensive involvement of civil society; and (vii) continual evaluation and review of the 
Project objectives to ensure conformity with the prevailing environment.
(c)
The strengthening of local governance through: (i) the expansion of local 
councils; (ii) the development of financial management skills, including the provision of advice 
in micro-finance and small business management to villages and neighborhoods; (iii) the 
strengthening of inter-village and village-district coordination; (iv) the improvement of the 
Page  12
responsiveness of line agencies to village requests; and (v) the development and strengthening of 
linkages between NGOs, the United Nations agencies and other service providers, and the 
involvement of public service providers, NGOs and the private sector in village planning and 
response.
(d)
The equipping and rebuilding of sections of the Recipient’s central bank and 
MORRD’s  Project offices, including the acquisition of goods and a vehicle for each such office 
and the training of the staff of the offices.
2.
Improving the quality of information about local institutions and populations 
participating in the Project, including: (i) collection of data to gather baseline information on 
living standards and household expenditures, basic needs, population variables, and development 
activities; (ii) the carrying out, using the contracted services of Kabul and provincial universities 
of studies to evaluate socioeconomic changes taking place in communities and neighborhoods; 
and (iii) the gathering of baseline data to support impact evaluation studies for any proposed 
follow-up programs, including    cost-benefit reviews of infrastructure, maintenance evaluations 
and assessment of poverty returns from economic investments.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
: Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more per contract, and goods which the 
Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the 
cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. Bidding documents may provide that bidders may send their 
bids by facsimile, in which case, bid security shall not be required. Furthermore, the entity 
responsible for the procurement of the above-mentioned goods shall be required to put in place 
arrangements satisfactory to the Association to ensure confidentiality of the bids received by 
facsimile.
Page  13
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Page  14
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of 
the Guidelines.
5.
Community Participation under Subprojects
Works under Subprojects under Part A of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $18,400,000 equivalent, and 
works under Subprojects under Part B of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $16,000,000 equivalent, may be carried 
out directly by the community or be procured through either of the following methods and in 
accordance with paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines: (a) direct contracting of all or part of the 
works to NGOs, community organizations, and qualified domestic contractors and/or suppliers; 
or (b) obtaining quotations from qualified domestic contractors with respect to all or part of the 
works. 
Part C
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, each contract for goods and/or works under a Subproject estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the first three (3) contracts for works under a Subproject under 
Part A of the Project and the first three (3) contracts for goods under a Subproject under Part B 
of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more; and (ii) each contract to be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, the Recipient 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping procedures, direct 
contracting or from a UN Agency, the Recipient shall provide to the Association 
a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
Page  15
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  16
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services costing less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services costing less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Expert financial services under Part B of the Project shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Single Source Selection
Services under Parts A.2 (i) and B.1 (b) (i) of the Project, and other services costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
5.
Service Delivery Contractors
Services under Parts A.2 (ii) and B.1 (b) (ii) of the Project may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of    Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
Page  17
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
General
1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain the Part A Implementation Manual and the Part B 
Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, such manuals to 
set out details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria  required for the Project,  
including the financial, administrative and operational arrangements relating to the carrying out 
of the Project. Without limitation to the generality of the foregoing, each Implementation Manual 
shall contain a requirement that a Sub-Grant shall be made only when the province, in whose 
territorial jurisdiction the Subproject for which the Sub-Grant is proposed to be made shall take 
place, has employed a qualified individual, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, to assist in the disbursement and financial management aspects of the Project. 
(b)
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manuals and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not amend or waive any provision of either Implementation Manual if, in the opinion of 
the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
(c)
The Recipient shall cause AACA to assist MORRD in the carrying out of the 
procurement process under Part B of the Project and shall vest AACA with the responsibility 
for the preparation of the reports referred to under paragraphs C (ii) (a) and C (ii) (b) of this 
Schedule. 
2.
The Recipient shall, no later than July 31, 2002, establish, through the secondment of 
MOPW and MORRD staff, and thereafter maintain, a Project cell within each of MOPW and 
MOCRD with functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association.
3.
The Recipient shall no later than July 31, 2002, employ, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, an individual, whose qualifications and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, to assume the responsibilities of chief 
financial officer and ensure that all Project records are kept up to date in conformity with 
internationally acceptable record-keeping standards.
Page  18
B.
Subprojects 
1.
(a)
To be eligible for a Sub-Grant, a Beneficiary must furnish a Subproject proposal 
to the Recipient that fully satisfies the criteria specified in the respective Project 
Implementation Manual for Sub-Grant financing.
(b)
In the evaluation of each Subproject proposal, consideration shall be given to the 
Beneficiary’s capacity to carry out, manage and maintain the Subproject in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical, environmental and managerial standards.
2.
The Recipient, through MOPW and MORRD, shall make appropriate amounts of the 
proceeds of the Grant available, as a Sub-Grant, to a Beneficiary under a Sub-Grant Agreement 
to be entered into by the Beneficiary and: (a) for purposes of Part A of the Project, MOPW, for 
road rehabilitation Subprojects, or MORRD, for irrigation rehabilitation Subprojects; and (b) 
for purposes of Part B of the Project, MORRD, all under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Association. The Sub-Grant Agreement shall provide for rights adequate 
to protect the interests of the Association and the Recipient, including to the extent that it shall 
be appropriate the right to:
(i)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and managerial 
standards; and maintain adequate records for the Subproject concerned;
(ii)
require that all goods and services required for the Subproject shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(iii)
require that such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the Subproject; 
(iv)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if the 
Association shall so request, any goods, works, plants and construction included in the 
Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; and
(v)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of the 
Sub-Grant upon the failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the 
Sub-Grant Agreement.
C.
Reports and Reviews
The Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(ii)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association: (a) on a quarterly basis, commencing October 1, 2002, a report on the progress 
achieved in the implementation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
(b) on or about June 30, 2003, a report, to constitute the basis upon which the mid-term review 
Page  19
shall take place, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (i) of this Section and consolidating the results of the reports referred to 
under sub-paragraph (ii) (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(iii)
review with the Association, by July 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (ii) (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories means Categories (1) (a), (1) (b), (2) (a), (2) (b), (3) 
(a), (3) (b), (4) (a) and (4) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to  $4,500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
Page  20
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to 
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to  the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Page  21
Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
Unless otherwise agreed between the Recipient and the Association, the following 
indicators shall be used to judge progress in the implementation of the Project:
A.
Part A of the Project
1.
The number of unskilled work applicants.
2.
The number of skilled and unskilled workers employed to carry out labor-intensive 
works, together with the number of person-days spent performing these tasks and the wages paid 
to said workers.
3.
The cost and number of compactors used for road upgrading, and the quantity and cost of 
materials and cement used in the upgrading process.
4.
The number of structures, such as bridges and culverts, and road kilometers that have 
been upgraded.
5.
The number of irrigation structures that have been rehabilitated and the extent to which 
sedimentation has been removed from irrigation canals.
B.
Part B of the Project
1.
Poverty Impact
:
(a) the number of villagers that have received proceeds of Sub-Grants; 
and (b) the number of person-days in terms of paid labor.
Page  22
2.
Community Organizing
:
(a) the number of community forums that have been established; 
(b) the number of people that have received training in financial management; (c) the number of 
villages that have made proposals; (d) the number of proposals that have been submitted by 
women’s groups; (e) the percentage of women in community forums; and (f) the number of 
villages that have received funds.
3.
Service Provision under Sub-Grants
:
(a) the number of Beneficiaries from among 
households; (b) the number and quality of construction of the infrastructure units that have been 
built; (c) the number of operations and maintenance committees that have been established; (d) 
the repayment rates on the revolving fund; and (e) the percentage of Sub-Grant disbursed.
4.
Capacity Development
:
(a) the number of persons that have been trained; (b) the number 
of cross-visits between villages; (c) the percentage of micro-finance proposals that have received 
micro-finance training; and (d) the percentage of villages with infrastructure proposals that have 
received operation and maintenance training.
5.
Monitoring and Management
:
(a) the number of villages that have been audited; and (b) 
the percentage of villages whose audits have been unqualified.
