Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4945 
Operation Name 
Social Safety Net and Public Administration Reform Program 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Other social services (40%); Health (25%); General education 
sector (25%); General public administration sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P115732 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Ministry of Finance 
NA 
Riga, Latvia 
Tel: (371-7) 095-625  Fax: (371-7) 095-625 
Date PID Prepared 
August 7, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 2, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 17, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Republic of Latvia has requested Development Policy Lending (DPL) support from the World 
Bank as part of the package of emergency assistance agreed between the Government, the 
International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the European Commission (EC) to limit and contain the 
damage of a financial crisis and rapid economic contraction.  The
 
package of EUR7.5 billion 
balance-of-payments and budget assistance agreed in December 2008 supports a program of fiscal 
consolidation and structural reforms extending to March 2011.  The package is designed to address 
severe macroeconomic and fiscal imbalances and financial vulnerabilities that have grown worse 
in the wake of the global economic and financial crisis.  These imbalances hinder the welfare of 
Latvian households, could set back Latvia’s convergence progress if not carefully managed, and 
pose a clear and present danger to the stability of the other Baltic States, and the Central and 
Eastern European region as a whole. 
The proposed DPL assistance from the World Bank will be delivered in two independent series of 
operations, one supporting reforms to strengthen the financial sector, and the other a proposed 
program to support Social Safety Net and Public Administration Reform. 
 
Facing the need for deep and rapid adjustment during a severe economic contraction, the 
Government is trying to navigate the process of fiscal consolidation with specific structural reform 
objectives.  In the social sectors, the most important measures being taken are: in education, the 
introduction of “funds follow the student” per-capita financing in the 2009 academic year, and the 
consolidation of vocational schools under the management of municipal governments; and in the 
health sector, a reduction in the number of hospital beds, more effective use of copayments to 
control demand for services, and reducing excessive costs by shifting health care toward out-
patient and hospital day-care procedures.  Additionally, reforms have been passed that will 
increase the efficiency of social protection programs by eliminating overlapping non-contributory 
benefits, improving the long-term financial sustainability of old-age pensions and other forms of 
social insurance, and increasing spending on targeted social assistance.  Moreover, measures are 
Page  2
planned to consolidate, professionalize and strengthen public administration, by reducing the 
number of central government ministries, improving human resource management and internal 
auditing structures, and increasing transparency in the management of state owned enterprises 
(SOEs). This package of measures will deliver fiscal savings required as part of the program 
agreed with international partners, as well as contribute to greater efficiency and efficacy of social 
services and public administration in the medium term. 
Underpinning structural reforms, the Government has introduced important mitigation measures 
and is developing an Emergency Safety Net Strategy, with World Bank technical assistance.  This 
will ensure critical social services are maintained and the impact of the economic contraction on 
households is cushioned as structural reforms are carried out. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The proposed DPL will back a Social Safety Net and Public Administration Reform Program.  The 
objectives of the proposed DPL are: (i) to mitigate the short term social costs of fiscal 
consolidation; (ii) to ensure the fiscal consolidation creates an opportunity for reform that will 
improve long-term performance and outcomes in the social sectors and public administration; and 
in the current deep economic contraction, (iii) to protect vulnerable groups with emergency safety 
net support. 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The World Bank’s support will focus on implementation of the Government’s cross sector 
Emergency Safety Net Strategy.  As structural reforms are implemented, the Government is also 
committed to alleviating the social costs of the transition to new financing and service delivery 
models in the education and health sectors, in order to ensure an adequate level of service 
provision is maintained across the country. Moreover, in the context of the current economic 
contraction and high levels of unemployment, this commitment extends to strengthening the safety 
net to respond to the immediate needs of vulnerable households. With technical input from the 
World Bank, the Government has developed and will implement an Emergency Safety Net 
Strategy to finance essential services and benefits delivered by national agencies, and locally by 
municipal governments. 
The Emergency Safety Net Strategy underpins fiscal consolidation and structural reforms by 
deploying supplementary support to ensure basic social services are maintained.
 
The strategy will 
coordinate the efforts of national and local government agencies to maintain: The strategy will 
coordinate the efforts of national and local government agencies to maintain:  
(1) the non-salary costs of keeping schools functioning (such as utilities, text books, and other 
essential teaching materials); 
(2) the costs of schooling for 5 and 6 year-old students; 
(3) at least the costs of transporting students from communities where schools have closed to 
their new places of instruction; 
(4) the costs of maintaining financial support to subsidize the health service co-payments of 
the poorest and needy households;  
(5) adequate financing from the Health Insurance Fund to sustain and improve general 
practitioner (GP) and primary health care (PHC) services and access; and 
Page  3
(6) increased financing for the targeted social assistance benefits and services that 
municipalities are mandated to provide to eligible groups, while increasing the income 
level qualifying for assistance so that it reaches a higher percentage of poor households. 
Furthermore, given the extent and likely duration of economic contraction and resulting levels of 
unemployment, the Government will extend the coverage of unemployment insurance.  For the 
growing number of unemployed who are not covered by unemployment insurance or other social 
support, the Government will fortify the Emergency Safety Net by re-allocating financing from the 
European Social Fund (ESF) to expand and rapidly deploy labor-intensive public 
works/emergency employment programs, to implement pre-existing local development projects.   
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The specific policies supported by the proposed development policy loan are not likely to have 
significant effects on Latvia’s environment, forests, and other natural resources.  Latvia’s 
environmental legislation and regulation is reinforced by EU environmental directives, including 
the EU’s guidelines on adoption of environmental assessments at the planning and programming 
level (June 2001) and the EU’s Environmental Liabilities Directive setting out liability for damage 
to properties and natural resources (April 2007). 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
250 
 Total 
250 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Truman G. Packard 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: 44-20-7592-8406 
Fax: 614-0832 
Email: Tpackard@worldbank.org 
Location: London, United Kingdom (IBRD)
 
