                                                         97315 September 15, 2010
Latvia: Protecting Poor and Vulnerable Groups in the Wake of the Global Economic Crisis




 FIGHTING POVERTY

 Protecting Latvia’s Poor and Vulnerable Groups in the
 Wake of the Global Economic Crisis




Overview
Responding to the global financial crisis, Latvia enacted an Emergency Social Safety Net
Strategy in October 2009, with technical and financial support of the World Bank, the European
Commission (EC) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). This strategy ensured that 90 %
of five-year-olds and 98 % of six-year-olds remain enrolled in preschool; covered health co-
payment charges for over 60,000 low-income patients; and provided 23,400 unemployed
persons with income opportunities through the emergency public works program.


Challenge                                            MULTIMEDIA
The global financial crisis hit Latvia at a time
when the country was particularly vulnerable,
and its impact has been felt more deeply than
elsewhere in the world—the economy declined
by 18 % in 2009 and is expected to contract
further by 3.5 % in 2010. The social impact of
the contraction has and will continue to be deep
and widespread. Unemployment in Latvia in the
first quarter of 2010 was higher than in any other
country of the European Union. As a result,
Latvia is likely to experience a sharp increase in
poverty, widening of the poverty gap, and a rise
in income inequality.
                                                                  More Results
Approach


                                                                  18%
The World Bank’s policy-based lending and parallel technical
cooperation with the government was designed to protect
vulnerable groups with emergency support; mitigate social
costs of fiscal consolidation; and ensure reforms lead to         The Latvian economy declined in
medium-term social improvements.                                  2009 by this percent.



The Bank is deploying rapid financial assistance to support
the government’s Emergency Social Safety Net Strategy – a
package of targeted measures to: maintain pre-primary
education and child development programs for five and six-
                                                                  400
year-old children; cover the costs of transporting students
from communities where schools have closed to their new
places of instruction; exempt needy households from health
                                                                  million
                                                                  The IBRD contribution to the
service co-payments and pharmaceutical costs; sustain and         loan package, of which 100
                                                                  million euros has already been
improve general practitioner (GP) and primary health care
                                                                     approved for the Safety Net and
(PHC) services; increase the coverage and pay-out period of          Social Reform Program. An
unemployment insurance; and increase the coverage and                additional 100 million euros will
                                                                     be made available in 2011.
amount of targeted social assistance benefits administered
by local governments.


For the growing number of unemployed who are not covered
by unemployment insurance or other social support, the               MORE INFORMATION
Bank provided technical assistance to the government to
                                                                      Safety Net and Social Sector
design and rapidly deploy a labor-intensive emergency                 Reform Program
public-works program.


Results                                                              PARTNERS

                                                                      European Commission 
      Financing for pre-primary programs was fully restored           International Monetary Fund 
      for two years, and enrollment in preschool grew; and,
                                                                      Latvian line ministries
      since October 2009, 90 % of five-year-olds and 98 %
      of six-year-olds remain enrolled in preschool. In
      addition, the government ensured financing so
      closure-affected students did not need to travel longer
                                                                  
      than 60 minutes to new schools.

      The new emergency public works program target was surpassed with over 19,000
      people participating by the end of 2009, and 23,400 unemployed workers earned a
      stipend by participating in the emergency public works program. To meet further
      demand, another 34,000 workplaces will be created in 2010.

      Needy and low-income households received full exemptions from co-payments and
      pharmaceutical charges to lower the burden of health costs; as a result, the health co-
      payment charges for over 61,000 outpatient visits and 3,800 in-patient visits were
      covered for low-income patients.

      Moreover, the total number of students enrolled in the High Institute of Health Sciences
      has increased to 798 students in 2010 compared to 420 students in 2008.

      While rationalizing its hospital network and shifting funds to primary care and prevention,
      the government strengthened general practitioner and outpatient care and financed
      additional public health care nurses for rural areas.

Voices


      A large number of low-income patients have received this very
   significant support which allows them to receive medical care
   that they otherwise could not have afforded. It is important to
   ensure that people receive medical services when they need it
   and not when they can afford it.
              — Valerijs Ratobilskis, Head of Pauls Stradins Clinical
                            University Hospital’s emergency center.


 Toward the Future
 Latvia graduated from World Bank financial assistance in 2007, and is now a
 donor to IDA. The Bank’s operational engagement in 2009-2011 is on exceptional
 special development policy lending terms. The Emergency Social Safety Net
 Strategy the Bank is supporting will be in place until the end of 2011. Although no
 further financial assistance is anticipated at this time, a long-standing technical
    relationship with the government of Latvia will be maintained.




 
