CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 499 GH
Project Agreement
(Second Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
DATED JULY 26, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 499 GH
Project Agreement
(Second Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
DATED JULY 26, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and GHANA
WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION (hereinafter called GWSC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Ghana (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ten million four hundred thousand dollars ($10,400,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that GWSC agree to undertake such obligations towards the
Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and GWSC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to GWSC on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS GWSC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) GWSC shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement through the ATMA Organization with


﻿4
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
(b)   GWSC shall consult the Association about any proposed appoinitment
to the positions of Manager of the ATMA Organization and of Project Manager
within the ATMA Organization sufficiently in advance of any such appointment
for the Association to have adequate opportunity to comment on the qualifications,
experience and, in the case of the Project Manager, the proposed terms of reference
of the person GWSC is considering for the position, and shall make any such
appointment only after due consideration of the views expressed by the Association.
Section 2.02. In order to assist it in the supervision of the carrying out
of Parts A(l) and (6) and of Part B of the Project, GWSC shall employ consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Parts A(1) and (6) and Part B of the Project,
GWSC shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) GWSC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by GWSC
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, GWSC shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) GWSC shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿5
(b)   GWSC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project, and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents,
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)   GWSC shall enable the Association's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of GWSC and
any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. GWSC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and under the ADB Loan Agreement and,             except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, GWSC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any
such agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) GWSC shall, at the request of the Association:
(i)         exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under the
ADB Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(ii)        furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request in respect of the Project.
(b)   GWSC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes, or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by GWSC of
its obligations under this Agreement, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and
inder the ADB Loan Agreement.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GWSC
Section 3.01. GWSC shall carry on its business and conduct its affairs under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management and shall operate,
maintain, renew and repair its plant, equipment and property, including the facilities
included in the Project, in each case in accordance with sound financial, engineering
and public utility practices.
Section 3.02. Without limiting the generality of Section 3.01 hereof, GWSC
shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, cause the dam constructed
under the Project to be periodically inspected in accordance with sound engineering
practice in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies or potential
deficiencies in the condition thereof, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance
or methods of operation of such dam, which may endanger the safety thereof.
Section 3.03. (a) GWSC shall take all action reasonably required to maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises, and to acquire all property,
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
(b)   GWSC shall not, without the consent of the Association, sell, lease,
transfer, or otherwise dispose of any of its properties or assets which shall be
required for the efficient carrying on of its business.
Section 3.04. GWSC shall maintain a program for the systematic collection
and classification of hydrological data in respect of the Densu River basin.
Section 3.05. GWSC, utilizing the services of suitably qualified and
experienced consultants on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
shall carry out a survey of the existing water supply facilities at Kpong to determine
the optimum usage of such facilities, including as to the recommissioning, uprating,
improvement and application thereof, and shall submit such survey to the
Association not later than June 30, 1975. GWSC shall promptly thereafter take
such action to implement the recommendations of such survey as may be agreed
between GWSC and the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GWSC shall
prepare a proposed program for the extension of its water distribution system in
the Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area for each of its five financial years commencing
July 1, 1975, and shall submit each such program to the Association for its approval
by not later than the December 31 preceding the financial year to which it relates.


﻿7
(b)   Not later than September 30, 1974, GWSC shall prepare and submit
to the Association for approval the proposed training program referred to in Part
D of the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) Not later than September 1, 1974, GWSC shall (i) submit
to the Association for comment the program for the connection and extension
of its sewerage system provided for under Part C of the Project; and (ii) prepare,
and submit to the Association for comment, a program, with specific water saving
targets, for the reduction of water leakage from its facilities, utilizing the waste
water meters and other leakage detection facilities, equipment and spares provided
under Part A(9) of the Project.
(b)   GWSC    shall take  such   action  as shall be necessary   for the
implementation of the programs referred to in sub-section (a) hereof as shall be
agreed between GWSC and the Association.
Section 3.08. GWSC shall take all feasible measures to ensure that the
execution of the Project and the operation of the facilities provided thereunder
are carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental factors.
Section 3.09. GWSC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amount as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) GWSC shall maintain accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition, and, on a separate basis,
the operations and financial condition of the ATMA Organization, such accounts
and financial statements being hereinafter respectively referred to as the GWSC
Accounts and the ATMA Organization Accounts.
(b)   GWSC shall: (i) have the GWSC and the ATMA Organization Accounts
for each fiscal year separately audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any event,
in the case of the GWSC Accounts, not later than six months and, in the case
of the ATMA Organization Accounts, not later than four months after the end


﻿8
of each such year, (A) certified copies of the GWSC and the ATMA Organization
Accounts for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audits by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the GWSC and the ATMA Organization Accounts and the audits thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GWSC shall
establish and maintain rates and other charges for its water supply and sewerage
services in the Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area, in the areas referred to in Part B
of the Project and in such other areas for which the ATMA Organization shall
from time to time be responsible for the provision of such services, at such levels,
and shall take all other action, as shall be necessary to provide revenues from
such services sufficient (i) to cover the operating expenses incurred in the provision
of such services and (ii) to produce an annual rate of return of not less than
7% for the financial years ending June 30, 1975 through 1977, not less than 3%
for the financial years ending June 30, 1978 and 1979 and not less than 7% for
the financial year ending June 30, 1980 and for each financial year thereafter
on the value of the net fixed assets in operation for its water supply and sewerage
services in such areas.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The required annual rate of return shall be calculated by using
as the denominator the average of the value of net fixed assets
in operation for water supply and sewerage services in such areas
at the beginning and at the end of each such year and as the
numerator the operating income from such services of that year.
(ii)        The term   "value of net fixed assets in operation" shall mean
the gross value of such assets less accumulated depreciation, all
determined in accordance with sound valuation, revaluation and
depreciation methods, acceptable to the Association.
(iii)       The term "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(A)   gross operating revenue; and
(B)   operating and administration expenses, including taxes (if
any), adequate    maintenance   and   depreciation  but
excluding interest and other charges on debt.


﻿9
(c)   Without limitation to subsection (a) of this Section, GWSC shall, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, establish and maintain rates and other
charges for its sewerage services in the areas referred to in subsection (a) hereof
at such levels, and shall take all other action, as shall be necessary to provide
revenues from such services sufficient to cover, for the financial year ending
June 30, 1980 and each financial year thereafter, the operating and administration
expenses, including adequate maintenance and depreciation, incurred by GWSC in
the provision of such services.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GWSC shall
not incur any debt unless the net revenue of GWSC for its financial year next
preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later 12 month period ended prior
to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be not less than
1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements on all debt (including the debt
to be incurred) of GWSC in any succeeding financial year (including the financial
year in which such debt is to be incurred).
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(I)         The term "debt" means all debt except (A) debt maturing by
its terms on demand or not more than one year after its
incurrence and (B) GWSC's obligation to make payments under
the arrangements referred to in Section 4.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement.
(ii)        Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of the contract, agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt.
(iii)       The term "net revenue" shall mean gross operating revenue from
the sale of water and provision of sewerage and other services,
adjusted to take account of rates and charges in effect at the
time of incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the financial year or 12 month period to which such
revenues relate, less all operating expenses, including adequate
maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative expenses, but
before provision for depreciation and debt service requirements.
(iv)        The term "debt service requirements" shall mean the aggregate
amount of principal repayments, (including      sinking  fund
payments, if any), interest and other charges on debt.


﻿10
(v)        Whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency of the
Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by GWSC, at the time such valuation
is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such other
currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will
be reasonably determined by the Association, in consultation
with the Borrower.
Section 4.04. The Association and GWSC agree that, as from the date hereof,
Sections 2.09, 2.10 and 2.11 of the First Project Agreement be and they are hereby
deleted and that the provisions of Sections 4.02 and 4.03 hereof shall be substituted
therefor.
Section 4.05. By not later than December 31, 1974, GWSC shall amend
the arrangements with the Borrower referred to in Section 4.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement in the manner therein provided.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of GWSC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify GWSC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿11
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For GWSC:
Managing Director
Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
P.O. Box 194
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
DIRWAT
Accra
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of GWSC may be taken or executed by the Managing Director of GWSC or such
other person or persons as GWSC shall designate in writing.


﻿12
Section 6.03. GWSC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of GWSC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by GWSC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
GHANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
By   /s/ Harry Reginald Amonoo
Authorized Representathe


﻿13
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    The provisions of paragraph I above shall not apply to negotiated purchase
of spares or standardized equipment for Parts A(6), A(8) and A(9) of the Project.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference fbr Domestic
Manufactures
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Ghana may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: 'bids offering goods manufactured in Ghana if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Ghana equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.


﻿14
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Ghana.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.


