CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 499 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 26, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 499 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 26, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 26, 1974, between REPUBLIC OF GI-IANA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Borrower has further requested the Canadian International
Development Association and the African Development Bank to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project;
(C)   The Project will be carried out by Ghana Water and Sewerage
Corporation (hereinafter called GWSC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to GWSC the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and GWSC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "ADB" means the African Development Bank;
(b)   (i)        "ADB Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between ADB and GWSC providing for a loan
to be made by ADB to GWSC in respect of Parts A(3)(a),
A(4), A(5) and A(7)(a) of the Project;
(ii)       "ADB Guarantee Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between ADB and the Borrower providing
for the guarantee of the loan referred to in paragraph (i)
of this sub-section; and
(iii)      "ADB Agreements" means the ADB Loan Agreement and
the ADB Guarantee Agreement.
(c)   "ATMA Organization" means the division within GWSC responsible
for the provision of water and sewerage services principally in the Accra - Tema
Metropolitan Area.
(d)   "CIDA" means the Canadian International Development Agency;
(e)   "CIDA Agreements" means the two agreements to be entered into
between CIDA and the Borrower respectively providing for a loan and grant to
be made by CIDA to the Borrower in respect of Parts A(2) and A(3)(b) of the
Project and of consultants services relating to the Project;
(f "First Development Credit Agreement" means the development credit
agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated August 28, 1969;
(g)   "First Project Agreement" means the project agreement between the
Association and GWSC dated August 28, 1969;
(h)   "Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation Act" means the Ghana Water
and Sewerage Corporation Act, 1965 (Act 3 10), as amended by the Ghana Water
and Sewerage Corporation Act, 1965, (Amendment) Decree, 1968 (N.L.C.D. 247)
and the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation Act 1965, (Amendment) Decree,
1969 (N.L.C.D. 391);
(i)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement (including the schedules
thereto) between the Association and GWSC of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time; and


﻿5
(k)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement (including the
schedules thereto) to be entered into between the Borrower and GWSC providing
for the onlending of the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million four hundred thousand
dollars ($ 10,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to bo financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from   time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on    each  June 15 and December 15
commencing December 15, 1984 and ending June 15, 2024, each installment to
and including the installment payable on June 15, 1994 to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of E%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿6
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Senior Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
GWSC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, and of facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable GWSC to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 hereof,
the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to GWSC under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and GWSC under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, under the CIDA Agreements and under the ADB Guarantee Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, GWSC and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive any such agreement or any provision thereof in a manner materially and
adversely affecting such interests or purposes.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take such action as may be necessary to
enable GWSC to establish and maintain the rates and charges for its water supply
and sewerage services referred to in Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement at the
levels therein specified.


﻿7
Section 4.02. By not later than December 31, 1974 the Borrower shall amend
the arrangements with GWSC referred to in Section 4.06 of the First Development
Credit Agreement so as to provide that:
(i)         payment of the amount therein referred to shall be made over
a term of 20 years commencing on July 1, 1979; and
(ii)        GWSC shall pay to the Borrower interest on the unpaid balance
of such amount at the rate of 6-1/2% per annum accruing as
from July 1, 1979
but so that such arrangements shall otherwise remain in full force and effect in
accordance with the provisions of the said Section.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in the event
that the Borrower shall request GWSC to undertake responsibility for the carrying
out or operation of any existing or proposed water supply or sewerage project
or for the provision of any existing or proposed water supply or sewerage service,
including the construction or installation of facilities required therefor, and that
such project or service would not be financially viable, the Borrower shall reimburse
to GWSC the amount of all capital and development costs and the amount of
all operating losses incurred by GWSC arising out of or in connection with the
compliance by GWSC with such request.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association agree that, as from the date hereof,
Section 4.09 of the First Development Credit Agreement be and it is hereby deleted
and that the provisions of subsection (a) hereof shall be substituted therefor.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause its ministries and departments to
pay to GWSC all amounts due to it (which amounts shall be subject to review
by the Borrower and GWSC), in the case of amounts due at the date hereof by
June 30, 1975 and in the case of amounts becoming due after the date hereof
within 3 months of the date of billing therefor.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall not carry out, or permit the carrying
out of, any project, scheme or any other development which may materially and
adversely affect the quantity or quality of water available from the Weija reservoir.
(b)   The Borrower shall, or shall cause GWSC to, establish and maintain
by not later than June 30, 1975, and thereafter review from time to tine, in
each case in consultation with the Association, operating procedures (utilizing the
data to be collected pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement) to
determine the allocation of water from the Weija Reservoir as between public


﻿8
consumption and other purposes and to ensure that, in the event of actual or
potential water shortage, priority in such allocation is accorded to the provision
of water for public consumption.
(c)   The Borrower shall have due regard to the said procedures in carrying
out or permitting the carrying out of any project, scheme, or other development
which involves the utilization of water from the Weija Reservoir.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall consult with the Association about any
proposed appointment to the position of Managing Director of GWSC sufficiently
in advance of any such appointment for the Association to have adequate
opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of the person the
Borrower is considering for the position and shall make any such appointment
only after due consideration of the views expressed by the Association.
Section 4.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 5.01(c) hereof,
the Borrower shall consult, and shall cause GWSC to consult, with the Association
about any proposed material change in the structure of its organization and
operations sufficiently in advance of any such change for the Association to have
adequate opportunity to comment thereon and shall make any such change only
after due consideration of the views expressed by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Borrower or GWSC shall have failed to perform    any of their
respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or GWSC shall have
failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b)   The Borrower or GWSC shall have failed to perform any of their
obligations under the CIDA Agreements, the ADB Agreements, the First
Development Credit Agreement (except as referred to in Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions therein referred to) or the First Project Agreement, in a manner
materially and adversely affecting the interests of the Borrower, GWSC or the
Association or the purposes of the Credit;
(c)   The Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation Act or the status,
organization, powers or responsibilities (including as to areas served) of the ATMA


﻿9
Organization shall, prior to the termination of the Project Agreement in accordance
with its terms, have been amended, without the agreement of the Association,
in a manner materially and adversely affecting the carrying out of the Project or
the operations or financial condition of GWSC or the ATMA Organization;
(d)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Development Credit Agreement an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that GWSC will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and GWSC;
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and GWSC;
(c)   any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as an additional conditions
to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
GWSC have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and GWSC, respectively, have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   Arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have been made for
the increase as from August 1, 1974 (or such other date as the Association may


﻿10
agree) of the water supply tariffs of GWSC to such levels as shall enable it to
fulfill the requirements of Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement in respect of
its fiscal year ending June 30, 1975; and
(d)   either
(i)        CIDA, ADB, the Borrower and GWSC shall have entered
into the CIDA Agreements and the ADB Agreements to
which they are respectively party, and that all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of such agreements (except
as to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement) shall have been satisfied,
or
(ii)       The Association shall otherwise be satisfied that suitable
provision has been made for the financing of the estimated
foreign exchange costs of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, GWSC, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of GWSC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and GWSC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
GWSC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date October 24, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿11
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Senior Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.0 1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Principal Secretary
Ministry of Economic Planning
P.O. Box M.76
Accra
Cable address:
ECONOMICOM
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By /s/ Harry Reginald Amonoo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Civil works for                4,900,000           100% of foreign
Part A(1) of the                                   expenditures
Project
II.   Equipment and
Materials
(a)   Parts A(6),                450,000           100% of foreign
A(8) and                                     expenditures
A(9) of
the Project
(b)   Part A(7)(b)              1,200,000          100% of foreign
of the Project                               expenditures
(c)   Part B of                  650,000           100% of foreign
the Project                                  expenditures
III.  Consultants'                    1,100,000          100% of foreign
services in                                        expenditures
respect of
(a)   design and pre-
paration of bid
documents for
Parts A and B
of the Project


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b)   procurement
and supervision
for Parts A(1)
and B of the
Project
IV.   Technical Assist-                250,000           100% of foreign
ance in respect of                                 expenditures
Parts C and D of
the Project
V.    Unallocated                     1,850,000
TOTAL         10,400,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories I, III or IV on account
of expenditures incurred after September 30, 1972 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000 or such other amount as the Association
may agree.


﻿15
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an   amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the further expansion and development of the water
supply system in and adjacent to the Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area. The Project
consists of the following parts:
Part A      Urban Water Supply
(1)   The construction at Weija of an approximately 55 foot high earth dam
and associated works on the Densu River and of a raw water pump
house, together with intake works serving the pumping station included
in the Project and the existing pumping station at Weija.
(2)   The installation of raw water pumps of approximately 20 million
imperial gallons per day (migpd) capacity in the pump house included
in Part A(1) of the Project, together with associated electrical and
mechanical equipment, to transfer water from the reservoir to the water
treatment plant included in the Project.
(3)   (a)   The construction at Weija of water treatment plant structures;
and
(b)   The installation in such structures of water treatment plant of
approximately 20 migpd capacity.
(4)   The construction of a service reservoir and of an elevated water tank
of approximately 5 million and 10,000 imperial gallons capacity
respectively.
(5)   The installation of approximately 38,000 ft of raw and treated water
transmission pipelines connecting the pumping station, treatment plant
and service reservoir included in the Project and the existing Accra
water transmission and distribution systems, including associated
connections anC. facilities.
(6)   The expansion of the existing raw water pumping station and treatment
plant at Weija to a capacity of approximately 13 migpd.
(7)   The extension of the existing water distribution system   in the
Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area in accordance with the annual programs
referred to in Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement, comprising:


﻿17
(a)   the installation of approximately 20 miles of pipeline for
the primary distribution system;
(b)   the provision of pipes, fittings and other equipment for
the secondary and tertiary distribution systems; and
(c)   the laying of the equipment provided for under paragraph
(b) hereof.
(8)   The installation of water meters to service all new water connections
to users in the Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area, including the provision
of spares.
(9)   The provision of waste water meters and other leakage detection
facilities, equipment and spares.
Part B      Rural Water Supply
The extension of water supply in the area of approximately 1,000
square miles to the north of the Accra-Tema Metropolitan Area, inc, 'In
-             the laying of approximately 110 miles of small diameter water transmission
and distribution pipeline, the construction of six small service reservoirs and
of seven maintenance yards, the installation of additional pumping sets and
the provision of associated water transmission and distribution facilities and
equipment.
Part C      Sewerage Program
The preparation of an implementation program for the connection to
individual users of the sewerage system provided for under the First
Development Credit Agreement, and for minor extensions of such system.
Part D      Training
The carrying out of the training program for the staff of GWSC,
including the provision of faci iles and equipment therefor, referred to in
Section 3.06(b) of the Project Agreement.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


