RETURN       TO                                          RESTRICTED
REPORTS        DESK            r                              Report No. PA- 14*
WITHIN                  FILE WOP
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
KENYA
September 22, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =      Kenya Shilling (KSh)
US$ 1                =      KSh 7.14
KSh 1=                      US$ O.14
KS 1                 =      US$ 2.80
=      KSh 20
Although the symbol Kt has no legal signifi-
cance, it is commonly used in East Africa as
a unit of account and it is also used in this
report
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(English System)
1 mile                      5 5,280 feet
=      1,610 meters
1 acre               =      0.405 hectare
1 square mile               2.59 square kdlometers
1 cubic foot                0.0283 cubic meter
1 ton                2      2,240 pounds
-      1.016 metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC                         Agricultural Development
Corporation
EAAFRO                      East Africa Agricultural
and Forestry Research
Organization
EATEC                       East African Tanning
Extract Company
EEC                         Eastern Engineering
Company
EIU                         Economist Intelligence
Unit



KENYA
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS    ..................................... .            i
I. INTRODUCTION ................                     .                        1
II. BACKGROUND.............                                      1...         I
A. General                           ..                                  1
Geography and Climate ......................        .            1
Economic Features ........   ............. .                      2
B.  The Forestry Sector ...................................              2
Economic Significance ......    ................                  2
Forest Resources and Exploitation ..................              3
Forest Department Organization .....        .................     4
Softwood Plantation Program .....     .............               5
Forest Industries ......    ..................                    5
Sawnwood and Plywood ......    ..............                 5
Pulp and Paper ......    ..................                   6
III. THE PROJECT.8
III   TH   POJEC  ............................................... 
A.  General Description ...............         ...................      8
B.  Field Development and Technical Aspects           .      .           8
Saw-wood ........   ..................                         8
Pulpwood      ...................................              9
C.  Cost Estimates ........    .................  ................      11
Summary Project Cost Estimates .........   ..   .........     12
D.  Proposed Financing .......................5 13
E.  Procurement      ....................... .....................      13
F.  Disbursement and Auditing ..............................            14
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission,
which visited Kenya in November/December 1968, composed of Messrs. Palein and
Losson (Bank) and Hubbard (Consultant).



-2-
Table of Contents Cont'd.
Page No.
G.  Operating Results ....................................
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................
Sav-wood Circle, ...............                                 15
Pulpwood Circle .15
Staff Appointments ...................................16
V.   MARKETING ...'.............................................
Saw-wood .16
Pulpwood .17
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS .18
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS .19
ANNEXES
1. Net Trade Balance in Forest Products 1963-1967
2. Note on Plantation Forest and Natural Forest Production
3. Organization Chart of Forest Department
4. Dothistroma Control
5. Major Developments in the World Trade in Timber
6. Marketing
7. Terms of Reference ror a Timber Marketing Survey
8.  Assumptions for Cost and Revenue Estimates
9. Expenditures and Revenues - Saw-wood Circle
10. Expenditures and Revenues - Pulpwood Circle
11. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
MAP



KENYA
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND tONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the seventh agricultural project in Kenya to
be financed by the Bank group. It is the second forestry project undertaken
by the Bank, the first being in Zambia for which a loan of US$5.3 million was
approved in September 1968.  Although Kenya's forcotry and forest industr'ie
are not large in relation to the agricultural sector and to the economy as a
whole, the project is important in that it will assist in making Kenya self
esufficient in forest products and in producing surpluses for export. It will
also contribute to the Government's policy of economic diversification.
ii.       The project would comprise the planting of about 48,0oo acres of
saw-wood and about 23,000 acres of puln wood in the six years 1970 to 1975,
for administrative convenience it would also include the maintenance of 7,300
acres of existing pulpwood. Production from plantings made under the project
is estimated at about 48 million cubic feet of saw-wood annually during the six
years 2000 to 2005 and about 14 million cubic feet of pulpwood annually during
the eight years 1982 to 1989. The pulpwood would be utilized by a pulp and
paper mill which the Government plans to establish with financial and technical
assistance from IFC and private concerns.  The project also includes the car-
rying out of a marketing survey of (enyan timber and pulpwood.
iii.      The project would be carried out by the Forest Department of the
Mtinistry of Natural Resources. Although the -?orest Department's operational
performance has been good in planting softwood, its administration, especially
in budgeting and accounts, needs to be strengthened. To ensure that the pro-
Ject is administered efficiently, a Project Manager, a Project Accountant and
a Divisional Forest officer will be appointed. An appropriate accounting sys-
tem will be introduced. The marketing survey will be carried out by consul-
1;ants.
iv.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$4.0 million, exclud-
iLng interest during the disbursement period; of this the foreign exchange com-
ponent is estimated at US$1.3 million or 32%. Interest on the proposed Bank
loan during the six year disbursement period would amount to US$500,000. The
proposed loan of US$2.6 million would meet 65% of the cost of the project; the
remainder of the funds would be provided by the government. The Bank loan
would be disbursed against 65% of all project costs. Local currency financing
:Ls justified on country economic grounds. Vehicles and equipment valued at
about US$200,000 would be procured through international competitive bidding,
these being the only items large enough to warrant such procedures; the re-
maining goods and services would be procured through local competition.
V.        The direct benefits to the economy are estimated at a rate of return
of at least 12% from the investment in saw-wood and of at least 11% from that
:Ln pulpwood. A sensitivity analysis indicates that these returns might be as
high as 15% and 13% respectively.  Indirect benefits would include the promo-
tion of secondary industries. Gross foreign exchange savings and earnings over
the life of the project are estimated at about US$250 million.



- ii -
vi.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$2.6 million equivalent
for a term of 25 years including a grace period of 10 years.   The length of
the grace period is justified by the time it will take, 15 yeeLrs, for the
project to generate revenue.



KEMYA
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
I. INTRfODUCTION
1.01      The project which is the subject of this report has been prepared
with assistance from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, and in this connection
an FAO mission visited Kenya in 1967. The project was appraised in November!
December 1968 by a mission composed of Messrs. Palein, Losson, and Hubbard
(consultant).
1.02      The project is the second forest plantations project for which Bank
assistance has been sought.  The first is the Zambia Industrial Forestry Pro-
ject for wlich a loan of US$ 5.3 million was approved on September 24, 1968.
The Zambia project comprised the planting of 20,000 acres each of pines and
eucalypts.  The exploitation of exiscing forests has been supported by Bank
Group financing in the past mainly through the provision of infrastructure,
but the financing of forest production is a relatively new venture for the
Bank. The increasing demand for forestry products and the development of
new markets offer new economic opportunities for a number of countries with
favorable ecological conditions. Preparation of foi'estry projects has there-
fore been initiated in several countries with the help of FAO.
1.03      Six agricultural projects in Kenya have previously received support
from the Bank Group. These projects, which include land settlement, the
development of smallholder tea gardens, and livestock and agricultural credit
programs, indicate the balanced nature of Bank/IDA support for Kenya's agri-
cultural development. fLxperience with the carrying out of these projects has
been generally satisfactory.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Kenya's population was estimated to be 9.9 million in 1967, of
which 97% were Africans, and the majority of the rest Asians. The rate of
population growth is relatively high at about 3% annually.
Geography and Climate
2.02      Kenya comprises some 225,000 square miles, an area approximately
equivalent to that of France. The northern and northeastern parts of the
country, comprising three-fifths of the whole, are arid. Northwest from a
low-lying tropical coastal plain, the country rises to the Kenya Highlands --
a block of alternating plateaux and mountain ranges at elevations of up to
14,000 feet. The principal forest areas are located in these areas of high
elevation and favorable rainfall. Even though Kenya straddles the Equator,



ecological conditions at 3,000 feet and more above sea level are generally
temperate. In the Highlands where the project would be carried out there is
a single wet season, April through September, with rainfall peaks in April
and July.
Economic Features
2.03      Kenya's recent economic performance has been better than that of
many other African countries. Government policy is aimed at promoting a co-
ordinated rural development program for the harmonious development of agri-
culture, forestry, commerce and industry, infrastructure, education and local
government institutions. GDP at constant prices increased at an average rate
of 6% a year between 1963 and 1968, and per capita GDP at constant prices at
about 3% a year, reaching US$ 116 in 1968. Economic diversification has be-
gun to produce some stabilizing effects, and manufacturing, transport and con-
struction industries are expanding. Tourism, the fastest growing sector by
far, and the largest single foreign exchange earner, has brought about very
substantial benefits. The economy's dependence on exports is moderate.
2.o4      Agriculture, forestry and fisheries account for about one-third of
GDP, employing about four-fifths of the population. Coffee, tea, wheat, sisal,
maize and pyrethrum, and beef and dairy produce are the major sources of reve-
nue. World market conditions, and the transfer, in recent years, of land vith
high production pctential from Europeans to Africans have slowed down the pace
of growth in agriculture.
2.05      Agricultural exports make up about two-thirds of total exports, and
coffee, tea, sisal, meat and pyrethrum are the major export commodities.
Kenya's balance of payments on current account has moved from surplus to defi-
cit, partly because of lower receipts from coffee and other agricultural ex-
ports and a slower growth of invisible receipts, and partly because of rising
investments.
B. The Forestry Sector
Economic Significance
2.06      Forestry and forest industries account currently for less than 2%
of GDP. Forestry employs between 8,000 and 9,000 permanent workers, and forest
industries a further 1,500.
2.07      In 1967 Kenya's trade deficit in forest products was KE 2.6 million
(see Annex 1). Net imports of paper and paper products were valued at Kf 3.2
million, being only partly offset by exports of wood carvings, timber, timber
manufactures, charcoal, and other forest prod4cts. Plywood, imports were valued
at KS 180,000. For two reasons, hovever, this situation should reverse. First,
existing forest plantations are maturing and a newly created plywood industry
is comipg into operation.: Second, the'Government has plans f'or establishing



-3-
a pulp and paper mill together with pulpwood plantations.   Consequently, it is
envisaged that in time Kenya will become self-sufficient in forest products
and also have surpluses for export.   Outlets for such surplusei would be found
mainly in East Africa and the Middle East with Europe taking increased amounts
of knot free timber as it becomes available (see para. 5.02).
Forest Resources and Exploitation
2.08      Kenya's indigenous forest resources cover some 6,670 square miles or
approximately 3% of the country's total land area.   The geographic distribution
of the main indigenous forests is indicated on the Map (as Protection Forests).
Over the last 50 years, these f6rests have been dystematically exploited,
mainly for the production of sawn timber. The economically accessible reserves
of the main commercially valuable species (Podocarpus eracilior, Podocar us
milanjianus, Juniperus procera, Ocotea spp., Olea yp.) have been largely cut
out. These indigenous species are blow-graving and take between 60 and 100
years to produce timber of usable size. Of indigenous forests, about 1,560
square miles are classed as productive and these contain a standing volume of
about 820 million cubic feet of usable timber. The exploitation rate of the
productive forests is low at between 2-3 million cubic feet annually. The
rate is lor because the bulk of the more valuable usable trees in accessible
areas has been extracted already.
2.09      The Forest Department of the Ministry of Natural Resources has thor-
oughly investigated the problems of regenerating Kenya's indigenous forests.
Regeneration with indigenous species is difficult and slow due to low growth
rates. Conversely regeneration with exotic, fast growing, softwood pine and
cypress species has proved very successful. Consequently, since 1945 the
Forest Department has been engaged mainly in carrying out a systematic reaf-
forestation program in the cut-over indigenous forests using these species.
By 1968 nearly 200,000 acres of exotic softwoods, cypress and pine in about
equal proportions, and about 20,000 acres of eucalypt, had been planted.
These softwood plantations have recently begun to yield substantial volumes
of timber (5.8 million cubic feet of roundwood in 1967 compared to 1.5 million
cubic feet in 1958).
2.10      The Highlands of Kenya provide excellent softwood timber growing
conditions. Favorable climatic conditions -- a rainfall satisfactory in both
amount and distribution, and the lack of any extremes of temperature to cause
an annual period of dormancy or slow growth -- coupled with fertile deep vol-
canic soils, give the area an appreciable comparative technical advantage over
the world's major softwood groving areas. For example, in Kenya only 30 to 35
years are required from planting to felling a tree for saw-wood, compared with
60 to 80 years north of latitude 600 where the major softwood producing areas
of Europe and Asia lie. Comparative periods for pulpwood are 15 and 30-45
years respectively. Annex 2 contains further details of the technical advan-
tages of growing softwoods in Kenya.



2.11      Another advantage of Kenya as a softwood producer is that while
large forest areas exist in the Northern Hemisphere, increasingly heavy capi-
tal investments will be necessary to exploit these commercially, and wages
are high. In contrast, land and labor are available and cheaper in East
Africa. Thus, by growing exotic woods locally, Kenya can expect not only to
reduce its foreign exchange outlays on wood and wood products, but also to
produce timber more cheaply than most traditional softwood exporters.
Forest Department Organization
2.12      The Forest Department of the Ministry of Natural Resources is re-
sponsible for the management, protection and regeneration of forest areas.
The organization chart of the Department is given in Annex 3. Headed by a
Chief Conservator of Forests, the Department consists of 35 senior staff
(Graduate Forest Officers), 104 intermediate staff (Senior Foresters and
Foresters), 142 Rangers and 897 Forest Guards. The permanent labor force is
about 8,200 and there are about 300 miscellaneous staff such as drivers and
clerical staff.
2.13      Africanization has been rapid since independence.   O3nly three ex-
patriates (including the Chief Conservator of Forests) remain on the permanent
senior staff of the Department and these are expected to leave the service
within the next two years. The Department benefits, however, from the serv-
ices of about a dozen specialists on temporary secondment from Canada and New
Zealand. Some difficulties, which occurred in the transitional period, have
been overcome, and the Department has carried out its planting programs suc-
cessfully in the last few years. However, many professional and sub-profes-
sional staff have a comparatively short operational experience, and the De-
partment will need to rely for some time! on expatriate specialist services.
2.14      The Graduate Forest Officers are trained at overseas universities
(currently about 20 are undergoing such training). The Department has its
own Foresters' Training College (two-year Diploma Course) at Egerton, and a
Forest Rangers' Training School at Londiani, but the former is now being
phased out because sufficient Foresters have been trained.
2.15      The Department conducts its own research, and maintains very close
liaison with the East African Agriculture and Forestry Research Organization
(EAAFRO) at Muguga in Kenya. A very important aspect of EAAFRO's research is
its work on Dothistroma Blight, a serious disease problem confronting Kenyan
forestry (see para. 3.10).
2.16      The Department operates a Forest Industrial Training Center at
Nakuru (logging, transport, and sawmilling training), which is managed by
staff seconded from New Zealand; and a Forest Road Unit specialized in build-
ing high grade extraction roads.
2.17      In its plantation operations, the Department uses the "taungya" or
"shamba" system. Under this, after the removal of commercial species of timber,
a plot of indigenous forest is temporarily handed over to a resident worker.
The resident worker receives a rionthly wage, now 50 shs, wh:.ch is paid only



during nine months of each year during which time he is used by the Department
to do plantation work including nuriery work, tree planting, weeding, pruning,
housing and road construction. During the three months in which he is not
paid, he is required to clear his plot on which he is then free to grow agri-
cultural crops during that and the 'following 7iwo years: the crops he produces
are his recompense for clearing the area without pay. In the third year, the
agricultural crops are interplanted with trees. The system has social advan-
tages and reduces Department cash outlays. However, pressures to increase the
wages are being felt.
2.18      The Forest Department's operational performance has been very good,
but its administrative organization is weak in the control of expenditures
and costs and in the preparation of adequate programs for further development.
Budgetary funds are ultimately allocated to the various Forest Districts.
These are self-contained administrative units with their own offices, staff,
housing, and vehicles. Theoretically, financial control is centralized in the
Accounts Division of the Ministry of Natural Resources, but in practice this
control is ineffective. Even assuming good administrative competence at the
District level, the existing accounting system does not allow efficient finan-
cial management.
Softwood Plantation Program
2.19      The Government's 1965-70 Development Plan provides for a continu-
ation of the present softwood plantation program at a yearly planting rate of
about 15,000 acres of saw-wood and pulpwood. This would entail new Govern-
ment investment until about 1980; thereafter, the softwood program should be
self-supporting financially. The planting program is shared by more than 40
Forest Districts in 11 geographic Forest Divisions (see Map).
Forest Industries
Sawnwood and Plywood
2.20      Twenty-five sawmills operate in Government Forest Reserves, plus an
unrecorded number of small mills on private lands and in townships. All but
one sawmill are privately owned. The majority of sawmills are small by modern
standards and require modernization, although some improvement in sawmill de-
sign and associated logging methods has been made in recent years.
2.21      There are promising prospects for the increased use of low cost pre-
fabricated wooden houses. A factory to produce such houses has begun pro-
duction at Nakuru. An expansion of this activity would greatly foster saw-
wood sales.
2.22      Until 1968, Kenya imported all her plywood and veneer requirements
from Uganda, Tanzania and overseas. A new plywood mill at Elburgon using
coniferous plantation wood commenced production in 1968. Another mill at
Elgeyo, started operation in early 1969. The commercial prospects of these
mills are good.



- 6 -
2.23      Timber marketing is largely handled by a private Cooperative Asso-
ciation, "Timsales Ltd.". Timsales has been in existence since the early
1930's. It is an efficient organization which has played the main role in
stimulating the development of export markets for Kenya's timber.
Pulp and Paper
2.24      The 1965-TO Development Plan includes the setting u]? of a local
pulp and paper industry. At present, the paper industry is based on waste
paper and imported pulp, and comprises one small mill at Thika which produces
about 3,000 tons a year of imitation kraft paper and which haSs plans for ex-
panding its activities into the additional production of 5,000) tons of news-
print annually. Two local packaging industries manufacture corrugated card-
board containers and multiwall paper sacks. These alone consume over 10,000
tons of industrial paper and paperboard each year.
2.25      Since the middle 1950's several studies have been made of pulp and
paper mill projects in Kenya. IFC has taken an active intereist in all pos-
sible projects and has investigated each proposal as it has been presented.
Early proposals had the common drawback of relying for their viability on ap-
preciable exports, exports which would have been made at low prices on the
international market. However, with local demand growing rapidly, and causing
paper products imports into Kenya to rise accordingly, a pulp and paper mill
project began to emerge as an economically attractive as well as a commer-
cially viable proposition. Meanwhile, a suitable site for a pulp and paper
mill was selected on the Nzoia River at Broderick Falls in the Western Prov-
ince, 200 miles west of Nairobi (see Map).
2.26      In 1966 the firm of Birla Bros. Private Ltd. of Calcutta, India was
issued with a Letter of Intent by the Kenya Government. The Letter reserves
for them the right to submit a first proposal for a pulp and paper mill at
Broderick Falls. In 1967 Birla submitted to the Government of Kenya the re-
port of a Birla feasibility study for an integrated pulp and paper mill pro-
ducing industrial and cultural paper. Upon IFC's recommendation, the Govern-
ment, Birla and IFC, commissioned the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) of
London to carry out a market study for the proposed mill's products. The EIU
report, completed in late 1968, concluded that market demand in Kenya would
be sufficient by 1975 to support the project.
2.27      The domestic market in 1967 for products that subsequently would be
produced by the mill was estimated by EIU to be 9,200 metric tons of bleached
paper and 15,700 metric tons of unbleached paper. Growth ra.tes of 8% per
annum for bleached paper, and 7% per annum for unbleached paper were projected
giving a total domestic demand in 1975 for 44,000 metric tons for both types
of paper. It was estimated that thereafter demand would grow at 7% per annum,
reaching 70,000 metric tons in 1982.
2.28      Plans now under consideration are that the mill would have two paper
machines with total rated capacity of 45,000 metric tons of piaper per annum.
In practice, and with good management, real annual capacity with the planned



equipment could be 50,000 metric tons. The need for a first phase of ex-
pansion to 75,000 metric tons is anticipated by about 1977, but will be de-
pendent upon development of the market. Provision for this first phase of
expansion is being made by the consulting firm now engaged in the detailed
engineering of the mill (see para. 2.31). The mill would produce both bleached
and unbleached paper products including kraft paper, paperboard, carton board,
and uncoated printing and writing paper, but not newsprint.
2.29      Under current plans, the mill would be commissioned in early iy'2
and would be operating at full capacity by 1974/75, assuming that small quan-
tities of either pulp or unbleached paper would be exported to Uganda. Soon
thereafter, unless the mill were expanded, domestic demand would absorb all
of its production. The expansion to 75,000 ton capacity envisaged for about
1977 also implies temporary exports of limited quantities to Uganda, but by
1982 domestic demand would again catch up with the mill's output. Thus the
general planning approach has been t- tailor the mill's size to the needs of
Kenya's econony.
2.30      On the basis of the foregoing it is realistic to assume that by
1982/83 the market for bleached and unbleached paper in Kenya would support a
ipulpmill of 75,000 metric tons. The pulpwood requirements of such a mill would
be of the order of 14 million cu ft annually by 1982/83 and by this time the
first deliveries from the proposed pulpwood plantings could be expected. The
exploitation schedule which forms the basis for project revenue projections
for pulpwood is designed to meet that requirement.
2.31      In December 1968, Birla appointed Eastern Engineering Company (EEC)
of the USA as the consultant engineer for the project. EEC is responsible
for estimating the capital cost of the project, for designing and engineering
the plant, and for supervising construction. Total capital cost is prelim-
inarily estimated at US$ 35 million equivalent. A tentative financial plan
assumes the Government of Kenya, Birla and IFC as major shareholders.  IFC is
presently negotiating with potentially interested institutions in the USA,
Europe and East Africa to obtain the finance to float the venture.
2.32      An existing import duty of 15% on industrial paper is waived for most
imports at the present time. The Government of Kenya has agreed with Birla,
however, to impose a 40% ad valorem tariff on all paper products and pulp. IFC
estimates that the prices proposed by Birla 1/ would give a financial return
of about 19% on investment in the mill over a 25 year life. IFC has calculated
that these prices are about 27% above West European and North American paper
prices plus freight. Thus, the proposed 40% import duty would meet two ob-
jectives; first, to ensure a financial return sufficient to attract foreign
investors, and second, to protect the new industry against any possible dump-
ing. If the mill's prices were reduced to meet West European and North Ameri-
can prices plus freight, the financial rate of return from investment in the
pulpmill project would be about 13%.
L/   These proposed prices are about 27% above cif, and thus do not take advan-
tage of the full 40% protection.



- 8 -
2.33      The cost of pulpwood would represent about 18% of the total cost of
sales, and is estimated at 230 shs (US$ 32 equivalent) per ton of pulp. This
assumes that pulpwood would be delivered to the mill at a cost of 106 shs per
metric ton, and that the production of pulp from pulpwood would be 46%.
2.34      The Birla pulp mill project would be managed by Birla; and a Birla
associate, Orient Paper Mills of Calcutta, would supply the staff for the mill
and the technical management. Orient Paper Mills operate two large paper mills
in India. Until pulpwood plantings are ready for cutting (abolat 1982/83), the
mill would obtain its pulpwood requirements from plantations originally planted
for saw-wood and situated within distances of 70-100 miles from the mill. It
is anticipated that the pulpmill company would carry out its own timber felling
operations. The consequences of neither the Birla, nor an alternative, pulp
mill project materialising on the economics of the proposed 3ank project are
examined at paras 5.07 and 6.02.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The project consists of the establishment and maintenance of about
48,000 acres of saw-wood plantations and about 23,000 acres of pulpwood plan-
tations, and the maintenance of a further 7,300 acres pulpwood already esta-
blished. The saw-wood plantations would be located near the road and rail
axis Nairobi-Eldoret-Uganda. The pulpwood plantations would be located close
to the proposed Broderick Falls pulpmill (see Map) .
3.02      Plantings would be made in the six years 1970 to 1975. The produc-
tion of these plantings would be used to meet domestic demand for sawn timber
and plywood, and as raw material for the Broderick Falls pulp and paper mill.
The project would be carried out by the Forest Department of the Ministry of
Natural Resources. A market survey would form part of the project.
B. Field Development and Technical Aspects
Saw-wood
3.03      The Government has requested finance for planting a total of 12,000
acres of saw-wood annually by more than 40 Forest Districts. Due to uncertain-
ties regarding the marketing of the production from a program of this size
(see para. 5.03), and in order to have more concentrated, and more efficiently
run plantations, the project would include only 8,000 acres of saw-wood plant-
ings annually in the years 1970 through 1975. This compares with an average
of about 10,000 acres annually during the last five years.



- 9 -
3.04      The plantings would be made in 15 Forest Districts distributed with-
in the Eldoret, Elburgon and Londiani Forest Divisions, according to a detail-
ed planting program agreed between the Government and the Bank. Assurances
have been obtained that any subsequent modifications to the six-year planting
program would be acceptable to the Bank except for a:10% variation in the
planting program which could be made without Bank approval.
3.05      Cypress (Cupressus lusitanica) and pine (Pinus patula) would be the
two principal species planted. Both would be grown on a 30-year rotation.
C. lusitanica has given uniformly successful results in the project areas and
its timber is of excellent quality both as sawn timber and as plywood peeler
logs. The spacing used would correspond to a stand of 680 trees per acre.
The average yield of comercial timber for this species in the project area
is 8,000 cubic feet per acre over a 30-35 year rotation. This is made up of
approximately 1,000 cubic feet per acre for each of two thinnings practiced
at 15 and 20 years, and about 6,000 c-ibic feet per acre when the trees are
c:lear felled at 30 years. While P. patula yields are anticipated as being
higher, sound and conservative management dictates that within the six years
of the planting program a balance should be maintained between plantings of
the well tried cypress and the more newly introduced pine. In addition, the
planting of two species will reduce the risk of extensive damage caused to the
Dlantations by possible spreading disease. It is estimated that about 80% of
sav-wood plantings would be of cypress.
3.06      Seedlings would be raised at District nurseries.  Sufficient seeds
are available from local seed orchards. Planting would be made after clearing
of indigenous forests, at the beginning of the long rains (March to June).
Plantation maintenance would include weeding, pruning and thinning. The shamba
isystem (see para. 2.17) would be used for all sylvicultural operations.
Pulpwood
3.07      Some 7,300 acres of pulpwood have been planted in the last three
years at Turbo, near the contemplated Broderick Falls pulpmill site (see Map).
During the project planting period 1970-1975, the planting rate would reach
about 4,000 acres annually, and a total of about 23,000 acres would be planted,
giving about 30,000 acres of planted pulpwood by 1975. In respect of possible
changes in the program similar assurances as for modifications to the saw-wood
planting program have been obtained from the Government.
3.08      It is anticipated that the pulpmill's capacity would be expanded to
75,000 metric tons by the early 1980's (see para. 2.30). A total of about
45,000 acres of net plantable land would be required to supply such a mill on
a sustained production basis.
3.09      About 25,000 plantable acres of Government owned land is available
for use by the Forest Department at Turbo, and of this 7,300 acres have al-
ready been planted. (see para 3.07) Some additional 4-5,000 acres are thus
required by the Forest Department for project pulpwood plantings. The Gov-
ernment foresees no problems in obtaining this area of land by public acqui-
sition, and during negotiations gave assurances that this additional land
would be acquired no later than December 31, 1971. Implementation of the



- 10 -
pulpwood sub-project will require the use of land suitable for agriculture.
This raises the question whether it would result in any net loss to the eco-
nomy since, for example, maize cultivation under modern techniques could pro-
duce returns as good or even better than timber growing. The answer to this
question is that there is ample land available in Kenya to simultaneously sa-
tisfy the requirements of both forestry and agriculture sectors, and that the
land at Turbo has no unique agricultural advantages over land available else-
where. Consequently in the overall economy no loss of agricultural benefits
would affect the benefits anticipated from investment in pulpwood.
3.10      The areas for planting with pulpwood would be flat and free of forest.
The main species planted would be Pinus patula, but during 1970/71-1974/75,
about 300 acres annually would be planted with Pinus radiata. P. radiata is
higher yielding than P. patula, but is susceptible to the Dothistroma Blight
(a fungus disease of the needles). More experimentation is needed on the
control of this disease before the Forest Department can contemplate large
P. radiata plantings (see Annex 4). Plantings would be contiguous to facili-
tate aerial spraying.
3.11      Plantings would be at a density of 540 trees per acre and would be
grown on a 15-year rotation. Yields at 15 years would be about 4,100 and
5,700 cubic feet per acre respectively for P. patula and P. radiata. There
would be no thinnings.
3.12      The existing land at Turbo (para. 3.09) is presently managed as a
combined agricultural and sylvicultural operation. Operations are controlled
by a contract between the Government, the Agricultural Development Corporation
(ADC) - a Government-owned corporation, and the East African Tanning Extract
Co. kEATEC), a private company whose main interest is in the exploitation of
wattle, from the bark of which it makes tanning extract. The contract gives
EATEC, as managing agent, entire responsibility for agricultural activities
and, in principle, afforestation. However, a modus vivendi has been developed
whereby the Forest Department plants and maintains the trees, while EATEC does
clearing and land preparation (for which it bills the Forest Department) and
grows maize and wheat for two years, including one year of intercropping with
trees.
3.13      This arrangement is unsatisfactory because it does not give the
Forest Department formal authority to plan and carry out its program, nor does
it give it any control over land preparation expenditures. Consequently the
Government has given notice of terminating the existing contract; and has
agreed to enter into a new contract, satisfactory to the Bank, with either
EATEC or another suitable managing agent which would give the Pulpwood Circle
(para. 4.06) full executive and expenditure control over the Turbo pulpwood
plantations. To ensure proper coordination of sylvicultural and agricultural
operations, the contract would include a pulpwood development plan acceptable
to the Bank. Effectiveness of the loan would be dependant upon termination of
the current Turbo management agreement.



- 11 -
C. dost Estimates
3.14      The cost of the project comprises all development costs incurred up
to the time project plantings are completed, i.e. during the six-year period
1970-1975.  The total estimated cost is approximately US$4.0 million equiva-
lent, as summarized below. Details are given in Annexes 8, 9 and 10.



- 12 -
Sunriary Project Cost Estimates -
K£ '000               US$ t Jo3      Foreign
Item           Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total Exchange
I. Saw-Wood Plantings
Buildings             36.Q   6.4     42.4    101    18      119   15
Roads                 24.0   6.0     30.0      67   17       84   20
Vehicles and Tractors       52.7     52.7           148     148  100
Equipment              7.2  40.8     48.0      20   114     134   85
Forestry
operations2/        272.4  10.0    282.4    763     28     791    3
Vehicles and Tractors
running costs        18.4  73.4     91.8     51    206     257   80
Building Maintenance   8.9   1.6     10.5      25    4       29   15
Road M4aintenance      6.0   1.5      7.5     17     4       21   20
Office Running Costs  17.1  17.1     34.2      48    48      96   50
Staff, Travelling    191.0  36.4     227.4    535   102     637   16
Sub-total          581.0 245.9    826.9  1,627    689   2,316   30
Contingency  155o     87.1  36.9    124.o     244  103      347   30
Total Saw-Wood     668.1 282.8    950.9  1,871    792   2,663   30
II.   Pulpwood Plantings
Buildings            21.8    .4     27.2     61     15      76   20
Roads                 9.2   2.3     11.5      26     6      32   20
Vehicles                   18.5     18.5            52      52  100
Equipment             2.9  11.6     14.5       8    33      41   80
Forestry
operation2/        126.8  46.2    173.0    355   129     484    27
Vehicles running
cost                 7.0  27.9     34.9     20    78       98   80
Building Maintenance  5.9   1.0      6.9     16      3      19   15
Road Maintenance      2.2     .6     2.8       6     2       8   20
Office Running Costs  8.7   8.8     17.5      24    25      49   50
Staff, Travelling    70.5  18.0     88.5    198    50      248   20
Sub-total         2$5.0 140.3    395.3    714   393   1,107    36
Contingency  15%?    38.3  21.0     59.3    107    59     166    36
Total Pulpwood    293.3 161.3    454.6    821   452   1,273    35
III.   Marketing Survey       8.2  19.3     27.5     23    54       77   70
PROJECT COST       969.6 463J   1,433.0  2,715 1,298   42013   32
1/ Project costs do not include cost of maintaining the existing 7,300 acres
-  of pulpwood.These would average about KU 9,500 annually and would be met
directly by the Governzient.
2/ Major items included are nursery work, clearing and land preparation,
planting and beating up, weeding, pruning, and plant protaction.



3.15      The cost estimates are based on Forest Department experience with
appropriate modifications made by the Bank staff in the light of experience
of plantation developments in other countries. As it is very difficult to
establish costs under the present accounting system, a hIgh contingency ele-
nent of 15% has been included.
D). Proposed Finan,Cing
3.16      It is proposed that a Bank loan of US$ 2.6 million be made to meet
155% of the project cost of US$ 4.0 million. The remainder of the funds would
lbe provided by the Government. Of the loan amount, US$ 1.3 million would
cover the foreign exchange cost of the project (32% of the project cost) and
US$ 1.3 million would cover a portion of local costs. The financing of local
currency expenditures is considered so be justified on country economic
grounds. The loan would be made to the Government of Kenya. The terms for
the proposed loan would be 25 years including a 10-year grace period. Project
plantings would not generate revenue for at least 15 years, consequently the
Gaovernment would meet the first five years of repayments of the Bank loan
from other sources.
3.17      The Government would make the proceeds of the Bank loan and its
own contribution to the project, incluc'ing the fundsrequired for maintaining
the existing 7,300 acres of pulpwood, available to the Forest Department. To
permit greater flexibility in the use of funds for carrying out the project
assurances were obtained during negotiations that budgetary allocations would
be made for the Saw-wood Circle 1/ and the Pulpwood Circle 1/, in the form of
-a single Subhead in the Government's annual estimates and would be made avail-
able up to the amount of the Subhead in such amounts and at such times as the
Project Manager shall reasonably request.
E. Procurement
3.18      Vehicle and tractor purchases totalling about US$ 200,000 would be
the only item sufficiently large to warrant internationil competitive bidding.
There are no import restrictions and Government Ministries have duty free sta-
tus. Other items of equipment, such as plows, tools and materials (see Annex
8) would be too diversified to justify international competitive bidding and
would be procured locally through normal Government procedures. These pro-
cedures are satisfactory, and a wide choice of competitive suppliers exists
in Kenya. Building construction would be done by contracts awarded on the
'basis of local competitive bidding. Land preparation (stumping, plowing and
harrowing) for pulpwood plantings would be the responsibility of the managing
agents employed for the purpose (see para. 3.13). Other forestry operations
would be carried out using Forest Department labor.
l/   These would be the organizational units for carrying out the saw-wood and
pulpwood sub-projects, see para. 4.04.



- 14 -
F. Disbursement and Auditing
3.19      Disbursements would be made over the six-year period 1970-1975, and
the Bank would disburse 65% of all project expenditures. In the case of im-
ported vehicles and tractors, disbursements would be made against submission
by the Borrower of the normal documentation, i.e., supplier's invoices, and
evidence of payment and shipment. For all other expenditures, the Bank would
disburse against statements of expenditures certified by the project accountant
and project manager and, if contractor services are used, against certified pro-
gress and completion statements.
3.20      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the accounts of the
project would be subject to annual audit under procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. These procedures would be a full annual audit by the Government Auditor-
General's Department.
G. Operating Results
3.21      Estimated project revenues and expenditures are given in Annexes 9
and 10. In the case of saw-wood, revenues from sales of commercial thinnings
would accrue during years 16 through 26 from the start of project plantings,
and revenues from the sales of clear fellings would accrue during years 31
to 36. In the case of pulpwood planted under the project, there would be no
thinnings and revenues from the sales of clear fellings would accrue during
years 15 through 21. Using the price assumptions described in paras. 5.06 and
5.08, the financial rates of return for saw-wood and pulpwood would be 8% and
11%, respectively.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The project entails the establishment of additional forest plant-
ations, and though the Forest Department has already planted successfully
large acreages of softwood, its administration, especially its budgetary and
accounting organization, would need to be strengthened. The costs and bene-
fits of plantation techniques, in particular, would need to be continually
reviewed, and this would require a degree of cost accounting and analysis
which is now absent in the Department.
4.02      Assurances have been obtained from the Government that the project
would be headed by a Project Manager, whLose headquarters would be at Eldoret
or Londiani, in the project area. The 'roject Manager would be responsible for:
(a) physical execution and administration of the project;
(b) investigation of the most economical plantation methods;



- 15 -
(c) preparation of a planting program, suitable for eventual
external financing, for the period following the present
project; and
(d) the preparation and execution of separate budgets for saw-
wood and pulpwood planti.tions (Saw-wood Circle and Pulpwood
Circle, see para. 4.04),
The Project Manager would report to the Chief Conservator of Forests, but
would have full access to the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry responsi-
ble for Forestry. The Chief Conservator of Forests would ensure the neces-
sary assistance of other Departmental Staff and the adequate allocation of
equipment necessary to carry out the project.
4.03      The Project Manager would be assisted by a suitably experienced pro-
ject accountant who would be responsible for maintaining records adequate to
record the progress of the project and who would undertake the cost analyses
'required for the sound economic and financial management of the project. Con-
trary to the present arrangements, all accounts and payrolls for the project
would be centralized at Project headquarters, while only financial data col-
:Lection would be handled at the local level.
4.04      Unlike the saw-wood plantations, which would serve many sawmills,
the pulpwood plantation would depend on, and serve, one single customer, the
proposed pulp and.paper mill. The financial viability of the mill would de-
pend upon the availability of fairly priced supplies of raw material delivered
on an agreed schedule. It is essential, therefore, that a high level of co-
ordination be maintained between the pulpwood plantations and pulpmill opera-
tions. This would justify different treatment for the saw-wood and pulpwood
sub-projects. Accordingly the project would be subdivided into a "Saw-wood
C,ircle" and a "Pulpwood Circle", each having separate accounts and budgets
which would be maintained at project headquarters.
Saw-wood Circle
14.05     The Saw-wood Circle would comprise'the areas necessary to carry out
project saw-wood plantings (see paras. 3.03 and 3.04). In order to implement
the project, the Project Manager would have authority to issue instructions
to the Conservators responsible for the areas included in the project.
P?ulpwood Circle
4.o6      The Pulpwood Circle would carry out all project pulpwood development
as well as manage earlier plantations at Turbo (para. 3.09). Unlike the Saw-
wood Circle, its operations would be separate from all others of the Forest
Diepartment. The present manager of the Forest Department Turbo Division would
become head of the Pulpwood Circle with the title of Divisional Forest Officer,
Turbo, under the Project Manager's authority. The present staff of the Forest
D)epartment Turbo Division would become staff of the Pulpwood Circle.



- 16 -
4.07      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that, within two years from the date of commission of the pulpmill, the Gov-
ernment would consider, in consultation with the Bank, transfering the manage-
ment of the Pulpwood Circle to the pulpmill under contract. The use of such
contracts is common and regarded as a sound practice in traditional pulp ma-
nufacturing countries, such as Canada, where it provides the pulpmill with an
assurance that the quality, cost and delivery schedules of the raw material
meet operational requirements. The contract should stipulate the payment by
the pulpmill of a minimum royalty of 0.60 shs per cubic foot measured under
bark, and contain provisions for increases in the royalty should the financial
results of the pulpmill venture justify such an increase.
Staff Appointments
4.o8      Assurances have been obtained from the Government that the Project
Manager, the Project Accountant and the Divisional Forest Officer, Turbo would
be mutually acceptable to the Government and the Bank. The appointment of such
staff is a condition of effectiveness of the loan. Assurances have also been
obtained that in order to secure satisfactory staff for these positions the
Government will afford such rank and employment terms as are necessary.
V. MARKE¶ING
5.01      Annex 5 gives an account of major developments in the world trade in
timber. The world consumption of coniferous wood is steadily increasing
and growing deficits are anticipated throughout the remainder of the century
in many areas of the world, including Western Europe, Japan, Africa, and the
Near East. Because of increasing production costs in the traditional supplier
countries of the Northern Hemisphere, there winl be good prospects for exports
from low-cost producers among the developing countries. In thxe years to come,
Kenya in particular is likely to benefit from its proximity to one of the most
pronounced deficit areas (Near East Region) which vill, in addition to ecologi-
cal advantages, give it a comparative advantage resulting from lower trans-
portation costs.
Saw-wood
5.02      Demand projections for saw-wood from project plantations are examined
in Aanex 6. Three levels of forecast have been used, resulting in estimated
total roundwood requirements of 68, 85 and 106 million cubic feet in the year
200C, when project plantings would start being clear felled. In arriving at
the medium forecast of 85 million cubic feet of roundwood equivalent, it has
been anticipated that domestic c~emand would reach about 43 million cubic feet,
and that a further 42 million cutbic feet would be for expor';, mainly to other
East African countries and the Near East Region. Thus, total requirements
would increase six times from the 1967 level of about 13 million cubic feet of
production. The production from project End earlier plantings, supplemented
by thinnings from later plantings and by exploitation of indigenous forests,
wo.uld meet the estimated demand.



- 17 °
5.03      Data now available indicate that supplies from a planting program of
12,000 eLcres annually (para. 3.03) would be close to the upper limit of demand
in the early 2000's. On the other hand, planting of 8,000 acres per year, as
proposed under the project, would correspond to the middle of the projected
range of demand.
5.04      Market and supply projections must be reviewed at regular intervals.
The project would include a marketing survey to update demand projections and
to explore possibilities for market promotion s-L saw-wood end pulpwood botn
domestic and export. The survey results would be used for formulating the
Government's policies and preparing programs subsequent to completion of the
present project. The survey would entail about 12 man-months of the services
of a marketing consultant. 65% of the cost of about US$ 77,000 would be fi-
nanced under the loan. Terms of reference for the marketing expert are given
in Annex 7. Assurances have been obtained that within two years of signature
of the loan the Government would hire a forest products marketing expert ac-
ceptable to, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
5.05      In Kenya, as in most countries, the granting of temporary concessions
for the exploitation of forests to logging and sawnmill operators is stanlard
practice for the marketing of standing timber. Concession agreements issued
by the Forest Department stipulate the quantities of usable timber which can
be extracted from the concession area, and the Forest Department charges a
fee (royalty) for each cubic foot of timber removed from the forest by the
JLogging operator. Each year, the Forest Department reviews the royalty rates
Jfor each species and size of logs. In doing this, the Department uses a for-
mula which links its royalty rates to the average selling price of sawn timber
f.o.r. mill railway station during the preceding year.
5.06      The Ministry of Natural Resources plans to increase currently low
royalty rates by 10% compounded each year over the next five years. This
would bring the rates applicable to project plantations to about 0.50 shs,
o.60 shs and 0.75 shs per cubic foot measured under bark, and sold standing,
f'or first and second commercial thinnings and clear fellings, respectively.
These rates are used in project revenue calculations.   During negotiations
the Government gave assurances to the above effect.
Eulpwood
5.07      Project output of about 14 million cubic feet annually of pulpwood
would meet the anticipated requirements of the Broderick Falls pulpmill (see
para. 2.30). Since no alternative source of raw material exists for the
pulp mill, apart from limited supplies of saw-mill residues and smallwood
within an economic distance for their transport to Broderick Falls, it may
be confidently assumed that project pulpwood would be used by the proposed
mill.  In the unlikely event that the pulpmill proposal should fail to mate-
rialize, it would be possible to maintain the trees under the longer saw-
wood rotation and ultimately use the timber for saw-wood. If this should
occur, however, a moderate surplus of saw-wood probably would be created, re-
sulting in some sales being delayed. Due to such delayed sales the return on
investment in any pulpwood plantings used in this way would be lower than on
regular saw-wood plantings (see para. 6.02). The marketing survey (see para.



- 18 -
5.04) will include pulpwood.
5.08      Project revenue calculations assume that pulpwood would be sold
standing at 0.60 shs per cubic foot measured under bark. This price has
been calculated back from the price that the pulpmill would be able to pay,
and at the same time provide a financial return sufficient to attract foreign
financial investment. It is assumed that the pulpmill would be able to pay
106 shs per metric ton 1/ delivered for pulpwood (see para. 2.33). A roy-
alty of 0.60 shs per cubic foot would provide the Government with a satis-
factory financial return on its investment in pulpwood plantings (see para.
6.02). A delivered cost of 106 shs per metric ton of pulpwood to the
Broderick Falls mill is equivalent to US$ 6.24 per cubic meter 1/, and this
compares with current average prices in other pulpwood producing areas as
follows: the southern US -- US$ 8.50; Scandinavia -- US$ 14.00; and eastern
Canada -- US$ 10.00.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
6.01      The saw-wood sub-project would permit substitution of locally grown
sawnwood for imports as well as generate exports. The direct benefits comprise
the production for the internal market valued on the basis of import prices
(savings) and the exported production valued on the basis of export prices
(earnings).  The average economic benefits thus calculated would be 1.10
shs, 1.32 shs and 1.65 shs per cubic foot of roundwood produced, respectively
for first and second commercial thinnings and clear felling. This gives an
economic rate of return on saw-wood plantings of about 12% (see Annex 11).
The economic rate of return is higher than the estimated financial rate of
return of 8% (see para. 3.21). The reason for the lower financial rate is
that it is assumed that project produced saw-wood would be sold in Kenya at
prices below those of imported saw-wood; this is the present situation, and
prices for locally produced saw-wood on rail at Nairobi average about 6 shs
per cubic foot while imported saw-wood would cost in excess of 9 shs.
6.02      The rate of return from investment in the pulp and paper mill with-
out protective tariff would be 13% (see para. 2.32). This return would be
achieved if the mill paid about 106 shs per metric ton delivered for pulpwood.
The price of 106 shs is in line with a royalty of 0.60 shs per cubic foot for
standing pulpwood, and the latter is assumed as both the economic and financial
price of pulpwood. Consequently, both the financial and economic rates of re-
turn on pulpwood plantings would be about 11% 2/ (see Annex 11).
1/   The factor of 1:35.3 has been used in conversions of metric tons to cubic
feet; and the factor of 1:2.38 in conversions of metric tons to cubic
meters.
2/   In case no pulpmill facilities were available, the wood could still be
utilized for saw-wood. The econoric rate of return in this eventuality
would be about 10%.



- 19 -
6.03      The rates of return stated above are conservative, and are used in
the economic analysis of the project because, while there are sound reasons
for assuming higher benefits and/or lower costs, it is difficult to quantify
these. Below, the results of a sensitivity analysis involving assumptions
carrying a relatively high rate of probability are summarized. The use of
these assumptions would result in rates of return of 15% and 13% for the saw-
wood and pulpwood respectively. Further details of the analysis are given in
Anmex 11. This shows that:
(a) the assumption of a 1% annual increase in the price of wood
would result in a rate of return about two percentage points
higher for saw-wood and about one percentage point higher for
pulpwood.
(b) the assumption of a shadow cost for labor engaged in forest
planting and maintenance equal to 75% of the level estimated
in the conservative assumption wouid increase the rate of
return by about one percentage point in both the case of
saw-wood and that of pulpwood.
6.o4      Indirect benefits would include the promotion of secondary industries
such as logging and sawmills, plywood factories and furniture factories. These
would generate additional employment and income. The project itself would
employ some 1,500 resident workers. Gross foreign exchange savings/earnings
over the life of the project would be of the order of US$ 250 million, arising
from sales of project sawn timber and sales of paper manufactured from project
pulpwood.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
main points:
(a) Procedures for modifications to the six-year planting programs
(paras. 3.04 and 3.07)
(b) Plans for the acquisition of any additional land required for
pulpwood (para. 3.09)
(c) Termination of the Turbo Management Agreement and appointment
of managing agents for clearing and preparing the land required
for pulpwood (para. 3.13)
(d) Allocation of funds by the government (para. 3.17)
(e) Organizational arrangements for the project and the appointment
of senior staff (paras. 4.02 through 4.08)
(f) Employment of a marketing consultant (para. 5.04).



- 20 -
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan are the appointment of the
Project Manager, Project Accountant and Divisional Forest officer, Turbo,
(para. 4.08) and the termination of the Turbo Management Agreement (para.
3.13).
7.03      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$2.6
million for a term of 25 years including a grace period of 10 years.
September 23, 1969



ANNEX 1
KENYA.
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
NET TRADE BALANCE IN FOREST PRODUCTS 1963-1]967
1963       1964       I           1966       1967
-KE '000-
Fuelwood and Charcoal    + 77.9     + 91.8     + 153.5    + 134.7     + 147.6
Sawlogs                     0.7     _   3.5    +   2.6    + 20.7     +   7.0
Poles and Posts          + 29.8     + 23.8     + 57.9     + 81.9      + 78.5
Sawn Timber              + 125.9    + 218.0    + 326.8    + 197.7     + 173.3
of which: Softwood     +(153.8)   +(20O.8)   +(273.4)   +(193.7)   +(246.8)
Hardwood    - (27.9)    + (13.2)   + (53.4)   +  (4.0)   - (73.5)
Boxes, Crates, etc.      - 110.b    - 158.9    - 143.2    - 152.5     - 98.5
Builders' Woodwork       + 85.8     + 69.7     + 107.0    + 59.1      + 105.8
Wood Carvings                -      + 168.9    + 280.3    + 341.7     + 294.5
Plywood                  - 115.7    - 158.9    - 147.7    - 205.2     - 180.6
Matches                  +   3.4    - 18.1     + 60.8     + 57.2      +  34.8
Other                    _   2.5    +   2.3    + 29.9     - 23.0      - 78.7
Sub-total Wood:        + 93*4     + 235.1    + 727.9    + 512.3     +483.7
Paper, Paperboard
and Manufactures
thereof              -24,292.6   -2,163.3   -2,60o4.0  -2,843.6    -3,o046.5
Fibre Board             -   41.7   -   87.9   - 118.2    - 113.6     - 104.1
Sub-total Pulp:      -2,334.3    -2,251.2   -2,722.2   -2,957.2    -3,150.6
W4attle Bark             + 157.2    + 197.6    + 118.3     + 142.8    + 66.9
Other                    + 50.0     + 22.1     + 34.5      + 26.7     + 38.5
Sub-total:             + 207.2    + 219.7    + 152.8    + 169.5     + 105.4
NET TRADE BALANCE:      -2,033.7   -1,796.4   -1,841.5    -2,s275.4  -2,561.5
April 29, 1969






ANNEX 2
ITNYA
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
NOTE ON PLANTATION FOREST AND NATURAL FOREST PRODUCTION
A. The T-brldls Pbrests
1.        Differences in soil, climate, situation and history are reflected
in the diversity of forest types. In attached Table 1 the world's forests
are classified under six principal types, with a brief note on the main fea-
tures and principal commercial woods of each.   This classification is much
over-simplified, but satisfactorily presents the general picture.
2.        The forest type of most concern in contsidering the Kenya Forest
Plantations Project is the "Cool Coniferous Forests"; both because these
would be the main source of Kenya's sawnwood and pulpwood in the absence of
'.enya's forest plantation program, including the Bank project, and because
it would be Kenya's major competitor in supplying the Near East and East
African Regions with sawnwood. However, in considering the cool coniferous
forests, account must be taken of the "Temperate Mixed Forests" since the
areas which these occupy are populous and provide the largest market for the
production of the cool coniferous forests, and of the "Equatorial Pain Forests"
since these comprise a very large wood resource.
3.        Tn Europe, the USSR, North America, and Japan, the regions where
most wood is consumed, the forests are predominately coniferous. Across the
north of these regions runs a wide belt of heavily coniferous-forested land.
The proximity of this large coniferous resource to the heavily populated and
economically advanced regions immediately to the south has been of primsrry
importance in shaping the pattern and nature of the use of wood, and of the
wood using industries. Apart from that of location, the coniferous forests
offer other advantages. They contain only a limited number of species which
produce wood uniform in chnracter, properties, and log sizes. They are,
therefore, relatively easy to harvest, handle and process.
4.        Continental Europe, the European region of the USSR, the US, and
Japan all have at least a quarter of their land under forest. The larger
part of these temperate mixed forests are now in use to a greater or lesser
degree. Much like the coniferous forests they contain relatively few species
in any given area, and this enhances their commercial usefulness.    Dbctensive
infrastructure has given access to much of the area of temperate mixed forests,
and the intensity of their use is growing accordingly.
5.        Because of inclement climate, and the other poor environmental con-
ditions which characterize the north temperate forests (cool coniferous and
mixed temperate) neither the average volume of wood per acre (the growing
stock) nor rates of growth are very high. Thus in Europe, growing stock
averages 1,070 cu ft/ac and average net annual growth 33 cu ft/ac. For the



ANNEX 2
Page 2
USSR comparable figures are 1,570 and 17 respectively; and in the case of the
USA 1,230 and 31. The high growing stock figure for the USSR highlights that
country's considerable and largely untapped timber resources in Siberia and
the Northwest, and reflects the extensive areas of mature and over-mature
forests in the USSR which,with the forests of the Pacific coast of the USA and
Canada comprise the great coniferous reserves of the world. The reasons for
the existence of these reserves include importantly the problems of access, and
of the high cost of providing infrastructure to facilitate exploitation; this
is of particular relevance in the case of the Siberian forests.
6.        The trdpical rain forests are concentrated in regions which gener-
ally are sparsely populated and at an early stage of development. Possibly
there are 2,100 million acres of tropical rain forests carrying some 4,138
million cu ft (gross volumne) of wood, which is about the same volume as that
carried by the northern temperate forests. But relatively little of this
volume is of useable sizes, and even less of commercially acceptable species.
Thus, in West Africa mature rain forests typically have wood volumes of 4,300
cu ft/ac, but with only 1,1h0 cu ft/ac in commercial log sizes and only 290
cu ft/acre of these sizes in species which are commercially acceptable at the
preFent time. The tropical rain forests of Latin America have fewer commer-
cial species and smaller log sizes than ir Africa, and those of SoutheaFt Asia
a rather higher proportion of commercial species.
7.        A large part of the world, including much of its more heavily popu-
lted areas, has an inadequate forest area, either inadequate in quality or
in ouantity. This is the case of northern Africa and the Near East, and much
of south Asia and mainland China. Together these areas contain roughly one-
third of the world's population, whose consumption of wood is, as a conse-
quence, severely restricted. In these areas, as in Kenya, man-made plantation
forests take on a special significance.
B. Forest Plantations
8.        To date the greatur part of man-mnade forests have been conventional
reafforestation efforts. More recently, however, attention has been given to
more intensive afforestation, including measures such as cultivating the
ground, fertilizing, irrigation, and planting specially bred high yielding
species. The yields obtained from such intensive forms of plantation forestry
can be very high. Thus, in suitable areas of tropical Africa, such as the
Kenya Highlands, the net annual average growth of pines is between 170 and
260 cu ft/ac. In consequence fuelwood and polewood can be produced in less
than 10 years, pulpwood between 10 and 15 years of age, and sawlogs of accept-
able size from the age of 15 onwards. The following table compares the net
annual growth rate of plantation pines in tropical Africa with those of
the forests of the north temperate zone.



AIWNEX 2
Page 3
Net Annual Growth Rate
(cu ft/ac)
Pines        Forests of the north temperate zone (average)
Tropical     USA              Europe                USSR
Africa
170g- 260     31                 33                  17
Forest plantations, consequently, are forming an increasingly important part
of the world's forest resource, and making a much greater contribution pro-
portionally than their share of the world's area of forests. Their importance
extends to more than just the volumne of wood they contribute. The very high
yields obtained mean that wood produntion can,be concentrated, so reducing
harvesting and transportation costs. Further the degree of managerial control
possible means that the stock can often be sel7ected to provide the character-
istics desired by the user.
9.          There are limitations to the development of forest plantations.
Large areas of a single species are susceptible to epidemic attacks from
insects and disease, and intensive afforestation requires good land, high-
quality stock, and care prior to, during, and after establishment. The fail-
ure of one linlc in this chain may cause a failure of the entire system, or at
'east a considerable reduction in the high yield that is essential if the high
costs involved are to be justified. In the case of Kenya Forest Plantations
every possible economic effort is being taken to insure against such a break
down.
10.         It is not difficult to compare the quality, and consequently the
value of the production from Kenya Forest Plantations with those of temperate
producing areas of the world. Plantation produced saw-wood has proved to be
o. a quality suitable for the modern building industry. Plantation tropical
pine pulpwoods of the type used in the project have been thoroughly tested and
found to have a suitability for pulp similar to that of temperate coniferous
woods. There is evidence that some tropical pines, including both P. Patula
and P. radiata, produce pulp that has a greater fiber length, and consequently
the resultant product a higher tear factor than temperate pulp; slightly
better opacity; and slightly lower tensile and burst factors.
11.         It is difficult, if not impossible, to compare the costs of pro-
duction of wood from Kenya plantations with those of wood from northern tem-
perate forests. An indication of cost advantage of Kenya's plantations is
that in Scandinavia and the Pacific Northwest, wood costs per ton of unbleach-
ed kraft paper range between US$ 36 and US$ 56; whereas the equivalent cost to
the proposed Broderick Falls pulp and paper mill of wood produced by project
plantings would be US$ 30-35.
August 26, 1969






ANNFX 2
Table 1
KENYA
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
NOTE ON PLANTATION FOREST AND NATURAL FOREST PRODUCTION
The W.orld's Forests
Fbrest type           Principal features            Principal commercial
species
Cool coniferous forests      Occur only in the North-     These forests contain
ern Hemisphere, forming a    northern coniferous
broad forest belt, the        softwoods such as
"taiga," circling the        white spruce, black
globe.  The number of spe-   spruce and balsam fir
cies in any one area is      in North America,
small.  Tr-ees are fairly    Norway spruce and
uniformly sized.  A re-      Scots pine in Europe
latively homogeneous, long-  and northwestern
fibered wood raw material     U.S.S.R., and larch
is produced.  In spite of    in northeastern
heavy exploitation in the     U.S.S.R.
southern part and the
occurrence of huge fires,
the primitive aspects of
this type have been pre-
served over large areas
due to lack of accessibi-
lity and sparse popula-
tions.
Temperate mixed forests      Occur almost exclusively     These forests supply
in the middle latitudes      most of the world's
in the Northern Hemis-       beech, oak and birch
phere.  The number of         and such quality woods
species is considerably       as walnut.  They also
higher than in the pre-       have a very large
vious type.  Comprises a      coniferous content,
large amount of subtypes      especially the for-
ranging from predominant-     ests of the U.S.S.R.
ly coniferous to practi-      and the douglas fir-
cally pure broadleaved        hemlock forests of
types.  The content of        the west coast of
softwoods in this type is    North America.
important as a source of
industrial wood raw
material - especially
since many broadleaved
species exhibit poor qua-
lity and form. Notable



ANNEX 2
T~Eh
Tabie 1
Forest type                 Principal features           Principal commercial
species
among the predominantly
coniferous areas are the
northern parts of the mixed
forests in the U.S.S.R. and
the forests on the west
coast of North America.
Other important areas are
found in mountainous regions
of Europe, Mexico, and in
the Himalayas. The forests
are generally located in
parts of the world with the
highest populations and have
been subject to man's actions
for a long time. Clearing
for agricultural settlement
has been widespread. The
need for fuelwood has re-
sulted in conversion of
additional areas to "coppice
forest." The structure of
the forests has changed in
many areas as a result of
intensive management.
Warm temperate moist       Occur in warm temperate zones    Pines are the most
forests                    in both hemispheres.  Al-        important softwoods
though containing a large         in this type, occur-
number of hardwood species        ring in a variety
forests of this type have         of species.  The
been and are being heavily        better known hard-
exploited in the more access-    woods include oaks
ible areas for their content      and the eucalypts
of softwoods.  Natural for-       of Australia.
ests are being replaced to
an increasing degree by plan-
tations with native or exo-
tic softwood species.
Equatorial rain forests   Occur all through the tropi-      Commercially well-
cal regions wherever rain-       known species in-
fall is abundant throughout       clude in Latin
the year, and are predomi-       America mahogany,
nantly broadleaved.  The          cedar and green-
number of species found          heart; in Africa
within a few hectares may be      okoume, obeche,
as high as a hundred or more,    sipo, limba and
resulting in a wide variety      African mahoganies;
of woqd characteristics.         and in Asia species
This heterogeneity gives         belonging to the
rise to many problems in         dipterocarp family.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
Page 3
Forest type             Principal features          Principal commercial
species
processing for industrial
purposes. Except on their
fringes, rain forests have
hardly been touched by man
in Latin America. In
Africa and Asia, exploita-
tion has been carried much
further. The forests in
these regions are now sup-
plying a large part of the
quality and largesized
hardwoods used in the
world.  Forest areas are
steadily decreasing due to
clearing for permanent
agriculture. In many areas,
forests are being farmed
under shifting cultivation
with subsequent tranFfor-
mation into secondary for-
est. Fringe forests are
often subject to destruc-
tion by fires.
Tropical moist, deci-    Occur in areas where a         Only the forests of
duous forests            longer dry season appears     Asia contain commer-
in the climatic pattern       cially well-known
otherwise characteristic      species such as sal
of the rain-forest belt.      and teak.
Depending on the length of
the dry season subtypes
range from forests ap-
proaching the rain forests
in structure to almost
savanna-like'formations.
Soils and climaticoondi-
tions associated with
these forests are also
favorable for agriculture.
Large areas have been
cleared for permanent
agriculture or degraded in
connection with shifting
cultivation and grazing.



ANNEX' 2
Table 1
Page 4
Forest type              Principal features           Principal commercial
species
Dry forests                 Occur in all parts of the    Little or no commer-
world with severe dry sea-    cial timber is pro-
sons.  The type is parti-    duced by these forests,
cularly extensive in tro-    but they provide im-
pical regions.  Trees are     portant quantities of
usually short and badly       poles and fuelwood for
formed, comprising a large    local use.
number of species. Grow-
ing stock volumes are low.
Dry forests have been ex-
tended over time by the ac-
tion of man through graz-
ing and forest destruction,
particularly in the Medi-
terranean region. In
Africa there has been a
century-long advance of the
dry forests at the expense
of the rain forests, due
largely to fire, grazing,
and shifting cultivation.
April 29, 1969



KENYA: FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF FOREST DEPARTMENT
PERMAN'ENT SECRETARY
jChief Conservator j
Foe  Wof Forests
ProJect Managel                       Deputy Chie 
Foret  cr      ytConservator of Forests
Kitale~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nut-a
I                                                         I
Cia-worircleDFO          DFO   flF0   DFO
Consrvaor  ||  Cnsevato   | }   | CLCovast       Sothr C Nairvaob  Myeri=rvto 
_~~~~~~~~~Idsra _               pat _         Developmt      i
_.F.'1: Divirinal Forest Oicer  Of
a  As proposedd user the pr t                               C                 D
Augustur  Inventories  Plans2S)CircleII                                                               B EEburgo- Londb42 9 Thson's
Research~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ndsra                       Deatn          Dev _  :  al
D.F.0: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Dii Dionalna   Foes   Ofie  .SF.O.mDlFlO 
As~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ proposod Circle th projectS
August 1969'                                                                                          (2R)IBRD-4299






ANNEX h
KENYA
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROiDCT
DOTHISTRUAC CONTROL
1..       Dothistroma Blight is a fungus disease affecting Pinus radiatn-
The fungus attacks the needles and thus reduces the growth potential of
the tree. P. radiata is a particularly fast growing species of pine with
good pulping qualities.
2.        Control measures have been developed by the plant pathology
branch of East Africa Agricultural and Forest Research Organization
(EAAFRO), an East African Community organization. The measures consist
of the application of h lbs per acce of a copper salt, preferably copper
oxychloride. They involve two sprayings each year over a seven-year
period. The sprayings begin with a spraying of nursery seedlings, shortly
before planting out into the field. In the first and second year, the
trees are sprayed from the ground and thereafter from the air. No treat-
ments appear to be necessary after the seventh year since evidence
indicates that the trees develop an increasing degree of resistance to the
disease as they grow older. The results of spraying on a plantation
scale in Kenya have been good, but experimentation over a longer period
is required to arrive at a final assessment of the effectiveness of the
method.
3.        Work aimed at developing disease resistant varieties of Bradiata
are underway but so far has not yielded significant results.
4.        Because of the potential economic value of P. radiata, about 300
acres annually would be planted under the project (less than 1% of the
total project pulpwood plantings). Confirmation of the effectiveness of
methods of controlling the disease may, in time, justify increased planting
with P. radiata.
April 29, 1969






ANNEX 5
KENYA
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS IN THE WORLD TRADE IN TIMBER
1.        The value of world trade in the main primary forest products grew
from US$ 5.3 billion in 1959-61, to US$ 7.2 billion in 1963-65, accounting for
4.2% of export trade of all commodities for the world as a whole, 4.9% for the
developed countries, 3.5% for the centrally planned countries and 2.3% for the
developing countries. However, the developing countries' export trade in
these products continued to grow considerably faster than world trade, and
very much faster than their trade in all commodities. By 1963-65 the develop-
ing countries accounted for 11% of the world forest products trade, which com-
pared with 8.3% in 1959-61 and 6.5% in 1953-55.
2.        With a few important exceptions the greater part of developing
countries' forest product exports is still confined to a limited number of
hardwoods from the tropical 'rain forest. The number of developing countries
exporting forest products is growing but most still have an adverse net bal-
ance in trade in forest products and in many, the net import bill is increas-
ing.
3.        In 1963-65 roundwood accounted for more than half (by value) of the
exports of forest products from developing countries. Sawnwood accounted for
one-quarter and veneer and plywood together for one-seventh. The greater part
of exported wood was hardwood, but exports of sawn softwood from the develop-
ing countries have continued to expand since 1960, as shown in Table 1.
Although the export of softwood from developing countri 7s is virtually con-
fined to Brazil, Chile and Central America who export 94% of total world
exports, the minor outflows of sawn softwood from Kenya and Swaziland repre-
senting 1.5% of total world exports are important, because they come from
plantation forests and are likely to be the forerunners of considerably
larger supplies in the future.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Table 1
Principal Developing Country Exporters of Sawn Softwood
Total Exports, 1960 46
1960    1961    1962     1963     1964    1965    1966
---(------------   Tmillion cu ft -------------_
Brazil                32.6    38.5    28.8    28.0      37.2    39.7    42.1
Honduras               7.8     6.1     5.14    6.5       8.0     8.5    n.a.
Chile                  0.4     1.1     0.8     1.0       2.0     2.8     1.5
Chine (Taiwan)       n.a.      0.05    0.5     1.2      1.5      1.7     1.7
Keny2                  0.4     0.3     0.4     0.4       0.5     o.6     o.6
Swaziland              0.5     0.7     1.7     o.6       0.h     0.h    n.a.
1V'exico               0.9     1.0     0.8     o.6       0.h     0.5     0.3
Source:    FAO
4.        The world consumption of sawnwood increased 3.1% per annum during
the period 1951 to 1956 and 2% per annum between 1956 and 1961, while over
the decade 1951 to 1961 consumption grew by 280.   About 80% of the world con-
sumption of sawnwood is of coniferous sawnwood.
Table 2
Growth in Recorded Consumption of Sawnwood
1950-52       1955-57        1960-62      Average Annual
Growth Rate
. .    1951-1961
-----(million cu ft)--           ----          %
Europe                  2,170          2,498          2,764          2.h
USSR                    1,962          2,676          3,520          6.o
North America           3,655          3,595          3,313         -1.0
Latin America             429            461           435           0.2
Africa                    108            120            131          1.9
Asia-Pacific            1,071          1,578          1,875          5.8
World Total           9,395         10,928         12,038          2.5
Source:   Wood, World Treni'h and Prospects, Basic Study No.16, FAO.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
5.        Table 2 shows that while world consumption of sawfiwood has steadily
increased from 1950 to 1962, there are wide differences in consumption trends
between different areas of the world. An explanation of these differences
would involve the consideration of many factors which bear upon the use of
sawnwood. However, the general pattern shows an increase in consumption which
is expected to continue.
6.        In addition to sawnwood, world forests must supply the rapidly
growing demand from the wood pulp industry.  All but a small fraction of the
wood pulp used in the world goes to the making of paper and paper board, for
which coniferous wood, which is long fibered, is a choice raw material. During
the next few decades the world will require substantially increased quantities
of wood pulp to satisty the increasing demand for paper products, as shown
in Table 3.  It is expected that consumption of wood pulp in the developed market
Table 3
Estimated Consumption of Paper and Paperboprd
Estimated
Annual Growth
Rate 1960-62
1955-57    1960-62    1975    to 1975 (%)
-- (million m tons)-
Europe                    16.2      22.9       50.6        5.8
USSR                       2.6       3.5      15.0        11.0
North America             32.7      37.4       56.h        3.0
latin America              2.0       2.6       6.8         7.1
Africa                      o.6      0.8        2.6        8.8
Asia-Pacific               5.3       10.2      30.5        8.2
World Total             59.h      77.4     161.9        5.4
Source:  Wood, World Trends and Projects, Basic Study No.16, FAO.
economies, will increase more slowly than in the past, while consumption in
the centrally planned economies and in the developing countries will show
accelerated growth, as standards of living and literacy improve.
7.        Estimates derived from FAO/Indicative World Plan studies are pro-
visional only, but they indicate what broad changes are expected to occur in
consumption and production of softwood. Both are expected to increase signi-
ficantly, and it is estimated that world consumption of coniferous softwood
will be over 12 billion cu ft in 1985, an increase of more than3O% above
consumption in 1962. Simultaneously with the rise of consumption, it is ex-
pected that during the rest of the century, there will be sizeable deficits in
many areas or countries, including Wzestern Europe, Japan, Africa and the Near
East Region.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
8.       Deficits in the areas wlhere overall natural growing conditions for
trees are not favorable are likely to be permanent. Such is the case of the
Near Bast Region, where import requirements of coniferous sawnwood are pro-
jected at about 65 and 115 million cu ft roundwood equivalent in the years
1985 and 2000, respectively. In other areas, such as East Africa, deficits
could be resorbed provided adequate investments in timber plantations were
made.
9.       By 1975, the world will require about 700 million cu ft more sawn
softwood supplied through irternational trade than was the case in 1961. Little
more can be expected from Northern Europe, while Canada and the USSR, although
far from their supply ceiling, will not be able to increase supplies without
raising prices, as heavy capital investment will be required for opening up
new areas. Overall, large increases in exports from the Northern Hemisphere
will not become available without an increase in prices. The effect of this
would be threefold:
- the total demand for sawnwood would be depressed,
- more supplies would be called forward,
- small and low cost suppliers e.g., Kenya, Swaziland, would
have their export position enhanced.
10.      The worldts reserves of forest are not limitless and although the
Northern Hemisphere will, for many years, continue to supply the greater part
of the world's coniferous wood requirements, it is in those areas with the
more suitable ecological conditions, where growth and yields are 5 to 10 times
more than those found in the north temperate regions, that increased production
should take place. Delivered cost of wood from these areas has usually proved
to be substantially lower than from the north temperate regions, and the areas
offer an important potential for producing large additional quantities of low
cost wood for sawing and peeling as well as for pulping.
11.      Globally, there will be a need to intensify management of existing
forests, tenperate and tropical, and to expand production into areas which
are able to build up, through man-made plantations, an output of large new
supplies of low cost wood. As new markets open up around the world, the con-
centration of suppliers in the Northern Hemisphere becomes restrictive and
less economical. New suitable areas with comparative advantages, especially
tropical, should be encouraged to seize upon these opportunities and to ex-
pand their production.
April 29, 1969



ANNEX 6
KENYA
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
MARKETING
A. Saw-wood
1.        Output from the Saw-wood Circle would be largely of sawlogs, with
smaller quantities of peeler logs being supplied to the recently established
plywood industry.
2.        Domestic demand projections are based on a 1962 FAO study.   The
FAO data hawe been amended by the mission in the light of up-to-date informa-
tion on population growth and income per capita. Thus, in arriving at the
medium forecast of demand used in the report it has been assumed that
throughout the period 1960-2000, Kenya's population would increase by 3% per
annum and per capita income by 3% per annun.   The table below shows the pro-
jections of demand on these bases, and following this details of the esti-
mates are discussed.
Projected Domestic Saw-wood Requirements
1960      1967      1980       2000
Sawn Wood ('000 cu ft)               3,34o     4,630     8,700    20,300
Public Sector                        770       960     1,500     2,800
Commerce and Industry                740     l,oho     2,000     5,200
Rural Households                   1,110     1,660     3,500     8,800
Urban Households                     720       970     1,700     3,500
Plywood ('000 sq ft)                 7,300     9,000    20,000    6o,000
Total Saw-wood Requirements
('000 cu ft roundwood             8,600     ___90     20,0O0       0
equivalent)                        8,600    11,900    20,000    3_000
Public Sector
3.        This category includes all government, institutional, and reli-
gious buildings, as well as private schools and hospitals. Capital expendi-
ture on new buildings will be related to growth in population rather than
to incomes. A rate of 3.25% has been taken as the rate of construction
necessary to service a population growing at 3%.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Commerce and Industry
4.        This sector will develop with the gradual emergence of cash earnerF
in the economy. It has been assumed, however, that since efficiency in the
uFe of wood will increase, the annual growth in commercial and industrial
building will be one percentage point less than the annual growth of national
income. ThiF will give a rate of increase of about 5% per annum, and an
annual consumption of sawn wood of 5.2 million cu ft by the year 2000.
Rural Households
5.        The use of sawr. wood in private residential buildings in rural
areas currently represents about a third of total estimated sawn wood con-
sumption. Because of the rapid increase in the number of rural cash earners,
it is expected that the growth of this sector will be the fastest. The use
of sawn wood in rural households and associated buildings consequently is
expected to reach 8.8 million cu ft by year 2000, or about 43% of total
domestic consumption.
Urban Households
6.        This category comprises private residential buildings in all towns,
settlements, and trading centers. It is assumed that the future growth rate
of urban population will be 5%; until 1980, a slower rate than in the past
(6%), and thereafter 4% until ,)C0O as development of commerce and industry
becomes spread more widely through the country. W~ith the rates adopted,
the use of sawn wood for urban households will reach about 3.5 million cu ft
in year 2000.
Plywood and Wood-based Board Product
7.        Import statistics show an apparent consumption of plywood of 9
million sq ft in 1967, or approximately 1 sq ft per capita per annuam. Part
of this is re-exported in the form of tea chests. The rate of increase in
domestic use is difficult io assess since the uses of plywood overlap with
those of other non-wood products and the extent to which substitution would
occur is unknown. It is tentatively assumed thqt annual per capita apparent
consumption would rise to 2.5 sq ft by the year 2000, resulting in domestic
sales of the order of 60 million sq ft annually.
8.        Two privately-owned plywood factories (one at Flgeyo, the other
at Sokoro) started operations in 1968/69 with a total annual output capacity
of 12 million sq ft. It is assumed that low production costs will permit
these factories to compete with imports.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Total Domestic Roundwood Requirements
9.        Assuming 2.0, instead of the present 2.5, as the conversion factor
of sawn wood to roundwood in the year 2000 (thus anticipating better quality
and uniformity of logs and some modernization of sawmill machinery) and a
factor of 39 cu ft of roundwood for each thousand sq ft of plywood; total
domestic requirements would amount to about 43 million cu ft of roundwood in
the year 2000.
Roundwood Requirements for Exports
10.       A comparison of future domestic production (including the production
from current planting programs) with prospective requirements indicates a
maximum deficit of about 30 million cu ft roundwood equivalent in Tanzania
and Uganda in 2000. These countries' plans to achieve self-sufficiency have
so far been hampered by lack of funds. The scope for Kenyan exports to these
countries would depend on the degree and the rapidity of realization of their
plans. For a medium forecast, it is assumed that the deficit would be 15
million cu ft, of which 75% would be imported from Kenya. Import require-
ments in the Middle East are expected to reach about 115 million cu ft round-
wood equivalent of coniferous softwood by the year 2000. It is assumed that
Kenya could supply 20% of these requirements. Finally, there is a market in
Europe for small quantities of top grade softwood from Kenya, but it is assum d
that only about 10% of Kenya's production would meet quality standards for
such exports, as at present. In total, this medium forecast assumes total
exports equivalent to 42 million cu ft of roundwood annually in the early
2000's.
Projected Supply/Demand Situation
11.       Adopting the preceding forecasts of domestic and export sales,
the aggregate demand for roundwood would be about 85 million cu ft in the
year 2000. To assess the range of variation of total requirements, the
following additional evaluations were made.   In forecasting domestic demand,
the income per capita growth rate was assumed to be comprised between 2% and
% per annum.   In forecasting exports, it was assumed, first, that Tanzania
and Uganda would increase their own plantings, thus reducing their import
requirements to between 25% and 75% of the level expected without an expan-
sion of their programs; and second, that Kenya would succeed in supplying
between 15% and 25% of the coniferous wood import requirements in the Middle
East. The lower and upper extremes of the range calculated with these assump-
tions are 68 million cu ft and 106 million cu ft of roundwood, respectively.
12.       On the basis of conservative yield estimates, about 48 million cu ft
of roundwood annually would be available from the year 2000 from clear felling
of project plantings, about 12 million cu ft from thinning of later plantings,
and at least 25 million cu ft from clear felling of plantings made prior to
the project. These sources would provide a total supply sufficient to meet
the medium forecast requirement of 85 million cu ft annually.



ANNEX 6
Page 14
13..      The supply and demand situation should be reviewed at regular in-
tervals and planting programs subsequent to the project adjusted accordingly.
In addition, potential markets, both domestic and export, should be investi-
gated and actual market promotion undertaken.
B. Pulpwood
14.       It is assumed that, by the time project pulpwood plantings reach
maturity, that is after 14-*15 years, the Broderick Falls pulp and paper mill
would be manufacturing 75,000 m tons of paper, of which 37,500 m tons would
be bleached and 37,500 m tons unbleached, requiring about 70,000 m tons of
pulp. Assuming recovering rates of 42% and 47% respectively for bleached
and unbleached pulp, the annual wood requirements of the pulpmill are esti-
mated at 14.5 million cu ft, including an emergency reserve of about 5%.
Project pulpwood plantings and earlier plantings would supply thin demand as
shown in the following exploitation schedule.
Projected Annual Exploitation Schedule for Pulpwood
Plantings Made Prior        Project Plantings
to the Project                        _          Total
Area        Volume          Area     Volume        Volume
(ac)     (000 cu ft)        (ac)  (000 cu ft)    (900 cu ft)
1981/82          1,557       5,860             -        -             5,860
1982/83          4,206      15,650             -        -            15,650
1983/8L            987       4,670           2,990    11,060         15,730
1984/85            550       2,900           3,h20    12,700         15,600
1985/86            -            _            3,710    l4,h80         1h,48o
1986/87            -            -            3,680    1h,490        1L,490
1987/88            -            -            3,650    14,510        14,510
1988/89            -            -            3,610    1h4,500        14,50o
1989/90            -            -            2,040     8,84o          8,8h0
Total Area
Felled   :     7,300                      23,100
September 22, 1969



ANNEX 7
KENYA
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECTS
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR A SAWq-WOOD AND PULPWOOD MARKETING SURVEY
1. Objectives of the Survey
The main objectives of the study are:
(a)  To assess potential domestic and export markets for Kenya
plantation timber, both Saw-wood and Pulpwood.
(b) To propose realistic targets for domestic and export sales
of timber and pulpwood from Kenya plantations, which could
be used in determining future softwood planting programs in
Kenya.
(c) To recommend any market promotion measures which would be
required to meet the proposed targets.
2. Aspects of the Survey to be covered
The survey will include (i) in the case of saw-wood marketing:
(a) Up-dated domestic demand projections, based on various
assumptions of population growth, per capita income,
wood consumption patterns in various sections of the
economy, development of wood-using industries and any
other relevant factor.
(b) An evaluation of probable wood deficits in East Africa,
the Middle East and other possible markets, based on various
assumptions of supply and demand in these countries.
(c) An evaluation of timber import trends in the major
importing countries of Europe, East Africa and the
Middle East.
(d) Recommendations of the types and quality of wood which
could be exported.
(e) Projections of the market for Kenyan plantation timber
based on the above studies and on an evaluation of future
Kenyan price competitiveness.
(f) A study of road, rail, shipping and any infrastructural
bottlenecks which would have to be removed in order to
increase sales.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
and (ii) in the case of _Ewood marketing:
(g) Up-dated demand projections on both domestic and
East African regional markets, based on various assump-
tions of population growth, per capita income, paper
consumption patterns in various sections of the economies,
development of wood-using industries and any other
relevant factors.
(h) Projections of the market for Kenyan pulpwood based on
the above studies.
3. Time Horizon for Market Projections
The time horizon for market projections (to be determined in con-
sultation with the Bank) will be such as to facilitate the preparation of a
Government planting program for the years subsequent to the Bank project
planting period.
4~. Field Investigations
The survey will involve visits to the major present or potential con-
suners of Kenya timber. In particular, the survey will entail travel to
East African and North African countries, as well as to and within the Middle
East region and Europe.
5. Survey Report
The survey report will include conclusions and recommendations in
accordance with the objectives of the survey, and data, documents, descrip-
tion,of assumptions, and any other material necessary to support the conclu-
sions and recomrmendations of the survey. Copies of the survey will be sub-
mitted to the Bank.
It is expteeted that the study on the basis of the terms of reference
above should require about 12 man-months of experts' services.
Assurancies have been obtained that the Government will:
(a) Make available to the consultant any data and any
documents necessary to carry out the survey.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
(b) Organize or facilitate contacts with Government and
other organizations as may be required for the survey.
(c) Provide adequate air, sea and surface transportation
as may be required for the survey.
(d)  Provide sufficient translators; interDretors and
clerical personnel as may be required for the execution
of the consultants' duties in Kenya.
(e) Provide office space, utilities, office furniture and
equipment for the study itself in Kenya.
August 26, 1969






ANNEX 8
KENYA
FOREST PLANATIONS FROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR COST AND REVENUE ESTIMATES
Resident Labor Wages
1.        The resident worker's cuI'rent monthly wage of 50 shs, equivalent
to 2.2 shs per effective day of work, is likely to increase, through labor
union pressures, to bring the rates into line with agricultural wages. In
the cost, estimates the wage rate is assumed to reach 100 shs per month by
1973/74, thereafter remaining at this level. Seven per cent has been
added to labor costs for direct tenim supervision.
Nursery Work
2.        In the Saw-wood Circle, 7.5 man days per acre (11 man days per
1,000 plants and 680 plants per acre) would be required.  The cost of
fertilizer, tools, equipment and stores would be 4 sbs per acre.
3.        For pulpwood, 3.8 man days per acre (7 man days per 1,000 plants
and 540 stems per acre) would be required. Fertilizer, tools, equipment
and stores would cost 3.2 shs per acre. Plants would be raised in poly-
ethylene sleeves; the sleeves would cost 7.05 shs per 1,000 and filling
them by piecework 12.5 shs per 1,000.
4.        Expenditure on transport is included in vehicle costs.   Tatal nurs-
ery costs have been increased by 15% to cover the cost of raising re-
placement seedlings.
Demarcation
5.        Shambas allocated to resident workers would be demarcated two
years ahead of planting and this would require about 1.3 man days per acre.
Clearing, Stumping and Land Preparation
6.        With the shamba system, the resident worker would clear the
indigenous forest during his free time, and receive no other compensation
than the right to grow his own crop for two years. However, trees larger
than two feet in diameter would be cleared by the Department's paid labor;
eight man days per acre would be required two years ahead of planting.
7.        In the Pulpwood Circle, some 2,800 acres of wattle remain to be
cleared. It is assumed that 900 acres would be cleared in 1968/69, 1,000
in 1969/70 and 900 in 1970/71. Clearing would cost K5 per acre, the price
which, under the present arrangement, EATEC charges the Forest Department
to do the clearing. EATEC would carry out the plowing and harrowing at
a cost of K£X2.5 per acre.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Pitting, Staking Out and Planting
8.        Fbr saw-wood, pitting would be necessary on about 250 of the
area and would necessitate two man days per acre. Staking out and planting
would require two and three man days per acre, respectively.
9.        In the Pulpwood Circle, because the area is flat and concentrated
in large blocks, staking out and planting labor requirements would be
reduced to one and two man days per acre, respectively. No pitting would
be necessary.
Plantation Surveys
10.       Area measurements after planting would require one man day per
acre on the average.
Beating Up
11.       It is assumed that 15% of the area planted would have to be
replaced in the year following planting. The labor requirement per acre
would be the same as for planting. The cost of raising replacement plants
is included in nursery costs.
Weeding
12.       Two man days per acre would be required in the year following
planting for saw-wood. For pulpwood, two weedings are assumed, one in the
year of planting and one in the next (two man days per acre each).
Pruning
13.       The saw-wood plantations would be -runed at the following inter-
vals: after four years (four man days per acre); seven years (five man days
per acre); nine years (six man days per acrE); and 12 years (four man days
per acre).
I.        One pruning after four years is assumed for pulpwood planta-tions
(four man days per acre).
Fire and Other Protection
15.       In the Saw-wood Circle, fire protection would require 1.8 man days
per annum per acre established, coming down to one man day per acre after
five years.
16.       In the more concentrated pulpwood plantations, one man day per
annum per acre established, coming down to O.5 man days per acre after five
years, should suffice.
17.       For protection against pest. fungal or disease attack, 0.5 man
days per annum per acre established eoming down to 0.3 after five years is
assumed.



ANNEX8
Page 3
Dothistroma Control
18.       One treatment at 10 shs per acre would be necessary at the nur-
sery stage. A second, costing 15 shs, would be required after planting
out into the field. Aerial treatments twice a year at 20 shs each would
be necessary during the following six years (see Annex I).
Vehicles and Tractors
19.       The annual intensity of utilization is estimated for each type
of vehicle according to the various operations to be carried out during
the project life. The annual "consumption" of vehicles is then calcu-
lated, assuming a service life of 70,000 miles for personnel vehicles and
trucks, and of 6,000 hours for tractors. Personnel vehicles would com-
prise sedans (Kr, 600), short wheel base Landrovers or equivalent (K£ 815)
and long wheel base Landrovers or equivalent (KZ 950). Five-ton trucks
costing KE 1,500 and wheel tractors at K£ 1,200 wbuld be used. Fire
tenders would cost about K£ 2,500 each. Purchase prices given are net of
import duties.
20.       The average running costs are estimated at 70 cts per mile for
light vehicles, 1 sh per mile for trucks, and 7 shs per hour for tractors.
Drivers' wages are included in staff costs.
Agicultural Equipment
21.       One heavy duty 3-disc plow and harrow would be required for each
tractor at an estimated cost of KE 350 per unit, to be replaced over a
three-year life. A provision of K£ 2,000 per annum for such replacements
to be reduced to KZ 1,000 after the planting period was made.
Tools and Stores
22.       Includes axes, pruning knives, wire, hose, carpenters' and
masons' tools and supplies, fire pumps, scales, etc. The total cost is
estimated at K£ 6,000 per annum during the planting period, coming down to
KE 3,000 per annum thereafter in the Saw-wood Circle, and in the Pulpwood
Circle at KF. 2,500 per annum, coming down to KX 1,000.
Buildings
23.       Provision is made for the construction of new buildings in areas
where they are essential for new plantation development: 10 forest ranger
houses at KM 400 each; 15 forest guard houses at K£ 100 each; 425 village
houses at IC£ 75; four water supply installations at K£ 500; and six offices
and stores at KZ 500, making a total of KZ 42,400 over the period 1969/70
to 1974/75 in the Saw-wood Circle.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
24.       In the Pulpwood Circle, provision is made for two forester
houses at K£ 1,000; eight forest ranger houses at K£ 400; 10 forest guard
houses at K£ 100; 200 village houses at KZ 100; and two water supplies at
KZ 500, making a total of K£ 27,200 over six years.
25.       Annual building maintenance costs are estimated to be 10% of
construction costs.
Access Roads
26.       In the Saw-wood Circle, a road intensity of one mile per 400
acres is assumed. The construction cost would be K£ 250 per mile, or
KZ 0.625 per acre planted. These are narrow access tracks only. Many of
the planting areas are already adequately served by existing roads. Pro-
vision is made for remaking the tracks after ten years (lst thinning).
27.       In the Pulpwood Circle, a road intensity of one mile per 500
acres at a cost of K£ 0.5 per acre is assumed.
26.       The annual road maintenance cost is estimated to be 10% of the
construction cost.
Staff Salaries and Office Running Costs
29.       Estimated staff time requirements are based on the assumption
that project saw-wood plantations would be concentrated over three Forest
Divisions, comprising in total about 18 Districts. Staff time was attrib-
uted to the project according to the approximate proportion of new plan-
tations relative to existing plantations. Requirements after the last
year of project planting are estimated to be 50% of the level reached in
the last year. Two-thirds of project headquarters staff (project manager,
cost accountant and accounting staff) are allocated to the Saw-wood Circle
and o ne-third to the Pulpwood Circle. Provision is made for office
running costs and internal travel.
Thinning and M4arking Out
30.      OAle non-coamrcial thinning would be required after ten years
(six man days per acre). Cne man day per acre would be required for
marking out the trees after 15 and 20 years.
Revenues
31.       For saw-wood, it is assumed that 8,000 acres annually would be
thinned during years 16 through 21 of the project, and would be thinned
again during years 21 through 26. Each of these thinnings would produce
8 million cu It (1,000 cu ft per acre) annually of cormercially usable
roundwood. The royalty rate would be 0.50 sh/cu ft and 0.60 sh/cu ft,
respectively for the firs-t and second such thinnings.  In the years 31
through 36 of the project, GOOO acres annually would be clear felled,



ANNEX8
Page 5
producing 48 million cu ft of roundwood annually, based on a conservative
estimate of a final yield of 6,000 cu ft per acre. The royalty is assumed
to be 0.75 sh/cu ft for clear feUings.
32.       The revenues projected fbr pulpwood are derived from the exploi-
tation schedule given in Annex 6. L    This assumes pulpwood sales from
project plantations during years 15 through 21 of the project. A royalty
of 0.60 sh/cu ft is used.
April 29, 1969






FOREST PLAETrTIONS PROJECT
EXPENDITUES AND REVWE - SfL-WDOD CIRCLE
(Kh '000)
Prior to                                            Total
1969/70  69/70  70/71   71/72  72/73  73/74  7h/75 6 Years  75/76  767/77  7/78   78/79  79/80  80/81   81/82  82/83  83/84  84W85  85/86
Plarting (acres)                -       8      8      8      8       8      8     48       -      -
Felling (acres)               ..-       -      -      -      -      -       -         _    _                    -       -      -      --     -       -
Cumultive (acres)             III6      8     16     2      32      0             hot     he     he                   )A     4aB     ha      hB    lhe     be     he
NmDrsr                          -        d    13.2   l.6    i6.3    18.0   18.0   i.       -      -              _                                          _ -  -
Demarcation                      2.3    1.5    1.7    1.9    2.2     -      -      1.3     -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -
Clearing                       lh.l     9.0   10.6   11.8   13.5     -      -     4t.9
Pitting                         -       o.6    0.7    0.7    0.8     0.9    0.9 s   .&        -       -      -      -      -       -          -      -      -      -
Staking Out                     -       2.2    2.6    3.0    3,.h    3.8    3.8   18.81
Planting                        -       3.4    h.0    4.h    5.o     5.6    5.6   28.0i
Plantation Surveys              -.      1.1    1.3    1.5    1.7    1 Y     1.9    9 .'
Beating Up                      -       -      o.6    0.7    0.8     0.8    0.8    3.71    0.8           -
Weeding                         -       -      2.6     3.0    3.h    3.8    3.8   16 6!    3.8    -
Pruning                         -   -          -      -      -       7.5    7.5   15.01    7.5   16.9    16.9   28.2   20.6   20.6    28.2   18.8   18.8    7.5     7.5
Fire Protection                 -       -      2.4    4.7    7.0     9.0    9.4   32.51   11.3   11.3    11.3   11.3   11.3   11.3    11.3   11.3   11.3   11.3    U.3
Other Protection                -       -      0.7     1.5   2.0     3.0    2.8   10.0:    3.4    3.h     3.4    3.4    3. h   3.h     3.b    3.4    3.4    3.b     3.4
Vehicle and Tractor Purchase    -      13.2   10.9     5.5    8.2    6.7    8.2   52.7!    4.7    2.7     2.3    3.5    3.5    3.5     3.5    a.3    305    3.5     8.5
Vehicle and Tractor Rnnning Costs -    12.9   13.8   lh.6   15.2    17.2   18.1   91.8     8.5    7.3     7.3    8.1    8.1    8.1     9.0    8.1    8.1    8.1     7.7
Agricultural Equipment          -       2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0     2.0    2.0   12.01    1.0    1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0
Tools, Stores and Other Equipment -     6.o    6.o    6.0    6.o     6.0    6.o   36.0     4.o    3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Building Contruction            -       7.1    7.1    7.1    7.1     7.0    7.0   42.4     -      -       -     --      -      -       -      -      -      -       -
Building Maintenance            -       -      0.7    1.4    2.1     2.8    3.5   10.5     4.2    4.2     4.2    4.2    4.2    4 .2    h.2    4.2    4.2    4.2     4.2
Road Contruction                -       5.0    5.0     5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0   30.0     -      -       -      5.0    5.0    5.0     5.0    5.0    5.0     -      -
Road Itaintensnce               -       -      0.5     1.0   1.5     2.0    2.5    7.51    3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0     3.0
Staff Requirmnt                 -      26.1   30.7    35.3   4o.o  414.0   51.3  297.4i   25.7    25.7   25.7   25.7   25.7   25.7    25.7   25.7   25.7    25.7   25.7
Office Running Coste            -       5.7    5.7     5.7    5.7    5.7    5.7   34.?     2.8    2.8     2.8    2.8    2.8     2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8     2.8    2.8
Thinning, Mar-king Out                  -      -      -      -       -      -      -       -      -       -      -     11.3   11.3    11.3    .3    11.3   13.2     1.9
So-tGtal:                      16.4   107.3  122.8  131.h  11s.9   152.7  163.8  826.9    80.7   81.3    80.9   99.2  102.9  102.9 1lk.4     n.9   10.1   -o6.7    80.0
Ccntingency  15%                -      16.1   18.4    19.7   22.3   22.9   24.6  12h.0    12.1   12.2    12.1   lb.9   15.4   15.4    16.7   15.0   15.2    13.0   12.0
TOTAL COST:                     16.4  123.h    l.2  151.1   171.2  175.6  188.4  950.9    92.8   93.5    1.0   114.1  118.3 U18.3    128.1  114.9  116.3    99.7   92.0
Revenue                         -       -      _      _      _       _      _      -       -       _      -      _          -      -      -       -        200.0  200.0
Annual Net Revenue (Datit)     (16.13) (123.4) (.41.2) (151l.) (171.2) (175.6) (188.4) (950.9)  (92.8) (93.5) (93.0) (114.1) (118.3) (118.3) (128.1) (114.9) (116.3) 100.3  108.0
April 29, 1969






KIA
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
EXPEiDITURES AND REVENUES - SAW-WOOD CIRCLE
(Kh '000)
1986/87   87/88  88/89  89/90   90/91  91192  92/93  93/94  94/95  95196   96/97  97/98  2U2    99/2000  2000/01  01/02  02/03   03/o4  04/05
Planting (acrea)              -        -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -                 -
Folling (acz1                ,         -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -              _      _      8.0      8.0      8.0     8.0    8.0    8.0
elltie (_)'                  -8'      41.o    0.o   .48.0   I8.o 40  d.o 0  .8.0  W8    4..o b0  8.0    oW.  o       40.0  48.0  W.0  3*.0    24.0    16.o    8.o    -
Nurser                         -       --
Dmarcation                     -       -
Clearing                       -       -
Pitting                        -       -
Staking Out                    -       -
Planting                       -       -
Plantati om Surveya            -       -
Beating Up                     -       -
Weeding                        -       -
Pruning                        7.5     -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -              -      -      -         -        -      -      -       --
Fire Protection               11.3    11.3    11.3   11.3   11.3   11.3   11.3   11.3   11.3    11.3   11.3   11.3   11.3    11.3      9.4      7.5    5.6    3.8     1.9
Other Protection4 .                    3.4    3.b     3.4    3.4    3.4    3.1,   3.4    3.4     3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4     3.4      2.o      2.3    1.7    1.1     o.6
Vehicle and Tractor Purchase   7.3     2.7     2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7    2.7     2.4    2.4    2.4    2.4     2.3      0.8      1.2    0.8     -      -
Vehicle and Tractor Running Cost 7.3   6.5     6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5     5.7    5.7    5.7    5.7     6.1      5.4      4.2    3.3    2.3     1.4
Agricultural Equipumnt         1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0     1.0      0.8      o.6    o.4    0.2     0.1
Tools, Stores and Other Equipmaent 3.0  3.0   3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0     1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0       o.8      o.6    0.4    0.2     0.1
Building Conatruction          -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -        -        -      -      -      -
Building Maintaence            4.2     4.2    4.2    4.2     4.2    4. 2   4.2    4.2    4.2     4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2     4.2      3.-      1.1    2.t    1.4     0.7
Road Conatruction              -       -      -       - t-                        -      -       -
Road Maintanaice               3.0     3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0     3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0     3.0      2.5      2.0    1.5    1.0     0.5
Staff Rlquireents---          25.7    25.7    25.7   25.7   25.7   25.7   25.7   25.7    25.7   25.7   25.7   25.7    25.7   25.7     21.4     17.1   12.8     8.6    4.3
Office Running Costa           2.8     2.8    2.8     2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8     2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8     2.8      2.3      1.9    1.4    0.9     0.5
Thinning, Marking Out          1.9     1.9    1.9    3.8     1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9    1.9     -      -      -      -       -        -        -      -       -      -
Sub-totals                    7UL4    65.5    65.5   67.4   65.5   65.5   65.5    65.5   65.5   60.5   60.5   60.5    60.5   60.8     4S97     402     30.0   19.5   10.1
Contingency  15%              11.6     9.8    9.8   lo.1     9.8    9.8    9.8    9.8    9.8     9.1    9.1    9.1     9.1    9.1      7.5      6.o    4.5     2.9    1.5
TOTAL COST:                   30.°    75.3   75.3    77.5   75.3   75.3   75.3   75.3    75.3   69.6   69.6   69.6    69.6   69.9     57.2     b6.2   31.5    22.4   11.6
Revemu.                      200.0   200.0   200.0  440.o   210.0    2    40.0   2 4oX0  210.0  2.0.o  -  -    -       -  1,800.0  1,800.0   1,800.0 1,800.0 1,800.0 1,80w.0
Annual Met Ravenue (Deficit)  110. 0  124.7  124.7  36.5   164.7  l16.7  168.7   161..7  164.7        (69.6) (69.6)  (69.6)1,730.1  1,74.8   1,753.8 1,76.5 1,777.6 488.1
April 29, 1969






F0REST PLANTATIONS 918J4CT
ZXtPDITCRES AND RENVURS - PULFWCOD CIRCLE V
Prior to                                                   Total
1969/70   69/70    70/71   7V/72   72/73  73/74    74/75  6 Tears  75/76    76/77   77/78   78/79    79/80   80/81   81/82   8,/83    83/84   84/85    85/86   86/87   87/88    88/89   89/90
Planting (acres)          -       3,100   4,000   4,000    4,000  4,000   4,000  23,100      -      -       -        -       -        _       _       _        _        _      _        _        _       _      _
Felling (acres)                     -       -       -        -      I.      -        -       -      -        - *                      -       -       -      A,99(2   3,42d   3,710   3,680    3,650   3,610    2,d00
cu-.lltti-e (acre.)    (7,300)   3,100    7,100  11,200   15,100  19,10C  23,100     -     23,100 23,100 23,10   i 23,100  23,100  23,100   23,100  23,100  20,11    16,69C  12,980   9,300    5,65o   2,o4o0  2
Nursery                   -       4.3     6.o      6.4     6.8     7.3     7.3    38.1       -      -
Stoping                  4.5      5.0     4.5      -       -       -       -       9.5       -      -       -       -        -        -      -        -        -        -      -        -        *
Plo.ing & Hrroeing       -       7.8    10.0     10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    57.8      -       -       -       _        _        _      _        _        _        _      _        _        _       _      _
Staking Out               -        .4     .7        .7      .8     .9       .9     4.4       -      _       _        _       _        _       _       _        _        _      _        _        _       _      _
Planting                  -        .9     1.3      1.5     1.7     1.9     1.9     9.2       -      -       _        _       _        _       _       _        _        _      _        _          _     _
Plantation Survy          -         .4     .7       .7      .8     .9       .9     4.4       -
Beating op                -        -       .2       .2      .3     .3       .3     1.3      .3
Weeding                   -         .9    2.3      3.0      3.4    3.8     3.8    17.2      1.9
Proming                        -           -        -       -      2.9     3.8     6.7      3.8    3.8     3.8      3.8      -        -       -       -        -        -      -        -        -
Dothistrna Control        -        -       .4      1.0     1.6     2.2     2.7     7.9      3.0    3.0     2.4      1.8     1.2       .6      -       -        -        -      -        -        -
Fire Protection           -        .4     1.1      1.6     2.2     2.7     2.7    10.7      2.7    2.7     2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7     2.7     2.7      2.7      2.4    2.0      1.5      1.1      .7     .2
Other Protection          -         .2     .6       .8     1.3     1.3     1.6     5.8      1.6    1.6      1.6     1.6     1.6       1.6    1.6     1.6       1.6     1.4    1.2       .9      .7       .4     .1
Vehicle Purchases         -        9.3             1.2      3.5    2.7     1.8    18.5      2.7    1.2       -      2.3     1.2       -      2.1     1.2       -       2.7     .6      i- 1.5            -       -
Vehicle 1uimng Costs      -       3.8     5.2      5.6      6.1    6.8     7.4    34.9      4.1    3.1      3.1     3.1     2.7      2.6     2.6     2.6      2.8      2.5    2.2       1.7     1.2      .8     .3
Toole, Stores             -       2.0     2.5      2.5     2.5     2.5     2.5    1.J5      1.0    1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0      1.0      .8      .7       .5       .4      .2     .1
Building Construction     -       4.6     4.6      4.5     4.5     4.5     4.5    27.2       -      -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -        -      -                 -       -       -
Building Maintanance      -        -       .5       .9     1.4     1.8     2.3     6.9      2.7    2.7     2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7     2.7     2.7      2.7      2.4    2.0       1.5     1.1      .7     .2
Road Construction         -       1.5     2.0      2.6     2.0     2.0     2.0    11.5       -      -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -        -      -         -       -       -       -
Road Naint.nsace          -        -       .1       .3      .6      .8     1.0     2.8      1.2    1.2      1.2     1.2     1.2       1.2    1.2     1.2       1.2     1.0     .8       .6       .5      .3      .1
Staff   quir  nte         -      U.2     12.7     14.4    16.0    16.8    17.4    88.5      e.7    8.7      8.7     8.7     8.7       8.7    8.7     8.7       8.7     7.1    5.9       4.6     3.3     2.0     .7
Offie Ibmning Costa     _          2.5    3.0      3.0      3.0    3-0     3.0     17.5     1.5    1.5      1.5     1.5      .5       1.5    1.5     1.5       1.5     1.3     1.1      .8       .6      .4      .1
SMb-totali            4.5      55.2   58.4      60.3    68.5   75.1     77.8   395.3    35.2    30.5    28.7    30.!     24.5     22.6   24.1     23.2     22.2    21.6    16.5     12.1    10.4      5.5    1.9
Contingency   15%        -        e_.3    8.8      5.0    10.3   31.3     11.6    59.3      5.3    4.6      4.3     4.6     3.7       3.4   3.6      3-5      3.3      3.2    2.5       1-8     1.6      .8      .3
TOTAL OST,            4.5      63.5   67.2      69.3    78.3   86.      e9..   1.6      40.5    35.1    33.0    35.0     282      26.0   2777     26.7     25.5    24.8    19.0     13.9    12.0      6.3    2.2
Revonues                  _        _       _        _        _      _       _      _         _      _        _                                               332.0   381.0   435.0    4.35.0  435.0    435.0  265.0
Ann,ual get Revenue
(Deficit)            (4.5)   (63.5)  (67.2)    (69.3)  (78.8) (86.4)   (89.4) (454.6)  (40.5)  (35.1)  (33.0)  (35.0)   (28.2)   (26.0) (27.7)   (26.7)   3D6.5   356.2   416.0    421.1   423.0    428.7  262.8
Septoober 22, 1969
2/ Faclude, .npendit-rea and revenues frin exieting 7,300 acres of pulpuood.






ANNEX 11
KENYA
FOREST PIANTATTONS PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN AND SENSITIVITY ANAiLYSIS
1.        The internal rates of return from investment in both saw-wood and
pulpwood plantings have been calculated assuming that the ~-irrent price of
wood will obtain and uising labor costs valued at cash wages witLj appropriate
contingencies. Thus, the cost projections are those shown in Annexes °0 and
10.
2.        For saw-wood, direct benefits are assumed zo consist of the sum of:
(a)  the production of roundwood for the domestic market
valued on the basis of current average import prices,
(the cost of imports that would be Saved by the pro-
ject), and
(b) the production of roundwood for export valued on the
basis of anticipated export priJ es (axport earnings).
3.        An average price, given by FAO, of 6.90 shs 1/per cu ft sawn cif
U.K. is used as a basic price. To this must be added the estimrated cost of
ocean freight to Mombasa, handling charges and the cost of rail freight to
Nairobi.  This gives a total landed cost at Nairobi of 9.60 shs/cu ft.  The
total cost of logging, saiwiilling and delivery of local wocd to Nairobi is
estimated to be about 4.50 shs/cu ft sawn.  Consequently the difference of
5.10 shs/cu ft sawn represents the economic value Cf lz-,ally grown ,tarding
wood.
4.        For exports, an average price fob export .point of 7 shs/cu ft sawn
is assumed. From this are deducted the estimated nosts of logging, saw-nill-
ing and freight to export point, totalling about 5.5 shs/_bu ft.  The balance
of 1.5 sh/cu ft sawn is the economic vs.lue o:, atan-ling- w^od produced for
export.
5n        Anticipating that half of the produ_tiso from the project would be
for the internal market, and that the -ther hal' wculd be exro td, the
average economic value of the wood 1;rcwn locally wOuld be 3.30 shs/cui ft sawn.
Assuming 3.0, 2.5 and 2.0 respectiv:lv as the ccnvei-sion f -tor cf sawnwood
into roundwood for the first and second commercial thinnir,gs and for clear
fellings, the economic values to be ii-ed in the return calculation -gculd be
1.10 sh, 1,32 sh and 1.65 sh per ciu f; cf roundwood p-o+inced.  Using yields
per acre of 1,000 cii ft for the twn ccnmer^.-al thi-.-ling- rh!&ri are done in
years 16-21 and 21-26, respoctively, ;;  6,0&0 -:u   >v fii'.  felli.nj  done
in years 31-36, the internal rate of ;      '- -om invFstmuirli i; :zaw-woo& work3
out to about l12 (Table 1).
L/ 6.90 shs is about lO below the a.erage wc:rl- price for Eawn wc-r  in 1967.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
6.        In the case of pulpwood, it is estimated that the royalty of 0.60
sh/cu ft assumed in the revenue calculation (see Annex 8) would ensure a
delivery cost to the pulpmill of the order of 100 shs/m ton. This is in
line with the assumptions made by IFC in calculating that the rate of return
from the pulp and paper mill investment (in the absence of any protective
tariff) would be about 13% (see paras 2.32 and 2.33), which is reasonable.
Consequently, the above royalty can be considered as the economic price of
pulpwood. Annual gross benefits would be identical with annual revenues of
Annex 10, and the internal rate of return from investment in pulpwood would
be about 11% (Table 2).
Sensitivity Analysis
7.       The preceding economic rate of return estimates have been used as
a point of departure for an analysis of the sensitivity of the rates of
return to alternative assumptions regarding future wood prices and the oppor
tunity cost of labor. The analysis has been carried out separately for each
of these two variables.   The results are given in the following.
B.       Variations in wood prices.   In the base estimates, it was assumed
that the average price of wood would remain at the estimated current level
throughout the life of the project.   This should be regarded as a conserva-
tive aEsumption.   In fact, it can be anticipated that increasingly expensive
capital investments will be required to bring timber reserves under exploi-
tation, under the pressure of the rising world demand.   At the same time,
labor coFts in the industrialized countries, which will continue to comprise
the major producers, are expected to go on increasing rapidly. Continued
pressure toward increasing wood prices could only be checked by productivity
improvements and competition from wood substitutes. Productivity improve-
ments in forestry are limited in scope, and their effect tends to be felt
only after a very long time. Substitutions are technically possible for
almost the whole range of wood products, price being the major limiting fac-
tor. In view of this, it seems reasonable to anticipate a gradual and
moderate increase in the real price of wood.
9.       To illustrate the effect of an increase in price, the rates of
return were re-calculal-ed under the assumptions of both a 1l and 2% annual
increase in the world market, price of wood (increments are shown between
brackets):
Rates of Return (%)
Rate of Annual                  Saw-wood           Pulpwood
Increase in Price               sub-project        sub-project
0                            12.0               10.9
(- )                (-)
1                            14.0               12.1
(+2.0)             (+1.2)
:2                           15.9                13.1
(+3-9)             (+2.1)



ANNEX 11
Page 3
10.       Opportunity cost of labor,  The wage rate which it is anticipated
the Forest Department will have to pay for labor appear to exceed the oppor-
tunity cost of the type of labor involved, which is largely unskilled.
Consequently, rates of return have been calculated assuming an opportunity
cost of labor equal to either 75% or 50% of the level assumed in the expendi-
ture projections.  The results are as follows (Increments are shwun between
brackets):
Opportunity Cost                   Rates of Return (%)
of Labor                    Saw-wood         0Dulpwood
(shs per month)               sub-project       sub-project
100                         12.0             10.9
( -)             ( -)
75                         12.7             11.9
(+0.7)           (+1.0)
50                         13.9             12.9
(+1.9)           (+2.0)
11.       Most likely outcome.  Both in respect of future price increases
and of the opportunity cost of labor, the outcomes which correspond to the
medium assumptions appear to be the most likely. Their combinstion, assuming
as an.approximation that rate of return increments are additive, would cor-
respond to rates of return of 14.7% and 13.1% for saw-wood and pulpwood
respectively. The base estimates of 12.0% and 10.9% for saw-wood and pulp-
wood respectively appear conservative, and the upper extreme outcomes of
17.8% for saw-wood and 15.0% for pulpwood appear  also improbable.
April 29, 1969






ANNEX 1I
KENYA
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN - SAW-WOOD
Annual
Net            Discounted
Annual         Annual         Benefits          at 12%
Year                   Costs         Benefit          (Costs)         to 19AP/69
-------------- -}00------ rbuo------------ -----------
1968/69                  16               -             (16)             (16)
1969/70                 123               -             (123)           (110)
1970/71                 1)41              -             (1)41)          (112)
1971/72                 151               -             (151)           (108)
1972/73                 171                            (171)            (109)
1973/74                 176               _             (176)           (100)
1974/75                 188                             (188)            (95)
1975/76                  97               -              (97)            (44)
1976/77                  94               -              (94)            (38)
1977/78                  93                              (93)             (3)4)
1978/79                 11)4                            (11))            (37)
1979/80                 1.18              -             (118)             (3)4)
1980/81                 118               -             (118)            (30)
1981/82                 128               -             (128)            (29)
1962/83                 115                             (15)             (24)
1993/84                 16                              (116)            (21)
198)4/85                100 ?403           O            3)40              55
1985/86                  92              4)40           3)48              5).
1986/87                  89              4)40           35)1              46
15087/88                 45              4)40           365               42
19828/89                 75              440            365               38
1989190                  78              968            890               83
1990191                  75              528            )453              38
1991/92                  75              528            453               3)4
1992/93                  75              528            453       ~       30
l993/94                  75              528            453               27
1L994/95                 75              528            453               2)4
1995196                  70                             (70)               (3)
.1996197                  7'0             -(70)                            (3)
1997/98                  70               -(70)                           (3)
1998/99                  70               -(70)                            (2)
199912000                70            3,.960         3,80 go117'
2000101                  57            3,960          3.,903             105
2001102                  46            3,$960         3,91)4              9)4
2002/03                  35            3,I960         3j,925              82
2003/0)4                 22            3s,960         3,938               75
200)4/05                 12            3.,960         3,.948              67
TOTAL:  -    0
April 29,1969



ANNEX 11
Table 2
KENYA
FOREST'PLANTATIONS PROJECT
EC'O[OMIC RATE OF RETURN - PWLPWOOD
Net Annual     Discounted
Annual       Annual       Benhefits       at 11%
Year                  Costs       3enefits       (.Costs)..   .to 1968/69
'                      -KL'iOOO--
196/69                   5           -              (5)             (5)
1-99/70                 64           -             (64)            (58)
:fIW9,7.07.z1           67           -             (67)            (54)
1971/72                 69           o             (69)            (50)
97,2./73               79            -             (799           (52)
1973/74                816           -             (866           ('5.)
1974/75                89            -             (89)            (48)
1975/76               h1 (1)                                       (20)
'1976/77                35°                        (353            (15)
1977/78                33            -             (33)           (13.)
1978/79                 35                         (35)           '(12)
1979/80               '2'8                         (28)            (9)
1980/81                !2 6                        (26)             (7)
1981/82                A'8                         (28)             (7)
1982/83                27            _             (27)            (6)
1983/84                25           332            307             64
1984/85                25           381            356             67
1985/86                19          h435           416              71
1986/87                1L4          435           421              64
1987/88                12           435           423              58
1988/89                 6           435           429              53
1989/90                 2           265            263             29
TOTAL:   _ 0
April 29, 1969



Q
0~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~0
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
CL)
z
wL,z
<J
ci)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~............
oi0
IL   SOMLI  EPULI
71 ~ ~ ~ -  Z  '> k
/ *~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ A  0
UG A N D



