RESTRICTED
FILE      COPY rReport No. p-749
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
October 15, 1969



INTTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPi"ENT
REPORT AITD RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS (O!N A
PROPOSED LQAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A FOREST PLANTATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $2.6 million to
the Republic of Kenya.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        A forest plantations project was first presented by the
Government for IDA financing in 1964, after the adoption of the Kenya
Development Plan, 196h-70,of which it forms part. The present project
is based on a report of 'May 1968 by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
prepared at the request of the Government, after a reconnaissance mis-
sion under the same program visited Kenya in May 1967. The Government
has been planting fast-growing exotic pine and cypress species since
1945 to replace the slower-growing indigenous species. This program has
been financed with assistance from the United Kingdom, which is now
being phased out.
3.        The proposed project was appraised in the field in November/
December 1968. Negotiations were held in the Bank from July 28 to
August 1, 1969. Kenya was represented by Mr. Ojal, Permanent Secretary
in the Ministry of Natural Resources; Xr. J.P.W. Logie, Chief Conservator
of Forests; Mr. J.D.O. Onyango, Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests;
and Mr. J. Gatuiria, Senior Finance Officer, Ministry of Finance.
E.        This would be the fourth Bank loan to Kenya and the second
after independence. Kenya has received nine IDA credits, and benefits
also from four Bank loans granted to East African common service organi-
zations. The position of each of these loans and credits as of August
31, 1969 was given in my Report and Reconimendatio'n on the Proposed Loan
for the Third Highlay Ptoject in Kenya, Report No. P-739, dated September
10, 1969 (R69-191). The following is a summary statement as of September
30, 1969:



-2 -
Amounts in U.S. $ million
To Kenya          To East African
common services
Bank  IDA   Undisbursed Bank     Undisbursed
Total (less cancellations)  33.0 42.6                110.0
of which repaid to Bank
and others                 5.0                       11.9
Total outstanding           28.0                       95.1
Amount sold:          4.3                        23.8
of which repaid    4.0      .3                14.7   9.1
Total held by Bank and IDA  27.7  42.6                 86.o
Total undisbursed           24.4 20.5      44.9        46.6      46.6
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
5.        BORROWER:                Republic of Kenya
AMOUNT:                  U.S. $2.6 million equivalent in various
currencies
PURPOSE:                 Financing of a six-year forest planting
project which forms part of the Govern-
ment's continuing program to introduce
fast-growing species for economic
exploitation of Kenya's forest resources
AHIORTIZATION:           Over 25 years including 10 years of
grace, through semiannual installments
beginning September 1, 1979 and ending
September 1, 1994
INTEREST RATE:           7,%
COMvIITMENT CHARGE:      3/4 of 1%
ESTIMATED ECONOYiIC
RATES OF RETURN:       12% - 15' for saw-wood and 11% - 13%
for pulpwood plantations



PART III - THE PROJECT
6.        An Appraisal Report entitled "Forest Plantations Project,
Kenya" (PA-la) on the proposed project is attached. The project con-
sists of the establishment and maintenance of about 48,000 acres of saw-
wood plantations and 23,000 acres of pulpwood plantations, and the
maintenance of some 7,300 acres of pulpwood already planted. The
plantings would be made over the six years, 1970-1975, in accordance
with a program agreed with the Bank.
7.        The project also includes a marketing study to determine
prospective demand for Kenyan timber and pulpwood at home and abroad
on the basis of which future planting programs would be prepared.
After 30 years, when the first timber is expected to be felled on saw-
wood plantations in the proposed project, about half the output would
be absorbed domestically and the other half exported. Projections
over such a long time span are naturally subject to a wide margin of
error and they have, therefore, been based on conservative assumptions.
Ecological advantages and relatively short distances provide comparative
marketing advantages in the Near East which is a potentially important
market for Kenyan saw-wood. It may also be possible for the project to
supply some of the European demand for high quality softwood.
8.        The pulpwood plantations, which would be operated on a 14-15
years rotation, would produce raw material for a pulp and paper mill to
be located at Broderick Falls near the plantations. The International
Finance Corporation is supporting the mill project and I expect to present
it to the IFC Executive Directors shortly. Output of the proposed
paper mill would be consistent with projected domestic demand and the
pulpwood planting program is designed to meet the mill's raw material
requirement. In the initial years, before plantation timber is ready
for felling, the mill would obtain pulpwood from plantations intended
for saw-wood located 70-100 miles from Broderick Falls.
9.        The rate of return on investment in the mill would, according
to IFC estimates, be 13 percent assuming pulpwood prices consistent with
those applied in the Forest Plantations Project and paper prices compe-
titive with imports from West Europe and North America.
10.       If the pulp and paper mill project should for any reason be
dropped or substantially delayed, the pulpwood plantations could be
converted into saw-wood plantations, by letting the trees grow on a
saw-wood rotation basis, that is, 30 years. In this event, which does
not seem very likely at the present time, the economic return for the
pulpwood plantation would still be no less than 10 percent.



- 4 -
11.       The proposed Forest Plantations Project is estimated to cost
about $4.0 million, and the loan of $2.6 million proposed would finance
some 65% of this cost. The loan would cover the foreign exchange ex-
penditure amounting to $1.3 million and a similar amount of local currency
expenditure, while the Government would provide the remainder. Kenya's
need to obtain capital from abroad for development cannot be met by
financing only the direct foreign exchange cost of high priority projects.
The proposed project would be important in helping to diversify the economy,
and I consider that the Association is justified in including some local
expenditure in this loan.
12.       Execution of the Project would be the responsibility of the
Forest Department in the tiinistry of Natural Resources. The Department
has been in charge of the forest planting program since 1945, but its
capacity has recently been reduced by the departure of expatriate officers.
The proposed Loan Agreement provides that the Project be managed by
three officers whose appointments are subject to approval by the Bank.
13.       Procurement will follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" for purchase contracts of $15,000 or
more, and competitive procedures normally used by the Government for
smaller contracts.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMEN;TS AND AUTHORITY
14.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic
of Kenya, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The draft Loan Agreement conforms substantially to the pattern of agree-
ments used for certain comparable agricultural projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
15.       An Economic Report entitled "Prospects for Economic Development
in Kenya" (Vol. II of AF-58b, dated August 31, 1967) was distributed to
the Executive Directors early in September 1967 (R67-148) and updating
memorandum, "Recent Developments in the East African Community, Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda" (AF-74), was distributed to the Executive Directors
in April 1968 (R68-52).



16.       Comments on the current economic situation were given in my
Report and Recommendation on the Proposed Loan for the Third Highway
Project, Report No. P-739, dated September 10, 1969 (R69-191). These
comments were based on information collected by an economic mission
which visited Kenya in April/May this year. The report of the economic
mission will be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREE4ENT
17.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
18.       I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Bank approve
the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
October 15, 1969



