Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15953
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1938-MLI)
June 19, 1996
Industry and Energy Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit  CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.00  CFAF 286
US$ 1.00  CFAF 5032
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDM             Banque de Developpement du Mali
BEP             Bureau des Entreprises Publiques
BCEAO           Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BIAO            Banque Internationale de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
CAA             Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
FIR            Fonds d 'indemnisation et de reinsertion des travailleurs licencies des entreprises
publiques
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GOM             Government of Mali
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA             International Development Association
MFC             Ministere des Finances et du Commerce
MIS             Management Information System
ONP             Office National des Postes
OPT             Office des Postes et Telecommunications
OTER            Operations des Travaux d 'Equipement Rural
PE              Public Enterprise
PESAP           Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Project
PEIDP           Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project
SCPCE           Societe des Cheques Postaux et de la Caisse d'Epargne
SOTELMA        Societe des TdlIcommunications du Mali
TA              Technical assistance
Exchange rate on December 17, 1987, at appraisal.
2Exchange rate on April 30, 1996, at closing.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1938-MLI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ------------------------------------------------------------------------ i
Evaluation  Summary ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------    ii
PART I -- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  I
B. Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives--------------------------------------------------------------  I
C.  Achievement of Objectives -----------------------------------------------------------------------  2
D.  Major Factors Affecting  the Project -------------------------------------------------------------  5
E.  Project Sustainability-------------------------------------------------------------------------------  6
F. Bank Performance-----------  6
G.  Borrower Performance  --------------------------------------------------------------                                             -           7
H.  Assessment of Outcome ---------------------------------------------------------------------------  7
1.  Key  Lessons Learned  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------  8
PART II -- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table  I          Summary  of Assessments---------------------------------------------------------------- 10
Table 2           Related  Bank  Loans/Credits-------------------------------------------------------------12
Table  3    : Project Timetable  -------------------------------------------------------------------------13
Table 4    Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual -------------------------13
Table 5           Key  Indicators for Project Implementation--------------------------------------------13
Table  6          Key  Indicators for Project Operation---------------------------------------------------13
Table  7    : Studies Included  in  Project --------------------------------------------------------------14
Table  8A:  Project Costs-------------------------------------------------------------------------------16
Table  8B:  Project Financing-------------------------------------------------------------------------- 16
Table 9           Status of Legal Covenants ---------------------------------------------------------------17
Table  10   : Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs ----------------------------------------------------------21
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Missions-------------------------------------------------------22
APPENDICES  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 23
A. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
B. Map IBRD 27380
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1938-MLI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Enterprise
Institutional Development Project (PEIDP) for which Credit 1938-MLI in the amount of SDR 7.0
million (US$ 9.5 million equivalent) was approved on June 26, 1988 and made effective on
September 29, 1988.
The Credit was closed on April 30, 1996, 16 months after the original closing date.
The final disbursement was made on July 26, 1996, following which an amount of SDR
152,703.45 (US$ 222,643.16 equivalent) was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Jean-Michel N. Happi and Mr. Pierre Morin, Industry
and Energy Division, Western Africa Department, Africa Region. It was reviewed by Mrs. Silvia
B. Sagari, Division Chief, Mr. H. Harald Burmeister, Portfolio Manager, and Mr. Emmerich M.
Schebeck, Operations Adviser.
Preparation of the ICR began during the supervision mission of September 1 to 10,
1995 and was finalized during Bank's completion mission of May 25 to 28, 1996. The ICR is
based on materials in the Project file, including the Memorandum of the President, the
Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, and progress reviews and monitoring reports
by the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by participating in the
ICR mission and commenting on the draft ICR. The Borrower did not prepare its own evaluation
of the implementation of the Project in time to be included in this ICR but will submit its
contribution later.



I
I



i.
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1938-MLI)
MALI
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Credit Number:                            Cr. 1938-MLI
Credit Amount:                            SDR 7.0 million (US$ 9.5 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:                            Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Finance and
Commerce, Office des Postes Telecommunications.
Date effective:                           September 29, 1988
Date closed:                              April 30, 1996
Introduction
i.    As the performance of the public enterprise (PE) sector was deteriorating sharply and the
sector was accumulating unsustainable deficits, the Government of Mali (GOM) decided in 1983
to take initial steps to prepare a comprehensive reform program. In 1988, it undertook a broad
PE Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP), supported by IDA. The Public Enterprise Institutional
Development Project (PEIDP), a capacity-building project, developed in parallel with PESAP,
was designed to help GOM carry out the proposed PE reforms and above all improve its ability
to manage the PE sector.
Project Objectives
ii.    The overall objective of PEIDP was to provide GOM with the institutional support it
needed to extend and deepen its reform efforts under the PESAP. The PEIDP was to address the
long-term issue of strengthening the GOM's ability to devise and implement PE reforms as well
as to monitor the sector's performance and manage its future development. These objectives
were supported by five components: (a) strengthening of the Bureau des Entreprises Publiques
(BEP); (b) training of BEP staff and PE managers; (c) assistance to the Ministere des Finances et
du Commerce (MFC) to manage the implementation of PE divestiture and improve PE sector
performance; (d) support to the postal and telecommunications sectors; and (e) studies for the
development of additional reforms. The project objectives were clear and realistic as they sought
to address a pressing need to improve GOM's capacity to better manage the PE sector and to
provide the resources to execute the PESAP. They were important for both the Borrower and the
Bank as they would provide resources and support the strategy to help Mali carry out its
economic reform program, the first phase of which was to focus on the PE sector. But they were
demanding on the GOM; they required greater discipline, accountability, coordination in
Government departments, and a change in the way civil servants and PE managers were doing
business, and they risked causing strong political opposition.



iii
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.    The PEIDP achieved its objectives only partially and its overall outcome is rated
unsatisfactory. The project assisted the GOM to carry out some of the reforms agreed under the
PESAP but, in the final analysis, it did not provide GOM with the institutional support and the
tools needed to extend and deepen its PE reform beyond what was envisaged in the PESAP. It
contributed marginally to strengthening the Government's ability to devise and implement PE
reforms, monitor the PE sector performance, and better manage its future development.
Important tasks originally included in the project, such as development of the PE sector policy,
the management information system (MIS), and the follow-up system for PE financial
performance were not prepared or implemented. The project made a limited contribution to
strengthening the managerial capabilities of civil servants and PE managers.
iv.    The PEIDP helped to strengthen the capacity of BEP to serve as the technical body for
the reform program. It assisted the GOM to carry out its PE divestiture program by financing
consultants in the BEP, as well as training of BEP and MFC staff, and studies; but the
divestiture program slowed significantly after the closing of the PESAP and has since been
carried out in an ad hoc manner. There is no evidence that the PEIDP contributed significantly
to increasing MFC's capacity to carry out the PE reform program. Training provided under the
PEIDP targeted some 550 civil servants and PE managers, each of whom got the equivalent of
one week of training over the life of the project, but there was no reinforcement or follow-up. Of
the several studies included in the PEIDP, only those for preparation of individual action plans
for 22 PEs to be restructured or privatized in the second phase of the reform, the one to assess
the performance of a fund to assist laid-off employees, and the study on options for retraining
redundant PE employees were completed. The PEIDP assisted the breaking up of the Office des
Postes et Telecommunications (OPT) into two entities: Office National des Postes (ONP) and
Soci&t des T06communications du Mali (SOTELMA).  Its assistance included financing
consultants  to  design  new  organization  charts  and  management  policies.    The
telecommunications sector used this assistance to improve its performance, but there is no
evidence to suggest that this would not have happened without the PEIDP. The rehabilitation of
the postal sector was less successful than that of the telecommunications sector, since PEIDP
resources were inadequate to cover its numerous needs.
v.     The sustainability of those divestiture operations that took place is likely. However, the
continuation of the divestiture process is uncertain. To maintain PEIDP's modest achievements,
the Government would have to develop and adopt a policy and regulations for the PE sector, and
design and implement an information system that will provide accurate information on the PE
sector to monitor performance and promote further reforms.
vi.    Project execution was adversely affected by the quality of foreign technical assistance
(TA) provided by the Resident Advisor in BEP and the Bank's supervision that focused
essentially on short-term priorities, i.e., the divestiture component and issues in the management
of the project. The BEP decided to terminate the foreign TA and to recruit local consultants who
were inexperienced in the field of PE reform and PE sector management. Although the local
consultants contributed to achieving PEIDP's short-term objectives in PE divestiture, they had a
negligible impact on achieving its broader objectives. At the same time, the Bank was concerned
with implementation of the divestiture component that included many of the PESAP
conditionalities and its supervision focused mainly on this component, ignoring implementation
of others that were essential to achieving PEIDP's long-term objectives.



iv
vii.   The lack of Govemment commitment to PE sector reform, evidenced by the small
number of divestitures completed after the PESAP closed, the absence of a clear action plan for
the remaining years of the PEIDP, and the lack of a PE sector policy and a communication plan
to overcome popular opposition to PE reform were all factors that had an important detrimental
impact on the PEIDP. Although the BEP had, near the end of the project, developed a good
technical approach to privatization and was able to prepare sound divestiture strategies, many of
its recommendations on PE divestitures were rejected by the decision makers because they were
politically unpopular. The weaknesses in PEIDP's financial management that led to the
suspension of disbursements in October 1994 (lifted in April 1995 after corrective measures
were taken) and the late availability of counterpart funds for the civil works at the main Post
Office in Bamako contributed to delays in project implementation and to two separate extensions
of the closing date from December 1994 to April 1996.
viii.   The PEIDP benefited from all of the preparatory and appraisal work carried out for the
companion PESAP. The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal
was generally satisfactory. However, Bank supervision was less than satisfactory. Some 14
supervision missions were conducted, seven of which were between September 1988 and
November 1991 covering both the PEIDP and PESAP, while the seven other missions focused
only on the PEIDP. Supervision of the PEIDP, during the PESAP, focused mainly on the
divestiture component because this component was experiencing major difficulties and release of
the tranches was contingent upon its completion. Supervision of other components should have
intensified after the completion of the PESAP, since PEIDP did not have the benefit of the
implementation incentives (conditionalities) of PESAP and did not enjoy the same degree of
GOM ownership. However, various problems such as a change in the management of the
PEIDP, lack of a proper accounting system and serious irregularities in its financial management,
the suspension of disbursements, the limited expertise of the BEP, the preparation of a
divestiture program to take advantage of the devaluation of the CFAF in January 1994 have
drawn supervision mission's attention to the point that the weaknesses in the execution of other
important PEIDP components were not properly addressed.
ix.    Borrower performance during preparation was generally satisfactory.  The strategy
designed for the PEIDP which resulted from the preparatory work for the PESAP, clearly
addressed management weaknesses in the PE sector and identified dysfunctional elements in
Govemment-PE relationships and deficiencies in the institutional framework that needed
attention. It included cautious measures to ensure that local capacity would be established when
consultants and foreign advisers departed, but this capacity was not achieved. For example, the
BEP terminated the contract of the Resident Advisor because it found that the TA was
ineffective, but proposed no altemative ways to ensure adequate transfer of technical skills.
GOM's performance in implementation was deficient. Several project components were not
implemented and financial management was fraught with weaknesses and irregularities.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
x.     Some key lessons can be gleaned from the project. The first lesson is that when
Govemment capacity to implement reforms under a quick-disbursing operation is weak, the
objective of a companion TA operation should be to provide short- to medium-term TA. This
objective should be clearly spelled out and supported by activities/components that will have an
immediate impact, i.e. focused studies and TA to overcome weaknesses in the principal
implementing agency or agencies.



v
xi.    The second lesson is that long-term capacity building should not be the objective of a TA
project that is a companion to a quick-disbursing operation, as it is impossible always to
reconcile the long-term capacity-building objectives with the objective of fulfilling
conditionalities for the release of much needed budgetary assistance under a quick-disbursing
operation.
xii.   The third lesson is that, if the provision of short-term TA and the objective of long-term
capacity building must be combined into one project, then the project design should identify
clearly the two different objectives and the related streams of support activities for each, as this
will help the Government to focus on each of the two objectives. And when the investment or
adjustment operation which the TA project is supporting is completed, the objectives, scope, and
design of the TA project may have to be revisited to ensure that its long-term objectives can be
achieved.
xiii.   The fourth lesson is that, strong Government commitment is essential to the successful
implementation of a long-term institutional capacity-building project. This was lacking in
PEIDP.
xiv.   The final and perhaps most important lesson is that capacity-building projects should be
supported by a solid implementation plan adopted by the Government that clearly reflects its
sense of ownership. A detailed action plan for each project component pointing up the many
difficult tasks that need to be accomplished during implementation would help Bank supervision
missions to focus better on important issues, give timely attention to overcoming significant
deviations during implementation, and call the Borrower's attention to its commitment to
realizing each of the project's objectives.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1938-MLI)
MALI
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Background
1.    In 1982, Mali's PE sector consisted of 57 non-financial, commercially oriented
enterprises, several financial institutions, more than 20 rural development agencies and other
parastatals operating as financially autonomous agencies. Commercial PEs accounted for 70%
of modem industrial output, absorbed nearly 70% of total domestic credit, but contributed less
than 8% of domestic investment and only 12.1% of GDP. The poor performance of the PE
sector was mainly due to an inadequate institutional framework, political intervention, lack of
financial discipline, non-accountability of PE managers, and weak management. In 1982, PEs
had a combined net operating loss of over CFAF 5.5 billion. By the end of 1986, they had
accumulated over CFAF 35.5 billion in arrears to the national treasury, the banking sector, and
the debt agency (Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement-CAA).
2.     As the performance of the PEs was deteriorating sharply and the PE sector was
accumulating unsustainable deficits, the Government of Mali (GOM) decided in 1983 to prepare
a comprehensive PE rehabilitation and reform program. It launched diagnostic studies of
selected PEs, a cross-debts study, and audits of PEs to be liquidated. These were followed by a
broader PE Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP) which aimed to improve and rationalize the
performance of the PE sector, reduce its burden on the economy and public finances, and
eliminate the cross arrears between the Govemment and the PEs. The PESAP was supported by
an IDA credit (Cr.1937-MLI) totalling US$40 million, approved on June 24, 1998 and closed on
June 30, 1992. That operation was rated marginally satisfactory3.  The Public Enterprise
Institutional Development Project (PEIDP), developed in parallel with the PESAP, provided
technical assistance (TA) and logistical support to the GOM to carry out the planned reforms.
The PEIDP Credit for SDR 7.0 million (US$ 9.5 million equivalent) and became effective on
September 29, 1988.
B.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
3.    The objective of the PEIDP was to provide GOM with institutional support to extend and
deepen its PE reform efforts under the PESAP. The PEIDP was to address the long-term issue of
strengthening the GOM's ability to devise and implement PE reforms as well as to monitor the
sector's performance and manage its future development. This also entailed strengthening the
capabilities of PE managers to respond to the changed policy environment. Project objectives
Project Completion Report, Report No.11994, June 14, 1993 and OED Performance Audit Report--Mali:
Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment (Credit 1937-MLI), June 13, 1994.



2
were clear and realistic as they sought to address a pressing need to improve GOM's capacity to
manage its PE sector.
4.     Project objectives were important for both the Borrower and the Bank. To carry out
PESAP reforms, the Borrower needed financial resources and expertise in the areas of banking,
divestitures, performance contracts, management information systems, and legal reforms. The
PEIDP was part of IDA's strategy to help Mali carry out its economic reform program, the first
phase of which was to focus on the PE sector. The PEIDP would help ensure successful
implementation of the PESAP while concomitantly developing the institutional base for sound
management of the PE sector in the future.
5.    Implementing the project objectives was highly demanding on the GOM. Capacity had
to be built in the Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Finance and Commerce (MFC), and the PEs,
key players in implementing the PESAP reforms. Greater discipline in Government agencies
and PEs was needed to achieve better management of the PE sector meaning that a drastic
change was needed in the way civil servants and managers were doing business to bring more
transparency and greater accountability into the PE sector. PEIDP faced three major obstacles
which needed to be overcome: (i) the lack of a clear delineation of responsibilities between
Government departments and ineffective coordination among them; (ii) the limited absorptive
capacity of staff in the BEP and the MFC and the ineffective use of TA and training for capacity
building; and (iii) strong political opposition to both PESAP and PEIDP.
C.    Achievement of Objectives
6.     The PEIDP achieved its objectives only partially. It assisted the GOM to carry out some
of the reforms agreed under the PESAP but, in the final analysis, it contributed only marginally
to strengthening the Government's ability to devise and implement PE reforms, monitor the PE
sector performance, and better manage its future development. The PEIDP made a limited
contribution to strengthening the managerial capabilities of civil servants and PE managers.
7.     Project objectives were supported by five components : (i) strengthening of the Bureau
des Entreprises Publiques (BEP) in the Ministry of Planning for it to serve as the technical
agency for PE reform; (ii) training of BEP staff and PE managers; (iii) assistance to the
Ministere des Finances et du Commerce (MFC); (iv) support for reorganization of the postal and
telecommunication sectors; and (v) studies for the development of additional reforms. The
design of the project was appropriate.
Following is an assessment of the achievement of each project component.
Strengthening the BEP
8.    The PEIDP financed one foreign consultant, three long-term local consultants, and
several short-term consultants to:
(a) prepare specific strategies for the 35 PEs included in the PESAP. At completion, 17
PEs were liquidated, 12 privatized, and 6 rehabilitated but kept in the state portfolio.
The strategies that were prepared were not always well-suited for divestiture; some
non-viable PEs were sold to private entrepreneurs while other, more viable PEs were
liquidated. The strategies were oriented to quickly reducing the burden of the sector



3
on the state budget rather than ensuring the future viability of the PEs. As a result,
some divestiture operations had to be "fixed" again. The Grand Hotel, for example,
was privatized but repossessed by the Government and re-privatized in 1994.
(b) prepare strategies for the divestiture of an additional group of 6 PEs that were
effectively divested after PESAP closed, and a draft action plan for the 43 PEs
remaining in the state portfolio. The action plan has yet to be implemented.
(c) design and implement a comprehensive plan to settle cross debts in the PE sector and
between the PEs and GOM, for the period 1986-91. The plan sought payment of
GOM arrears to PEs and the assumption by GOM of guaranteed debts of liquidated
PEs and the liabilities of PEs to be privatized or kept in the state portfolio. After the
compensation of CFAF 21.3 billion in debts, the remaining unsettled debts were paid
in the form of treasury bills for a total of CFAF 10.1 billion.
(d) prepare an inventory of all PEs in the state portfolio, an action plan under which PEs
would provide their audited financial statements, and a list of performance
indicators.  BEP consultants prepared a compendium  on PEs' operations and
performance as of December 31, 1993 and 1994, which provided valuable
information on the PE sector.  This, however, was an ad hoc initiative. No
systematic approach was subsequently followed to monitor PE sector performance
and manage its future development.
The project objective to strengthen the BEP was achieved partially.
Training
9.     The PEIDP financed three seminars in management, corporate law, and accounting and
computers for 550 PE managers and civil servants. Another 73 persons received in-house
training and 57 persons received foreign training in privatization techniques and management,
procurement,  communications,  computers,  audits,  debt  management,  and  business
reorganization. No yardstick was developed to assess the effectiveness of training provided
under the PEIDP. Even though the number of people trained met the target of training the
equivalent of 150 persons/month, there was no adequate monitoring and follow-up and it is
doubtful whether the training will have produced any long-lasting effects. Achievement of the
training component is therefore judged to be negligible. On-the-job training of BEP staff was to
occur in the course of consultant assignments; consultants' terms of reference were to include
training responsibilities aimed at progressively assigning work to their Malian counterparts. In
practice, no on-the-job transfer of expertise occurred, as BEP hired local consultants who
usually did not have the required expertise and needed to learn on-the-job themselves. Early in
1994, the Director General of BEP and the three local consultants benefited from short-term
intensive training in privatization. This training significantly strengthened BEP's capacity to
prepare sound divestiture strategies. The objective of training to strengthen BEP's capacity was
thus achieved partially.
Assistance to the MFC
10.    This component included a large number of activities, such as: assistance for managing
the implementation of PE divestiture under the program; assistance for designing and



4
implementing a follow-up system of financial performance based on performance contracts;
assistance for preparing a system of economic evaluation of all PE investment proposals which
financially engage the GOM; and support for preparing further macroeconomic adjustment
measures. Very few of these activities were carried out.
11.    PEIDP assisted MFC in the preparation and implementation of reforms in the banking
sector. The PEIDP financed studies leading to the restructuring and introduction of private
management in the Banque de Developpement du Mali (BDM) of which GOM owns 20%. The
PEIDP also financed studies on the financial activities of ONP that led to the creation of the
Societe des Cheques Postaux et de la Caisse d'Epargne (SCPCE), in which the GOM holds 40%
of the shares, the Malian private sector 40%, and Banque Internationale de l'Afrique de l 'Ouest
(BIAO) 20%. In 1989, after reforms of monetary policy instruments were introduced by the
Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO), the Government judged that no
additional study on the financial sector was necessary.
12.   Achievement of this objective was only partial as most of the planned activities were not
carried out.
Support to the Postal and Telecommunications Sectors
13.   One-third of PEIDP's financial resources were directed to the reorganization and
financial restructuring of the postal and telecommunications sectors and to strengthening
operations of the postal services agency. The PEIDP provided assistance for the preparation and
implementation of the plan to split OPT into two entities: SOTELMA and ONP.
14.    Both institutions began operations in mid-1990 and subsequently received substantial
assistance. PEIDP funded technical assistance for a study on the allocation of assets and financed
consultants to design new organization charts and management policies for the two entities. The
PEIDP financed long-term training in management for 4 staff in each institution and to 7 staff in
both institutions in various aspects of telecommunications facilities. It also financed renovation
of Bamako's main Post Office and the purchase of vehicles to improve mail delivery. But in the
final analysis, the resources provided under the PEIDP were inadequate to achieve a sustainable
reorganization of the postal sector. There was no significant improvement in ONP's financial
performance and the postal service became highly unreliable. PEIDP also supported the
preparation of performance contracts for SOTELMA and ONP. But neither GOM nor the
managements of SOTELMA and ONP showed any interest in implementing these performance
contracts; the follow-up committees set up to supervise implementation progress have never met.
Successful implementation of this component would have required strong commitment and
leadership, foremost from the GOM, which was not forthcoming. Achievement of the objectives
for this component was therefore only partial.
Studies
15.   The PEIDP was to finance a large number of studies to prepare the basis for further
adjustment in the PE sector. These were for (a) the formulation of action plans for PEs to be
restructured in later phases of the reform; (b) evaluation of the PE divestiture experience, PE
sector financial results, performance contracts, and the role of supervisory ministries; (c) impact
studies; (d) studies on the redeployment of former PE employees; (e) formulation of an action
plan for financial policy reform; and (f) formulation of an action plan for the PE textile sector.



5
Only few of the studies were actually completed. These include the preparation of a divestiture
action plan in 1990 which was adopted and implemented by the Government; an action plan for
the second phase of the PE reform which was not adopted by the Government; a retrospective to
assess the performance of the Fonds d 'indemnisation et de reinsertion des travailleurs licencies
des entreprises publiques, the fund to assist the redeployment of laid-off employees of PEs; and
an analysis of the options for retraining and redeploying redundant PE employees. Achievement
of this component was negligible.
D.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Subject to Government Control
16.   The ineffectiveness of TA from the Resident Advisor in BEP, which led to the
termination of his contract at the end of the first year of PEIDP in 1991, left BEP unprepared to
carry out its mandate to prepare action plans and implement PE divestitures. Three local
consultants were hired to replace him but none of them had any prior experience in PE reform or
privatization. The concept of transfer of knowledge was therefore abandoned, and the local
consultants had to develop the knowledge and skills on their own. This inevitably had a
substantially negative impact on the pace of reforms and the capacity-building process in BEP.
17.   The heavy focus of Bank supervision on PESAP conditionalities until 1992 in effect left
the supervision of PEIDP shortchanged.  The weaknesses that were emerging in PEIDP
implementation, except for those relating to divestiture, did not get sufficient and timely
attention, which had a substantially negative impact on its implementation.
Factors Subject to Government Control
18.   The major factor that adversely affected PEIDP's implementation was the lack of GOM's
commitment to improve the management of the PE sector. In the first years of the PEIDP,
GOM's PE sector strategy was based on the PESAP conditionalities, rather than on an
independently designed strategy. In the meantime, the PEIDP provided the financial resources to
fulfill these conditionalities. Successive governments proved unwilling throughout PESAP's
implementation to take a clear position on the main issues: full divestiture of all state-owned
commercial enterprises, improving management of the few strategic PEs remaining in the
portfolio, better monitoring of the performance of these PEs, and greater scrutiny of PE
investment projects which have an impact on the state budget. The lack of Government policy
(no full-scale Privatization Law was ever adopted), the absence of both an action plan after
PESAP ended and a communication plan to overcome popular opposition to PE reform, resulted
in very few divestitures after the PESAP was closed. Moreover, the few that were done were
done on an ad hoc basis. In addition, important divestiture decisions on both strategy and
modalities were made by GOM, disregarding the advice of technical experts. Even though BEP
had developed a good technical approach to privatization and prepared sound divestiture
strategies near the end of the PEIDP, implementation of many of its recommendations were
rejected because they were politically unpopular. This factor had a very substantial negative
impact on PEIDP's implementation.
19.   The delay in the availability of counterpart funds to finance the civil works at the main
Post Office in Bamako slowed project implementation. Work began only in late 1995 and was



6
not completed when the PEIDP closed although its closing date had to be extended twice from
December 1994 to December 1995, and then to April 1996.
E.    Project Sustainability
20.    The sustainability of the modest institutional development achievements of the PEIDP is
uncertain. The three consultants employed under the project at the BEP have acquired good
expertise in the preparation and implementation of divestiture strategies and some preliminary
work was done in BEP to prepare an information system for the PE sector. These achievements
are sustainable only if the consultants continue to be employed. Training financed under PEIDP
may have some long-term impact in the case of civil servants who received foreign training. But
most of the civil servants and PE managers who participated in the seminars and training have
moved on to other functions.
21.   The restructuring of the telecommunications sector is likely to be sustainable in light of
SOTELMA's satisfactory performance in terms of profitability, and prospects for new
investments, modernization, and further expansion of telecommunications activities, financed
mostly from extemal sources. The sustainability of reforms in the postal sector are, however,
uncertain. ONP will continue to be a drain on the state budget unless drastic measures are taken
to ensure its profitability. The condition of SCPCE needs to be reviewed, since currently its
future is uncertain; despite its success in mobilizing savings (assets of CFAF 4 billion in 1995),
it still has no authority to make loans.
F.    Bank Performance
22.   Identification of the PEIDP dates back to 1984-86. At that time, PEIDP's objectives
were consistent with both the Government's development priorities and IDA's strategy for the
country. The PEIDP benefited from all the preparatory and appraisal work carried out for the
companion PESAP. The Bank's performance in project identification, preparation, and appraisal
was generally satisfactory. Each component covered a group of activities to be carried out, with
their respective timetables clearly established. But, as in the case of most projects in the 1980s,
no comprehensive operational plan or performance indicators were prepared.
23.   Bank supervision of the PEIDP was less than satisfactory.  Some 14 supervision
missions were conducted, seven of which occurred between September 1988 and November
1991 and covered both the PEIDP and the PESAP. The seven other missions focused only on the
PEIDP. During PESAP implementation, Bank supervision did not focus sufficiently on the
timely and adequate implementation of each of PEIDP's five components and their specific
planned activities. Delays in the implementation of the divestiture component required a lot of
attention, since release of PESAP tranches was contingent upon its completion; but focusing so
much on this component and its difficulties resulted in the supervision missions losing sight of
PEIDP's main objective of institutional strengthening in GOM to devise, manage, and monitor
PE reforms and performance and plan future PE sector development. Insufficient attention to
institutional strengthening was, in the end, detrimental to the successful implementation of
PEIDP and some of its other components, such as the promotion of private participation and the
economic evaluation of PE investment proposals which financially engage the Borrower.
Supervision of the PEIDP should have been intensified after the completion of the PESAP, since
PEIDP did not have the benefit of the implementation incentives or conditionalities of PESAP
and did not enjoy the same degree of GOM commitment. In fact, GOM's enthusiasm for PE



7
reform may have weakened because of continuing popular opposition and the social impact on
terminated employees, half of whom found no gainful employment. As it turned out, the PEIDP
then faced a series of problems, such as a change in its management, lack of a proper accounting
system, serious irregularities in its financial management that eventually led to the suspension of
disbursements. The lack of expertise in the BEP remained a continuing problem until BEP
consultants participated in training on PE reform and privatization. And, with the CFAF
devaluation in January 1994 much attention was devoted to identify ways to maximize benefits
from the devaluation, particularly in the divestiture program. As Bank supervision of PEIDP had
to focus on these issues, the long-term objectives of the PEIDP were not properly addressed.
G.    Borrower Performance
24.    Borrower performance was generally satisfactory during the PEIDP preparation. The
strategy designed for the PEIDP resulted from the preparatory work done for the PESAP. It
clearly addressed the management weaknesses in the PE sector and identified dysfunctional
elements in Govemment-PE relationships and the institutional framework that needed attention.
It included measures to ensure that local capacity was established when consultants and foreign
advisers departed. However, this capacity was not developed. For example, the BEP terminated
the TA contract of the Resident Advisor but proposed no alternative ways to ensure the transfer
of technical skills.
25. The GOM's performance in implementation was deficient. Apart from support to the
divestiture program, settlement of cross-debts, and, to a lesser extent, the rehabilitation of the
postal and telecommunications sectors, most other components were not implemented or acted
upon satisfactorily. In addition, project financial management was an ongoing problem since the
start of the PEIDP. Audit reports were qualified, except those for 1994 and 1995. In successive
reports, auditors consistently noted weaknesses and irregularities in the accounting and financial
management, including poor accounting procedures and reporting, and disbursements made for
expenses unrelated to the project and/or without supporting documents. Although the Project
Director appointed in September 1993 took forceful actions to redress the project accounts, severe
deficiencies persisted that led the Bank to suspend disbursements in October 1994. The suspension
was lifted in April 1995, after corrective measures were taken. However, performance of the
Borrower in the preparation and communication of the financial reports of ONP and SOTELMA
was highly unsatisfactory. As of PEIDP's closing date in April 1996, the Board of Directors of
SOTELMA had not approved its opening balance sheet of January 1990, and audit reports for both
ONP and SOTELMA for 1990-95 had not been done.
H.    Assessment of Outcome
26.    Despite some positive achievements, the overall outcome of the PEIDP is rated
unsatisfactory. On the positive side, the PEIDP provided resources to fulfill the PESAP
conditionalities. Other PEIDP's achievements include: (i) strengthening of BEP capacity to
prepare and implement divestiture strategies through TA, training, and studies; (ii) settlement of
cross-debts in the PE sector; and (iii) the restructuring of the telecommunications sector. But
PEIDP failed to achieve its main objective to provide the Government with the institutional
support it needed to extend and deepen its PE reform efforts and specific objectives in a number
of areas. Since the closing of the PESAP, only ten PEs have been divested -- three in 1993, two
in 1994, three in 1995, and two in 1996. Divestiture of four others is reportedly underway. The
PEIDP did not contribute to establishing a dynamic database on the PEs, to developing



8
institutional capacity in the MFC to better manage and supervise the performance of the PE
sector, or to devising a procedure to evaluate investment projects which financially engage the
GOM. These would all have been essential to the success of the PEIDP. Finally, ONP's long-
term financial viability is in serious doubt. For all of these reasons the project is considered to
have failed and is not expected to have a significant impact on improving management of the PE
sector.
I.     Key Lessons Learned
27.    The first lesson is that when Government capacity to implement reforms under a quick-
disbursing operation is weak, the objective of a companion TA operation should be to provide
short- to medium-term TA. This objective should be clearly spelled out and supported by
activities/components that will have an immediate impact, i.e. focused studies and TA to
overcome weaknesses in the principal implementing agency or agencies.
28.    The second lesson is that long-term capacity-building should not be the objective of a
TA project that is a companion to a quick-disbursing operation. The PEIDP implementation
experience shows that it is impossible to always reconcile long-term capacity-building objectives
with the short-term objective of fulfilling conditionalities for the release of much needed
budgetary assistance within the time frame of a quick-disbursing operation. A TA project, such
as PEIDP, would have a better chance of success if it were prepared and designed separately,
within the context of a long-term Government strategy for the PE sector.
29.    The third lesson is that if the provision of short-term TA and the objective of long-term
capacity building must be combined into one project, then the project design should very clearly
identify the two different objectives and the two related streams of support activities for each.
Doing this will help the Government to focus on each of the two objectives. And when the
investment or adjustment operation which the TA project is supporting closes, the objectives,
scope, and design of the TA project may have to be revisited to ensure that the project's long-
term objectives can be successfully achieved. In the case of the PEIDP, the short-term objectives
of PESAP overtook PEIDP's long-term capacity-building objectives and, after PESAP closed,
PEIDP lost the important underpinning that was provided by the PESAP conditionalities. It
never regained the momentum or promise with which it had started.
30.    The fourth lesson is that implementing a long-term institutional capacity-building project
requires strong Government commitment. The GOM acknowledged that in the case of PEIDP, it
had not "internalized" the PE privatization and liquidation program. In other words, GOM
carried out the PESAP conditionalities not because they were thought to be essential to better
manage the PE sector, but because they were essential to getting the PESAP funds disbursed
quickly. The lack of GOM commitment resulted in delays in divestitures which, in turn, called
for more attention in Bank supervision. The consequence of this was that the problems in
implementing the components to create long-term capacity for managing the PE sector were
completely ignored by both GOM and the Bank supervision missions. The establishment of an
MIS system, studies for financial performance of PEs, economic evaluation of PE investment
proposals requiring Government financing, and impact studies, among others, were sacrificed to
attain the short-term objectives of the PE divestiture program.
31.    The final and perhaps the most important lesson is that capacity-building projects should
be supported by a solid implementation plan, adopted by the Government, that clearly reflects its



9
commitment to its own project.  One of the important reasons for the PEIDP's limited
achievements is that no road map was drawn for the most important project activities, such as
implementation of an MIS, establishment of a follow-up system  to monitor PE sector
performance, and a clear action plan for the divestiture program. An action plan for each project
component would have made the Government realize that manv difficult tasks had to be
accomplished along the way to achieve project success. This would also have helped Balik
supervision missions to focus better on important issues, give timely attention to overcoming
significant deviations in project implementation, and call the Borrower's attention to its
commitment to the project objectives.



10
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1938-MLI)
MALI
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial    Partial    Negligible      Not applicable
I                        ~ ~~ ~~(i)      (4)         (i)              (i)
Macroeconomic policies                                        L 3  L
Sector policies              !      G
Financial objectives                       I C
Institutional development                                     El 3Dc
Physical objectives          !      L                                          LI I      3
Poverty reduction     !        !                        I !
Gender concerns
Other social objectives      !      o         !    n
Environmental objectives            L 3          I      r    -       I
Public sector management            L 3       !        3  !!
Private sector development !
Other (specify)              !      3            I n      !    oi
El         I     7     I     [      I1
B. Project sustainability        Likely              Unlikely              Uncertain       l



11
Table 1: Summary of Assessments (cont'd)
Highly            Satisfactory            Deficient
C. Bank performance        I   satisfactory
Identification
Preparation assistance     !
Appraisal                  !        -                                           ]
Supervision                I                   I                     I
Highly
D. Borrower performance        satisfactory         Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                         C
Implementation      !       !
Covenant compliance        !
Operation (if applicable)           l-                   3
Highly                     I                i    Highly
E. Assessment of outcome   satisfactory I  Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
! = C                                   lXEl



12
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                                 Purpose                          Year of        Status
approval
Preceding Operations                     I
Office Du Niger II                        Strengthen the financial, management and              1988          Active
(Cr. 1906-MLI)                           Itechnical capacities of Office du Niger and
finance most critical deferred maintenance and
rehabilitation.
Simultaneous operations
P.E. Sector Adj.                          Public enterprise sector rationalization through      1988          Closed
(Cr. 1937-MLI)                           i liquidations, restructuring, and divestitures to  I
reduce the burden on public finances and
particularly to improve performance and
I  rehabilitation of the public enterprise sector.
Following operations
SALI                                       Structural adjustment credit in support of           1991          Closed
(Cr. 21 88-MLI)                            macro-policy reforms aimed at improving the
efficiency of public resource management and
ratonalizing the strmcture of private sector
I incentives.
Private Sector Assis.                     Assistance to the banking system in                   1993         Ongoing
(Cr. 2432-MLI)                           i promotion/appraisal/
financing of private business; technical support   t
for business promotion, training, and assistance
I  in implementing improved policv measures.
Economic Recovery                         Credit is designed to support the post-devaluation    1994         Ongoing
(Cr. 2580-MLI)                           ireform program of 1994. Its main objectives are  i
|  private sector growth and poverty alleviation.
The Malian Govemment has already taken a
I  series of kev macroeconomic and structural  I
measures to regain and consolidate
competitiveness.
Economic Mgmt.                             Structural adjustment credit to support macro-       1996      I Expected
I policy reforms



13
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle              Date Planned  i      Actual date
First mention in files as:                                       '
Productive Investment Development Project                               May 1983
Initial Project Brief                          i                 i     April 1987
Preparation                                    I                 I      May 1987
Appraisal                                        Novcmber 1987       November 1987
Negotiations                                   I   March 1988   I      March 1988
Board presentation                             I                      June 24, 1988
Signing                                                             September 7. 1988
Effectiveness                                  I September 1988 I September 29, 1988
Loan closing                                   I December 1994  I   April 30, 1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
-FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91 IFY92 iFY93 iFY94 iFY5 FY96 Total
Appraisal estimate    1.90    1.30    1.50   1.90   1.50   1.20  0.20            9.50
Actual                     2.42    1.48 ! 1.21 1 1.69 , 1.14 ! 0.72 !0.16 10.50  9.32
Actual as%of        0%    186% !100% ! 81%   113% ! 95%  360%!                   98%
estimate
Date of final
disbursement:          July 26, 1996
Tables 5 & 6: Key Indicators for Project Implementation & Operation
There wcre no key indicators for project implementation and operation.



14
Table 7: Studies included in the Project
Study                 Purpose as defined at         Status         Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
Reorganization of the Banque    Reforms in the Banking sector   Completed   Led to the restructuring of
de Developpement du Mali     I                                    I        the BDM and its partial
(BDM)                                                                     privatization
Financial audit of the Caisse  Reform in the Banking sector    Completed   Assessment of the situation
nationale d'assurance et de  I                             t
treassurance(CNAR)           I                              I
OPAM: Study of operating       Improve the management of     Completed   Improvement in the
costs and audit              I selected PEs                I             I management
OPAM: implementation of a      Improve the management of     Completed   Improved management
management information       i selected PEs
system to improve performance                              I             I
Financial audit of BDM         Reform in the Banking sector    Completed   Annual audit
Study of the Cheques Postaux    Reorganization of ONP        Completed   Separation of ONP's
and (aisse d'epargne activities I                          I            I financial activities from its
in ONP                                                                    postal service activities
Diagnostic studies of PEs to be   Studies prior to divestiture  Completed   Effective divestiture
divested
Valuation of the Caisse        Reform in the Banking sector    Completed   PE valuation
nationale d'assurance et de                 I                     I                   I
reassurance(CNAR)                                          I             I
l~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                           
Valuation of 18 PEs to be      Studies prior to divestiture  Completed   Effective divestiture
divested: TAMALI,            II                                          I
COMATEX, SEPAMA,             I                             I                                        |
SEMA, EMAMA, SNECMA,
SOCIMA, SNED, GRAND                                        I
HOTEL, UCEMA, EDIM,                                        I                                        I
SONATAM, SOGEMORK,    I                                    I             I
BETRAM, THE SIKASSO,                                                                                |
COMANAV, ULB, and CNAR. i                                                                           |
Feasibility study of the PE:   Improve the management of     Completed   Reorganization ofOTER
Operations des Travaux       I PEs in the sector           I             I
d'Equipement Rural (OTER)



15
Table 7: Studies included in the Project (cont'd)
Study                 Purpose as defined at        Status         Impact of study
I   appraisal/redefined
Reconstitution of Project     Not planned                    Completed   Projects accounts are well
accounts                     I                                          I kept and maintained
I              :                            ~ ~ ~                 ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I i, 
ONP and SOTELMA:              Reorganization of the post and   Completed   Balance sheets were
preparation of opening balance  I telecommunications sector             I prepared. ONP Board
sheets as on January 1990                                                approved its balance sheet
while SO1ELMA Board
did not. The 1990 to 1995
annual financial statements
i were not certified by
I            I external auditors.
FIR: economic impact study    Not planned                    Completed   Assess the sustainability of
I  the Fund
Study of the possible approach   To help ease social problems    Completed   Proposed various
to ensure retraining and re-    I resulting from PE liquidation  I      I approaches to facilitate
deployment of redundant PE    and privatization.          I             I redeployment of laid-off
employees                                                 I             I employees.



16
Table 8A: Project Costs
Component              I         Planned                    Actual
(USS million)
Supportto BEP                 i            1.8           i            2.9
Support to MFC                             1.2                        1.2
Support to OPT                 i           3.2           i            2.7
Training                                    7            I            1.2
Studies                                     . 7                        .7
PPF refinancing                            1.5                        1.6
Physical and Price contingencies           .8
Total: I         9.9           I           10.3
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                 Actual/latest estimate
Item                    (US$M)                               (US$M)
Local   I Foreign      Total      Local (1)   Foreign (1)    Total
Government           .4     ,                .4                 ,
IDA                  .7     F   8.8         9 5                                  9.3
Total:     1.1         8.8    i   9.9                 I                10.3
(1) Information not provided by Government.



17
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit     Covenant  Present                   Description of Covenant              I       Comments
Agreement I  Type         Status  I
Section
DCA3.01a        Project      CP   I Carry out the Project through BEP (Bureau des        In partial compliance, as
I  impl.              I I Entreprises Publiques) and MFC (Ministry of Finance  there were weaknesses in
and Commerce), and provide the resources required  the financial and
for the Project.                                  I administrative
I z   |                                            | management.
DCA3.0lb   ! Project          C      Cause OPT (Ofice des Postes et Teecommunications) !
I  impl.              i a to carry out its part of the Project and provide or cause i
I          |          | OPT to provide the resources required for said part of
i          i          | the Project.
DCA 3.0 Ic      Project       C      Relend to OPT the specified part of the proceeds of the  Subsidiary Loan
6.01 b/6.02    i   sub.   I        f Credit under a subsidiary loan agreement under terms  I Agreement signed between
agree.              and conditions approved by IDA.                    Government and OPT as a
I         I :                                                 : condition of effectiveness
in September 1988.
DCA 3.01e       Project       C      Exercise the rights under the OPT Subsidiary Loan  After OPT's restructuring
I   sub.   I          I Agreement in such manner as to accomplish the     in 1990 into ONP and
agree.              purposes of the Credit and, except as IDA shall    SOTELMA, the original
I          I          I otherwise agree, do not assign, amend, abrogate or    I subsidiary agreement was
waive the OPT Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any     replaced with IDA's
provision thereof.                                 consent by two separate
I                     I ||i agreements between the
I          I          I                                                  | Borrower and ONP and
i SOTELMA, respectively.
DCA 3.02a       Project       c      Ensure that BEP is responsible for, inter alia, the  BEP empowered to
X  impl.               following tasks: preparation of PE policy, legal and    I undertake all the detailed
institutional reforms; implementation of PE reforms;    work necessary for
preparation of divestiture strategies; facilitation of  I efficient appraisal,
I          I          | redeployment of redundant PE personnel; monitoring  I monitoring, and divestiture
sand reporting on progress of the Program; compilation  { of PEs.
i of cross-debt statistics and outstanding debt figures.   I
DCA 3.02b       Project      CP      Ensure that BEP is at all times staffed with qualified
impl.   I         I and experienced personnel in adequate number,     I
including such personnel as provided for in Schedule 5
I tothe DCA.



18
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Credit      Covenant  Present l                Description of Covenant              I       Comments
Agreement i  Type   I Status  I
Section       Project
DCA 3.03        Project      CP      Ensure that MFC is responsible for, inter alia, the
l  impl.   I          I following tasks: implementation of PE
divestiture; design and implementation of a follow-up
I                     I | system of financial performance; economic evaluation  l
Iof PE investment proposals; preparation of further
l  :        $         | macroeconomic adjustment measures; preparation and
I           i         i implementation of the banking sector reform.      I
DCA 3.04        Procur.      CP      Ensure that procurement of the goods, works and
l           I         I | consultants' services required for the Project and to be  I
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is governed
I         I g by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the DCA.
DCA 2.02b       Disburs.      c      Open and maintain in CFAF a special account in the  Project Special Account
l           I         I EICentral Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to   I established prior to
IDA; make deposits into, and payments out of, the  effectiveness.
l                     I |   | Special Account in accordance with the provisions of  l
Schedule 4 to the DCA.
DCA             General       C      Pay to IDA semi-annually on February 15 and August
2.04/2.06    i  Cond.   i            15 in each year a commitment charge on the principal  I
amount of the Credit not withdrawn at a rate to be set
l  g        |         X by IDA, but not to exceed 0.5% p.a.
DCA             General       C      Pay to IDA semi-annually on February 15 and August
2.05/2.06    I  Cond.   I           115 in each year a service charge of 0.75% p.a. on the                        l
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
I |         t         | outstanding.
DCA 4.0la        Acc. &       C      Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect the    The covenants related to
Aud.   i          I operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the E accounting and auditing
Project.                                           were partially complied
with until the suspension
DCA 4.01 b(i)    Acc. &       C      Have the records and accounts including those for the    of disbursements in
Aud.   a           Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited by    I September 1994.
l  t   j   | independent auditors acceptable to IDA.           Following the suspension,
l  i        |         i                                                   j project accounting and
DCA              Acc. &       C      Fumish to IDA, not later than six months after the end   auditing were regularized.
4.01 b(ii)   i   Aud.               I I of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such l
audit.



19
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Credit    | Covenant    Present |              Description of Covenant                       Comments
Agreement  i  Type   I Status  I
Section                          I l
DCA              Acc. &       C      Furnish to IDA such other information concerning said
4.0lb(iii)    ,   Aud..   a         I records, accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall    I
reasonably request.
DCA 4.01 c(i)    Acc. &       C      Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect all    Generally in compliance.
Aud.             I expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from    I The Borrower had project
the Credit Account were made on the basis of        accounts reconstituted
statements of expenditure.                        I after major weaknesses
I           I                                                             a | were identified and its
I           I         I                                                   : right to make withdrawals
i was suspended.
DCA              Acc. &       C      Retain, until at least one year after IDA has received
4.01 c(ii)   i   Aud.   i          I the audit for the Fiscal Year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
all records evidencing such expenditures.
DCA              Acc. &       C      Enable IDA's representatives to examine such records.
4.01c(iii)    i   Aud.   i          I
DCA              Acc &        C      Ensure that such records and accounts are included in
4.01c(iv)    a   Aud.   I          I the annual audit and that the report of such audit  I
a contains a separate opinion as to whether the
statements of expenditure can be relied upon to support:
a s      | the related withdrawals.
DCA 4.02a        Acc. &      CP      Cause OPT to maintain records and accounts adequate
Aud.   i         I to reflect its operations and financial condition.
DCA 4.02b(i)    Acc. &       CP      Cause OPT to have its records, accounts and financial   Annual audits were not
Aud.             I statements for each fiscal year audited by independent I carried out for ONP and
I           |        | auditors acceptable to IDA.                         SOTELMA since their
I           I         I                                                   I balance sheets as of
January 1, 1991 were not
approved by their
I          W         "                                                   fl respective Board of
I          I          I                                                  g Directors.
DCA              Acc. &      NC      Cause OPT to furnish to IDA, not later than six months  Annual audits were not
4.02b(ii)     i   Aud.             I after the end of each such year (a) certified copies of its a carried out for ONP and
I          0         | financial statements for such year as so audited; and (b) i SOTELMA since their
I          i         I the report of such audit.                          I balance sheets as of
I           I         a                                                   a January 1, 1991 were not
I           I         I                                                  | approved by their
I          I         |                                                   z respective Boardof
__                   I |   |                                             @ Directors.



20
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (cont'd)
Credit      Covenant  Present                 Description of Covenant                     Comments
Agreement  I  Type   i Status i                                                     I
SectionII
DCA 4.02b(iii)    Acc &        C      Cause OPT to furnish to IDA such other information
I  Aud.   ,          I concerning such records, accounts, financial   I
statements and the audit thereof as IDA shall
I          |         g reasonably request.
DCA 4.02d(i)      Acc. &       C      Cause OPT to maintain records and accounts
Aud.             i adequate to reflect all expenditures with respect to    l
I          |         | which withdrawals from the Credit Account were 
I          |         | made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
DCA 4.02d(ii)     Acc. &       C      Cause OPT to retain, until at least one year after IDA
I  Aud.   I  has received the audit for the fiscal year in which the I
I          I         0 last disbursement from the Credit Account was made,
I          i         | all records evidencing such expenditures.      I
DCA 4.02d(iii)    Acc. &       C      Cause OPT to enable IDA's representatives to
Aud.   i         I examine such records.
DCA 4.02d(iv)     Acc. &       C      Cause OPT to ensure that such records and accounts
I  Aud.   I          I are included in the annual audit and that the report of i
such audit contains a separate opinion as to whether
I          :         : the statements of expenditure can be relied upon to   I
support the related withdrawals.
DCA 4.03a         General      C      Cause OPT to take out and maintain with responsible
Cond.  I         I insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to    I
IDA for, insurance against such risks and in such
I          |         g amounts as consistent with appropriate practices.  I
DCA 4.03b      ! Project  !  CP   ! Cause OPT to carry on its operations and conduct its
impl.   I        I affairs in accordance with sound practices under the  I
supervision of qualified and experienced
I        : management assisted by competent staff in adequate  I
numbers.
DCA 4.03c         General     CP    Cause OPT at all times to operate and to maintain its
I  Cond.  I          I plants, machinery, equipment and other property and
I          I         I to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
C   = covenant complied with
CD  = complied with after delay
CP  = complied with partially
NC  = not complied with



21
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project           Planned                   Revised                    Actual
Cycle
Weeks         US$        Weeks         US$        Week     f     US$
Through appraisal                                                         177.1"'       286.7"'
Appraisal-Board                                                           145.5"'       229. 1
Supervision                                                                 84           174.4
Completion                                                                  9.4           19.5
(1) includes staff inputs for PEIDP as well as for PESAP, which was prepared simultaneously.



22
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
I          I             I        I                     I   Performance rating
Stage of Project     Month/   Number of   Days in         Specialized staff     Implemen-   Development                Types of problems
Cycle:       I  year   I  Persons   I  field   I skills represented  I tation status I  objectives   I
I ~         ~     ~     ~      ~~~   I            I                      I             I                                                     I
Through appraisal     11/87    I      3           21                           I              I       1          Preliminary discussions on operation
I               l          l             l           l I   I   I                                                                                I
Appraisal through     03/88    I      10     1     7    I                      I                                Appraisal and negotiations
Board approval                 I             I                                                I
Supervision     t
I             11/88          2           14      Operations Officers  l       2              1         Delay in project implementation.
11         !  07/89          2           1 0      Operations Officers         2              1         Delay in the implementation of the
divestiture component and selection
I  I  I    I                     I              I                I of consultants.
11/89         2           1 4     O            O               2              I         N
IV1            11/89          2           14      Operations Officers         2               1         No major problem.
IV         !  05/90   !       1           14    !Operations Officer           2      !        1         No major problem.
V              11/90         2            14      Operations Officer.         2              I         No major problem. The accounting
Operation Analyst                                    system needed improvement.
VI             05/91          2           12      Operations Officer.          I              I         No major problem.
Operation Analyst
VIl             11/91         I            5       Operations Officer                 I                 The financial situation of the Postal
Checking System was a source of
concern and needed to be improved.
Vill            11/92         2            I10     Operations Officer                 I                  ONP's and SOTELMA's opening
Operations Analyst                                   balance sheets had to he approved by
I their respective Boards.
IX          14/931            1           7       Operations Officer1         2              2        'No major problem.
xI08/93        I           9       Public Enterprise           S              S         ONP's and SOTELMA's opening
Specialist                                           balance sheet and legal framework.
Xl             01/94          1           10      Public Enterprise                  I                  The divestiture component made
Specialist                                           very little progress. The BEP
I I                   i                                          I technical expertise was weak and
I  I  I  I  I  I               I needed improvement.
XII            09/94          I           10       Public Enterprise           U              U         The PEIDP did not provide the GOM
Specialist                                           with the institutional framework and
I          I                                                                                capacity it needed to extend and
I deepen its PE reform program. Lack
of proper accounting system led to
I  I  I  I  I  I                 the suspension of the Borrower's right
I          I             I                                               I j   X          X to make withdrawals.
XiII            04/95          I           8     I Public Enterprise    '      S              S          Delay in the implementation of the
Specialist Idivestiturecomponent due toIslow
I          |             Z          g                      S             |                | and cumbersome GOM decision
I   I        I           I                     I              I                I making process.
XIV             09/95                 I          I Public Enterprise           s              s          Delay in implementation of the
I          I g   g Specialist                                      divestiture component due to GOM
I     I                  I                     I                              I W   | indecision
I          I             I          I                      I              I                       
ICR mission            05/96          1            5      PublicEnterprise                                    I Discusssion of the draft ICR.
I  I         Specialist



23
MALI
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1938-MLI)
APPENDICES
A. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire



24
ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale composee de M. Pierre Morin, Specialiste des Entreprises
publiques a visite Bamako du 25 au 28 mai 1996 afin de constater P'achevement des activites qui avaient
justifie le report de la date de cl6ture du credit au 30 avril 1996, de discuter du rapport d'achevement du
PDIEP et de recueillir les commentaires sur le projet de Rapport d'ach&vement. La mission a 6galement
foumi au Gouvemement les conseils et l'appui necessaires a la preparation de sa contribution au rapport
d'achevement. Le contenu de cet Aide-memoire a ete discute avec les consultants du BEP.
ACHEVEMENT DES ACTIVITES
2.     Lors de la visite du chantier de la Grande Poste de Bamako, en compagnie du Directeur
technique de I'AGETIPE maitre d'oeuvre des travaux, la mission a constate que les travaux de
renovation ne sont pas entierement termines. La mission a constate que le credit pourra financer les
travaux entierement realises au 30 avril 1996 pourvu qu'une demande de retrait de fonds
parvienne a la Banque avant le 30 juin 1996.
3.     Le Gouvemement a convenu de transmettre a la Banque une copie du rapport de 1'etude sur la
reconversion et reinsertion du personnel deflate des entreprises publiques. Cette dtude, si terminee avant
le 30 avril 1996, pourra etre entierement financee sous le projet pourvu que la demande de retrait de
fonds parvienne a la Banque avant le 30 juin 1996. L'audit des comptes du projet, qui n'avait pas debute
lors de la mission, ne pourra malheureusement pas etre finance sous le credit. La mission a souligne
que le Gouvernement doit neanmoins satisfaire a l'obligation de soumettre un rapport d'audit des
comptes du projet dans les six mois de la date de cloture du credit.
4.     La mission a obtenu les commentaires verbaux des consultants du Bureau des entreprises
publiques (BEP) sur le projet de rapport d'achevement prepare par la Banque. Le BEP a informe la
mission que, selon les termes de ]'article 1.01 (b) de l'Accord de Credit, I'Emprunteur dispose d'un d6lai
de 6 mois pour preparer son rapport d'evaluation et que celui-ci lui sera transmis dans ce delai. La
mission a neanmoins demande au BEP et au Gouvemement de diligenter la preparation de leurs
commentaires et de la contribution du Gouvernement vu la deuxieme prorogation de la date de cl6ture.
VUES DE L'EMPRUNTEUR ET DE LA BANQUE SUR LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET
5.     En septembre 1995, un projet preliminaire du rapport d'achevement du projet a e  remis au
Gouvernement afin d'obtenir ses vues sur la mise en oeuvre du projet. Malgre la demande contenue dans
la lettre de la Banque du premier novembre 1995, le Gouvernement n'a pas communique ses
commentaires a la Banque. Lors de la recente mission, une seance de travail avec S.E. Monsieur le
Ministre des Finances n'a pu etre organisee pour recueillir les commentaires du Gouvernement sur la
mise en oeuvre du PDIEP.
A. Objectifs du PDIEP
6.     Le PDIEP avait pour objectif principal d'apporter au Gouvernement l'appui institutionnel pour
lui permettre d'etendre et d'approfondir la reforme du secteur des entreprises publiques mise en oeuvre
dans le cadre du Projet d'Ajustement Sectoriel des Entreprises Publiques (PASEP, Credit 1937-MLI). Le



25
projet visait A renforcer la capacite du Gouvernement a formuler et mettre en oeuvre les reformes dans le
secteur des entreprises publiques, A superviser les performances du secteur et gerer son developpement
futur. Le projet visait egalement A renforcer la capacite de gestion des entreprises publiques. 11 devait
fournir un appui technique au BEP et au Minist&re des Finances et du Commerce (MFC) sous forme de
conseillers residents, consultants a court terme, support logistique; financer des etudes en vue de
P'elaboration de reformes additionnelles; appuyer la mise en oeuvre d'un programme de formation A
l'intention des fonctionnaires et employes des entreprises publiques; et fournir I'assistance technique et
financiere A la restructuration de l'OPT.
7.     Les composantes du PDIEP etaient pertinentes et clairement definies. Les risques que le projet
n'atteigne pas ses resultats etaient tres elev6s. En effet, le projet introduisait des reformes qui devaient
etre mises en oeuvre par des Ministeres et fonctionnaires qui n'avaient pas, A priori, I'exp6rience
necessaire pour vaincre les difficultes inherentes au processus de reforme. Afin de reduire ce risque, le
projet avait et place sous I'autorit6 du Comite Interministeriel de Coordination Economique (CICE)
dirigee par S.E. Monsieur le Premier Ministre. Le PDIEP etait important pour le Mali puisque qu'il
apportait l'assistance dont le Gouvemement avait besoin pour developper sa capacite A mieux gerer le
secteur et conduire a terme- son programme de reforme. De plus, it etait un element essentiel de la
strategie de la Banque visant A fournir au Mali l'assistance A la mise en oeuvre du programme
d'ajustement economique A debuter par le secteur des entreprises publiques.
B. Realisation des objectifs
8.     Renforcement des capacites du BEP.  Cet objectif a e  partiellement atteint. Le BEP a
beneficie de l'assistance d'un expert resident pour la preparation et la mise en oeuvre des reformes
legales et institutionnelles de meme que pour l1'laboration de strat&gies de desengagement. Cette
assistance technique fut jugee trop onereuse par rapport aux resultats obtenus et le contrat, d'une durde
initiale de trois ans, ut rompu par le Gouvemement au bout de la premiere annee. Par la suite, le BEP a
pr6fere s'appuyer sur des consultants locaux ce qui a empeche le processus de transfert de connaissances.
Pourtant, au cours des 6 annees du projet, le BEP a developpe une bonne expertise dans le domaine de la
preparation de strategies de desengagement, formule des propositions de reformes legales et
institutionnelles, assure le suivi du programme de reforme et prepare un repertoire de la performance
financiere des entreprises.
9.     Formation. Cet objectif a ete partiellement atteint. Le projet a visait deux types de formation:
d'abord la formation par l;apprentissage technique donnee par les specialistes techniques dont les termes
de reference devaient incorporer la formation de leurs homologues Maliens. Le second mode de
formation consistait en des seminaires et visites d'etudes pour se familiariser avec l'experience de la
reforme des entreprises publiques A l'etranger. Le projet n'a pas atteint ses objectifs de formation par
l'apprentissage, le Gouvernement ayant decide de reorienter l'assistance des specialistes et de faire appel
A des consultants locaux qui devaient se former eux-memes. Le projet a neanmoins organis6 trois
groupes de seminaires de formation auxquels ont participe 550 personnes. De plus, 73 personnes ont
participe A des cours de formation au Mali alors que 57 personnes ont profite de formation A l'tranger
dans le domaine de la privatisation et de la gestion en g6neral. MWme si l'objectif de dispenser 150
personnes/mois de formation a et atteint, il est douteux qu'en l'absence d'un suivi appropri6 et de
renforcement, la formation ait une longue durabilite.
10.    Renforcement des capacites du MFC. Cet objectif a partiellement ete atteint. Le MFC a utilise
le financement disponible pour restructurer la BDM et pour la compilation et le reglement des dettes
croisees. Par contre, le credit nta pas contribue , tel qu'initialement prevu, A financer la gestion des



26
operations de liquidation, les operations de transfert de la totalite ou de partie du capital detenu par l'Etat
et la conduite des negociations avec les creanciers et repreneurs potentiels, la  promotion de
l'investissement prive, le suivi de la performance financiere des entreprises publiques, l'evaluation
economique des projets d'investissement qui engagent le Gouvernement et la preparation de mesures
d'ajustement macro-economique.
11.    L'ONP et la SOTELMA ont beneficie d'un appui du Projet lors de leur reorganisation suite A la
scission de l'Office des Postes et Telecommunications (OPT) en deux entites. Cet appui resultait de
l'accord de credit subsidiaire. Le projet a finance les travaux de renovation de la Grande Poste de
Bamako, l'assistance technique pour l'amelioration de la gestion de l'ONP, la formation A long terme de
4 agents et l'acquisition de vehicules et motocyclettes. La direction de l'ONP estime que le projet a
quelque peu contribue A ameliorer sa performance notamment dans le domaine de la gestion comptable
et financiere. La fourniture de vehicules aurait permis d'ameliorer les delais d'acheminement mais il
n'existe pas de donnees quantifiables pour le confirmer. Le projet a finance l'assistance technique pour
l'amelioration de la gestion de la SOTELMA, y inclus la formation A long terme de 4 agents. Selon la
direction de la SOTELMA, le projet a donne une impulsion lors de la scission mais il est difficile
d'affirmer qu'il a contribue A l'amelioration de la gestion. Cet objectif a et6 atteint partiellement.
12.    Etudes diverses. Le projet devait financer un bon nombre d'etudes necessaires A la poursuite du
programme. En fait, il a finance la preparation d'un premier plan d'action (1990) adopte par le CICE et
un second plan d'action pour la suite du programme (1994) lequel n'a jamais ete adopte par le
Gouvernement. Quelques etudes ont ete effectuees: reconversion et reinsertion des employes deflates,
etude visant A proposer des mesures de reinsertion economique et sociale des agents deflates et une etude
socio-economique de l'impact du Fonds d'Indemnisation et de Reconversion. Le PDIEP n'a pas finance
d'etudes dans le secteur textile ni d'etudes complementaires A la poursuite des reformes. Cet objectif a
e  atteint de maniere negligeable.
C. Facteurs ayant affecte 1'execution du PDIEP.
13.   Il semble necessaire de degager deux periodes distinctes dans la mise en oeuvre du PDIEP: la
p6riode de mise en oeuvre du PASEP et la periode subsequente A sa cl6ture. Au cours de la periode de
mise en oeuvre du PASEP, les objectifs du PASEP semblent avoir guide la mise en oeuvre du PDIEP.
En effet, au cours de cette periode, le BEP a prepare des strategies de desengagement qui ont conduit au
desengagement effectif de 26 entreprises alors que depuis la cl6ture du PASEP le Gouvernement s'est
effectivement desengage de 10 entreprises. En l'absence de conditionalites, les reserves formulees par
les syndicats et une bonne partie de la population qui souvent ne voyaient en la privatisation que des
pertes d'emplois et "braderie", ont considerablement ralenti la mise en oeuvre des reformes dans le
secteur des entreprises publiques. D'autres facteurs ont eu un impact considerable sur le rythme
d'execution du projet: (i) l'absence de cadre conceptuel pour l'ensemble du secteur des entreprises
publiques (qui se serait traduit par une politique gouvemementale incontoumable et non equivoque); (ii)
I'absence de programme de communication pour diffuser et expliquer les objectifs et les enjeux de la
rationalisation du secteur des entreprises publiques (iii) une nette tendance du Gouvemement A opter
pour des solutions techniquement sub-optimales. De plus, (iv) I'adoption tardive d'une loi sur la
privatisation, loi qui, de surcroit, comportait certaines insuffisances et (v) I'absence d'un plan d'action
precis pour la poursuite du programme et (vi) la timidite de l'approche de suivi des contrats de
performance ont egalement eu une influence defavorable sur le projet. Le retard dans la mise A
disposition des fonds de contrepartie pour le financement des renovations de la Poste de Bamako a eu un
effet defavorable sur le projet, necessitant un double report de la date de cl6ture du projet du 31
decembre 1994 au 31 decembre 1995 puis au 30 avril 1996.



27
D. Durabilite des reformes
14.    La durabilite des modestes resultats du PDIEP est incertain. Le renforcement des capacites du
BEP dans le domaine du desengagement et du suivi de la performance des entreprises publiques pourrait
ne pas avoir d'effet durable si la survie de l'organisme n'est pas assuree a compter de la cl6ture du
projet. La perte de 1'expertise technique du BEP, serait trop dommageable vu l'expertise acquise et les
investissements en ressources humaines consentis. La formation des administrateurs et cadres des
entreprises publiques de meme que des fonctionnaires a probablement donne des resultats A court terme.
Cependant l'absence de suivi et-de renforcement en plus du fait que la plupart des personnes formees
n'occupent plus leurs fonctions d'alors laisse planer des incertitudes sur les retombees A long terme de
cette formation. La scission de l'OPT en trois unites distinctes i.e., Societe des Cheques postaux et de la
Caisse d'Epargne, ONP et SOTELMA a un caractere durable. La gestion financiere et comptable de
l'ONP semble s'etre amelioree; les autres reformes comme l'amelioration des delais d'acheminement du
courrier pourrait avoir un effet A court terme et s'estomper avec l'usure des vehicules.
E. Performance de la Banque
15.    Les phases de preparation et d'evaluation du projet ont ete generalement satisfaisantes. La
Banque aurait pu, lors de l'assistance A la preparation du projet, attirer l'attention du Gouvernement sur
la necessite de developper des criteres de performance pour evaluer periodiquement le degre d'atteinte
des resultats et, au besoin, de rectifier le tir. Meme si les documents de projet comportent une liste des
activites principales A realiser, cette liste partielle ne definissait pas de criteres precis et pouvait
difficilement servir de mesure d'evaluation
16.    La supervision du projet a ete deficiente, se concentrant sur les priorites a court terme, c'est-A-
dire le volet desengagement (afin de remplir les conditionalites de d6caissement du PASEP) ce qui a
empeche de constater immediatement les retards dans la mise en oeuvre de certaines composantes du
projet dont le volet genie civil-ONP (mis en oeuvre que dans la demiere annee du projet). II en va de
meme de la supervision de la gestion comptable et financi&re du projet dont les lacunes signalees par les
verificateurs ont donne lieu A des reactions tardives. Par ailleurs des problemes divers dont les nombreux
changements dans la gestion du projet, les defaillances de la gestion comptable et financiere du projet, le
fait que le programme de privatisation est devenu une priorite suite A la devaluation du Franc CFA en
janvier 1994, la suspension des decaissements pendant plus de six mois, le manque d'expertise du BEP
jusqu'A ce que les consultants regoivent un formation adequate en avril 1994 ont mobilise l'attention des
missions de supervision et les ont empeche de realiser que plusieurs activites importantes du projet
avaient ete negligees.
F. Performance de I'Emprunteur
17.    La performance de l'emprunteur a ete generalement satisfaisante au cours de la phase de
preparation du projet. Cependant, I'absence d'un programme d'action clair et precis assorti d'un
programme de communication destine A vaincre les reticences A l'egard des reformes proposees ont
rendu problematique la mise en oeuvre du projet. Ces deux elements auraient pu jouer un rBle important
compte tenu de l'existence averee de fortes reticences qui s'etaient dejA manifestees dans le pass6 lors de
la preparation du projet de renforcement de la gestion de l'economie malienne. La performance de
I'Emprunteur en ce qui concerne le volet "desengagement " a ete relativement satisfaisante au cours de la
duree du PASEP. On constate neanmoins que peu d'entreprises ont ete privatisees depuis la clBture du



28
PASEP. Dans ]'ensemble, a cause entre autres des raisons ci-dessus evoquees (absence d'un programme
d'action, absence d'un programme de communication, cadre legislatif inapproprie) et aussi a cause du
manque de financement des couts associes a la privatisation la performance de l'emprunteur est jug6e
deficiente. En fait, depuis la cl6ture du PASEP, le PDIEP a perdu de vue ses objectifs et servi a financer
une serie d'activites ponctuelles non reliees entre elles et non dirigees vers la satisfaction des objectifs
principaux du projet.
G. Evaluation des resultats
18.    Tel que not6 precedemment, le projet ne comportait pas de mesures precises d'evaluation des
resultats et toute evaluation retrospective a donc un caractere arbitraire. Le projet a permis de financer
les activites necessaires au desengagement de I'Etat et rehabilitation des 35 entreprises cibl6es dans le
PASEP de meme que d'autres entreprises qui jouent un r6le important dans le developpement de
l'economie malienne, entre autres, la mine de Kalana, la COMATEX, les actifs de l'ex-SEPAMA. Le
projet a ensuite permis de developper une expertise technique de bon niveau chez les cadres du BEP. Le
projet a aussi eu quelques effets positifs dans le secteur des postes et telecommunications. II ne semble
pas que le PDIEP ait reellement eu pour resultat d'ameliorer l'ensemble de la gestion du secteur des
entreprises publiques: lors de la cl6ture du PDIEP il n'existait pas de plan d'action pour l'ensemble du
secteur, il subsiste un bon nombre d'entreprises publiques qui representent un investissement de plus de
50 milliards de FCFA et dont les performances financieres sont marginales. Plusieurs activites prevues
au projet n'ont pas et mises en oeuvre: contrats de performance, contr6le a priori des projets
d'investissements qui engagent le Gouvernement et le probleme des employes deflates qui constitue
toujours un obstacle majeur a la poursuite du programme de reforme. Il n'est pas certain qu'au terme du
projet, I'Emprunteur possede de meilleurs outils de contr6le et de surveillance de la gestion du secteur
des entreprises publiques voire meme qu'il possede les outils pour mieux evaluer la performance de
1'ensemble des entreprises publiques. Meme si le projet a permis d'atteindre les objectifs a court terme, iH
n'a pas contribue a doter le Gouvemement des outils de gestion initialement envisages. Pour cette raison,
le projet estjuge avoir atteint ses objectifs de maniere non satisfaisante.
19.   II reste dans le portefeuille de l'Etat, outre les entreprises dont le desengagement n'est pas
entierement termine un groupe d'entreprises publiques qui constituent, encore aujourd'hui, un poids sur
les finances publiques, et pour lesquelles l'objectif de desengager I'Etat devrait etre maintenu. II existe
egalement des besoins importants en termes d'amelioration de la capacite du Gouvemement a superviser
et effectuer le suivi de la gestion des entreprises publiques. Ceci pourrait faire l'objet d'une operation de
suivi a condition que soient reunies les conditions minimales de succes, c'est-a-dire que (i) les objectifs
du programme a mettre en place soient clairement definis, et (ii) les strategies appropriees soient mises
en place en ce qui concerne le cadre 1egal, cadre institutionnel, les modalit6s de mise en oeuvre et les
activites de communication.
H. Principales lecons
20.    Un projet d'assistance technique comme le PDIEP doit avoir un r6le plus large que celui
d'appuyer la mise en oeuvre d'un projet d'ajustement ou d'investissement. Il doit faire partie integrante
de la strategie d'intervention du Gouvemement visant a ameliorer la gestion du secteur des entreprises
publiques laquelle doit etre appuyee d'un plan d'action. Si le PDIEP avait ete con,u comme un
instrument d'accompagnement de la politique gouvernementale le rythme de mise en oeuvre des
reformes se serait maintenu au-dela du PASEP.



29
21.    Dans le cas oui un projet d'assistance technique comme le PDIEP est accessoire A un projet
d'ajustement ou d'investissement, il est indispensable que le Gouvernement et la Banque reevaluent la
pertinence de ce projet au moment de la cl6ture du projet principal. Les resultats atteints par le PDIEP
depuis la cl6ture du PASEP demontrent clairement qu'en I'absence d'objectifs (conditionalites A
satisfaire) il a servi seulement a financer une succession d'activites ponctuelles r6pondant a des besoins
a court terme.
22.    Un projet de renforcement des capacites devrait etre assorti de mesures d'evaluation tres precises
c'est-a-dire facilement quantifiables qui permettent de mesurer les resultats en cours d'execution. Ces
mesures devraient inclure, entre autres, la mise en place des le debut du projet, dans les institutions cles,
d'un cadre favorable a I'atteinte-des objectifs c'est-A-dire la formation du personnel, la preparation d'un
programme de travail detaiMll, et la creation d'un cadre legal et institutionnel juges satisfaisants.
A:MALI:AIDMA12.28.05.96






MAP SECTION






AtatcFORMER1    __                                                                                 5\                                                       0'                                                       5
N
Atlantic SPANiSH.            -         ALGERIA                                            [                .                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and ony ofher informaion
Ocean  SAHARA/                                                                                                   \                                                      shown on this map do not imply on the port of The World Bank Group,
N  N                                          '.,,                                              o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ny judgment on the legol status of any territory, or any endorsement
'---.i  |   .  !                              aor acceptance of such boundaries
IN,
MAUIRITANIA    !                                                              N                                                                            0               150             300 KILOMETERS
-M A L I 
SENEGAL                          j'   NIGER                                         I                                                     K
THE 1-5'                              
GUINEA Jnq</t7AtNA <                                                                                                                         K                  A   L   G    E   R   I  A
i                                           ~~~~~~~~~'\.
M    A  L I                                                |              T   M B O U C T O)
2    SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES                                                                                                                    0Tess I '
20                                                          CIT.-
CERCLE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                       T-n ZonuatnnexN,                                    '20-
REGION CAPITALS                                               j                                                                             AlK I D A L               c                          -
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                 j                        OArnnuose                                             REGION
-FLOOD AREA                                                                                REGION                                            .Kids,
RIVERS                                                                                                                                    x
CERCLE BOUNDARIES                                              j                                                                        ..
REGION BOUNDARIES
---    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                         !                                                              *Enirsn
7L  |   --t  rs  >:   qourmo Rhuous  ,5,R   E    G                    0       N
tu                           ~~~~~~~~M A U R I T A N I A                                              .-i e                               - noo   ,
0   \1 ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       Guno~ .,                                                                           
N~~~~~~~~~~ ,erXit ;z r>fGn,Mennkc n
5                                          4> ,Gngu                                       /                   g'     o   Senbse.   lAounde do                    Ansnngn
  a  \.  -   -~~~~~~~~I   -     -   -    -     -   -     -   -   - 'T.-                                                                   - -  -       - -  
5-           /   Noggin1                en    , S   r  OBne    *-sN--'-        Neepsle0       neunrortt            0tensiY         0,btcr ,                               -.nis.Ge-n>- *"15
9n/     -                               KOULIKORO                      -      R    ON                 Dnuenrze                                                              N    I  G    E   R
'o  Kuetss    Jtgnno           0.sgnes ueKnErntr      oMnuritsnt             teo  n    >  -t 't0Sevsr:                    ,
to,                                                                                                      I.-~ .-  s..
GD       gso.       ee           ~      REGION                                                    Ko,un       -, 
KAYES0         nktOes                Bro        SEGOU           -         -K r/N
SENEGAL    ( mnnn .-a REGI6N- okun- ,ti    KnIee,B                                REGION          y   '  1                    /X
DinIntern  Oeslis0   -  - -- Nnrnoln  len, -                      cia,    /1un       Rnkt    
Vo  eunrne0  beO rnawon        aMnd,t Fobnye S  k 01anlssen,           on      e       /,e       \                                                ,/.~_,
S     Mt-9 o nK-kli         DBn, a         ~     ,rn~nnTeern   ,
_   F0-0b5 Knisnguee Gni;yo_   i  EtnAO 50tlna   df a- 0  lo  oX    eK-jtaln 0Yusssn               B U  R K I N  A        F A  S O
f 1                                           ,  KnuromnIZ}   /            91     0 oD OMussigei --.         ioenn                                                                           \. D
.onknrna SoS. \'                    oSIKAS50S'_ /2 V                                                                                                              N  I G  E R I A
Vbf                          ~~~~CAPITAL AREA  -       foll A                      REGIONn -1 .aunoLa,n                                                                                / 
C-rR KAP       f                                   ON-ri  Srnk- S
REG ION I                                          - 
G   U  I N  E  A                                                                                                                                  'A YuindngnbI  Kadrsnn  '  ',,A')  BEN  I N 7
mo                              ~~It,na sn                                                            Knunlo                          J                                           
-                9ta\s p'Bnonkoret   2egouq           \         G    H  A  N  A           '-'t  Qe
n ~ 10                                      100-                    )          xS           JJ       -?Jis                        X                                   S  I                                                5                  O






