Document of
The World Bank
FOt OFFMICIL USE ONLY
Rbot No. P-4734-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT OF SDR 29.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR A
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
June 7, 1988
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients nily in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit        .         CFA Franc (CFAF) 1/
US$1.00              -         CFAF 280
CFAF 1.0 million    -          US$3,571
US$1.00              -         Y129.28 (Japanese Yen) 2/
US$1.00                        _R3.7505 (Saudi Riyal) 2/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/   The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1.0
to CFAF 50.0. The French Franc is currently floating.
2/   Exchange rate of March 3, 1988.



"In OVVMAL UW  ONLY
1BBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEAO      I    Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BCM       s    Banque Centralo du Mali
BDM        I    Banque de D6veloppement du Mali
CAA             Caisse Autonome d'Amortisement
CCCE       I    Caisse Centrals de Coop6ration Iconamique
CMTR      s    Compagnie Malienne de Transport Routier
CNRA      s    Commission Nationale de la Rdfore Administrative
COMANAV         Compagnie Malienne de Navigation
COMATEX   a    Compagnie Malienne de Textiles
EDM             Energie du Mali
EDIM            Editions Imprimerie du Mali
EMAB            Entreprise Malienne du Bois
EMAMA           Entreprise Malienne de Maintenance
EPA       s    Etablissement Public a Caract6re Administratif
EPIC            Etablissement Public & Caractere Industriel et Commercial
HUICOMA         Huilerie Cotonniere du Malt
IAS             ImpOt sur les Affaires et Services
ITEMA           Industrie Textile du Mali
LPM             Librairie Populaire du Mali
OCINAM          Office Cin4matographique National du Mali
OERHN           Office d'Exploitation des Ressources Hydrauliques du Haut Niger
OPT             Office des Postes et T4lecommunications
PE              Public Enterprise
PPM             Pharmacie Populaire du Mali
RCFM            Regie des Chemins de Fer du Mali
SAT             Societe Africaine de Transport
SCAER           Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural
SEBRIMA         Societe de Briqueterie du Mali
SEMA            Societe d'Equipement du Mali
SEPAMA          Societe d'Exploitation des Produits Arachidiers du Mali
SEPOM           Soci4td des Produits Oltagineux du Mali
SHM        a    Societe des HOteleries du Mali
SMECMA          Societe Malienne d'Ztude et de Construction de Matdriel Agricole
SOCAM     I    Societe des Conserves Alimentaires du Mali
SOCOMA          Societe des Conserves du Mali
SOCORAMA        Societe de Commercialisation des Radios du Mali
SOCIMA          Societe des Ciments du Mali
SOtiBEPEC       Societe Malienne de Betail, de Peau, et de Cuir
SOMIEX          Societe Malienne d'Importation et d'Exportation
SONATAM         Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes du Mali
SONEA           Societe Nationale
SONETRA         Societe Nationale d'Entreprise et des Travaux Publics
TAMALI          Societe des Tanneries Maliennes
TIM             Telecommunications Internationales du Mali
UCEMA           Usine Ceramique du Mali
USAID           T?nited States Agency for International Development
UNDP            United Nations Develophient Program
WAMU            West African Monetary Union
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY      ......................................   i
I.   THE ECONOMY ...............................................    1
A.   Background        ............................................   1
B.   Recent Economic Developments .....................            2
C.   Medium-Term Prospectb and Policies ..................         4
II.   TLE PUBLIC 3N1ERPRISI SECTOR         .     .......... . . . .   5
A.   Sector Profile .........................                      S
B.   Financial Sector Implications ..       .......................   7
III.   THE SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ........       ....................   8
A.   Reform Objectives . ....................................   8
B.   Macroeconomic Policy Reforms .......       ...................   9
C.   Financial Sector Reforms .........      .....................  10
D.   Institutional and Legal Reforms ......       .................  13
E.   Rationalization of the Sector .......      ..................  14
F.   Program Implementation ..........     ......................  1i
IV.   THE PROPOSED CREDIT .........................................  18
A.   Credit History .........................................  18
B.   Relationship of Proposed Credit to Reform Program ...... 19
C.   Effects of the Adjustment Program .....        ................  19
D.   Social Impact ..........      ...............................  21
E.   Benefits and Risks .................................... 21
F. Credit Amount .22
G.   Disbursement, Procu.ement, Ac.ministration and Auditing.  22
H.   Monitoring and Tranche Release .23
V. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS .24
VI.   COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS ....       ............ 25
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS . ............................................  26
TEXT TABLES
Table 1: Financial Performance of Key PEs .        ......................  6
ANNEXES
Annex I    :conomic Indicators .27
Annex II        Public Enterprise Basic Data .30
Annex III       Government's Letter of Sectoral Policy .32
Annex IV  Policy Matrix .42
Annex V         BDM Techrical Prospectus .45
Annex VI        Financial Plan for PE Sector Restructuring .50
Annex VII       Supplementary Credit Data Sheet .51
Annex VIII      Status of Bank Group Operations .55



RIPUBLIC O MALI
!WLIC ENTEPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CEDIT AnD PROGWI SUMARY
lorro0rs                  Republic of Mali
Credl& Afount
IDA$                 SR 29.4 aillion (US$40 million equivalent)
Imig                       Standard
Program Descrintions      The proposed credit would support the Government's
public enterprise (PE) sector adjustment program,
which is conceived as the first phase of a longer
term adjustment effort to improve economic
management. The principal objectives of the public
enterprise program are to improve the performance of
the sector and to reduce its burden on public
finances. These objectives are to be achieved by
action in four key areas: (a) reform of key economic
policies concerning public resource management and
the structure of economic incentives; (b) financial
sector reforms, including restructuring a
state-owned bank; (c) institutional and legal
reforms redefining relations between government and
public enterprises; and (d) rationalization of the
sector through restructuring and divestiture. PE
Institutional Development Project, prepared in
parallel with this adjustment operation, will
provide support to the Government for
implementation.
Benefits and Risks:       The policy reforms are expected to (a) improve
public sector resource management, (b) reduce policy
distortions that impede efficient private sector
economic activities, (c) enhance public enterprise
performance, and (d) reduce the burden of public
enterprises on public finances and the banking
system. The main risk associated with the program
is that, despite the important actions already
taken, continued liberalization of the economy and
divestiture of public enterprises would prove
politically unacceptable. The program's success
will depend, moreover, on sustained implementation
and coordination by an administration that has
relied heavily on direct state intervention in the
past. The parallel PE Institutional Development
Project will strengthen the Government's capability
to carry out the program as envisaged.



Istzted
Disbursements:            The credit would be released in three tranches:
US$16 million equivalent upon effectiveneas; US$12
million equivalent after a first performance review
to be held within 12 months of effectieness; and
the remaining US$12 after the second performance
review to be held within 12 months of the first
performance review.
Staff AnDraisal RDeort: Not applicable
M3 nIBRD 20576



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOM(ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI FOR A
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for SDR 29.4 million (US$40 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to the Republic of Mali to
support the Government's Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program. The
program would be cofinanced by contributions from Japan and the Saudi Fund
to the Special Joint Financing Facility for Africa (SJF) totalling US$44.6
million equivalent. The SJF credit from Japan would comprise a blend of a
loan of V4,000 million from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (30
years maturity. 10 years grace, 1.25 percent per annum) together with a
grant of Y1,000 million, the latter being administered by the Association.
The Saudi Fund would contribute SR22.0 million under terms identical to
IDA. The African Development Bank (AfDB) would also cofinance the program
with an African Development Fund Credit of US$45 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Background
2.        Mali is a vast, landlocked, and resource-poor country located in
the sahelian zone of western Africa. Only about a quarter of its
1.2 million square kilometers is arable. Nearly 90 percent of the
population, estimated at 7.9 million in mid-1987, is dependent on the
agricultural sector which accounts for roughly 50 percent of GDP. Per
capita income is estimated at US$170 in 1986 1/ and social indicators, such
as life expectancy and school enrollment rates, are among the lowest in the
world. Population growth is an estimated 2.5 percent per annum- Key
macroeconomic data are provideu in Annex I.
Structural Problems
3.        Mali's economic performa. .ce is highly constrained by a narrow
resource base and the structural legacy of inappropriate past policies,
including inefficient public resource manatement and distortions in the
structure of economic incentives.
4.        Weak Resource Base.  Mali's potential for long-term growth is
severely limited by harsh resource conbtraints. Mineral resources are
meager, infrastructure is sparse, and growth in the agricultural sector is
constrained by low rainfall, fragile soils, and low-productivity
1/   Based on the Bank Atlas methodology.



- 2 -
traditional technologies.  In addition, the weak buman resource base
represents a formidable obstacle to future growth. Primary education
enrollment rates are among the lowest in the world and basic health
services are not widely available. These problems are c.ompounded by
population growth which puts severe pressure on both the limited natural
resource base and the financial resources available for the provision of
basic publ:c services.
5.        Pub.lc Resource Management.  The state-dominated development
strategy pursued until the early 1960s led to serious inefficiencies with
regard to both resource mobilization and allocation. High levels of
expenditure and subsidies left inad:quate funds for operation and
maintenance expenditure. Public investment decisions gave insufficient
attention to financial and economic selection criteria, including debt
service and recurrent cost implications. The fiscal system became overly
complex, severely distorted resource allocation signals, and gave little
attention to cost recovery for public services. In addition, non-market
credit allocation procedures led to rapid credit growth, particularly to
the public sector. The Derformance of the public enterprise (PE) sector is
a particularly acute manifestation of poor public resource management (see
Part II).
6.         Incentives Framework.  In addition to the public rpsource
management inefficiencies mentioned above, an appreciating real effective
exchange rate, price controls, a restrictive trade regime, and excessive
economic regulation have distorted .ncentives, skewed resource allocation,
and thus impeded growth throughout the economy. PEs have both contributed
to these distortions (import monopolies) and suffered from them (price
controls).
B. Recent Economic Developments
7.        GDP Growth.  Ma ; s- structural problems combined with a highly
variable climate have led to erratic economic performance. Although GDP
growth averaged 1.9 percent per annum from 1980-87, severe drought during
1982-84 led to a decline in output. Improved weather conditions and pol.icy
reforms implemented in preceding years contributed to GDP growth of 18.6
percent in 1986 and an estimated 3.9 percent in 1987. Cereals production
alone increased by some 47 percent in 1985/86 and another 7 percent in
1986/87. Per capita income has, nonetheless, fallen by an average of 0.6
percent per annum in the 1980s.
8.        External Debt.  Despite erratic growth, both consumption and
investment have been sustained by inflows of official development
assistance which, in real terms, increased more than sixfold between 1970
and 1985. Roughly half of this assistance has been in the form of loans
and by end-1987 total public debt outstanding and disbursed exceeded 85
percent of GDP. Although most of Mali's external debt is contracted on
concessional terms, a dramatic increase in debt service obligations is now
coming due on past borrowings. The ratio of public debt service to public
revenue, which was only 5.9 percent in 1982, increased sharply to 32



percent in 1985 (24 percent excluding IDf repurchases). Scheduled debt
service rose further in 1986 and 1987, but actual debt service payments
fell to CFAF 22 billion (24 percent of public revenue) in 1987 as external
arrears accumulated. Despite some bilateral rescheduling and a lowering of
the effective debt burden due to the appreciatton of the CFAP vis-a-vis the
US$, 1988 scheduled debt service reached CFAF 35 billion or 34 percent of
estimated public revenue (27 percent excluding IMF repurchases).
9.        Initial Adiustment Efforts.  Confronted with unsustainable fiscal
a&ld e.ternal deficits, the Government launched a stabilization program in
1982, supported by Fund resources, under which a number of measures were
introduced to reduce budgetary deficits, PE operating losses, and public
sector arrears. In addition, initial reforms--including market
liberalization and improved price incentives--were introduced to increase
the efficiency of resource allocation. The Government's policy reforms led
to a number of significant accomplishments. The current account deficit is
estimated to have fallen to 16 percent of GDP in 1987 (6 percent including
grants) from a peak of 31 percent in 1985, largely because of price and
volume increases fo. cotton exports and a fall in the value of food and
petroleum imports. The consolidated current budget moved from a deficit of
3.9 percent of GDP in 1981 to an overall balance in 1987 (commitment
basis). Civil service recruitment has been tightly controlled and higher
education graduates are no longer guaranteed public sector employment.
Major reforms have been introduced in the cotton sector, which adjusted
rapidly to the fpll in export prices in 1985/86. Cereals markets have been
liberalizei and price controls, which had covered virtually all products,
now cover only a small number of essential products. Numerous public
tariffs, including those for water, electricity, railroad, and postal
services, have been substantially increased to be more in line with costs.
in addition, all export monopolies and most import monopolies have been
abolished.
10.       The pace of reform slowed noticeably in late 1986 and early 1987,
however, when the Government failed to implement a number of policy
measures agreed upon in the context of Bank sector adjustment discussions
and the third IMF Standby. The public sector accumulated substantial
arrears in 1987, and the banking system is seriously threatened by the
illiquidity of a state-owned bank, the Banque de Developpement du Mali
(BDM) and the postal checking system (CCP). Delays in implementing reforms
occasioned a reduction in the amount of external non-project financing
mobilized by the Government in 1986-87. In particular, Mali failed to make
the final two drawings under the third Standby Arrangement and new
adjus*iment ,,rograms were delayed. High debt amortization and IMF
repurchase obligations further exacerbated the financial problems and led
to a large accumulation of arrears in 1987.
11.       The Government has demonstrated a strong renewed commitment to
reform since late 1987 when it made a number of long-delayed decisions
regarding its adjustment program and took steps to implement them rapidly.
This has culminated in (a) agreement on the PE sector adjustment program to
be supported by the proposed credit, (b) agreement on a macroeconomic



- 4 -
program for 1988-89 to be supported by IMF resources, and (c) preparation
of a medium-ternm policy framework paper (PFP).
C. Medium-Term Prospects and Policies
12.       Policy Framework PaPer (PFP).  The Government has prepared, with
the assistance of the staffs of the Fund and the Bank, a medium-term PFP
which aims at achieving a sustainable rate of growth consonant with
domestic and external financial stability. The three key objectives of the
program for 1988-90 are (a) to attain, after an expected drop in economic
activity in 1988 resulting from poor weather conditions it. the 1987-88 crop
year, an average annual growth rate of re&l GDP of about 4 percent; (b) to
stabilize the annual rate of inflation, as measured by the GDP deflator, at
an average of about 3.5 percent; and (c) to reach a viable and sustainable
external sector position by 1992.
13.       The program focuses on five main areas of policy reform.  First,
agricultural policy reforms aimed at increasing food security, raising
productivity, and eventually diversifying agricultural production will be
adopted. Second, the economic incentives system--particularly as regards
pricing, marketing, and trade policies--will be reviewed to ensure a
further reduction in government intervention and to enhance the efficiency
of resource allocation. Third, a major reform of the PE sector will be
undertaken (see Part III). Fourth, the efficiency of public resource
management will be improved through restructuring current expenditure,
fiscal reform, and improved investment programming and budgetary control
procedures.    Finally, tight financial policies will be pursued with a
view to strengthening the Government's financial position and freeing
credit for private productive activities.
14.        Financing Plan.  As part of its policy framework, the Government
has prepared a medium-term financing plan which is consistent with the
macroeconomic framework and available financial resources. In addition to
the budget deficit, the gross public sector financing requirements include
substantial debt amortization, and settlement of arrears, including PE
cross-arrears (see Part III). Since Mali's ratio of government revenue to
GDP is already relatively high (17 percent) and the potential for major
additional domestic resource mobilization remains low, the increase in
financing requirements would largely have to be funded externally. On the
basis of these needs, gross external financing requirements are estimated
to be average US$495 million annually during 1988-90 (Table 3 in Annex I).
15.       Disbursements from existing grant and loan commitments are
projected to cover about two-thirds (US$ 990 million) of the external
firancing required for 1988-90. Expected new commitments (including IMF
resources and the proposed IDA PE credit) would provide an additional
US$300 million. The remaining gap of US$ 195 million would be financed by
Paris Club and/or bilateral debt relief; new quick-disbursing non-project
aid commitments, including IDA adjustment lending and access to the IMF
ESAF; and additional external assistance for investment projects. The
proposed PE sector adjustment credits, plus cofinancing, would cover about



9 percent of external financing requirements in 1988-90. Given Mali's debt
servicing capacity, the viability of the financing plan vill depend on
success in mobilizing additional assistance in grant form or on terms
comparable to those of IDA.
PART II - THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. Sector Profile
16.       Following independence, Mali pursued a de:iberate policy of
parastatal intervention as the key instrument to promote economic
development. As a result, a large number of PEs vere created, particularly
in the 19609 and early 1970., in the industrial and commercial s6ctors. By
the early 19808 there were 57 non-financial, commercially-oriented PEs,
more than 20 rural development agencies, several financial institutions,
and numerous other parastatals of an administrative nature providing public
services as financially autonomous agencies. 2/ In 1980 the 57
commercially-oriented PEs accounted for some 70 percent of modern
industrial output and absorbed 70 percent of total domestic credit,
17.       Financial Performance.  The performance of the PE sector has been
extremely poor both with regard to the quality of goods and services
provided and the costs to the economy. Inadequate data preclude a thorough
assessment of the financial performance of the sector as a whole, but the
net operating results of the 12 most important PEs indicate net losses of
CFAF 4.0 billion in 1981 (see Table 1). 3/ Despite some initial reforms,
the situation continued to deteriorate through 1985 when the net losses of
these 12 enterprises reached CFAF 5.3 billion. The PE sector has,
moreover, contracted considerable external debt, most often with Government
guarantees. Because of their poor financial performance, PEs have not been
able to service these debts and at end-1986 had accumulated CFAF 4.9
blllion in arrears to the debt service agency (CAA).
2/   See Annex II for a list of the 57 public enterprises.
3/   The I2 most important PEs, in terms of employment and financial
results, are SOMIEX (import-export), Air Mali (air transport), EDM
(eleccricity and water), COMATEX (textiles), ITEMA (textiles), PPM
(pharmaceuticals), SEPAMA (groundnut oil processing), SEPOH (edible
oils and soap), SMECMA (agricultural equipment), SONATAM (cigarettes
and matches), RCFM (railroad), and OPT (post and telecommunications).



-6-
Table 1: MALI--FINANCIAL PERFOXMANCE 0F REY PUBLIC ENTERPRISES (CFAP million)
NET OPERATING RtSULTS    1981      1982      1983     1984      1985     1986
---------------_---------------------------------------------------__--------__
SOKIEX                  680    -1098      -160    -2255    -3031    -1371
Air Mali              -1024     -907      -715     -686                 87
nuM                    -245      127       135     -597       542      S81
COMATEX                -969     -444      -728    -1176      -561     -464
ITEHA                  -145       19       217      310       390      486
PPM                     257      335       193       8S      -499     -500
SEPAMA                 -694     -134      -100     -340      -237     -140
SEPOM                    86     -178      -191      228      141       ...
SMECMA                   13       20        40     -240     -670      -670
SONATAH                 267      203       305      203      318       480
RCFM                  -1562    -1469    -1417    -1047    -2209    -1598
OPT                    -634     -247       129      333       527      191
-3990    -3773    -2292    -5182    -5289    -2918
18.       Causes of poor performance.  The PE sector's poor performance
stems from (a) poor investment choices, (b) an inadequate economic policy
framework, (c) the lack of financial discipline within the public sector,
and (d) inappropriate government-enterprise relations leading to poor PE
management.  Initial investment decisions were often taken on the basis of
political objectives or the availability of foreign financing rather than
on economic efficien(y or least-cost considerations. Few feasibility
studies were done and little rigorous investment evaluation was undertaken.
As a result, many nonviable enterprises were created. Even potentially
viable PEs have been severely hampered by the tolicy environment within
which they opfrate. Policies such as the mandatory distribution to
Government of 90 percent of after-tax profits removed any incentive for
improving efficiency within enterprises. Price controls, which favored
consumers over financial sol icy, and excessive delays in price
adjustments, moreover, resulted in large operating losses.
19.       The lack of public sector financial discipline both aggravated
this situation and permitted nonviable enterprises to continue operation,
irrespective of the losses they incurred. Most importantly, Government
arrears to PEs compounded the liquidity problems of several key PEs,
including EDM (electricity), OPT (post and telecommunications), RCFM
(railroad) and Air Mali (air transport). By 1987 Government arrears to
these four enterprises amounted to more than CFAF 9 billion. Nonetheless,
the PEs as a group have consistently been net debtors to the Treasury, thus
aggravating the Treasury's own serious liquidity shortage. PE tax arrears
alone exceeded CFAF 14 billion at end-1986. Unsound credit policies have
been a key element in the continuation of this situation, since BDM has, in
fact, been willing to finance the operating losses of PEs with little



prospect of being repaid (see Section B). The Treasury, correspondingly,
used the deposits of the postal checking system to finance its own deficits
and thus ultimately rendered the postal checking system completely
illiquid. As a result, a complex web of cross-arrears has developed
between GovLrnment, PEs, BDM and external creditors which threatens to
paralyze the financial system.
20.       The above-mentioned problems have been compounded by government-
enterprise relations characterized by both excessive Government
interference in the day-to-day management of enterprises and the absence of
accountability on the part of PE management. Until the overhaul of the
legal and in-titutional framework in 1987, government supervision
emphasized direct control rather than performance review. As a result, the
objectives of particular enterprises were ill-defined; managers had little
or no autonomy in running their companies; and there was no procedure for
evaluating PE performance. The lack of autonomy and accountability,
combined with a serious shortage of skilled managers, has led to severe
management problems, manifested by overstaffing, poor accounting, and weak
financial controls.
B. Financial Sector Implications
21.       As the Government's own budgetary situation has been extremely
strained, the banking system has been the largest source of financing of
the PE sector's deficits. In particular, BDM, created in 1968 as a
state-owned multipurpose bank, provided easy access to credit for
parastatal undertakings. By 1982, PEs accounted for approximately 70
percent of domestic crLdit and BDM had extended creAits amounting to about
CFAF 60 billion, or two-Lhirds of its total portfolio, to more than 50 PEs.
The financial weakness of BDM was readily apparent by the early 1980s as
arrears mounted on its PE loans and its debts to the Central Bank of Mali
(BCM) increased. At the end of its 1982 fiscal year, CFAF 50 billion of
its CFAF 60 billion PE portfolio was in arrears. BDM's financial situation
improved dramatically in 1984 when, in preparation for Mali's reentry into
the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), BCM obligations to the French
Treasury of CFAF 75.0 billion were consolidated into a long-term
concessional loan to the Government. As a counterpart to this
consolidation, BCM wrote off CFAF 64.7 billion of BDM's rediscounted loans
and other assets, and BDM, in turn, cancelled CFAF 37.2 billion of PE
loans. No improvement was made in BDM's management, however, and
inappropriate lending decisions quickly brought the bank, once again, to a
critical financial situ:,tion. 4/
4/   The reasons for the deterioration of BDM's financial situation were
numerous, including (a) exc3ssive lending, under government pressure,
to PEs now on the verge of bankruptcy; (b) inadequate organization and
procedures to properly screen credits to the private sector; and (c)
(Footnote Continued)



22.       In 1986, an IDA-financed review of BDM's role in the Malian
banking system revealed that about CFAF 24 billion, of a BDH portfolio
totalling CFAF 69 billion, was non-performing. bDH's indebtedness to the
Central Bank of the West African States (BCEAO), which was minimal when
Mali joined WAMU, had reached CFAF 34 billion and its net worth, after
adequate provision for non-performing loans would have been a negative CFAF
11 billion. The quality of BDH's portfolio continued to deteriorate in
1987 when non-performing loans increased to more than CPAF 35 billion and
BDH's obligations towards BCEAO rose to CFAF 40 billion.
23.       The overexposure of BDM vis-a-vis the PE sector has not only cut
off credit to other sectors of the economy but, given that BDH's portfolio
represents some 80 percent of domestic credit and is partially financed
with the resources of other oanks via the money market, also poses severe
liquidity problems for the entire banking sector. This situation reached
crisis proportions iyt 1987, when BDM became virtually insolvent and the
Government took dec iive action to prevent the bank's collapse and to
transform it into a viable inslitution (see Part III, Section C).
PART III - THE SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
24.       In view of the PE sector's longstanding unsatisfactory
performance and the emergence of sizable financial disequilibria, the
Government has formulated, in consultation with IDA, and begun the
implementation of a PE Sector Adjustment Program. The first phase of this
program is embodied in the Government's Letter of Sectoral Policy (Annex
III), the key features of which are summarized below and .n the policy
matrix of Annex IV.
A. Reform Obectives
25.       The Government's overall aim vis-a-vis the PF sector is to ensure
a sound allocation of public resources and the financiKl equilibrium of the
sector. The PE sector adjustment program is conceived as the first phase
of a medium-term adjustment effort, described in its policy framework
paper, to improve public resource management; the program's principal
objectives are to improve the performance of the sector and to reduce its
burden on public finances. These objectives are to be attained by action
in four areasi (a) reform of key economic polices regarding public
expenditure and economic incentivep; (b) financial sector reforrit,
including BDM restructuring; (c) institutional and legal reform of
relations between government and PEs; and (d) rationalization of the sector
through restructuring and divestiture.
(Footnote Continued)
lack of experienced personnel to efficiently run the bank, despite a
work force that far exceeded banking norms.



B. Macroeconomic Policy Reforms
Public Expenditure
26.       In the area of public resource management the Government is
committed to strengthening its budgetary and expenditure control procedures
in order to assure a more efficient use of public resources. It has
prepared a consolidated budget for 1988, incorporating Special Funds that
had formerly been outside the budget and an investment budget comprising
both domestically and externally financed investment expenditure. In
addition, the Government is committed to ending all extrabudgetary
subsidies, including implicit cross-subsidies among PEs. Adequate
provision has been made in the budget for public utility consumption by the
Government and its agencies. Moreover, in order to prevent the
accumulation of new arrears, PEs are now authorized to interrupt delivery
of goods and services to all public entities with accounts 120 days
overdue. Future support to PEs providing public services for which total
cost recovery is infeasible, or undesirable on welfare grounds, will be
negotiated on the basis of performance contracts with each enterprise (see
Section D).
27.       Public Investment.  In order to institute a more effective
control of investment expenditure, the Government adopted in January 1987
procedures for the preparation of a three-year rolling investment progr.
The first such program for 1988-90 was prepared with UNDP assistance in
November 1987. The total program for 1988-90 amounts to CFAF 230 billion,
of which 25 percent is allocated to the agricultural sector, 17 percent to
the secondary sector, 38 percent for economic and administrative
infrastructure, and 20 percent for the human resources sector. The program
will be rolled over annually to maintain the three-year framework and
assure appropriate flexibility in investment programming.
28.       Recognizing that noneconomic investments have been a major source
of past PE sector problems, the Government has taken action on two fronts
to assure that no new PE investment be undertaken without adequate
justification of its economic and financial viability. First, a
fundamental reform of BDM is underway to ensure that the banking sector
applies sound financial criteria to its credit decisions (see Section C).
Second, all PE investments which receive direct financial support from the
Government or government guarantees for their financing will be scrutinized
on the basis of a systematic appraisal of costs, benefits, and financial
viability. All such PE investments will be included in the government
investment budget, which will be submitted annually to the Association for
comment.
Incentives Policies
29.       With regard to the incentive structure for both public and
private enterprises, the Government is committed to removing distortions
engendered by the fiscal and trade regimes and to placing greater reliance



- 10 -
on market-determined prices for the allocation of resources. The measures
undertaken in this regard under the PE sector reform program are described
below.
30.       Price Policy.  The Government enacted major new price legislation
in October 1986 as part of its adjustment program. Whereas under the
previous legislation virtually all products were subject to rigid price
controls, the new code specifies that all prices are free or subject to
ex-post margin controls with the exception of a negative list of goods and
services deemed essential. Thirty-two products are currently so
classified, only eight of which are subject to fixed prices determined by
the authorities (regime de taxation). An additional 26 products are
subject to fixed margins applied to produLtion or import costs and require
prior government approval before changing prices (homologation rigide).
Moreover, in order to avoid inordinate delays for prior approval, the new
regulations stipulate that the authorities have 30 days in which to respond
to requests, after which the price change is automatically granted.
Finally, the Gover.nment is committed to further price liberalization and
will review its new price regulations with a view to transferring products
to the more flexible regimes of price control and reduce the number of
products subject to price controls to 22 by end-1988 and to 11 by end-1989.
31.       Trade and Commercial Policies.  The Government has taken steps to
reduce the barriers to trade and the free entry of private firms into
existing markets. Most importantly, in February 1988 it effectively
abolished SOMIEX's remaining import monopolies on sugar, salt, tea, and
milk by issuing import licences to private sector traders. The only
remaining import monopolies concern tobacco oroducts (SONATAM) and
essential medicines (PPM). All remaining export monopolies, most notably
for cotton, were abolished in 1986. In addition, a new Commercial Code has
been promulgated which simplifies the procedures for operating private
firms and, in particular, removes the requirement of prior government
approval for the establishment of private businesses.
32.       Fiscal Measures.  The Government has taken measures to remove
fiscal biases against PZs in order to provide them with the same incentives
as provided to private firms. The automatic transfer to the Treasury of 90
percent of PEs' after-tax profits has been eliminated and each PE board of
directors is now authorized to determine the allocation of such profits to
dividends or retained earnings. In addition, PEs are now authorized to
follow accounting practices consistent with sound financial management
(e.g., to make provisions for plant and equipment renewal, as well as to
write off bad debts and obsolete inventories).
C. Financial Sector Reforms
BDM Restructuring
33.       Confronted with a situation in which BDM's insolvency, combined
with its heavy borrowing from BCEAO and local banks, jeopardized the



- 11 -
liquidity of the whole banking system, the Government adopted in December
1987 a comprehensive BDM restructuring plan as part of its PE sector
adjustment program. The plan consists of immediate measures to halt the
deterioration of BDH's situation and short- to medium-term measures for
BDM's financial restructuring and conversion into a viable bank.
34.       Immediate Measures.  Since adotpion of the restructuring plan in
December 1987, the Government has: (a) suspended BDM's Board and
transferred its authority to an interim administrator (administrateur
provisoire), appointed in consultation with BCEAO, France and the
Association, and empowered to take all management decisions required to
conserve BDM's situation; (b) restricted new BDM credit operations, (c)
strengthened loan collection efforts, especially with regard to BDM's
larger debtors, (d) reduced BDM's payroll by 30 percent by firing 319
people, including the bank's former management and (e) prepared a short
term financing plan with BCEAO based on cash flow projections to be
reviewed monthly until the medium-term measures have been put into effect.
35.       Short and Medium Term Measures.  Given its financial and
managerial constraints, the Government has decided to reduce its
shareholding in a restructured BDM from 100 percent to no more than 20
percent with a view to ensuring independent management along sound banking
principles. Majority ownership in a restructured BDM would be transferred
to private investors associated with a well-established bank and regional
and bilateral institutional investors. BDM's balance sheet would be
restructured in three steps. First, the Government would assume, after
negotiation with future private shareholders, all BDM loans deemed
uncollectible. Although these loans would be removed from its assets, the
restructured bank would endeavor to collect them on behalf of the
Government on a commission basis.  Second, the Government would negotiate
with potential future shareholders the value of BDM's fixed assets.
Finally, the asset adjustments mentioned above would be offset by loss of
the Government's equity in BDM and the former's assumption of a portion of
BDM's liabilities towards BCEAO.
36.       Although the exact amount of financing required by the Government
to complete these operations can be determined only after negotiation with
potential private partnerq, debt to the BCEAO of at least CFAF 23 billion
will be left uncovered by assets of the restructured bank. If this entire
amount were to be consolidated under terms equivalent to those obtained
thus far from the BCEAO 5/ payments of CFAF 1.4 billion would be due during
each of the next 3 years and of CFAF 4.1 billion during each of the
following 7 years. It is clear that neither BDM nor the Government could
service this debt from their own resources over the medium term and that
concessional financing will need to be mobilized. The Government, in
cooperation with the BCEAO, the French authorities, the AfDB, and IDA, is
5/   Ten years at 6 percent with a 3-year grace period.



- 12 -
developing alternative options for dealing with this debt. Although a
number of Ways to deal with BDM debt are being explored, all necessitate a
significant contribution by BCEAO including partial write-off or
concessional rescheduling. Reduction of additional debt service to a level
consonant with the Government's financial possibilities, would require
consolidation of BCEAO obligations for 30 years at 3 percent per annum.   A
similar level of debt service could be achieved through the cancellation of
a part of the accumulated interest and the consolidation of the remainder
by BCEAO on currently available terms. Any shortfall in concessional
relief from BCEAO would need to be met by additional bilateral financing.
37.       The Government has prepared, with IDA-financed assistance, a
technical prospectus that it has submitted in 1988 to potential local and
foreign private shareholders. The prospectus (Annex V) describes the
measures underway to restructure BDM's balance sheet and invites the
prospective shareholders to negotiate their participation in the capital
and management of a restructured bank on the basis of the following
principles: (a) recapitalization of BDM at a level compatible with BCEAO
regulations; (b) assumption by the participating bank of all management
responsibilities, including the appointment of a qualified president,
general manager and other high level staff; and (c) introduction of an
adequate management system and organizational structure. inAlucling possible
further staff reductions.  Preliminary discussions are  .Jerwayv  th three
private banks that have expressed interest in BDM.
38.       The opening balance sheet of the restructured btn.k ane:  the legal
documents relating to the transfer of the majority cwriersh:.p v private
interests and to the future operations of the bank wil' I'e sub'-i:ted to the
Association for review.  Satisfactory progress in xht ic.-  ].:..iori of BDM
restructuring is a condition for the release of the set-.'rl  i.( t hlr
tranches of the proposed credit.
Postal Checking Reform
39.       The Government is also undertaking a reform of the postal
checking and savings system, in order to facilitate financial transactions
and mobilize savings in areas not served directly by the banking system.
The Government has severed all links between the Treasury an-s the postal
financial system, in order to halt the use of postal checking resources to
cover Treasury financing requirements. In addition, it has engaged
consultants to prepare proposals which would assure that the postal
financial system is managed independently of the nonfinanCial nIostal and
telecommunications activities. The Government intends tCo imrtlement the
required reforms during 1988 and to monitor closely the observance of
existing regulations prohibiting monetary creation vi a the po)s tal checking
system.  Once adequate control measures are in place, the  lquidity of the
postal checking system would be reestablished by the fulli            or
Government arrears to OPT, as foreseen in the adjustment. progranm supported
by the propcsed credit, and the freezing of some public: se :.or pcstal
checking accounts.



- 13 -
Financial Sector Policies
40.       As a member of WAMU, Mali uses the common currency of the Union,
whose convertibility is guaranteed by the French Treasury at a fixed parity
with the French franc, and shares a common interest rate structure with
other countries of the Union. WAMU thus imposes a certain discipline with
regard to monetary and balance of payments policies and, correspondingly,
constrains the use of some macro policy instruments. The Government,
nonetheless, maintains control of certain key credit policies and proposes
to prepare a plan of action for further financial sector reforms,
subsequent to its restructuring of BDM and the postal checking system. The
plan of action would focus on (a) strengthening market mechanisms for
credit allocation by eliminating rigid sectoral credit allocations and
revising procedures for the allocation of global credit ceilings among
banks, (b) improving bank supervision by strengthening the National Banking
Control Commission, (c) streamlining legal procedures for enforcing loan
guarantees, and (d) reducing distortions engendered by the application of
the "sales' tax (IAS) to financial transactions. Preparation of the action
plan will be a condition for release of the second tranche of the proposed
credit and satisfactory progress in its implementation will be a condition
for release of the third tranche.
D. Institutional and Legal Reforms
41.       New PE Law.  A new law (Loi No. 87-51/AN-RM) governing
PE-government relations was passed by t' legislature and promulgated in
August 1987 as part of the PE sector adjustment program.  It constitutes an
important re'r-frnition of the relations between PEs and Government and
represents a major improvement in the institutional framework, particularly
with regard to four key areas. First, the composition and functions of the
board of directors has been redefined. Board members are to be appointed
for their specific qualifications rather than ex officio; the supervising
ministry will no longer be chairman of the board; and the independent
decision-making responsibility of the boards has been increased. Second,
general managers are to be appointed by the respective board of directors,
rather than 'by Lhe supervising ministry.  Third, Government oversight
functions have been separated from management decisions. Finally,
mixed-capital companies (soci6t6s d'6conomie mixte) have been excluded from
the PE law, as they are to be governed solely by the commercial code. Thus
Government's control rights in mixed-capital companies will be limited to
those ot a shareholder as defined under the commercial code. The need for
separate legislation to codify these principles for mixed-capital
enterprises is under examination and progress in implementing any necessary
action in this regard will be reviewed prior to release of the second
tranche cf the proposed credit. New boards of directors will be named and
the individual statutes of all state enterprises will be revised in
accordance with the rew law.  This process has already begun for the public
utilities ad ot';er strategic enterprises and will be completed in 1988.
Model statutes. applicable to all PEs, will be issued prior to release of
the second tran.he .}f the proposed credit. Full application of the new



- 14 -
legal framework to all PEs will be a condition for release of the third
tranche.
42.       Performance Contracts.  A key feature of the new institutional
set-up will be the requirement that all PEs conclude performance contracts
with Government, specifying the objectives assigned to the PE, the
respective obligations of PE management and Government to achieve these
objectives, and the criteria for monitoring the PE's performance.
Performance contracts, to be adjusted annually, would constitute three-year
rolling corporate plans and the principles governing their preparation and
execution have been set out in a Government circular. The preparation,
negotiation, and signing of such contracts for EDM, and the new
telecommunications and postal companies would be completed prior to release
of the second tranche of the proposed credit, and those for COHANAV, OERHN
and SONATAM would be completed prior to release of the third tranche.
Assistance to implement the system of performance contracts would be
provided by the proposed PE Institutional Development Project.
43.       Employment and Compensation.  Government is addressing two key
personnel issues under its sectoral adjustment program: overstaffing and
inadequate incentive packages for PE staff. The number of employees of the
35 enterprises covered in the first phase of the adjustment program has
already been reduced by more than 10 percent from their 1982 levels.
Approximately 700 PE staff have been laid off in ..e last six months and
further reductions are expected before completion of the divestiture
program. The financing plan for the PE sector adjustment program includes
resources for the payment of severance pay to these employees as well as
the establishment of a redeployment fund to facilitate their entry into
private sector activity (see Part IV, Section D). In order to improve
productivity among remaining employees, the Government intends to provide
greater autonomy to PE management on personnel and salary issues. In this
respect, a Presidential Circular has been issued instructing the concerned
ministers to review all legislation that prevents PEs from operating like
private commercial entities, including the current legal framework
extending civil service wages and personnel practices to PEs (Loi No.
81-10). Revisions to the current law will be promulgated prior to release
of the second tranche of the proposed credit.
E. Rationalization of the Sector
Financial Restructuring
44.       Based on a cross-debt study of 35 key PEs, the Government has
submitted to IDA a plan for the settlement of all arrears vis-a-vis
Government, BDM, and other PEs. The plan involves (a) Government paying
its arrears to PEs (net of offsetting PE arrears to Government), (b) PEs
paying their net arrears to other PEs and other creditors, including
Government assumption of irrecoverable BDM loans to PEs, and (c) the
Government honoring its guarantees for debts of enterprises being



- 15 -
liquidated. In addition, Government will cover severance pay obligations
of redundant labor in PEs being divested.
45.       The resulting financial restructuring entails the gradual
settlement of arrears accumulated over a number of years. Some progress
was made in this regard during 1986 and 1987 through the cancellation of
offsetting otligations between parties and through the settlement of
arrears with funds provided by the French Caisse Centrale de CooD6ration
conomi&ue (CCCE).  Over the next three years, the Government is committed
to settling the remaining PE sector arrears, and to provide severance pay
of approximately CFAF 3.5 billion (see Annex VI).   Satisfactory progress
in settling PE arrears wvould be a condition for release of the second and
third tranches of the proposed credit.
Divestiture
46.       In order to reduce the burden of public enterprises on pub:ic
finances and the banking system, the Government has established a
divestiture program. A key objective of the program is state divestiture
of PEs other than those providing essential public services or considered
strategic. Of the 35 most important enterprises covered in the first phase
of PE sector reform, the Government intends to retain majority state
ownership of only 6 enterprises, namely the enterprises responsible for
power and water (EDM), telecommunication and postal services (OPT), rail
transport (RCFM), river transport (COMANAV), tobacco and matches (SONATAM),
and management of the Selingue dam (OERHN).
47.       The remaining 29 key PEs would be either privatized or
liquidated. The Government has dissolved 15 of these enterprises and
initiated liquidation proceedings to sell their assets and settle their
liabilities. 6/ Liquidation is to be completed for ten of these companies
prior to release of the second tranche of the proposed credit ar.d for the
remaining five prior to release of the third tranche.   Liquidation is
already well advanced for a number of companies, including Air Mali, the
former state airline. Air Mali's Boeing 727 aircraft is being sold to
reduce outstanding liabilites; a long-term lease has been arranged for its
Boeing 737; and its remaining debts are to be consolidated in a government
loan. The Government has also decided to liquidate SOMIEX. All SOMIEX
activities, with the exception of sales of existing stocks, were halted in
May 1988. The Council of Ministers approved its liquidation in May 1988
and its liquidation will be completed by October 31, 1988.
48.       With regard to privatization, majority control of two companies
(ITEMA and SEPOM) has already been transferred to the private sector. The
6/   Air Mali, SHM, SAT, SCAER, SEBRIMA, SOCOMA, SOCORAM, SOMBEPEC, SOMIEX,
SONEA, SONETRA, OCINAM, LPM, CMTR, AND EMAB.



- 16 -
Government promulgated in Fe-ruary 1988 a law authorizing the opening of
the capital of 12 additional enterprises for which it intends to reduce its
shareholding to a minority position. 7/ Detailed privatization strategies
for each of these enterprises were submitted to IDA in April 1988. They
will be reviewed, along with each PEs' financial results, and revised as
necessary prior to release of the second tranche of the proposed credit.
Progress in their implementation constitutes a condition for release of the
second and third tranches of the proposed credit. The Government does not
intend to grant any unwarranted privileges to the new private shareholders
of these companies, such as monopoly rights, exclusive import licenses,
guaranteed purchased contracts, subsidized credits or budget subsidies.
During this first phase of the adjustment program, studies for the
remaining 22 PEa will be carried out in order to establish an action plan
for these enterprises prior to release of the third tranche of the proposed
credit.
49.       The Government has established a redeployment fund, to assure the
rapid settlement of severance pay obligations and to provide additional
financing to facilitate entry into the private sector for PE employees
losing their jobs as a result of the divestiture program. Initially the
redeployment fund will focus on payment of severance pay. On the basis of
an evaluation of experience under ongoing bilateral programs supporting the
integration of former public sector employees into the private sector, the
Government will submit for IDA review by end-1988 proposals for additional
use of the redeployment fund. An evaluation of the redeployment program
will be completed prior to release of the third tranche of the proposed
credit.
Enterprise Rehabilitation
50.       The investment requirements of enterprises to remain entirely in
the public domain will be included in the Government's investment budget
and supported by bilateral and multilateral donors, including IDA. French
and Canadian bilateral assistance is already in place for the
rehabilitation of RCFM. COMANAV's rehabilitation is being supported by
German bilateral assistance and Chinese assistance is envisioned for
SONATAM. The next phase of EDM investments are to be supported by IDA,
AfDB, EIB, France, Canada, and Germany. France is also preparing
operations in support of future OPT investments. Of these six enterprises,
EDM and OPT require substantial organizational restructuring if they are to
perform their public service functions efficiently and effectively. Such
restructuring is an integral part of the Government's PE adjustment
program.
7/   EDIM, COMATEX, EMAMA, Grand Hotel, PPM, SEMA, SEPAMA, SMECMA, SOCAM,
SOCIMA, TAMALI, AND UCEMA.



- 17 -
51.       EDM (Electricit6 du Mali).  EDH has responsibility for the
distribution of both electricity and water. Since completion of the
S&lingud dam and hydroelectric plant in 1981, the responsibility for the
power sector has, however, been split between EDM and OERHN (the managing
company of S6lingu6). This has led to to severe managerial and financial
problems. EDM's own internal structure has, moreover, been poorly adapted
to the different requirements of its electricity and water operations. The
most pressing financial problems were partially resolved in August 1985 by
electricity and water rate increases averaging 35 percent and 200 percent
respectively, and collection procedures are being strengthened under an
ongoing IDA-financed power project. In order to resolve the outstanding
institutional issues, the Government has given EDM authority for planning
and executing future power sector investments, 8/ and established a
detailed schedule for (a) separation of water and power activities within
EDM, (b) preparation of a management contract between EDM and OERHN and the
integration of EDM and OERHN power staff, and (c) revision of the legal
texts regulating the sector (see Annex IV).
52.       OPT (Office des Postes et Telecommunications).  OPT provides
domestic telecommunications, post., and postal checking services. In order
to assure more efficient delivery of theae services and financial
transparency between different activities, the Government has decided, as
part of ar. action plan agreed upon with Lie Association, to (a) create and
sign performance contracts with separate telecommunications and postal
companies by January 1989, (b) merge domestic telecommunications services
with international services, and (c) reform tl. postal checking system, in
order to assure its future liquidity. With regard to postal checking
services, the Government has already severed a'l links with the Treasury
and has launched a study to elaborate the specific measures to be taken in
order to ensure that it is subject to sound financial operating procedures
(see Section C, above). The Government intends to implement these
additional postal checking reforms by January 1989. Technical support for
the establishment of the new post and telecommunications companies will be
provided under the proposed PE Institutional Development Project.
53.       Other Enterprises.  The physical rehabilitation of PEs to be
privatized and related working capital requirements will, to the extent
feasible, be financed by new shareholders through cash purchases of newly
issued PE shares and new borrowings. Any future Government commitments to
these enterprises will be included in the annual investment budget and
reviewed in that context. The future requirements of the textile industry
are particularly problematic and the Government has agreed to prepare an
action plan for the sub-sector by April 1989.
8/   With the exception of regional and multi-purpose projects.



- 18 -
F. Program Implementation
54.       In order to resolve the coordination problems which delayed
preparation of the proposed credit, the Government instituted a new
organizational structure for implementation of its PE adjustment program in
January 1988. Henceforth, responsibility for implementation of the program
lieo with an interministerial commission, chaired by the Prime Minister and
composed of the Ministers of Plan, Finance, State Enterprises, Information,
Employment, and Industry. The Cabinet Director of the Prime Minister's
office will chair a technical committee charged with day-to-day
implementation. The implementation responsibilities of the Ministry of
Plan and the Ministry of Finance have been clearly defined and special
units have been created in both ministries to monitor execution of elements
under the control of their respective ministries. The Ministry of P:.an
will also be the executing agercy for the parallel PE Institutional
Development Project which furnishes the specialized technical skills and
advisory services required for the program's execution.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A. Credit History
55.       The proposed credit supports the Government's sectoral adjustment
approach to the PE sector. It is the first sector adjustment credit to
Mali. Previous sector reforms in the cotton, rice, and roads sectors have
been directly supported by IDA investment operations.
56.       The origins of the credit stem from a diagnostic study of the PE
sector undertaken in 1982 and the Government's decision in 1983 to prepare
a comprehensive sector reform program. Specific reforms were prepared with
support from the IDA Economic Management and Training Project (Cr.1307-MLI)
and from a PPF for the parallel PE Institutional Development Project. The
PPF financed diagnostic studies of selected PEs, a cross-debt study, audits
of PEs to be liquidated, and consultant advisors needed to initiate
implementation of the program.
57.       The credit has had a long and difficult preparation.  It was
appraised, largely as a sector rehabilitation project, in November 1984 and
substantially revised to strengthen its sector reform components in late
1985. Several post-appraisal missions were undertaken to reach agreement
on these reUisions and to meet outstanding conditions for negotiations. In
July 1986, negotiations began in Washington with a Malian delegation headed
by the Minister of Plan but were not completed, pending preparation of
consultant proposals on banking sector reforms. Moreover, the main
elements of the program that were negotiated were not approved by the
Council of Ministers after the return of the Malian delegation because of
lack of agreement within the Government on the proposed reforms. Little
progress was made during the ensuing year as severe leadership and
coordination problems within the Government stalled action on most
adjustment issues.
58.       The situation changed in June 1987 when the Prime Minister
requested that a high-level Bank mission visit Bamako to help resolve



- 19 -
problems blocking impl neatation of the program. As the result of this
mission in July l9E7 and subsequent discussions at the Annual Meetings in
September 1987, it vt decided to proceed with the proposed credit as the
first phase of support for implementation of the Government's hndium-term
policy framework. Performance in putting in place the prcgr&m woula, in
turn, be a key determinant of preparation of subsequent reforms under a
structural adjustment program. A re-appraisal mission visited Bamako in
November 1987 and negotiations of the proposed credit were held in Bamako
in March 1988. Supplemental data on the credit are provided in Annex VII.
The PE Institutional Development Project was prepared, appraised, and
negotiated concurrently.
B. Relationship of Credit to Proposed Reform Proaram
59.       The proposed credit would Fupport the first phase of the
Government's medium-term adjustment program, as described in its policy
framework paper. The present operation would focus on reforms in the PE
sector, based on the rationale presented in Part III. Subsequent phases,
to be supported by IDA structural adjustment lending, would focus on
macroeconomic and interse,toral issues including budget restructuring, tax
reform, and trade reform. Government has provided the Association with a
Letter of Sectoral Policy (Annex III) which describes the specific measures
that have been or will be taken during the first phase of the adjustment
program. These measures are summarized in the matrix of Annex IV. The
credit would ease Mali's financial strain during the adjustment period, not
only with respect to external capital requirements, but also by increasing
budgetary resources available for the financial restructuring of the PE
sector (Annex VI).
C. Effects of the Adiustment Program
60.       in the medium term, the structural improvements in the PE and
financial sectors would make it possible to gradually increase economic
growth without exacerbating cxisting strains on the budget and balance of
payments. While the reform program will improve the policy environment,
the extent of supply responses is uncertain due to Mali's limited resource
base and low level of development. A necessary corollary to the policy
reforms, therefore, is a concerted development effort to strengthen the
country's physical and human resources. This will be a long-term process
and substantial work is needed to formulate a development strategy which
would allow the economy to grow on a sustained basis.
61.       Scenario without Adiustment.  A continuation of policies pursued
before the adjustment program would entail very high costs for Mali's
economy and population. GDP growth in this case would be seriously limited
by public finance and balance of payments constraints, as well as by a
further deterioration of the banking sector. The availability of
additional external financing, particularly non-project aid, would be
further reduced. This would constrain overall budgetary outlays while
unmet debt service obligations would continue to grow. Delivery of public
services would be negatively effected and public investment severely



- 20 -
reduced, thus compounding the inefficiencies of the public sector and
reducing long-term growth prospects. Given external financing constraints,
the current account def2.cit would need to be smaller, thus constraining
imports. Despite lower growth and borrowing, the debt service burden would
reach unsustainable levels.
62.       Adiustment Scenario.  The adjustment program should allow the
country to achieve economic growth averaging 4 percent per annum in the
early 1990s, barring periods of drought to which Mali remains vulnerable.
The agriculture sector would remain the primary source of this growth,
although the trade and manufacturing sectors would gradually increase their
relative contributions to GDP. The divestiture of public enterprises would
help mobilize private resources for investment ir the modern sector while
continued price lib-raiization and streamlining of government regulations
would promote a more efficient allocation of resources. Remaining PEs
would also become more productive.
63.       These reforms, in conjunction with the financial program
negotiated with the IMF, would enable the Government to reduce budget
deficits to a sustainable level in the early 1990s and improve the
country's balance of payments. Increased efficiency of the modern sector
would eventually result in the expansion of import-competing activities and
small-scale export industries. Interest payments on foreign debt would
stabilize through a more prudent external borrowing strategy. However,
high gross capital inflows in the form of grants and very concessional
loans would continue to be required to assist Mali in meeting heavy debt
repayment obligations.
64.       Impact on PE and Financial Sectors.  The direct effects of t} PE
sector adjustment program would be to improve PE performance and reduce the
burden they have placed on both the banking system and public finE.nces. A
fundamental restructuring of the BDM has already begun and the size of the
PE sector has already diminished relative to the rest of the modern sector.
The BDM reforms will dramatically improve the financial soundness of the
banking system and increase the availability of credit for private
productive activities. Moreover, PEs would become more effic:.ent as a
result of reforms to the incentive system and the institutional framework.
In particular, the liberalization of prices and greater autonLomy and
responsibility vested in enterprise management would yield improved
f'nancial results and higher quality services. Greater flexibility of
enterprises in setting wages and employment levels would improve work
incentives for employees and reduce the inefficiencies due to overstaffing.
The program of financial restructuring and settlement of cross-arrears
would be accompanied by more rigorous financial discipline, which would
reduce the risk of a reappearance of arrears whose buildup substantially
hampered the functioning of enterpris.as in the recent past. Finally the
reduction of the sector's size through divestiture of selected PEs would
result in a better allocation of scarce managerial and financial resources
among the remaining strategic enterprises.



- 21 -
D. Social Impact
65.       The sector adjustment program would allow a gradual improvement
in living standards in Hali mainly by reducing the financial burden on the
banking system and public finances. In the absence of the adjustment
progL,m, living standards would be curtailed significantly as a result of
the reduced availability of external resources and constrained imports.
Prospects for rapid increases in per capita income remain very limited,
however, given population growth and the weak resource base. On balance,
the social costs of Mali's medium-term adjustment program are small
relative to those incurred under a non-adjustment scenario.
66.       The restructuring of the PE sector does, however, have a direct
impact on some social groups in the short term. Measures introduced to
reduce overstaffing in key enterprises have already resulted in a
Fignificant reduction in the size of the PE sector labor force, and further
iayoffs will occur in those PEs still to be privatized or liquidated. In
tae long run, these workers are expected to be absorbed by the gradual
expansion of the private sector. In the short term, this dislocation would
be partially offset through the establishment of a redeployment fund to
cover severance pay obligations and additional financing to facilitate
entry into the private sector. The redeployment fund is an integral part
of the Government's PE sector adjustment program to be supported by the
proposed credit. The Government is currently experimenting with a variety
of other programs--supported by bilateral donors--in order to define the
most effective approach for the integration of former public sector
employees into the private sector. A follow-up survey on a sample of the
affected individuals would be carried out, under the proposed PE
Institutional Development Project, to document the history of laid-off
employees with a view to expanding or redesigning existing programs in
subsequent phases of the adjustment program.
E. Benefits and Risks
67.       The main benefits of the reform program are (a) improved resource
allocation and operational efficiency in both the public and private
sectors as a result of the policy and institutional reforms incorporated in
the program and (b) a reduction of the financial burden of the PE sector on
the Malian economy through a reduction of the sector's size and improved PE
performance. The benefits will manifest themselves in the short term as
reduced PE losses, greater credit availability for productive activities,
improved liquidity as the result of cross-arrears settlement, improved
distribution of goods and services within the country as prices are
liberalized and monopolies abandoned, and improvement in the quality of
services provided by restructured public utilities. In the longer term,
bencfits will arise from the more productive use of existing resources,
improved credit allocation, and better puDlic investment decisions. The
program should also be seen as the first phase of a longer-term adjustment
process intended to lay the foundation for sustained economic growth in the
future.



- 22 -
68.       The main risk associated with the program is that, despite the
important actions already taken, continued liberalization of the economy
and divestiture of non-essential enterprises would prove politically
unacceptable. It should also be noted that the success of the program
depends on changing the behavior and attitudes of managers and officials
who have become accustomed to an excessive reliance on controls. The
proposed reforms specifically affect the institutional relationships among
ministries that have vested interests in the status quo. Clear and
deliberate implementation by the Ministries of Finance, Plan, and State
Enterprises, as well as adequate coordination at the Prime Minister's
lvel, will therefore be necessary to overcome potential resistance. The
new institutional structure put in place to monitor the program's
implementation, however, demonstrates high-level government commitment to
the program a,d is designed to provide the necessary coordination for
effective implementation (see part III, Section F). In addition, the
parallel PE Institutional Development Project would provide both the
Government and PEs with critical advisory services and technical analyses
to support this effort. An additional risk associated with the overall
adjustment program is the possible failure of aid donors to respond
generously and quickly enough to Mali's financial requirements. The
fragility of the reforms and the gap between Mali's financing needs and its
own resources necessitate the mobilization of a steady flow of quick-
disbursing external resources during the adjustment period.
F. Credit Amount
69.       The proposed IDA credit of US$40 million equivalent, together
with the proposed US$38.7 million equivalent from Japanese contributions to
the Special Joint Financing Facility for Africa (SJF), US$5.9 million
equivalent from Saudi contributions to the SJF, and US$45 million
equivalent from the African Development Fund (ADF), would finance about 7
percent of Mali's merchandise imports in the period April 1988 to December
1990 and meet about 9 percent of the country's gross external capital
requirement for the same period. The amount of the proposed IDA
contribution was determined on the basis of the IDA allocation for Mali,
taking into account other priority needs for which IDA assistance has been
requested.
G. Disbursement, Procurement, Administration and Auditing
70.       The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed in three tranches and
is expected to be fully disbursed within 30 months of credit effectiveness.
The first tranche of US$16 million equivalent, would be available upon
credit effectiveness. The second tranche of US$12 equivalent, would become
available about nine to twelve months later. Disbursement of the second
tranche would be contingent upon satisfactory progress made by the
Government in carrying out the sectoral adjustment program, as outlined in
Annex 7TT. The third tranche of US$12 million, would become available
about nine to twelve months later, contingent upon continued satisfactory
progress in implementing the program.



- 23 -
71.       The Government of Mali would be the Borrower.  The BCEAO would be
responsible for maintaining the credit accounts and submitting withdrawal
applications and supporting documentation to the Association. Disbursesant
and procurement procedures have been designed to ensure a rapid drawdown of
the credit proceeds. The credit would reimburse 100 percent of the foreign
exchange cost of eligible imports on the basis of evidence that they were
imported and paid for not more than four months prior to credit signing.
Retroactive financing would be limited to 20 percent of the proposed
credit. Imports in CFAF from other WAMU countries would be eligible.
Expenditures for goods procured under invoices for US$10,000 equivalent or
less would not be eligible for financing in order to reduce the number of
transactions.
72.       Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing. Imports by private sector entities would be in accordance with
normal commercial practices. For public sector imports, procurement would
be made through international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
guidelines for contracts of US$1 million equivalent or more, while
contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost less than US$1
million equivalent each would be awarded on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser. Certain commonly traded
commodities may be purchased through price quotations available from
organized international commodity markets. For contracts less than US$1
million equivalent, reimbursements would be against statements of
expenditure. Supporting documents related to these contracts would be
retained in the BCEAO and made available on request to the Association for
review. The CFAF counterpart funds generated by the use of credit proceeds
would be devoted to financing general development expenditures in
government budget years 1988, 1989, and 1990. In particular, they would
help finance Government obligations in the financial restructuring of the
PE and financial sectors--including settlement of cross-arrears, and
severance pay. The Borrower would open a special account fcr the IDA
Credit at the BCEAO on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. The authorized allocation would be CFAF 1.5 billion
equivalent.
73.       With regard to auditing, the proposed PE Institutional
Development Project includes financing for the external audit of both the
PE Sector Adjustment Credit and the PE Institutional Development Project.
An audit report, conforming to internationally accepted standards and
prepared by auditors approved by the Association, would be submitted to the
Association within six months after the completion of the disbursement of
the proposed credit.
H. Monitoring and Tranche Release
74.       The above-mentioned interministerial committee, chaired by the
Prime Minister, would be responsible for monitoring progress under the
present operation. Following the disbursement of the first and second



- 24 -
tranches of the credit, Government would submit to the Association reports
evaluating the progress made in implementation. These reports would serve
as a basis for progress review of the program which, in turn, would form
the basis for the release of the next tranche. Government would submit to
the Association a final report on the implementation of the adjustment
program upon full disbursement of the credit.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
75.       As of December 31, 1987, the Association h-.d extended 36 credits
to Mali, bringing total commitments of IDA funds to US$424 million
equiva'.ent. Of these operations, 13 have been for agriculture and related
activities; 9 for transport; 3 for education; 2 for telecommunications; 2
for energy; 2 for urban development; and one each for small-scale
industries, power and water supply, technical assistance, rural water
supply, and health. In addition, the International Finance Corporation has
made two investments totalling US$3.2 million. Project implementation has
been generally satisfactory, despite difficulties and delays caused by
inadequate Government counterpart financing. Mali's disbursement ratio
rose to 24 percent in FY87 which is relatively high for a country with no
quick-disbursing adjustment operations. Annex VIII contains a summary
statement of Bank Group Operations in Mali as of March 31, 1988.
76.       IDA's lending strategy in Mali has become increasingly
policy-oriented in recent years. Operations have been designed to further
policy reform in addition to laying the foundation for long-term growth and
development. The Association has financed a technical assistance project
(Cr. 1307-MLI) to strengthen economic management by providing advisory
services to improve financial and economic policies and training to Malian
civil servants. This has been followed by a series of operations which are
supporting important reforms in specific sectors in addition to addressing
long-term physical development constraints. For example, the Second
Mali-Sud Rural Development Project (Cr. 1415-MLI) is supporting a
comprehensive reform of the cotton sector, while the Third Education
Project (Cr. 1442-MLI/SF10) and the Fifth Highway Project (Cr. 1629-MLI)
are designed to improve planning and resource mobilization and allocation
in their respective sectors.
77.       The IDA lending strategy has stressed sectoral adjustment in
order to deal directly with the most pressing adjustment issues and to
focus limited government implementation capacity on specific problems. The
PE sector adjustment operation represents the culmination this approach.
It deals with key sector ajustment issues that have been an important
stumbling block to broader intersectoral and macro reforms and introduces
the first phase of reforms in public resource management and incentives
policies. The next phase of IDA's policy-based lending will focus on
macroeconomic and intersectoral issues, including the restructuring of
current expenditure, improved investment screening, fiscal reform, and
trade liberalization. IDA has begun discussions aimed at formulating a
medium-term structural adjustment program addressing these issues. In this



- 25 -
regard, a medium-term policy framework paper has been prepared by the
Government, with assistance from Fund and Bank staff.
78.       Mali's long-term grow-h prospects also depend on the full
realization of its natural and human potential. The Association has
accordingly financed, and will continue to finance, key projects designed
to exploit and augment that potential. First priority will continue to be
given to the development of the rural sector, the most important sector for
longer term growth of the Malian economy. Major emphasis will also be
placed on human resource development. Operations in the health, water
supply, and education sectors will be designed to develop Mali's human
resources by expandir,g the population's access to basic education and
improving their health and productivity. The Association will also attempt
to broaden its dialogue with Government concerning the interrelated issues
of Mali's high population growth rate, deterioration of its fragile
resource base and budgetary constraints which hinder the provision of basic
services. Future infrastructure projects, to be chosen on a very selective
basis, will attempt to ensure that the benefits of past investments are
fully realized and that Mali's future growth is not constrained by
inadequate capacity in its transport, telecommunications, and energy
sectors. To maximize IDA's impact, these projects will, whenever possible,
reflect a broad sectoral orientation in order to focus on the issues of
investment strategy and institutional development.
PART VI - COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DONORS
79.       Preparation of the proposed adjustment operation has been
carefully coordinated with the IMF. IMF and Bank staff worked closely on
the preparation of the medium-term policy framework paper and the
first-year program to be supported by the Fund's Structural Adjustment
Facility (SAF). Bank staff also worked closely with IMF missions that
visited Mali in 1986 and 1987, particularly with regard to initial PE
reforms. Draft documents and views were exchanged at every stage in the
processing of the proposed credit, and the financing plan for restructuring
the PE sector was prepared in close consultation with the IMP staff. IMF
staff is in agreement with the program which is complementary to that to be
supported by an IMF program for 1988/89. Moreover, conditionality in the
IMF supported program corresponds to that in the present operation.
80.       The nature of Mali's adjustment efforts, particularly for the PE
sector, calls for a highly collaborative approach with other concerned
donors. The AfDB, a cofinancer of the proposed operation, has been
particularly active in the consultative process with IDA and Government.
Financial sector reforms, particularly those related to BDM restructuring,
have required intense cooperation with the French Treasury and Ministry of
Cooperation. The French CCCE is also directly involved in the
rehabilitation of key enterprises, particularly EDM, OPT and RCFM, and has
been directly involved in the discussions leading up to the proposed
operation. UNDP support to the Malian National Commission for
Administrative Reform has also played a key role in preparation of the
institutional and legal reforms supported by the operation.



- 26 -
81.       To encourage more general aid coordination, the Government is
considering the preparation of a donors meeting on macroeconomic and
adjustment issues as a follow-up to the Round Table held in December 1985.
The Government's medium-term policy framework and financing plan for the
public sector would be presented to key donors at such a meeting. The
meeting would specifically address the need for increased non-project
assistance to support policy reform and the reorientation of assistance
away from new physical investment projects toward financing recurrent local
costs needed for efficient operation of existing facilities.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
82.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and.' recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed Japanese grant would comply with
the provisions of the letters exchanged between Japan and the Association
of November 20, 1985 and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed Japanese grant.
B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
June 1988



- 27 -
AM= I
Page 1 of 3
Table 1.  MALI:  MZ  MAUOSOWINhIC INDICATOS
1963      1964       1905       1986       8t7        1968       1969      1990
ast.        .  (projecttd)        .
GDP Growth Rate                        -5.2X       0.95    -0.7X       18.62       3.95      -0.81       5.05      4.11
ODPICapita Gro/th late                 -7.5X     -1.S       -3.15      15.7        1.42      -3.32       2.4X       1.62
Consuption/Capita Growth late          -0.72     -2.32      -1.62       2.82       1.O      -0.01       1.02      1.O0
Debt Service (US$ SIllon) (a)          39.5      40.2       46.3       79.4       88.0       89.8      93.8       95.1
Debt Servicel/7S   (a)                 19.12     17.32      21.0X      30.9X      27.11      26.82      27.42     25.42
Debt ServiceI XGS (b)                  19.12     17.32      21.01      30.9Z      27.12      34.8X      35.02     30.62
Debt Servlc*1CDP (a)                    3.72      3.82       4.42       5.12       4.52       4.22       4.12      3.62
Cross Ir sta_ntiCDP                    14.62     15.22      19.52      22.22      18.42      18.42      17.42     17.52
Dc am  tic Savings/CDP                 -4.92     -2.22    -14.21       -2.12       1.52       0.12       O.1X      1.62
Public Investmnt/ODP (e)               14.62     14.62      17.62      15.72      13.82      14.7X     14.02      13.72
Private InvestmentICDP (c)              3.6X      3.72       4.42       3.92       3.22       3.72       3.35      3.82
Ratio of Public/Prlvate Ina.            4.1        3.9       4.0        4.0        4.3        4.0        4.2        3.6
Government Revenus*/CIP                13.32     13.3Z      14.92      17.42      15.22      17.22      17.22     16.8X
Governmnt Expenditures/GDP (d)         16.22      15.32     30.22      29.52      25.5Z      26.45      25.1X     24.11
Deficit (-) or Surplus (+)IGDP         -2.92     -2.02    -15.22    -12.22    -10.32        -9.1l      -7.8X      -7.32
Export Vol. Growth Rate                21.02     14.02    -18.22       13.81       9.41      -4.12       2.82      3.4X
Exports (fob)/GDP                      15.32     18.1S    16.6X        13.12      13.32      13.22      12.71     12.82
Import Vol. Growth Rate (e)             1.32      6.22      18.22      -0.02      -5.52      5.22        3.62      2.52
Imports (cif)/GDP                     32.52      34.72      44.35      31.62      25.32     26.6X      25.41      24.32
Current Account (US$ mXILLon)        212.4      196.5      329.5      358.6      313.1     383.4      395.8      394.7
Current Account/GDP                  -19.72    -18.52    -31.12    -22.82    -16.02    -17.72    -16.82    -15.62
(Ca) Excluding China end the USSR, including estimates for interest on new disburseemnts.
(b) As per (Ca), plus debt service arrears to be settled in 1988-90.
(c) Fixed capital formation, i.e.. excluding changes in stocks.
(d) Data for 1983-4 exclude foreign-financed investmnt and are not comparable with data for subsequent years.
(e) Excluding cereals imports, which consist largely of food aid and tend to vary inversely with GDP.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
Table 2. XALI: 21ALACZ OF PAYDCCTS (US$ million)
1963      1964       196S       1986       1967       1988       1989      1990
................... (aetual) . . .................    ....... (projected).
A. Exports of Goods & Mg              206.3     232.7      220.1      257.1      325.0      357.2      376.0     408.4
1. Merchandise (703'                165.1      192.0      176.1      205.7      260.0     285.8      300.S      326.7
2. NMn-fector Servlees                41.2      40.7       44.0       51.4       65.0       71.4       75.2      81.7
B. Imports of Goods & NWS           -415.6    -430.6    -577.7    -637.4    -655.1    -754.6    -785.3    -815.6
1. merchandise (FO)               -247.3    -254.8    -328.5    -347.    -345.5    -403.4    -419.4    -432.5
2. NoM-Fector Serviesc             -168.2    -175.8    -249.1    -290.3    -309.6    -351.1    -366.0    -383.1
C. Resource Balance                  -209.3    -197.8    -357.5    -380.3    -330.1    -397.4    -409.3    -407.2
D. Net FVator Income                  -26.5     -19.5      -18.7      -24.8      -27.9      -33.6      -35.4     -37.5
S. Not Current Trawsfers               23.4      20.8       46.7       46.5       44.9       47.5       48.9      50.0
F. Current Account Balance           -212.4    -196.5    -329.5    -358.6    -313.1    -383.4    -395.8    -394.7
G. Long-Term Capital Inflow           197.7     155.4      294.9      311.3      309.8      349.3      371.4     378.6
2. Official Capital Grants          114.2      1 0.4      197.0      185.7      202.3     214.6      217.5      230.7
3. Net LT Loans (DRS data)          149.0      113.9       81.3      145.3       98.6       99.1      61.8      -18.5
a. Disbursements                 156.7      12.~ 6     106.9      167.9     117.3      155.6      117.1       75.1
b. Repayments                     -7.7      -11.7      -25.6      -22.6     -18.8      -56.4      -55.4      -93.6
4. Other LT Inflows (Net)           -65.5      -45.9       16.6      -19.6        8.9      35.5       92.2      166.4
B. Total OtbUr Item  (Net)              0.0       0.0      -14.8       -3.8       -4.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
I. Change in Net Reserves              14.7       1.0       4.3       51.1        7.3       34.2      24.3       16.1
1. Net Credit from the IMF           16.5       19.5        5.0       -9.8      -26.8      -3.5        6.8       -9.3
2. Other Reserve Changes              -1.8     -18.4       44.4       60.9       34.1       37.7      17.5       25.5
[- indicates increase]
Shares of GDP
1. Resource Balance                 -19.41    -18.71    -33.81    -24.3X    -16.9X    -16.3X    -17.3X    -16.0X
2. Total Interest Payments           -2.51      -1.81      -1.81      -l.X      -1.4X     -1.51      -1.52      -1.5X
3. Current Account Balance          -19.71    -18.51    -31.1X    -22.92    -16.02    -17.72    -16.82    -15.52
4. LT Capital Inflov (line G)        18.3X      18.4X      27.91      19.91      15.92     16.11      15.72      14.92
5. Net Credit from the IMF             1.52      1.82       0.51      -0.61      -1.42     -0.22       0.32      -0.42
Memorandum Item:
GDP                                1079.4    1060.7    1058.2    1567.7    1951.7    2166.5    2360.9    2544.2
Nominal Off. X-Rate (IFS rf)        381.1      437.0      449.3      346.3      300.5     280.0      280.0      280.0
(a) SOP coverage was improved in 1985, hence data for 1983-84 are not coparable wLth subsequent ysars.



- 29 -
ANR= I
Page 3 of S
Table 3. MHALI,  TRmUL IZAnCZUO ICQUIFHMTS2  19d7-90 (us$ millims)
1967      196        lo9g9      1990
Current Account (excluding grants)                                          315.1      338.4      395.6     394.8
of which: interest paye nts                                              (27.9)    (29.5)    (27.9)    (30. 6)
A  rteatilen                                                                 35.5       57.5       42.9       47.5
XFW Repurchases                                                              26.6       24.6       25.0      16.9
Change in arrears (Lncrease  )                                              -13.6       26.6       20.6      21.4
Cbnse in reserves (decrJaso  ) (a)                                            0.7       20.9       11.1      -0.4
Other (b)                                                                    -3.0
TOTAL                                                                       357.3      495.0      503.1     482.4
DISBURSEUUZS
KzisrLSng Cemitmnts
Grants (c)                                                               202.3      214.6
Loans
Bilateral creditors                                                     60.2       62.5      59.3       16.2
of which: adjustment lending                                           (7.0)      (0.0)     (0.0)      (0.0)
Multilateral creditors                                                  7S5.       78.3       72.1      53.2
of which: IDA                                                         (42.9)    (47.9)    (35.4)    (24.3)
adjustment lendins                                          (0.0)      ...
Private (net)                                                            5.0 
IMF Resources                                                              0.0
of which: SAl                                                          (0.0)
Expected New Comitments
Grants (e)                                                                           ...       217.5     230.7
Loans
Bilateral creditors                                                                12.9      46.2       66.2
of which: adjustment lending (d)                                                  (9.0)    (15.8)    (13.5)
Multilateral creditors                                                             17.7      36.7       54.2
of which: IDA/SFA                                                                (11.6)    (20.2)    (18.6)
adjustment lending (c)                                                (17.0)    (29.7)    (25.5)
Private (net)                                                                       0.7       2.5        3.6
IMF Resources                                                                        20.7      31.2        9.4
of which: SAF                                                                    (13.9)    (20.7)      (9.4)
TOTAL                                                                       343.0      407.5      445.5     435.5
FINANCING GAP BEFORE RESCHEDULING                                                14.2      87.6       57.7       46.9
Debt Relief                                                                  14.3
RESIDUAL FINANCING GAP                                                           -0.1      87 6       57.7       46.9
-------------------------------------------_-----------------------__--------__--------------------------------
Memorandum item
Exchan.e rate (CFAFIUS$)                                                    300.5      280.0      280.0     280.0
(a) Excluding the change in the not position vis-&-vis the DHP
(b) Including errors and omissions
(c) No data are available on existing grant comiltments beyond 1988
(d) SJF for PE sector adjustment
(e) IDA and AfDB PE sector adjustment credits



-30-                                ANNEX!!
Page 1 of 2
MALI
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE BASIC DATE 1/
MINISTRY FOR PUBLIC
ENTERPRISES
1     1    Air Mali         EPIC    air transportation                    1960
2     2    CMTR             EPIC    trucking                              1961
3     3    COMANAV          SE      river transportation                  1968
4     4    COMATEX          EPIC    textiles                              1968
5     5    EDIM             SE      printing                              1972
6     6    EDM              SEM     electricity/water                     1960
7     7    EMAB             EPIC    furniture                             1970
8     8    EMANA            EPIC    maintainance                          1979
9     9    Gr Hotel         SEH     hotel management                   See SHM
10    10    ITEMA            SEK     textiles                              1969
11    11    LPM              SE      books                                 1965
12    12    OCINAM           SE      cinema                                1961
13    13    PPM              EPIC    pharmaceutical distribution           1960
14    14    SCAER            EPIC    agricultural equipment
15    15    SEBRIMA          SE      brick manufacturing                   1963
16    16    SEMA             SE      real estate                           1961
17    17    SEPAMA           SEN     groundnut oil pressing                1975
18    18    SEPOM            EPIC    oil refining/packaging                1968
19    19    SHM              EPIC    hotel/tourism                         1971
20    20    SMECMA           SEH     agricultural equipment                1969
21    21    SOCAM            SEN     canning                               1975
22    22    SOCIMA           SE      cement                                1969
23    23    SOCOKA           SE      food processing                       1962
24    24    SOCORAM          SEN     radio manufacturing                   1965
25    25    SOMBEPEC         SE      livestock products                    1967
26    26    SOMIEX           EPIC    import/distribution                   1960
27    27    SONATAM          EPIC    tobacco and matches                   1968
28    28    SONEA            SE      marketing of hides                    1961
29    29    SONETRA          SE      public works                          1962
30    30    TAMALI           EPIC    tannery
31    31    UCEMA            EPIC    ceramics
1/   This list excludes all agriculture development agencies (more than 20
Rural Developmen't Organizations, CMDT and Office du Niger) which are
parastatals of administrative nature providing government services as
autonomous agencies as well as OPAM (Cereal marketing). These
entities are being handled under separate agricultural sector and
future program lending operations.



-31 -                             ADIZX II
Pane 2 of 2
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORTATION
AND PUBLIC WORKS
32     1    ADM             Office  airport management                     1970
33     2    BETRAM           SE      road transportation equip.            1975
34     3    Cdlix            EPA     public works research                 1979
35     4    SDACI            SE      storage                               1977
36     5    DEASE            SE      storage                               1977
37     6    PETROSTOCK       SE      petroleum supplies                    1981
38     7    RCFM            R6gie   rail transportation                    1960
39     8    SAT              SE      road transportation                   1976
40     9    SOHITRAN         SZK     maritime transportation               1981
41    10    SONAM            SEM     naval equipment                       1981
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT
42     1    OEREN           EPIC    hydroelectric                          1982
43     2    OGHA             EPIC    mgt. of Hotel l'Amitd                 1978
44     3    OP Puits        EPIC    village wells                          1974
45     4    ORTI             EPIC    tourism                               1980
46     5    SMERT            EPIC    tourism                               1971
47     6    SOGEKFORK        SE      gold mine operation                   1963
48     7    SOMAPEM          SE      mining explor./operation              1961
MINISTRY OF
NATIONAL RESOURSES
49     1    Abt Frig         SE      slaughterhouse                        1969
50     2    Phar Vet        EPIC    veterinary products                    1979
51     3    SOLIMA           SEH     stockraising                          1976
52     4    ULB              SE      milk                         amended 1981
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
53     1    HUICOMA          SEM     cottonseed oil pressing               1979
MINISTRY OF PLANNING
54     1    FRUITEHA         SEM     fruit/vegetable exports               1981
55     2    SNED             SEM     studies                               1979
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION
AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
56     1    OPT             Office  posts/telegraphs                       1960
57     2    TIM              SEK     Telecommunications                    1981
NB:  EPIC - Etablissement Public & Caractere Industriel et Commercial
EPA  - Etablissement Public & Caractere Administratif
SEH - Socidt6 d'Economie Mixte; SE - Societe d'Etat
(File - PESAP2)



- 32-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 10
OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER                         REPUBLIC OF MALI
One People - One Goal - One Faith
No.   112   PRIM-CAB
Koulouba,   April 21  , 1988
The Prime Minister
To Mr. Conable
President of the World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
(Sent under covering letter
from the Mali Embassy to
Mr. Conable, dated 4/29)
Subject: Mali Public Enterprise Sector Adiustment Program
Dear Mr. President:
1.        The program to restructure the public enterprise sector is an
essential element in the Malian Government's adjustment program. By means
of this letter of sectoral policy, the Government of Mali is asking the
World Bank for a Sectoral Adjustment Credit to support the implementation
of the first phase of this program. A second phase will be proposed during
the execution of the first phase. The objectives of the public enterprise
sector adjustment program, the reforms that have already been introduced,
and the actions that the Government proposes to take during the first phase
of the program are set out below.
Obiectives
2.        The principal objectives of the program are to rationalize and
improve the performance of the public enterprise sector. The overall
objective of the adjustment measures taken by the Government is to improve
the performance of the Malian economy. The main goal of the public
enterprise sector restructuring program is to reduce the burden of this
sector on the country's economy and on public finances, and to institute
policies promoting the efficiencv of both public and private enterprises.
To achieve these goals, the Government is currently pursuing reforms in
four areas: (a) reform of economic policies with a view to better
management of public resources and establishment of an appropriate system
of economic incentives; (b) reform of the financial sector, and in
particular restructuring of the Banque de Developpement du Mali (BDM); (c)
adoption of an appropriate legal and institutional framework for the public
enterprise sector; and (d) rationalization of the sector throuigh



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 10
implementation of financial restructuring, divestiture and rehabilitation
measures.
Economic Policy Framework
3.        Public finances.  The programming of investments has been
considerably improved as a result of the adoption in January 1967 of a
system of three-year rolling investment programming. The Government and
the World Bank have reached agreement on the size and structure of an
investment program for the period 1988-90, and also on an investment budget
for 1988. The volume and composition of the three-year investment program
will be re-examined at regular intervals with the World Bank in the course
of preparation of the yearly investment budgets. Lack of economic and
financial justification for projects has been one of the principal causes
of the difficulties encountered by public enterprises. To remedy this
situation, the Government has decided that, in future, any Government
investment in public enterprises, including loan guarantees, will be
included in the annual investment budget and subjected to appraisal and
budgetary review procedures.
4.        The Government has generally undertaken to strengthen its
budgeting and financial monitorng procedures.  To this end, a consolidated
budget has been prepared for 1988 incorporating the various special funds
that had hitherto been outside t'ie budget.  The Government also undertakes
not to provide any extrabudgetary subsidies for public enterprises,
including cross-subsidies between enterprises.  To this end, a ministerial
Circular will prohibit any public enterprise from assigning goods, s-rvices
or cash to any other enterprise on other than generally accepted commercial
terms as regards price, date and method of payment.
5.        The Government has adopted new procedures closely involving the
public utilities in preparation of the Government budget, in order to
ensure adequate approp-iations for the prompt payment of water, electricity
and telephone bills. The relevant budget appropriations have been
increased by 472 percent. Application of the energy savings measures
contained in the Prime Minister's October 8, 1987 circular will prevent any
accumulation of arrears in 1988. All public enterprises are now authorized
to suspend the delivery of goods and services to any public agency that is
more than 120 days late in paying its bills.
5.        Economic incentives.  In order to reduce economic distortions and
thus improve the allocation of resources by the parastatal and private
sectors, the Government has embarked on a program for deregulating its
marketing and pricing policies. In October 1986, the system of price
controls underwent major revision. All prices have now been deregulated or
are subject to ex-pcst margin controls except for 34 essential items.
Prices for eight of these are set by the Government (regime de taxation)
and 26 are subject to ex-ante margin controls (homologation rigide).
These liberalization efforts will be continued with the progressive
transfer of products to more flexible control systems and reducing the



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 10
number of products subject to price controls to 22 by the end of 1988 and
to 11 by the end of 1989.
6.        In the fiscal area, the Government has taken measures to enable
public enterprises to operate on come rcial principles, in particular by:
(a) abolition by Law 87-51 of Decree 138 requiring the automatic transfer
to the Treasury of 90 percent of the profits of public enterprises and the
decision to allow the enterprises' boards of directors to propose the
distribution of profits in the form of dividends or to retain them in the
business; and (b) authorization for public enterprises to deduct from their
operating income a provision for replacement of plant and equipment,
together with write-offs for bad debts and obsolete inventories.
7.        To complete its liberalization strategy and to promote better
allocation of resources, all import monopolies, except for those on
essential drugs and tobacco, have been lifted. The import monopolies
formerly granted to SOMIEX, in particular, have been eliminated by order of
the Minister of Finance. The Government also promulgated a new comercial
code in 1986 which, among other provisions, abolished the need to seek
prior Government approval to set up a private enterprise.  The Government
also plans to develop a more effective system of incentives to encourage
private sector initiatives and to pursue the comprehensive reform of
external trade policies within the framework of a structural adjustment
program.
Financial Sector Reform
8.        In order to improve the system of financial intermediation, the
efficacy of which is essential for economic development, the Government has
undertaken a reform of the financial sector and intends to pursue this
vigorously. This reform will encompass the restructuring of two of Mali's
most important financial institutions, BDM and the Postal Checking Service,
and reform (within the limits of UMOA regulations) of the financial
policies controlled by the Government.
9.        Banaue de D4veloppement du Mali (BDH).  Beginning in December
1987, the Government took a number of urgent measures to halt the
deterioration in BDM's financial situation. These measures include: (a)
dissolution of its board of directors and transfer of all decision-making
powers to a provisional administrator appointed in agreement with BCEAO,
France and IDA; *b) new loans will only be made to reliable, solvent
current clients, and in order to finance seasonal cotton and peanut
marketing; (c) adoption of a plan to recover unpaid debts, particularly
from the largest borrowers; (d) reduction by 302 of the bank's payroll as
of September 30, 1986; and (e) negotiation of a short-term financial
support plan with BCEAO which is to be reviewed monthly until such time as
the restructuring plan for BDM discussed below has been put into effect.
10.       In the medium and long term, the Government wants BDM, once its
financial situation is restored, to be efficiently managed in accordance
with sound banking princ.ples. In consequence, it has decided to limit



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 10
Government's capital participation in BDM to 20 percent, the majority of
the capital to be held by other entities ansociated with a well-established
bank which would be responsible for managing the reorganized bank. To this
end, in January 1988 the Government sent a technical prospectus to
potential Malian and foreign partners outlining its intention with regard
to BDM.   The prospectus states that the Government undertakes to negotiate
a prior restructuring of BDM's balance sheet on the following principles:
(a) assumption by the Government of BDM's frozen loans and part of its debt
vis-&-vis BCEAO in order to return its net worth to zero; (b) subscription
with the new shareholders, on the terms and conditions specified earlier,
of a capital increase bringing BDM's capital stock to a level compatible
with BCEAO rules and Mali's banking law; and (c) management by the new
bank, for the Government's account and against a remuneration to be
negotiated, of the portfolio of frozen loans assumed by the Government. The
Government has asked these potential shareholders to make their position
known before Mar:h 31, 1988 so that negotiations with those that have
evinced interest can start by April 30, 1988. Should these negotiations
fail, The Government will examine other solatiors in conjunction with IDA.
A workout for BDM setting forth the schedule to be observed and the various
possible options to be pursued is attached to this letter.
11.       The Government requests IDA assistance, and will seek that of
other donors for purposes of meeting the cost of restructuring BDM.
12.       Postal Checking System: As regards the Postal Checking Service
(CCP) and National Savings Fund (CNE), the Government has resolved to take
the necessary measures to ensure that they are managed and run in
conformity with sound rinancial and institutional principles and
particularly to ensure their continued liquidity. The link with the
Treasury was therefore eliminated in 1986, and the Government has engaged
consultants to Drepare an action plan that is to be available by July 1988
and implemented during 1988. The implementation procedure will include
restoring the liquidity of the CCP system by paying all Government arrears
to OPT; in line with the program under discussion, priority will be given
to individual and private sector deposits.
13.       Financial sector policy.  The Government has also decided to
review the operations of the financial sector in order to improve financial
intermediation and the performance of the banking institutions. To this
end, it will, after study and before the end of 1988, propose the
macroeconomic and regulatory measures, deemed necessary.
Legal and Institutional Framework
14.       Legal and institutional reforms are one of the key areas in the
restructuring program for the sector.  In August 1987, the Government
promulgated Law No. 87-51/AN/RM governing relations between the Government
and State-owned Corporations (Societes d'Etat) and Industrial and
Commercial Public Enterprises (EPICs). This law marks a fundamental change
in relations between the Government and public enterprises, in particular:
(a) the composition of the board of directors has been redefined and its



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 5 of 10
functions have been strengthened; (b) the managing director is to be
appointed by the board of directors instead of by the supervisory ministry;
and (c) government monitoring of enterprise performance is separated from
management of the enterprises. The Government has already taken steps to
apply the provisions of the new law to the largest state-owned corporations
and EPICs and to ensure that it is applied to the remainder in the course
of 1988. It should be noted, that the new law does not apply to
mixed-capital companies, which will operate under the same conditions as
private companieg. Any current legal restrictions on the operation of
mixed-capital companies as private companies, (including any instrument
giving the Government powers exceeding the rights of ordinary shareholders
or those deriving from company charters) will be removed by April 30 1989.
15.       One element in the application of the new institutional framework
is the conclusion of performance contracts between the Government and
public enterprises. These contracts specify the assigned targets for each
enterprise, the respective obligations of its management and of the
Government, and the performance criteria to be taken into consideration.
Performance contracts will be signed with EDM, and the new postal and
telecommunications companies by April 30, 1989 and with COMANAV, OERHN and
SOMATAM by April 30, 1990.
16.       The poor performance of the enterprises is also attributable to
overstaffing and low productivity. In order to improve their performance,
the Government will give public enterprise management greater autonomy in
personnel management by promulgating amendments to Law 81-10 by April 30,
1989.
Rationalization of the Sector
17.       Recognizing the need to reform the public enterprise sector and
improve its performance, the Government has developed a sector rationali-
zation program. The program seeks, inter alia, to (a) settle the sector's
arrears; (b) financially restructure and/or rehabilitate enterprises
remaining wholly under State control; (c) rehabilitate and/or restructure
certain economically and financially viable public enterprises open to the
participation of private capital; (d) finacially restructure other viable
enterprises by opening them to private capit-l participation; (e) liquidate
entirely enterprises that are non-strategic and non-viable for Mali's
economy.
18.       Financial restructuring.  This component is intented to resolve
the problem of the arrears owed by 35 key enterprises. On the basis of a
study of the reciprocal debts of these enterprises, the Government has
developed a plan to settle arrears involving the Government, BDM, the
enterprises themselves, and other creditors. The plan calls for the
following actions: (a) payment of Government arrears to the enterprises;
(b) payment of arrears owed by the public enterprises to one another, to
BDM and to the other creditors; and (c) assumption by the Government of
guaranteed debts of enterprises under liquidation. As the divestiture
process (see below) will inevitably involve a reduction in staff in certain



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 6 of 10
enterprises, the Government has also undertaken to minimize the social
effects of personnel cutbacks by establishing a redeployme.at fund that will
(a) ensure the timely payment of severance indemnities to redundant staff,
and (b) provide financial assistance to facilitate their entry into the
private sector. The details of this financial assistance will be defined,
in consultation with IDA, by the end of 1988 on the basis of pilot programs
currently under way. An evaluation of the redeployment program will be
completed by April 30, 1990.
19.       The settlement of sector arrears was begun in 1986 and 1987 with
the cancellation of reciprocal debts between the public enterprises and the
Government and the settlement of certain arrears with financial assistance
from the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). Under the
public enterprise sector adjustment program, the Government undertakes to
eliminate the remaining arrears in accordance with the schedule to be
prepared before April 30, 1988.
20.       Divestiture.  The Government of Mali has adopted a policy of
divestiture to lessen the burden that public enterprises place on
Government finances and the banking system. This program is based on a
tripartite classification of public enterprises as shown in the table
below:
Classification of 35 Enterprises
under .he 2ublic Enterprise Adjustment Program
Group I               Group 2               Group 3
COMANAV               COMATEX               AIR MALI
EDM                   EDIM                  CMTR
OERHN                 EMAM                  EMAB
OPT-                  GRAND HOTEL           LPM
RCFM                  ITEMA                 OCINAM
SONATAM               PPM                   SAT
SEMA                  SCAER
SEPAMA                SEBRIMA
SEPOM                 SHM
SMECMA                SOCOMA
SOCAM                 SOCORAM
SOCIMA                SOMBEPEC
TAMALI                SOMIEX
UCEMA                 SONEA
SONETRA
21.       The first group is made up of those enterprises that the
Government has decided to keep under its own control. There are six such
enterprises: EDM, OPT, RCFM, COMANAV, SONATAM and OERHN.
22.       The second group, consisting of 14 enterprises, is made up of
those enterprises for which the Government has decided on the opening of
their capital to outside shareholders as its preferred method of



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Pane 7 of 10
divestiture. This does not, however, preclude other approaches, including:
(a) establishment of a new company to buy the assets of the existing
company (which would then be liquidated), and (b) leasing of the assets to
a management company. The objective is to reduce Government shareholding
in these enterprises to a minority position by the end of 1989. The
Government has prepared specific divestiture strategies for each of the
fourteen companies involved. As a first step, a law authorizing the
opening up of the capital of thirteen of the enterprises in this group was
promulgated on February 27, 1988, while two enterprises (ITEMA and SEPOM)
have already become private companies. The Government also undertakes not
to grant any special privileges (monopoly rights, exclusive import
licenses, guaranteed purchases, subsidies or credit facilities) to the new
private shareholders in these companies. In the course of the annual
progress review of the program, we shall evaluate the financial performance
of each enterprise and consider, for each of the companies in which the
Government is still the majority shareholder, whether the strategy is still
valid and, it need be, how it should be modified to achieve the Govern-
ment's goal of divestiture.
23.       For the textile sector the Government will adopt an action plan
consistent with the objectives for the enterprises in Group 2 before April
30, 1989.
24.       The third group, comprising 15 enterprises, is made up of those
that are currently being liquidated. The process is well advanced for ten
of these enterprises, and their liquidation will be completed before the
end of 1988. The laws authorizing the dissolution of 'he five remaining
enterprises have already been promulgated and their liquidation will be
completed during 1989.
25.       Concerning Air Mali:  the Government has appointed a liquidator
and instructed him to sell off the company's assets, using the proceeds to
reduce its debts before June 30, 1988. SOMIEX has been exposed since
February 1988 to market forces, which the Government intends to allow to
operate freely.
26.       Rehabilitation.  As part of its three-year investment program,
the Government is pianning the physical rehabilitation of certain
enterprises, notably the six companies in Group 1 above. Rehabilitation of
COMANAV is currently being prepared with financial assistance from the
Federal Republic of Germany, that of SONATAM with assistance from the
People's Republic of China, and that of RCFH with assistance from France
and Canada. Detailed rehabilitation programs have been established with
support from IDA and other donors for water supply, electricity and
telecommunications services.
27.       Since the coming on line of the Selingue hydropower plant, the
sharing of operational responsibilities for the electricity sector between
EDM and OERHN has given risen to operating problems. Moreover, EDM's
financial difficulties, together with inadequate day-to-day management,
have rendered it unable to satisfactorily meet the needs of water and



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 8 of 10
electricity distribution. Efforts to strengthen and reorganize EDM within
the framework of water and power projects are continuing and a number of
decisions have already been taken to remedy this situation. Notable among
these efforts are the following: (a) in November 1985 water and electri-
city charges were raised by 200 percent and 35 percent, respectively, and
are now at an adequate level; (b) pending the introduction of the texts
relating to the electricity Sector, EDH will be responsible for implement-
ing the investments initiated by it in the sector. Projects using loans
from the State, whether made directly or in the form of onlending (retro-
cession), will be executed by the company on the basis of a specific
mandate from the Minister responsible for Energy; and (c) the electro-
mechanical equipment at Selingu6 will be turned over to EDH under a
management contract. Before June 1988, the management of water and power
activities will be separated within EDM, OERHN's electrical staff will be
incorporated into EDM, and the Selingue management contract will be
drafted. The various texts relating to the water and power sectors (Water
Code, Electricity Code, company statutes and EDM/OERHN contract) will be
implemented by April 1989.
28.       In order to improve the quality of services offered by the OPT
(posts, telecommunications and postal checking system) and clear up the
financial situation of these various activities, the Government has decided
to take the following actions by January 1989: (a) sec up two separate
companies, one to run the postal service and the other to be responsible
for telecommunications, managing both domestic and international
telecommunications; and (b) reform the postal checking system and restore
its liquidity. As regards the postal checking system, the Government has
already taken steps to separate the cash reserves of the postal checking
system from the National Treasury and has commissioned a study to develop
specific measures to ensure that the management of the postal checking
system is independent of that of the postal system.
29.       Finally, to round out its plan for rationalization of the public
enterprise sector, the Government will before the end of 1988 undertake
additional studies of the 22 public enterprises not covered by the first
phase of the pre-ram.  On thp hasip of these studies, an action plan will
be prepared in consultation with IDA and adopted by the Government before
the end of 1989.
Prime Minister



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 9 of 10
BDH ACTION PLAN
A.         PREAMBULE
30.       The Government of Mali intends to open up the capital of BDM to
private shareholders in such a way that the State will hold only a maximum
202 participation. Among the private shareholders will be a
well-established bank (local or foreign) which will manage the restructured
bank, even if it is a minority shareholder. The action plan set below
indicates the measures that will be taken during the period of opening up
BDM's capital.
B.        TRANSITION PERIOD
31.       To halt the financial deterioration of BDM the following measures
will be implemented during the transition period;
(a) Before the end of March 1988: dissolution of the board of
directors, nomination of a provisional administrator (currently
being recruited and whose terms of reference were approved by the
meeting of donors in January 1988) and establishment of a
supervisory committee in accordance with Mali's legislation.
(b) Before the end of April 1988: preparation of a three-month work
plan by the provisional administrator, i.ncluding measures and
objectives to be achieved regarding:
(i) loan recovery, especially as regards the largest borrowers;
(ii) new credit, which will be limited to a percentage of the
repayments of sound loans, to ensure a balanced cash
position. New loans will only be made to reliable and
solvent clients and to finance seasonal cotton and peanut
crop expenditures.
(iii) costs reduction, inc;uding personnel costs, to make them
compatible with BDM's level of activity.
(iv) implementation of essential reorganization measures, in
particular in the areas of loans, repayments, overseas
operations and accounting.
This plan is designed to ensure a balanced cash position and
proper maniageme-.t of BDM. It will also include the cash
flow plan and the operating accounts resulting from the
measures referred to above. This plan will be communicated
to IDA.
(c) Supervision, after adoption of the provisional administrator's
work plan by the supervisory committee in the form of:



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 10 of 10
(i)  monthly review of the plan by the supervisory committee and
determination of any necessary corrective measures.
(ii)  submission to IDA (through the World Bank representative in
Bamako) within 10 days after they are approved of the
minutes of meetings of the supervisory coomittee.
C.        PERIOD FOR OPENING UP BDM'S CAPITAL
3.        This period has already begun with the submission of a technical
dossier to local and foreign banks and the recruitment by the Ministry of
Finance of a high-level advisor responsible, among other things, for
facilitating the search for private partners and assisting with the
negotiations to be undertaken to ensure their participation in the capital
of the restructured BDM. The Government has decided on the following
measures:
(a) submission to IDA of the list of banks and other private partners
(Halians or foreign) contacted;
(b) preparation of brief monthly progress reports on the status of
the actions undertaken to identify such partners, including the
measures to be taken in the following month (these notes will be
sent to donors);
(c) submission to IDA for prior comment of the negotiating dossiers
setting out the proposals that the Government will make to
interested partners;
(d) presentation to IDA for its agreement of the participation
conditions negotiated with the various partners in the
restructured BDM. In particular, the financial restructuring
plan must be presented in detail.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ACTION PLAN
4.        For purposes of implementing both the action program mentioned
above and the project itse'lf, the Government has decided that:
(a) Before June 30, 1988 and on the basis of the monthly progress
reports mentioned in paragraph 3 (b) above, the Government will
if necessary consult IDA to define other solutions acceptable to
the two parties and to agree on the subsequent stages.
(b) Before disbursement of the second tranche one of the solutions
agreed under the conditions of paragraph 4 (a) above shall have
begun to be implemented in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
(c) Before disbursement of the third tranche implementation of the
solution adopted and initiated before release of the second
tranche shall be fully completed.



mu
AFAS OF POLICY 111IP          CTIU   A      Y TA           bfor, 9rd Prootat ion   hfor 2nid  Trmnche ar am                     Tr_nda
lA1O-S3O4IC POLICY    Pr,migetion of lI_ 66-90.  Agree_mt on P4P and F-nd   P.dction of nuebee of                  1lmdUCtiON of nuet1r Of
r-dscing number of           SAF armore..                  good  maibct to prieo        goo  Abject to price
products  ubjectd to                                       controls.                    control..
rice cmnrol.                 Effecti,e abolition of
Semi.. Monopoli_e.           Areement cn tI.1              Agreement on the 1990
Pre  gpt rn of a ncn                                       Publ ic Investment Program. Pub ic Investment Program.
codJ  of commrce.            Ar.awmt on 1166 Public
I-artment ProIle9.-          Ar_amnt on   199 Budget    Agreemnt an 1990 BudWg
Abolish decroe 1S                                          allcation, for               allocation. for dlectricti
obliging PiE to transfer    Agreement to and 11            *I ctrici;t. *makr and        "ter *nd4 *lc_n;mi-
90  of of%r toe  profite    implicit PE croos-             talcco,nicati an             catieon. ervicem.
to Treamuy.                  aubaidi;a.                    erovice.
Authoriam%ion of  e  to
make provsian- for
plant and eeu.psent
renmea  a  aol I as to
.r%.m off bad det. antd
beolot. inventories.
Dernmant decisian to                                                                                                                                                        N
forage all PE invammnt
not incl4od in
investment budgot.
FDIMCiAL SwT.    aMM         mm
a) Decision to trnafer              re        an dot.i lad  Smtimfactory pragraf on    satiofact ry Programs an
mjority ornorsbip of         seak ot of am                   1I reform.                  ON refrm and finneial
WI private inaora            restructurins.                                             Policy refrm.
and rdce  owrn  s                                          OPT--Imp lmntotion of
sharoholding to 806.         OPT--Lmanch stdy for          pest.l echwinp refrm         Satiofactory progream  in
I chockinp  reform.     *aura.                        iolemnttion Postal  _imok
b)  appolatmant of                                                                      rderm
Adminimtratear                                             Action pian for the
Prowiaoira.                                                financial ector refer.
c)  *trengtle_ing of
loan eollection  Weort.
d)  redUction  of SOi>
pyroll by J0  (919                                                                                                                                                    lb
a)   o ltion of -1 11
proapectos for private
invtre.                                                                                                                                                                Il
SPT-4aperebion *of al
linko beta.s. the
Treasry _e  the p_otl
fimamoa  grebes.



naiC mn            1S1 AYIICI  aB
mu
AS OF POLICY  _i                  ACTION6 ALOEADY TAKEN      S      for  goard Presentation           Wero  2nd Trnd-a                   f     A.d Tr
Institutional Froa_orkl           Promulgation af Le              Appointwent of na  bords           Satisfactorily                    gSt feals.ry pregtsas in Wm
T-ol GoernGng                    f directors and                   implamentation of CIWM1AV.         implempantaite  of PE  ilary
g-rn_nt/PE r.lati one.          prom ulation of r-isd              OOl. P4 and SSiATAM                rof* s.
atatut.. tor  C01*MV,              reorganization in
Creation of                     OM. RCRI, and S54ATA4 in           conformity with La- 87-S1.         Review 1statas sad new
Intarsinisterial                confor.ity with Law 67-51.                                           beards of directo  fet  ill
Comaitta. chbired by                                               Promulgation of n_e Isn            M  in conmfatlt  with La.
Pri m  Minister for                                                 morning PE mlries                C7-U
program implementation.
Promulgation of mdel
sattutas for PEs.
Sector Rationaliation and         Drug distribution               Action plan for PE arr-ar-         Satisfactory programs in
Rentructsrstion.                  pri.atization.                  settlement.                        aettlement of PFE araer
Rde&ction of PE                 Promulgato In. initiating          Satisfactory progres in            Coelet  action plan
personnel bJ 1700               liquidatin of SETRA,               di.astitura program.               settlmet of PE *treers.
persons.                        OCIDNAI LPN. OCKP and ENO.
OFT--Craution of nd               Co_plwbs liqideien of OUR.
Promulgation of  sa"            Initiata 1  idati n and            ionaure of performance           SIt.  ClC. IR. and
initiating li;uidation         wattle liabilities of Ai,           contract  ith new pastl asI                                                                 J>
of 964  SAT. eAe .              Mali.                              and te. emunicationa
SEnDIA. SOCOIA.                                                    comp_n, si.                       Setiaactry pr_er_ OR
socaue  S      E/SEA.           Action plan for divestiture                                           privatizatian pragram.
of COMTEX, DIN,                    EON
Separate accounta and           SttIt  Grand Hotl                  a)  Promulgation of new           Apprwel of rewnigd "albt4b
financial managemant for        HI4COMSEMA. rTDIA. PPM,            water and elctricity              ftor all E.
-oste I and                     58A. SEP7M, S9tA,                  c-od; b)  agreament on
telecommunication               SOCAU. SOCIA, TAtLI and            modified statuteu; c)             Prwepration ad  ;gnianef
acti.itims within OFT.          MEMA.                              signature of performnce           eirfezmomc  emeucfa ftr
contracts with EON and              0tVMV.   . et n   TA5 .
Sopersto *ccoun-t  ad           Do,rnment proposition on           OBl an   W o"
financial mnagamont of          se.rune  pay and                   management contract d)
power and mater                 radegloyman  fund.                 integrtion of tha
acti,ities within 11* electricity staff of DOM.,
s) *tiafactory progras
Promulgate loe                                                     in th  implementation of
authorizing opening                                                the institutional
capital of EDDI                                                    reorganization.
COATEX.  1IM, Grand
Motol, I4JICItt  1184,
PPM, WBM. SAM.
fM,. SOCIA. SKDCNA,
TAEALI, and USS to
pri,ate shareholders.



-44                                       ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 3
.a Cs IS c
..       I    .             .
a_~~~~ .    Y X
I                 -E
*        Si



-45                         AMIEX V
Page 1 of 5
1e 9 d4cembre 1987
DOSSIER TECHNIQUE D'OUVERTURE DU CAPITAL
DE LA BANQUE DE DEVELOPPE1ENT DU VIALI
INTRODUCTION
1.        Dans le cadre d'un programme d'assainissement du secteur
hconomique de l'Etat entrepris avec l'appui de la Banque Mondiale (BIRD) et
de la Banque Africaine de D4veloppement (BAD), le gouvernement de la
R4publique du Mali ddsire restructurer la Banque de Developpement du Mali
(BLM) en vue d'en faire un instrument efficace de sa nouvelle politique
economique.  Le gouvornement estime on effet que le retablissement de la
BDM est la base du programse d'assinisswment du secteur public et plus
generalement du programme d'ajustement.structurel qu'ii desure
entreprendre. C'est A travers 10 redressement de la ADM que s'oplrera la
normalisation du secteur financier. en permettant notamment aux
entreprises, tant priv6es que publiques, de trouver les financements pour
leurs projets bancaires.
2.        D'ores et dej&, de nombreusos et importantes mesures ont 4te
prises pour reformer l'environnement dcoromique de l'entreprise malienne.
Ce sont
M)        Dans le cadre de la politiaue -conomigue    la
reduction du nombre de produits soumis au r6gine de fixation de
prix ; l'assouplissement des procddures de r4vision des prix
homologuEs ; la promulgation d'un nouveau Code de Commerce ; et
la r6forme du tarif douanier et reduction du taux de l'impOt
grOvant les b4ndfices industriels et commerciaux.
(ii)       Dans le secteur financier : la decision de transformer
la BDM en une sociEte anonyme et de rEduire la participation de
l'Etat a 202 de son capital ; et la sEparation de tous les
comptes de 1'Office des Po3te3 et Tdldcomrmunications et du
Tresor.
(iii)       Dans le cadre de la rationalisation du secteur public
la promulgation d'une loi r4gissant les relations entre VEtat,
d'une part et les sociEtEs d'etat et les etablissement publics
A caractere industriel et commercial, d'autre part ;
l'aboli:ion du tran3fert automatique des bEnEfices des
entreprises publiques du Tr#sor ; l'application aux entreprises
publiques des normes comptables les autorisant A ddduire de
leur revenues d'explcitation une provisicn pour renouvellement
dos installations et lea wontants correspondants aux dettes non
recouvrables et aux stocks kibsol6tes % la reduction de



At4htJA V
-46-                                    Page 2 of 5
l'effectif des entreprises publiques de 1700 persones : la
dissolution et ddbut de liquidation de sept sociEtes d'6tat.
PRESENTATION DU SECTEUR BANCAIRE
3.        La perspective de profit pour 1. secteur bancaire est
sous-entendu par le d6veloppement du secteur productif et l'existence d'un
sectour commercial actif. Les (changes avec l'tranger ont atteint environ
230 milliards de FCFA en 1986 et devraient atre du mOme ordre de grandeur
en 1987. Par ailleurs, le niveau des aides itrangOres eat dgalement
important en termes de flux de capitaux dont 1'essentiel-transite par le
systime bancaire.
4.        Un autre facteur est & considOrer.  Depuis l'annte 1984, la
ROpublique du Mali a rejoint la zone franc. La Banque Centrale des Etats
de l'Afrique de l'Ouest en est devenue la barque d'emission. Elie exerce
une tutelle sur le systOme bancaire malien. L'adhesion & la zone franc
confere A la monnaie un cours ee parite stable et autorise une grande
fluidit( dans les mcuvements de capitaux. Favorisant les (changes
commerciaux, t'appartenance a la zone franc est un facteur de d6veloppement
Oconomique ; les rapatriements des profits r4alis(s par des partenaires
etrangers s'en trouvent aussi facilit6s.
5.        Le systlme bancaire mal'en est compos( de six banques dont trois
remplissent un rOle (conomique eminent.  II s'agit de la Banque de
DOveloppement du Mali dont il est question dans la pr6sente note, de la
Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique de l'Ouest Mali (BIAO Mali) et de la
Banque Malienne de CrEdit et de D#p0t-(BMDC). Trois autres banques : la
Banque Nationale de D6veloppement Agricole (BNDA), la Banque of Africa Mali
(BOA Mali) et la Banque Arabe Lybionne du Mali (BALIMA) operent sur le
marche bancaire malien. Au 30 juin 1986 les parts de marchO
s'etablissaient i
DepOts DepOts
Credits Prives   Etat
Total en millions de FCFA                     77.090  56.318  14.691
BDM                                            72,2Z   36,9?   94,9Z
BIAO Mali                                      8,32    30,4Z    02
BMCD                                           10,52   19,62   1.52
BNDA                                            62      3,5Z    1,82
BOA Mali                                       1,42    5,22      ox
BALIMA                                         1,6Z    4,42    1,8?
1002    100?    100?
... mmin  _ ... inY



- 47 -                                    Page 3 of 5
6.        La r6partition du marchb  banc:ire dEmontre la place fort
lmportants4 do Is BDM qul asuruu  pobo dv truiaa qtiu:LM IUVl  UiditlM.  Ellu tie
mobiliso, par contre quo 31 aoes dEpOts provenant du sectour priv6. Alon
quo la JDM appartiunt encorv A l'Ptat, celui-ci d6tidnt mussi des
participations dans les autres banques maliennes hormis la BIAO Mali et la
MOA Mali qui sont *ntibremdnt priv6es.
7.        La BIAO Mali. comma  son nom l'indique est affili4e au group* BLAO
Prance. la 3MMC est affilide au groups du Cr#dit lyonnais. la lkar of
Afriia Hali appartient essentiallement I des actionnaires priv#s  ualiens et
africains, la Balima *st affili6e A un groupe bancaire lybien.
PRESENTATION DE LA ODM
S.        La statut juridique actuel de la BDM est celui d'un Etablissement
public r6git par une loi spicifique *(loi 68-24). Ce statut devrait
Evoluer, & court terme, vers cclui d'une sociEt6 anonyme de type classique.
9.        Son capital s6l1lve a FCFA 2.500 millions ; il est actuellement
ontibrement detenu par l'Etat uaalien. Son effectif s'lbve A pres de 630
personnes qui se rdpartissent entre ie siege I Bamako et 13 agences sur
l'ensemble du torritoire malien. Des antennes ant ece creees & Paris et A
Tripoli pour desservir lcs expatrids maliens en France et en Lybie.
10.       Un programme de restructuration est en cours au terme duquel
l'Etat malion rEduira sa participation A 202 seulement du capital au profit
dinvestisseurs institutionnels ainsi qu'au profit d'investisseurs priv6s
tant maliens qu'6trangers. L'Etat ddsire qu'aux nouveaux actionnaires
prives de la BDM soit associee une banque Lien Etablie qui assumera la
gestion de la nouvelle banque.
11.       I1 est effectivement addquat de se rdfdrer A une nouvelle banque
lorsqu'on aborde le devenir de.la BDM puisqu'il est prevu de proedder,
A un apurement financier en profondeur, avant l'ouverture de son capital,
accompagne d'une reorganisation importante qui devrait logiauement la
conduire A modifier sa raison sociale pour marquer la nouvelle orientation
de ses activites.
12.        'exercice fiscal de la BDM se termine au 30 Septembre. La
situation disponible la plus rdcente, est celle arritee au 30 Septembre 87.
13.       La situation dont il est question a dtd preparee par lea services
comptables de la banque qui ont tenu compte des dcritures d'inventaire et
do regularisation normalement effectuees en fin d'exercice.



ANNEX V
-48 -Page 4 of 5
La bilan de la RDH so prEsent. comme suit i (en milliards dd FCFA)
ACTIF                             PASSTF
Caisse et co:respondants       3.7         DCEAO                      37.3
CrQdits                       76.6         Correspondants              2
Comptes d'ordre  et divers   9.9           Depots + CrEditeurs        38.3
Participations                 0.4        Dettes LT                    4.5
Immobilisations                2.6        Compte d'ordre et divers   1.2
Resultat'                      1.1       ionds Propres                11
94.3                                    94.3
PRINCIPES D'OUVERTURE DU CAPITAL DE LA EDK
14.       Apurement du bilan de la BDM.  Le gouvernement desire negocier
l'ouverture du capital de la BDH avec des partenaires priv6s maliens et
etrangers sur la base d'un bilan apure, c'est-A-dire prtsentant aprbs avoir
soustrait les non valeurs de lVactif une situation nette de zEro. Pour ce
faire il envisage
(a)  de reprendre & son compte les dettes des sociftds d'etat -- et
cullec de 1'Etat evidemment -- vis-&-vis de la BDM ;
(b)  de reprendre Ogalezuent a son compte un-, partie des dettes du
secteur prive dans la mesure ou, a', .s analyse contradictoire du
portefeuille de la BDM et apres .&dgociations avec les futurs
partenaires, il s'avere qu'el:es sont definitivement
irr6couvrables. Ces credit qui seront retirEs de I'act:f seront
naanmoins confiGs k la gestion de la nouvelle batique qui devra
poursuivre les efforts A'e recouvrement pour le compte de 1'etat
sur la base d'une comrission & negocier
(c) de compenser la perte d'actif rEsultant des ajustements
prEcedents par une rEduction des fonds propres d'abord et si
nEcessaire ensuite par une prise en charge par l'etat d'une
partie de la dette de la BDM vis-&-vis de la BCEAO pour que la
situation nctte de la bangue soit zEro.
Cet apurewent du bilan sera nigoci4 avec les futurs actionnaires
de la BDM. A cette fin le Gouvernement a deja fait une estimation
des non valeurs de l'actif ; une audit des comptes de la BDM au
30. 09. 87 sera effectuee par un auditeur independant dont les
conclusions seront mises a la disposition des futurs actionnaires
de la BDM qui pourront slils le desirent faire une audit contradic-
toire pour preparer leur proposition d'apurement.



49                                         ANNEX V
Page 5 of 5
15.       Ouverture du capital de la BDM. Le gouverrement negociera               -
ensuite avec les partenaires privds potentiels leur part_-ipation au
capital et I la gestion de la nouvelle banque sur les bases suivantes
(a) recapitalisation de la banque par apport d'argent frais A un
niveau compatible avec les rugles de la BCEAO : gouvernement
malien 20 2, partenaires privds maliens et banque etrangere
associee et iventuellement institutions internationales 80 Z ; et
(b) transfert des pouvoirs de gestion A la banque associee seintionnie
prdcedemment qui assurera, en accord avec ses nouveaux partenaires
et sur la base de nouveaux statuts la gestion de la nouvelle
banque et procidera a toute decision de gestion qu'elle juge
compatible avec les intdrets de cette derni&re (ddsignation
aux postes de responsabilite y compris la direction generale.
reductior. d'effectifs, reorganisation et introduction d'un
nouveau systeme de gestion).
I1 serait souhaitable que la banque interessee a jouer ce role, recherche
a constituer un pool de banr-ies qui participeront egalement
au capital de la BDM, dont elle sera le chef de file. Cette banque pourra
aussi eventuellement prendre des contacts avec des prives maliens pour
preparer une proposition commune.
MODALITES DE MISE ENl OEUVRE
16.       DesireuEe d'aboutir rapidement a la mise sur pied d'une banque
renovee, appelee a jouer un r6le majeur dans le reajustement economique
qu'il a eutrepris, le gouvernement s'est adjoint les services d'un expert
dont les nom et coordonnees vous seront communiques ulterieurement.
Le gouvernement souhaite engager avec vous les discussions menant
& la mise en oeuvre de son projet sur les bases suivantes :
(a) communication officielle de votre position - eventuellement
assortie de remarques que vous jugerez necessaires -- a M.
le Ministre des Finances dans un ddlai d'un mois a compter
de la date de reception de ce dossier ;
(b) en cas de reponse positive, premier contact avec le Gouvernement
Malien et envoi dventuel d'une mission a Bamako pour un
audit contradictoire du portefeuille de la BDM dans un delai
d'un mois suivant votre reponse ; et
(c) debut de negociations -apr&s accord sur date et lieu-- deux
mois environ a partir de la date oui vous avez revu le
present.



- 50 -
ANNEXE VI
Page 1 of 1
MALI: FINANCING PLAN FOR PE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1988-90
REQUIREMENTS                                                   ........
BDM
-Loans to enterprises under liquidation                     11.1
-Other non-performing assests                               11.6
22.7
Postal Checking Reform
-Government arrears to OPT (*)                               5.2
-Balance needed to restore liquidity                         3.8
9.0
Government Arrears to: (*)
-EDM                                                         2.4
-PEs to be privatised                                        0.9
3.3
Arrears of PEs to be privatised to: (*)
-Government                                                  2.9
Debts of PEs under liquidation (excluding BDM): (*)            12.0
Severance Pay and Redeployment Fund                             3.5
Financial Restructuring of PEs to be privatized                 1.0
TOTAL                                                          54.4
...............................................................................
FINANCING
Government
-Cash Payment                                               28.8
-Consolidation of PE debts to Government                     2.1
-Consolidation of other PE debt/Asset sales                 10.0
-Freezing public sector postal checking accounts             1.9
BCEAO and others                                               11.6
54.4
(*) After cancellation of reciprocal debts



- 51 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 4
MALI: PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSThENT PROGRAM
Supplementary Credit Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Appraisal Mission:                                    November 1987
(b) Completion of Negotiations:                              March 1988
(c) Planned date of effectiveness:                            July 1988
Section II: Special Bank ImDlementation Actions
Prior to April 30, 1989 and April 30, 1990, or other agreed date, the
Bank will review the Government's progress in implementing the adjustment
program.
Section III: Special Conditions
Board Presentation of the IDA and Africa Facility credits would be
subject to:
(a)  Adoption of a medium-term macroeconomic program and financing
plan;
(b)  Budget--agreement on 1988 allocations for electricity, water and
telephone services; adoption of 1988 investment budget;
(c)  Agreement to end all PE extrabudgetary subsidies, including
implicit cross-subsidies between enterprises;
(d)  Agreement on workout for BDM restructuring;
(e)  Agreement on calendar for settling PE cross-arrears;
(f)  Initiation of study to develop specific postal checking reform
measures;
(g)  Preparation of draft law increasing autonomy of PEs with regard
to personnel and salary policies;
(h)  Promulgation of reorganization texts for COMANAV, OERHN, RCFM,
and SONATAM;
(i)  Promulgation of law dissolving SONETRA, OCINAM, LPM, CMTR, and
EMAB;
(j)  Air Mali--promulgation of law dissolving Air Mali and settlement
of liabilites;
(k)  Agreement on divestiture strategies for COMATEX, EDIM, EMAMA,
Grand Hftel, HUICOMA/SEPOM, ITEMA, PPM, SEMA, SEPAMA, SMECMA,
SOCAM, SOCIMA, TAMALI, and UCEMA;



- 52 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 4
(1) SOHIEX--effective abolition of SOHIEX import monopolies;
(m) Preparation of proposal for use of the "Fonds de Reinsertion,;
(n) EDH--plan for separation of water and electricity activities and
integration of OERHN power personnel, and preparation of
EDM/OERHN management contract;
Effectiveness of the IDA credit which would permit use of the first
tranche of US$16 million equivalent would be subject to:
(a) Opening of Special Account at BCEAO.
Release of the second tranche of US$ 12 million equivalent of the
credits would be contingent upon satisfactory progress made by the
Government in carrying out the adjustment program, in particular:
(a) Reduction of the number of products subject to official price
controls;
(b) Budget--agreement on 1989 allocations for electricity, water and
telephone services; adoption of 1989 investment budget;
(c) Progress in implementing the BDM restructuring plan;
(d) Implementation of appropriate measures to assure the financial
soundness of the postal checking system;
(e) Preparation of an action plan for further financial sector
reforms;
(f) Implementation of reorganisation measures for COHANAV, OERHN,
RCFM and SONATAM;
(g) Promulgation of revised law regulating PE personnel policy and
salaries;
(h) Promulgation of model statutes for Societes d'Etat et EPIC;
(i) Progress in eliminating PE cross-arrears;
(j) Progress in implementing the privatisation strategies for
COMATEX, EDIM, EMAMA, Grand Hotel, SEPOM, ITEMA, PPM, SEHA,
SEPAMA, SMECHA, SOCAM, SOCIMA, TAMALI, AND UCEMA;
(k) Evaluation of actions taken under the divestiture program and of
the financial performance of PEs included in the program;
(1)  Progress in implementing postal and telecommunications sector
institutional reforms;



- 53 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
(m) Progress in implementing power and water sector institutional
reforms;
(n)  Complete liquidation of AIR MALI, SHK, SAT, SCAER, SEBRIMA,
SOCOMA, SOCORAM, SOIBEPEC, and SONEA;
(o) Initiation of study to define action plan for 22 PEs to be
included in second phase of the program;
(p) Progress in implementing program for redeployment of former PE
employees.
(q) Action plan for textile sector.
(r) Abolition of legal measures according the state special rights in
mixed capital companies.
(s) Implementation of agreed action plan for SOMIEX.
Release of the third tranche of USS 12 million equivalent of the
credits would be contingent upon satisfactory progress in implementing the
program, in particular:
(a) Budget--agreement on 1990 allocations for electricity, water and
telephone services; adoption of 1990 investment budget;
(b) Progress in implementing BDM, postal checking, and financial
sector reforms;
(c) Progress in applying new law regulating PE personnel policies and
salaries;
(d) Completion of action plan for settling PE cross-arrears;
(e) Progress in implementing the privatisation strategies for
COMATEX, EDIM, EMAMA, Grand Hotel, HUICOMA/SEPOM, ITEMA, PPM,
SEMA, SEPAMA, SMECMA, SOCAM, SOCIMA, TAMALI, AND UCEMA;
(f)  Promulagation of individual statutes for all Societes d'Etat et
EPIC;
(g) Progress in implementing postal and telecommunications sector
institutional reforms;
(h) Progress in implementing power and water sector institutional
reforms;
(i) Complete liquidation of CMTR, EMAB, OCINAM, LPM, and SONETRA;
(j) Preparation and signature of performance contracts with COMANAV,
RCFM, OERHN, and SONATAM;



- 54 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 4
(k) Adoption of action plan for PEg to be covered by 22 enterprises
not included in first phase of program;
(1) Evaluation of program for redeployment of former PE employees.



- 55-
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as of March 31. 1988
borrower: Reoublic of Mali
Credit     IDA Fiscal                 Purpose                      Amount   (less cancellations)
Nuhber         Year                                                   IDA        Undisbursed
------US$ million--------
Twenty three Credits fully disbursed                                195.2
966-MLI      1980      Industrial Sector Development                 8.0              0.6
1200-MLI       1982     Second Telecommunications                    13.5   1/         0.7
1282-MLI       1983     Water/Power                                  24.0              3.5
1307-MLI       1983     Economic Management and Training             10.4              3.4
1403-MLI       1984     Biomass Alcohol and Energy Efficiency          7.6             6.8
l4lS-MLI       1984     2nd Hali-Sud Rural Development               25.9              4.2
1422-MLI       1984     Health Development                           16.7              8.1
1431-MLI       1984     Rural Water Supply                             4.6             1.7
1442-MLI       1984     Third Education                                4.6             1.4
1597-MLI       1985     Mopti Area Development                       19.5             21.2
1629-MLI       1986     Fifth Highway                                48.6             56.0
1654-MLI       1986     Second Forestry                                6.3             4.2
1677-MLI       1986     Second Urban                                 28.0             26.3
F007-MLI       1984     Rural Water Supply                             6.3             3.9
1O0-MLI        1984     Third Education                                4.9             2.0
Total               424.1           143.7
of which has been repaid                      5.9
418.2
Total now held by IDA                       418.2
Total undisbursed                                           143.7
1/   Beginning with Credit 1200-MLI, credits have been denominated in Special Drawing
Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar equivalents at the
time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the dollar equivalents as of
March 31, 1988, for the undisbursed amounts.



- 56 -                           ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31. 1988
Loan                                                             Amount                    Un-
Number       Year        Borrower               PurDose          of Loan      Equity  Disbursed
US$ million
403-MLI      1978        Soci6t6 Mamadou        Bleach and       0.5       1/     0          0.0
Sada Diallo           Plastic
et fils               Products
612-MLI      1982        Soci6te  Indus-        Sheanut          1.8       2/       .45      0.0
trielle de            butter
Karitd du Mali,       for export
S .A.
1/   The amount of loan has been changed from $600,000 to $537,000 because of a
rescheduling of the loan. The current amount outstanding is $264.000.
2/   The amount indicated is the one of the date of the loan, with the fluctuations in
exchange rates, the current value would be $2.8 million. The outstanding amount is
presently $2.07 million.



MALI                                                                                                                                                                          '   -
PAEDRO                                                                                                                                                                                                A   L  G    E  R    I A
PO0/TfS fVRE 'ELIS                                      M                                                                                                                             .
I`[ ARlI ROADS
RA.IROAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O
CWOt f.V DC f,D
NAVIGAB E RIVERS 1 JULY DECEYBtRI                       U
DIVf/F RE  AVIGADIE t)UI2Iit'  OECEAERRF I                                                                                                                                            A
f IS       ...IIY    ON/I Rf SI LV.OOR  ...........   
RARRAORYYAI t Z  5SR     fASE f                                               *                                                                                                    *I._                                               r
REION,CANTALSION                                        I                                                                                                                         I    . |                               .
C~~11 'It, It   -                   I     ~       ~        I                                                                         I 
REGION OS{J|A|*s
-/OR/f Of RWGIOl                                        T
m     NASIONAI  TAP'TAL
. ~ ~ ~ ~ C RI 0410> DEFIlE                                             A                       |                                                                         i                   , a,, o                                                      ,.
-   INTERNATIONAL ROANDARIES                                                                                                             .
*fOfI!FLEES IDITERAOh)AE/fILA|E
L  00YliRSO    A00    250                                                                                   TOMbL A
*                                                                                          I                                    T10Je, J.RA R RD JN    I  G    E  RY
(        '>            r -.*                                   L. \    NR I          /                             ,                                                                             v
SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         M .O6  - 'f-/r      
_ r . L NA< ,,_ |-rR\                                                                                                     N.                            o/olestk )( ,<,^ <BURKINA  FASO
-                     E                       9L                                                                                               | N,MAURITANIA
11 ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ .O  /                    _   *A} : W IEA XO.De                 ,~_                                                                                                                         A
AOI*ro~ _R.                       COTEIN_ D I                   ,
GHANA                                                WKMI~~~~~~IAL RA
I   AU



