Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 1938 MLI
                       Development Credit Agreement
                     (Public Enterprise Institutional
                           Development Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated September 7, 1988
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 1938 MLI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 7, 1988, between REPUBLIC OF MALI (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter of intent dated
April 21, 1988, from the Borrower describing the Borrower's strategy in
respect of its Public Enterprise Sector (PE Sector), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of a program of actions designed to
achieve essential reforms of the Borrower's PE sector (said strategy and
actions hereinafter called the Program), and requesting assistance from the
resources of the Special Facility for Sub-Saharan Africa (the African
Facility) in the financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution;
      (B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional
assistance in support of the Program and, by an agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and, the Association (the Program Development
Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to provide such assistance
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty-nine million four
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 29,400,000) (the Program
Development Credit);
      (C)   the Borrower has also requested the Association as Administrator
of Special Joint Financing from Japan (the Japanese Grant Administrator) to
provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Program under the
Special Joint Financing Agreement for the African Facility, and by an
agreement of even date hereto by the Borrower and the Japanese Grant
Page  2
Administrator (the Japanese Grant Agreement), the Japanese Grant
Administrator is agreeing to provide such assistance in an amount of one
thousand million Japanese Yen (Y 1,000,000,000) (the Japanese Grant).
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Japan Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) under the Special Joint Financing Agreement
for the African Facility a loan (the OECF Loan) in an amount of four
thousand million Japanese Yen (Y 4,000,000,000) to assist in the financing
of the Program on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF;
      (E)   the Borrower has contracted from the Saudi Fund for Development
(SFD) a loan under the Special Joint Financing Agreement for the African
Facility (the SFD Loan) in an amount of twenty-two million Saudi Riyals (SR
22,000,000) in support of the Program on the terms and conditions set forth
in an agreement (the SFD Loan Agreement) dated February 12, 1987 between the
Borrower and SFD;
      (F)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has also
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (b)   Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
            "(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event
      not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date
      as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
      Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
      Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
      operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
      derived from it, the execution of the Program referred to in the
      Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
      Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
      the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
      purposes of the Credit."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement and
in the Program Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "BEP" means the Borrower's Bureau des Entreprises Publiques
established pursuant to Ordonnance No. 85-07/PRM of March 23, 1985;
      (b)   "Central Bank" and "BCEAO" means the Banque Centrale des Etats
de l'Afrique de l'Ouest;
      (c)   "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower.
      (d)   "MFC" means Ministry of Finance and Commerce;
      (e)   "OPT" means Office des Postes et Telecommunications, a PE of the
Borrower of rating pursuant to Law No. 81-16/AN-RM of March 3, 1981 and,
Page  3
whenever the context requires, after OPT's dissolution and the creation of
the new PEs referred to in Part D of the Project, shall mean said new PEs;
      (f)   "OPT Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and OPT pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended or assigned from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the OPT Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
      (g)   "PE" means public enterprise, namely any enterprise in which the
Borrower has directly or indirectly (through any of its subdivisions or
through other public enterprises) a financial participation equivalent to
20% or more of said enterprise's equity;
      (h)   "Project Preparation Advances" means the project preparation
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges
of letters dated June 25, 1985 and June 26, 1985; and July 26, 1986 and July
28, 1986 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit, may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in CFAF a special account in its Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; (ii) at the rate set as of June 30 immediately preceding the
Accrual Date or at such other rates as may be set from time to time
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that year,
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Page  4
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1,
1998, and ending May 1, 2028. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on May 1, 2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The Director of BEP and the Borrower's Agent Comptable
Central du Tresor are jointly designated as representatives of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B and E of the Project through BEP and
Part C of the Project through MFC with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, public
administration, commercial and management practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause OPT to carry out Part D of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, commercial, management and utility practices and
shall provide or cause OPT to provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
Page  5
facilities, services and other resources required for said Part of the
Project.
      (c)   The Borrower shall relend to OPT such part of the proceeds of
the Credit as shall be allocated from time to time to Categories (9) through
(12) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and OPT under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association.
      (d)   The terms and conditions of the OPT Subsidiary Loan Agreement
referred to above shall: (i) include a 20-year repayment period, including
a 5-year grace period, an annual interest rate of 7.72% and a requirement
that OPT shall bear the foreign exchange risk on all amounts onlent to it;
and (ii) provide for the assignment of all rights and obligations thereunder
to the PEs resulting from OPT's reorganization after their creation, the
apportionment of such assignment between such PEs to be satisfactory to the
Association.
      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the OPT Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the OPT Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof (except as provided in paragraph (d) (ii) above).
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that BEP shall, under
administrative arrangements satisfactory to the Association, be responsible
for, inter alia, the following tasks:
            (i)   detailed preparation of PE policy, legal and
                  institutional reforms;
            (ii)  monitoring of the implementation of PE reforms and
                  preparation of complementary measures;
            (iii) preparation of divestiture strategies;
            (iv)  preparation of proposals to facilitate the redeployment
                  of redundant PE personnel;
            (v)   monitoring and reporting on the progress of the Program;
            (vi)  establishing its operational procedures as required for
                  the preparation and implementation of, inter alia, work
                  programs, job descriptions, accounting systems, budget
                  control procedures and employee appraisal systems; and
            (vii) compilation of cross-debt statistics and outstanding debt
                  figures.
      (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that BEP shall at all times be staffed
with qualified and experienced personnel in adequate number, including such
personnel as provided for in Section I, paragraph 1, of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that MFC shall be responsible
for, inter alia, the following tasks:
      (a)   management of the implementation of PE divestiture under the
Program, including:
            (i)   execution of liquidation operations;
            (ii)  transfer of all or part of PE capital owned by the
                  Borrower;
            (iii) promotion of private participation;
            (iv)  compilation of Borrower and PE cross-debt statistics and
                  outstanding debt figures; and
Page  6
            (v)   carrying out of negotiations with creditors and potential
                  investors.
      (b)   design and implementation of a follow-up system of financial
performance based on periodical information supplied by PEs, particularly
through the system of performance contracts;
      (c)   economic evaluation of all PE investment proposals which
financially engage the Borrower;
      (d)   preparation of further macro-economic adjustment measures in the
Borrower's territory; and
      (e)   preparation and implementation of the reforms of the Borrower's
banking sector.
      Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for Parts A, B,
C and E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that procurement by OPT of the goods,
works and consultants' services required for Part D of the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause BEP and MFC,
each for their part, to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A, B, C and E of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out such
Parts of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including thoe for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the completion of
                  the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
Page  7
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause OPT to maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause OPT to:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial statements
                  (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
                  related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year (A) certified copies of its financial
                  statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning such records, accounts, financial statements
                  and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
      (c)   The records and accounts referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section shall include the records and accounts for the Special Account as
they relate to OPT and to the extent they shall not have been included in
the Borrower's records and accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of this
Agreement.
      (d)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall cause OPT to:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                  Section, records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until one year after the Association has received
                  the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
                  disbursement from the Credit Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such accounts are included in the annual
                  audit, referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
                  that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                  by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause OPT:
      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
Page  8
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practices;
      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial, commercial and utility practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers; and
      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery,
equipment and other property and from time to time, promptly as needed, to
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering, financial, commercial and utility practices.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   That an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
      (b)   The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Program Development Credit Agreement.
      (c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of any grant, loan or credit (including the Program
                        Development Credit) made to the Borrower for the
                        financing of the Project or in support of the
                        Program shall have been suspended, cancelled or
                        terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
                        terms of the agreement providing therefor, or
                  (B)   any such loan or credit shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that:
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                        prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                        Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                        such agreement; and
                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project and in support of
                        the Program are available to the Borrower from
                        other sources on terms and conditions consistent
                        with the obligations of the Borrower under this
                        Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of sub-paragraph (ii) of
that paragraph.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
Page  9
      (a)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Program
Development Credit Agreement, the Japanese Grant Agreement, the OECF Loan
Agreement and the SFD Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
      (b)   the OPT Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and OPT.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association,
namely, that the OPT Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the Borrower and OPT and is legally binding upon the Borrower
and OPT in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02 and
4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Program Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on the date fifteen (15) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement,
the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere des Finances et du Commerce
            Bamako
            Republic of Mali
            Cable address:                Telex:
            MINIFINANCES                        2559 MINIFINANCE
            Bamako
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF MALI
Page  10
                  By /s/ Nouhoum Samassekou
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
     Credit Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
Parts A, B and E of
the Project
(1)     Advisors                   1,100,000        100%
    and consultants
(2)     Vehicles,                    150,000        100%
    equipment and
    furniture
(3)     Operating costs               80,000        50%
(4)     Training                     380,000        100%
(5)     Studies                      500,000        100%
Part C of the Project
(6)     Advisers and                 650,000        100%
    consultants
(7)     Operating costs               80,000        50%
(8)     Vehicles, equipment           80,000        100%
    and furniture
Part D of the Project
(9)     Consultants                1,700,000        100%
(10) Vehicles, equipment             380,000        100%
     and furniture
(11) Civil works                     150,000        50%
(12) Training                        150,000        100%
Other
(13) Refunding of                  1,100,000        Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                               suant to Section
     tion Advances                                  2.02 (c) of this
                                            Agreement
Page  11
(14) Unallocated                     500,000
        TOTAL                      7,000,000
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
    (b)   Categories (9) through (12) of the table set forth in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement until the Borrower and OPT shall have
determined, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the principal
respective actions and obligations of the Borrower and OPT which shall be
included in the Charters (Statuts) of the PEs referred to in Part D.2 of the
Project and in the performance contracts to be concluded between the
Borrower and such PEs.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to provide to the Borrower the needed
institutional support to carry out and maintain the adjustments to its PE
sector as provided for in the Program.
    The Project consists of the following parts subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of Public Enterprise Bureau
1.  Assistance to BEP in the management of all activities and in the
discharge of the responsibilities, referred to in Section 3.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.  Development of BEP's capacity to function as the technical body for the
reform of the PE Sector including, inter alia, the establishment of a
Management Information System (MIS) to enable BEP to periodically evaluate
the overall performance of PEs.
Part B:   Training of BEP Staff and PE Managers
    A training program for BEP staff and PE managers consisting of:
    (a)   training seminars and courses organized by BEP in:
          (i)   corporate planning (including the use of performance
                contracts);
          (ii)  internal control, auditing and accounting standards and
                reporting;
          (iii) investment appraisal and capital budgeting techniques; and
          (iv)  general enterprise management;
    (b)   on-the-job training by resident advisors to BEP.
Part C:   Assistance to the Ministry of Finance and Commerce
    Assistance to MFC in the management of all activities, and in the
discharge of the responsibilities referred to in Section 3.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement.
Part D:   Support to the Postal and Telecommunications Sectors
1.  Assistance in the reorganization of the Borrower's postal and
telecommunications sectors and their financial restructuring.
2.  Strengthening of the operations of the PE for postal
Page  12
services to be created under the Program, including:
    (a)   improvement of the organization and management of said PEs;
    (b)   improvement of labor management policies;
    (c)   rehabilitation of the mail services;
    (d)   strengthening of domestic and international mail services through,
inter alia, studies, civil works, and the provision of vehicles and
equipment; and
    (e)   management training.
Part E:   Studies
    Assistance in the carrying out of studies to prepare the basis for
further adjustment in the Borrower's PE sector, including:
    (a)   formulation of action plans for the PEs to be restructured in
further phases of the reform;
    (b)   evaluation of the Program with regard to: (i) divestiture
experience; (ii) PEs financial results; (iii) PEs results under performance
contracts; and (iv) the role of supervisory ministries;
    (c)   impact studies;
    (d)   studies on the reconversion of former PE employees;
    (e)   formulation of an action plan for financial policy
reform; and
    (f)   formulation of an action plan for the PE textile sector.
                             *   *   *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods for OPT shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those
set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Mali may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Civil Works for OPT may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association and paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines.
2.  Items for OPT which could not be grouped in bid packages of more than
the equivalent of $50,000 up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $250,000, and equipment, vehicles and furniture for BEP and
Page  13
MFC may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers from at
least three different countries eligible under the Guidelines and in
accordance with paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (12)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to one
hundred fifty million francs CFA (CFAF 150,000,000) to be withdrawn from the
Credit Account and deposited in the special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in
accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may
be made as follows:
    (a)   On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a
deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts not
exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, for
which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or
all the time of such request, such documents and other evidence as the
Association shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.  (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association
when either of the following situations first arises:
          (i)   the Association shall have determined that all further
                withdrawals should be made directly by the Borrower from
                the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
                Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
                Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
          (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
                eligible Categories for the Project, minus the amount of
                any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Page  14
                Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
                Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be equal to
                the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
                Allocation.
    (b)   Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for
the Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in such Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in
any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
                                SCHEDULE 5
I.  Staffing and Technical Assistance for BEP
1.  Staffing of BEP
    The General Directorate of BEP will be staffed as follows:
          -     General Director
          -     Professionals (3 staff)
          -     Administrative and support staff (including four
                accountants, two administrative assistants, three
                secretaries, two messengers, two drivers).
2.  Resident Advisory Services (totalling about 36 person-months)
    One senior advisor.
3.  Short-term consultants (totalling about 168 person-months)
    BEP shall obtain the assistance of:
    (a)   short-term consultants including as required,
accountants/auditors, liquidators, investment bankers, lawyers and computer
specialists. Their principal tasks will be to assist BEP in PE divestiture
activities, in the preparation of performance contracts and of a suitable
manual of instructions for BEP's activities;
    (b)   a general training coordinator to assist BEP in preparing and
monitoring its training program referred to in Part B of the Project; and
    (c)   other consultants to carry out ad hoc functions as may be
determined with the concurrence of the Association.
II.       Technical Assistance for MFC
1.  Resident Advisory Services (totalling about 36 person-months)
    One senior adviser.
2.  Short-term consultants (totalling about 30 person-months) MFC shall
Page  15
obtain the assistance of:
    (a)   short-term consultants including as required, accoun-
tants/auditors, liquidators, investment bankers, lawyers and specialists
whose main task will be to assist MFC in the implementation of the
privatization program, the design and implementation of banking sector
reforms, the completion of liquidation proceedings, the evaluation of PE
financial results and the preparation of additional macroeconomic reforms;
and
    (b)   other consultants to carry out ad hoc functions as may be
determined with the concurrence of the Association.
