                                           Document of

                                      TheWorld Bank

                                    FOR OFFICULUSE ONLY




                                                                                     R q m l No. 11994




                                 PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT




                                              MALI




                            PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
                                      (CREDIT 1937-MLI)




      Industry and Energy Division
      Sahelian Department
      Africa Regional Office



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           Currency Unit                   =           CFA Franc (CFAF) 2

                           US$l.OO                         --          CFAF 281 2
                           CFAF 1 million                              US$3,559

                           US$l.OO                         =           Y129.28(JapaneseYen)2'
                           US$I .OO                        -           Y125 (Japanese Yen)

                           US$I .OO                        =           SR3.7505 (Saudi Riyal)
                           US$l.OO                         =           SR3.745 (Saudi Riyal)




                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1 to December 31




11    The CFA is tied to the French Fnnc (FF) in the ratio of FP I .O to CFAP 50.0. m e French Fnnc is cumntly
      floating.

-
2/    Exchange ntc of June 30, 1992.

-31   Exchange rate of March 3, 1988.

                                                                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                      THE WORLD BANK
                                                   Wuhlngton, D.C. 20433
                                                              U.SA




                                                                  June 14, 1993




            pDIRECTORSANDTHEPRFSIDm                    CUTlVE


      SUBJECT:        Project Completion Report on Mali




      Attached is the Project CompletionReport on MaliPublicEnterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (Credit
1937-MLl)prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part I1contributed by the Borrower.

      The Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit supportedthe improvement of public enterprise (PE)
performance through: (i)reform of public expenditureand economic incentives; (ii) financialsector reforms,
especially the restructuring of the statcowned development bank; (iii)                institutional and legal reforms
affecting relations between the Government and public enterprises; and (iv) public enterprisercst~~cturing
and divestiture.

      Overall, the performance of the opetation is rated as satisfactory. The key policies were instituted,
albeit with delays. PE restructuring led to settlement of cross-arrears among them; divestiture (including
privatization) of some; and rehabilitation of major PEs dealing in utilitits and inhstructurc smices.
Sustaiaability, however, is uncertain. The remaining public enterprises require improved management.
Some continue to experience financial deterioration. Institutional capacity remains weak and the social
consequenceshave not been fully escertainedor dealt with.

     The PCRprovides a balanced accountof accomplishments and shortcomings. Part 11is comprehensive
and instructive. In commenting on the findings ofPart I, the Borrower emphasizes the uncertain impact on
future financial operations of enterprises still un&r government control; the inadequacy of the h c i n g
received, the shortcomingsof project accomplishmentswith nspect to privatization; and the social adverse
consequences of divestiture.

      OED intends to carry out an audit of this adjustment operation, focussing on issues related to
privatization.




Attachment


  Thir documenth a r rcltrictaddiiiution d m y be ursd by recipie- only inthe pwfonrull~o thcu ofaGtl duties. b ccold.m
                                                                                        of
  may not ohenvim be d i r l o d without World Bank authorization.


                                                                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                MBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


        BCEAO                      Banque Centrale des Etats de lSAfriquede 1'Ouest
        BDM                        Banque de Dkveloppement du Mali
        COMANAV                    Compagnie Malienne de Navigation
        COMATEX                    Compagnie Malienne de Textiles
        EDM                        Energie du Mali
        EDIM                       Editions Imprimerie du Mali
        EMAB                       Entreprise Malienne du Bois
        EMAMA                      Entreprise Malienne de Maintenance
        EPA                        Etablissement Public B Caractere Administratif
        EPIC                       Etablissement Public B Caractere Industriel et Commercial
        HUICOMA                    Huilerie Cotonnikre du Mali
        r n M A                    Industrie Textile du Mali
        LPM                        Librairie Populaire du Mali
        OCmAM                      Office CinkmatogmphiqueNational du Mali
        OERHN                      Office d'Exploitation des Ressources Hydrauliquesdu Haut Niger
        om                         Office Nationale des Postes
        OPT                        Office des Postes et Tklbmmunications
        PE                         Public Enterprise
        PPM                        Pharmacie Populaire du Mali
        RCFN                       Rkgie des Chemins de Fer du Mali
        SAT                        SocikteAfricaine de Transport
        SCAER                      Socikte de C&it Agricole et d'Equipement Rural
        SEBRIMA                    Socikte de Briqueterie du Mali
        SEMA                       Socikted'Equipement du Mali
        SEPAMA                     Socikted'Exploitation dea Produits Arachidiers du Mali
        SEPOM                      SociM des Produits Oldagineux du Mali
        SMECMA                     Socikte Malienne d'Etude et de Constructionde Materiel Agricole
        SOCAM                      Socikte dea Consemes Alimentaim du Mali
        SOCOMA                     SociM des Consemea du Mali
        SOCORAMA                   Sociktede Commercialisation des Radios du Mali
        SOCIMA                     Sociktedm Ciments du Mali
        SOMPEPEC                   SocikteMalieme de Bktail, de Peau, et de Cuir
        SOMIEX                     SocikteMalienned'Importation et d'Exportation
        SONATAM                    SociM Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettea du Mali
        SOMETRA                    Socikte Nationale d'Entreprise et des Tmvaux Publics
        SOTELMA                    Sociktedes TQbmmunications du Mali
        SONEA                      SocidteNationale d'Exploitation des Abbatoim
        TAMALI                     Socike des Tanneries Mdiemes
        TIM                        Tklhmmunications Internationales du Mali
        UCEMA                      Usine Ummique du Mali
        WAMU                       West Africa Monetary Union




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                         MALI

                                                      PRQJECT




PREFACE  ..................................................                 i

EVALUATION SUMMARY         .......................................          ii

PARTI: mJECT REVIEW FROM B A N9I ( L & l ! E l E l ............. 1

     A PROJECT IDENTITY
      .                         ...................................         1

     B INTRODUCTION
      .                      .....................................          1

     C A BRIEF LOOK AT MALI'S ADJUSTMENTPROGRAM
      .                                                         ........... 1
        Macroeconomic Environment       ..............................      2
        Political Environment   ...................................         3

     D PREPARATION AND DESIGN OF PESAP
      .                                              .....................  3
        Program development. description and objectives  .................. 3

     E. THE SECTORALADJUSTMENT PROGRAM: DESCRIPTION AND
        ACHIEVEMENTS         .....................................          5

     F. ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE PESAP            ..........................     5

        (a) Macroeconomic Policy Reforms ..........................         5
                 Public Expenditure and Public Investment ................. 5
                 Incentive Policies ................................        6

        (b) Financial Sector Reforms    ..............................      7
                 Financial Sector Policies............................      7
                 Banque de D&loppement du Mali (BDM)      ................. 7
                 Postal Checking   .................................        8

        (c) Institutional and Legal Reforms  ..........................     8
                 New Public Enterprise and Personnel Laws  ................ 8
                 Performance Contracts   .............................      9
                 Staff Compensation and Redeployment   ...................  9

        (d) Rationalization of the Sector ............................      9
                 Settlementof Cross-Arrears  ..........................    10
                 Divestiture .....................................         10
                 Enterprise Rehabilitation............................     12

     G IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF ADJUSTMENT
       .
        PROGRAM      .........................................                     13
        Borrower Performance    ..................................                 13
        BanLPerformance    .....................................                   14
        Reporting and Auditing  ..................................                 14

     H CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
       .                                                 ...................       14



PART II W C T REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPEC-
      .
1.   INTRODUCTION       ........................................                   18

2.   REVIEW OF HISTORICAL BACKGROUNDTO ADJUSTMENT .......... 18

     2.1   Malian public sector .................................. 18
     2.2   Need for PESAP and Credit Agreements ...................... 18
     2.3   Review of PESAP objectives    .............................             19
     2.4   Measures and actions incorporated in PESAP     ...................      19
     2.5   Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE): institutionalsupport for
           implementation of PESAP    ...............................              19

3.   EVALUATION OF EXECUTION OF PESAP              .......................20

     3.1   Reform of PE institutional and legal environment     ................   20
     3.2   Economic policy reform and investment incentive measures     ..........21
     3.3   Reinforcement of key economic sectors (banking. energy.
           telecommunications)   ..................................                22
     3.4   Drawdown and allocationof funds      .........................          23
     3.5   Settlementof PE liabilities  ..............................             24
     3.6   Rationalization of PE sector: rehabilitation. privatization.
           liquidation......................................... 25
     3.7   Severance and redeployment program    ........................          26
     3.8   Non-PESAP actions and initiatives    ......................... 27
     3.9   Actions in progress ...................................28

4.   PASEP IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS             .........................30

     4.1   Problems with drawdown and allocation of PASEP funds        ...........30
     4.2   Problems with reform of PE institutional and legal environment  ....... 30
     4.3   Problems with management of social dimensions of PESAP       .......... 31
     4.4   PESAP shortcomings    ..................................31

5.   RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IMPROVED IMPLEMENTATION OF PESAP
     ACTIONS    .............................................31

6.   CONCLUSION      ........................................                      32

PARTIII:

      Related Bank loans and Credits ................................ 51
      Project Timetable   .........................................52
      Credit Disbursements   .......................................               52
      MissionData ............................................ 53
      Status of Covenants   ........................................               53
      Use of Bank Resources    .....................................               54

Annex I: List of targeted cornmercially+riented public enterprises ............... 55
Attachment 1: Comments from the Borrower on Parts I and 111     .................57


                                            MALI




                            P R O J E C T O N REPORT



                                          PREFACE


       This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Public Enterprise Sector
Adjustment project in Mali, for which Credit 1937-MLIin the amount of $40 million was
approved on June 24, 1988. The credit closed on June 30, 1992, 1-112 years behind
schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on January 9, 1992.

       The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the Sahelian
Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and 111), and the Borrower (Part ll).   The
Borrower's comments on an earlier version of Parts I and 111are included as Attachment 1.

       Preparation of this PCR was based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the legal
agreements, supervisionreports, progress reviews on the occasion of tranche releases,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.


                                               MALI

        PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT (CR. 1937-MLI)

                               PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT


                                    EVALUATION SUMMARY


1.       m.The              Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP) was
conceived as the first phase of a medium term adjustment effort to improve public resource
management. The program's principal objectives were to improve the performance of the
Public Enterprise (PE) sector and to reduce its burden on public finances. It had four
components: (i) reform of key policies regarding public expenditure and economic incentives,
including reform of the trade and fiscal regimes; (ii) financial sector reforms, including
restructuring of the state-owned development bank --Barque de Dbveloppement du Mali
(BDM); (iii) institutional and legal reform of relations between Government and PEs; and (iv)
rationalization of the sector through restructuringand divestiture (para. 4.1).

2.       Im~lementationExperience. The credit was to be disbursed in three tranches, as
implementationof key portions of the program were completed and the conditions of tranche
release were met. It was expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1990. The first
tranche was disbursed on schedule in November 1988, soon after credit effectiveness. The
second tranche was disbursed in December 1989, roughly six months behind schedule, and
the third tranche in November 1991, one year later than initially planned (para. 7.1).

3.      Implementation of the program was plagued by delays in execution of the divestiture
component and in the application of performance contracts to key PEs. Execution of PE
privatizationwas particularly slow (para. 6.19), in large part because valuable time was lost
in a search for potential buyers for companies which were essentially non-viable and because
the initial foreign technical assistanceprovided to the bureau in charge of managing the
privatizationprocess proved to be ineffective. Unanticipated changes in the institutional
arrangements for project implementation, includingthe disappearance of a key Ministry, and
resulting difficulties in coordinating the activities of different Government agencies
contributed to these delays. Project implementation was further slowed down by political
upheavals which resulted in a coup d'etat in March 1991 (paras. 3.8 and 7.3).

4.      Results. Despitethe implementation delays, the program met its objectives. Firstly,
key economic policy improvements were instituted to reduce public expenditure and to
provide economic incentives to public enterprises. (These included: (i) removal of all import
monopolies, except for those on essential drugs and tobacco; (ii) abolition of the decree
requiring automatic transfer to the Treasury of 90%of PE profits; (iii) deregulation of prices
and removal of price control on all commodities; (iv) removal of extra budgetary subsidies for
PEs; and (v) preparation of a rolling three-year investment budget based on systematic
appraisal of costs, benefits, and financial viability of investment projects.) Secondly, reforms

in the financial sector were implemented as planned. In particular, BDM, the insolvent state-
owned development bank, was restructured and privatized in 1989 (para 6.7). Similarly, the
postal checking company, Comptes Ck?ques Postaux (CCP), was restructured and privatized
in 1991and Government severed all links between the Treasury and the Postal financial
system, thus halting the use of postal checking resources to cover the Treasury's financing
requirements (6.9). Key financial sector policies were streamlined by eliminatingrigid
sectoral credit allocation, and improving banking supervision. Thirdly, a new PE law, which
redefined the relations between PEs and Government, was applied to all PEs, and
performance contracts were signed between Government and the six large PEs which were
slated to remain in Government's portfolio. (The PE law redefined the composition and
functions of PE boards of directors, made boards rather than the ministries responsible for
appointing managing directors, and separated Government's oversight functions from the
management and internal operation of enterprises. In implementing this new law, mixed-
capital companies were treated as non-PEs and governed only by the commercial code
applicable to private enterprises.) A revision of Mali's labor legislation gave greater
autonomy to PE managers in personnel and compensation management. Finally, the PE
sector was rationalized through: (i) settlement of cross-arrearsbetween PEs, the Government
and the BDM; (ii) divesture (privatization or liquidation)of 29 PEs, rehabilitation and
restructuringof six PEs, includingthose responsible for the utilities (electricity, water,
telecommunications, postal services), and key infrastructurefacilities (railways, river
transport); and (iii) resettlement of the workers laid off as a result of the PE restructuring
through a severance pay system and the provision of financial assistanceto ease their entrance
into the private sector (paras. 6.15-6.17).
          . .
5.        ~ndingsand Lessons LearneQ. The PESAP's most important lessons can be
summarized as follows (para. 8.1-8.4):

        (a)     The Government's capacity to implement some reforms         - likereforms to price
                regulations and other Government regulations - was considerable. Progress in
                this area proceeded much more rapidly than had been envisaged.

        (b)     The component of the program causing most of the implementation delays was
                the privatization component. During the life of the project, five of the 14
                enterprisesplanned to be privatized were liquidated because they were not
                viable. The institutionalstructure for privatization was also inadequate and
                the time frame for privatizing companies was too short. In retrospect, it was
                learned that:

                (i)      privatization should not be advocated in the case of enterpriseswhich
                         are not viable. Instead, these should be liquidated and their assets
                         sold to other (private) companies;

                (ii)     in the future, more adequate and transparent institutional structures
                         (requiringlittle coordinationamong various units) should be used to
                         implement such complex programs. In particular, implementation of
                         the divestitureprogram might have been simpler if the PEs had been
                         transferred to one agency with full legal authority to negotiate the sale
                         and commit the Government to the privatization;

               (iii)     a longer and more realistic timetable is needed for implementing
                         divestiture. Given that it is impossibleto predict how long it would
                         take to privatize an enterprise, it was a mistake to make actual
                         privatization a condition of tranche release. "This problem should be
                         addressed through flexible conditionality. Instead of requiring the sale
                         of a particular enterprise by a particular date, the Bank is looking at
                         more general indications of the Government's commitment to
                         privatization".I1

     (c)      Once it had been decided that a PE would be divested, no attempt was made
              to improve its performance, and this affected the interest of potential
              investors. While it is uneconomic to resurrect bankrupt companies for the
              sole purpose of privatizing them, allowing such companies to deteriorate
              during the search for buyers, as happened in Mali, only reduces the chances
              for successful privatization.




11   Suniu Kikeri, John Nellir ud Mary Shirley. Privdzadon TheLSSON
                                                          -     of Erpetfence.
     World Bank Publication,August 1992.


         PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROJECT (CR. 1937-MLI)

                              PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT

                PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPE-



A.       PROJECT IDENTITY

         Name                                    Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment
         Credit Number                            1937-MLI
         RVP Unit                                Africa Region
         Country                                 Mali
         Sector                                  Public Enterprise




2.1              This credit in support of Mali's Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
(PESAP) was approved by the Executive Directors on June 24, 1988 and became effective on
September 29, 1988. It was released, as planned, in three tranches (the first became available
upon effectiveness even though it was disbursed in November 1988 and the second and third
upon fulfillment of tranche release conditions), and was fully disbursed in November 1991,
one year behind schedule. It closed on June 30, 1992. The credit was supported by the
ongoing IDA-financed technical assistance project, the Public Enterprise Institutional
Development Project (Cr. 1938-MLI), which was intended to provide the technical and
institutional support needed by the Government to extend and deepen its public enterprise
(PE) reform efforts, and in particular to carry out actions needed to meet the tranche release
conditions of the PESAP. The PESAP was the first phase of a wide-ranging adjustment effort
which was outlined in Mali's first medium term Policy Framework Paper (PFP) prepared in
1988 by the Government of Mali (Government) with Bank and IMF support. The adjustment
effort over the implementation period of the PESAP was also supported by an IDA Structural
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2188-MLI), IDA-financed sector adjustment programs in the
education (Cr. 2054-MLI) and agricultural sectors (Cr. 2163-MLI), an IMF Structural
Adjustment Facility (SAF) program, and cofmancing in the context of the Special Program of
Assistance for debtdistressed low-income countries.



3.1              In 1982, after a serious economic and financial crisis resulting largely from
the inappropriate economic policies followed since independence, Mali launched a series of
stabilization and reform programs supported by IMF resources and IDA-financed technical
assistance. Under these programs, economic reform measures were introduced with the aim
of reducing budgetary deficits, PE operating losses, and public sector arrears. Additional
reforms, including market liberalization and improved price incentives, were introduced to
increase the efficiency of resource allocation in the country. '

3.2               In late 1986and early 1987, however, the Government failed to implement a
number of policy measures that had been previously agreed upon in the context of Bank sector
adjustment discussionsand the third IMF Standby. The pace of reform slowed noticeably.
The public sector accumulated substantial arrears, and the banking system was seriously
threatened by the insolvency of both a state-ownedbank, the Barque de Dt?veloppement du
Mali (BDM),with assets equivalentto 60%of total banking assets, and the postal checking
system, Comptes Chbques Postaux (CCP), whose CFAF 9 billion (about US$36 million) in
deposits had been siphoned off to finance the Treasury. In addition, delays in implementing
reforms occasioned a reduction in the amount of external non-project financingmobilized by
the Government in 1986-87. The crisisthat developed was exacerbated by the financial
impact on Mali of the sharp decline in the price of cotton, Mali's major export, which
occurred in late 1985.

3.3               Towards the end of 1987, the Government demonstrated a renewed
commitment to reform. Working closely with the Bank and the IMF, it prepared the first
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1988-90which set out Mali's medium-term adjustment
program. This program emphasized policies aimed at: (i) fostering an environment
conducive to promoting private sector activity, savings and investment, and international
competitiveness; (ii) improving public resource management, including a strengtheningof the
public sector financial position; (iii) developing the human resource base; and (iv)
strengtheningthe management of natural resources. The main objectives were to achieve an
annual average GDP growth of about 4% in real terms, to stabilize inflation at around 3.5%
and to reach a sustainableand viable external sector position by 1992.

3.4               Mali's adjustment efforts have been supported by substantial amounts of
development assistance from IDA and bilateral and multilateral donors. As the turnaround of
the PE sector finances and efficiency was seen as a key precondition for restoring
macroeconomic equilibrium and fostering development, the PESAP led the way in 1988. It
was followed closely by IDA credits for Education Sector Adjustment (approved in June
1989), Agricultural Sector Adjustment (approved in July 1990)and Structural Adjustment
(SAL I - approved in November 1990). Major reforms were introduced into the cereals and
cotton sectors. Steps were taken to improve access to, and the relevance of, education at all
levels. Price controls, which had previously covered most products, were restricted to a
reduced number of essential products, and pricing policies of major public services   - water,
electricity, railroad and postal services - were changed to more closely reflect the costs of
service. All export monopolies and most import monopolies were abolished.

3.5               These reforms have begun to yield results and have significantlyenhanced the
environment at the macro-economic level for private enterprise. A third PFP was negotiated
with the Government and approved by the Bank in August 1992. The program deepens the
structural reforms aimed at improving private sector incentives, strengtheningpublic resource
management, reducing the absorptionof resources by the Government so as to increase the
resources available to the private sector, continuing the development of Mali's human
resource base and improving its management of natural resources. An Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) in support of the policies outlined in the third PFP for 1992-95
was also approved by the International Monetary Fund in August 1992.

3.6               Macroeconomic Environment. Mali's economic performance is highly
constrainedby a narrow human and physical resource base, variable climate, and the legacy
of inappropriatepast policies. Although per capita income has risen slowly over the 1980s' it

remains one of the lowest in the world. Real growth has averaged 3.4% since 1985, but
population has absorbed most of this growth. The average GDP growth also masks large
annual variations directly linked to climatic conditions and Mali's dependence on agriculture,
which generates about half of Mali's GDP.

3.7                The adjustment and stabilizationefforts pursued by the Government since
 1982have contributed to major improvements in macroeconomic management. Tight fiscal
policies and efforts to strengthen tax administrationand curtail tax evasion contributed to a
sharp reduction in the overall fiscal deficit (excluding external grants) from its peak of 13.9%
of GDP in 1985to 7.7% in 1990. The current fiscal balance has shown a surplus since 1986.
Mali's external accounts have also improved significantlysince the mid-1980s. The current
account deficit (excluding official transfers) fell from a peak of 28.5% of GDP in 1985to
 13.9% in 1990. Export values have increased by 7.4% per annum, while non-cereal imports
have risen by only 2.6% per annum. Capital inflows, largely official development assistance
to finance the public investment program, have increased steadily. The debt service ratio rose
rapidly from the early 1980s, peaked at 31% in 1986, and subsequentlydeclined to 17% in
1991. External arrears accumulated in the mid-1980s were totally cleared by end-1989,
primarily through debt relief from the Paris Club and other bilateral donors. Inflation has
been kept at less than 2% on average over the past five years. After more than a decade of
consecutivedeficits the balance of payments has recorded surpluses since 1988.

3.8                Political Environment. Pressure for the introduction of a multi-party political
system culminated in a coup d'Etat in March 1991and the arrest of the former President of
23 yeats. Given the importance of the support of the Head of State for the successful
implementation of the reform program, this raised concerns about the future prospects for the
reforms in Mali. The coup was followed by the creation of a Cornit&de 7l-ansitionpour le
Salw du Peuple (CTSP), and the nomination of a civilian Prime Minister and transition
government. A National Conference was held in August 1991 which paved the way for a
referendum on a new constitutionin January 1992, followed by democratic elections in
January-April 1992. A new civilian administrationassumed office in June 1992. Throughout
the transition period, Mali's economic adjustment program stayed largely on track. The new
administration has demonstrated its commitment to the structural and sectoral adjustment
programs by agreeing to the third-year PFP which was approved by the Bank and the IMF.



4.1                Program develo~ment.descri~tionand obiectives. Following independence,
Mali pursued a deliberate policy of parastatal intervention as the key instrumentto promote
economic development. As a result, a large number of PEs were created, particularly in the
1960s and 1970s, in the industrial and commercial sectors. At the outset of the 1980s, the
public enterprise sector included 57 non-financial PEsl', more than 20 rural development
agencies, several financial institutions, and numerous other parastatals providing public
services as financially autonomous agencies.g In 1980, the 57 PEs accounted for some 70%


-I1     See Annex I for s list of these enterprises.


21     The 12 most impottant PEe, ia tern of employmentand financial results, wen SOMIEX (impor(cxpott). Air Mali
        (sir transpost), EDM (electricity and water). COMATEX (textiles),     (textiles), PPM @h.rmrceuticals),
       SEPAMA (groundnutoil proceuing), SEPOM (edible oils and maps). SMXMA (spricultud equipment),
       SONATAM (cigarettes and mtches), RCPM (railroad),and OPT @art and telecommunicatiom).

of modem industrial output and absorbed 70% of total domestic credit. Due to poor
investment choices, an inadequate economic policy framework, management problems, lack of
financial disciplineand excessive government interference, most of the PEs were operating
well below capacity, accumulating significant losses, and facing severe financial difficulties.
In 1981the 12 largest PEs had a combined net operating loss of CFAF 4.0 billion (about
US$64 milion). In addition, a web of cross-arrears had developed between the PEs, BDM,
and external creditors. In 1982, the Government undertook a diagnostic study of the wide
ranging problems of the PE sector to serve as a basis for a comprehensive sectoral reform
program. Additional studies identified the enterprises that should be privatized, liquidated or
restructured.

4.2               In April 1983the Government asked IDA for financial and technical support
to design a program for the rehabilitationof the public enterprisesector. In response to this
request, IDA prepared the Economic Management and Training TA (Cr. 1307          - MLI)  project,
which was approved in December 1982. IDA'S interventionwas seen as complementary to
the IMF Standby program, which provided technical and financial assistance for the urgent
short-term economic stabilizationprogram, and to the French support to facilitateMali's re-
entrance into the West African Monetary Union (WAMU) as of mid-1984.

4.3              The Economic Management and Training TA project provided the technical
assistancethat the Government had requested to prepare the PE rehabilitation program. The
project was appraised in November 1984. Negotiations took place in Washington in 1986.
However, obtaining the Government's approval to the negotiated documents proved to be
difficult and painstakingly slow. Progress was hampered by a shift in the balance of power
within the Government, in particular by the replacement of the Minister of Plan who had been
a strong supporter of the reform program. The President also objected to a key component of
the program, namely the proposed liquidation of SOMIEX, the state monopoly for sugar and
salt and at the time the largest employer in Mali outside the administration, with almost two
thousand one hundred workers. Missions to Mali faced frequent backtracking and a
considerable amount of skepticism and outright hostility towards the BankIIMF supported
programs. Facing this opposition, in mid-1987 the project team decided to consult with the
highest authorities in the country in order to unblock the situation. The team thus met with
the Prime Minister, the Secretary General of the presidency and also privately with the
President who affirmed his commitment to the project. This helped to lessen some of the
oppositionto the project and alleviate the bottlenecks which had been impeding progress.

4.4               As a result of the Government's renewed commitment to a reform program,
it was decided to proceed with the proposed credit. However, the Bank remained concerned
about Mali's administrativecapacity to carry out full structural adjustment reforms, and it was
decided to focus the operation only on the first phase of the implementation of the
Government's medium-term policy framework. The project was therefore reappraised as an
adjustment operation -the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Project (PESAP)- in
November 1987. It was negotiated in March 1988and approved by the Board on June 24,
1988, five years after it was initially identified. Given the on-again off-again manner in
which this project evolved and the fact that it was appraised and negotiated twice, Bank staff
spent 390 staff weeks (more than three times the average of 120staff weeks) between
identification in 1983and Board approval in 1988.

E.      THE SECTORALADJUSTMENT PROGRAM: DESCRIPTION AND
        b-s

5.1                 The PESAP was conceived and designed as the first phase of Mali's longer
term adjustment effort to improve economic management. Its principal objectives were to
improve and rationalize the performance of the PE sector, to reduce its burden on the
country's economy and public finances, and to eliminatethe cross-arrears between the
government and the public enterprises. These objectives were to be achieved by action in
four areas:

        (a)         reform of key economic policies (in particular the fiscal and trade regimes),
                    with a view to better management of public resources and establishmentof an
                    appropriatestructure of economic incentives; 1'

        (b)         financial sector reforms, including restructuringof the largest state-owned
                    bank (BDM), and the postal checking system;

        (c)         institutional and legal reforms redefining relations between government and
                    PEs; and

        (d)         rationalization of the PE sector through restructuringand divestiture.

5.2                 IDA supported the reform process through the Public Enterprise Sector
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1937-MLI), in the amount of US$4 million equivalent. It was the
fust adjustment operation in Mali and was co-financed by an IDA-administered Japanese
Grant of US$7.7 million equivalent, a Japanese OECF loan of US$30.9 million equivalent, an
African Development Fund Loan of US$45 million equivalent, and a Saudi Fund loan of
US$5.9 million equivalent. France also provided budget support as well as parallel financing
for the banking sector restructuringsupported by the PESAP. The ongoing PE Institutional
Development Project (PDIEP             - Cr.    1938-MLI), prepared in parallel with this adjustment
operation and approved simultaneouslyby the Board, provided support to the Government for
implementation. Non-project funding was also forthcomingfrom Belgium, Canada,
Germany, the Netherlands, the U.S., the European Community, and the OPEC Fund.



6.1                 Despite some implementation delays, in essence, the PESAP achieved its
objectives. The following paragraphs present an evaluation of the achievements.

(a)      Macroeconomic Policv Reform3

6.2                 Public Ex~enditureand Public Investment. The PESAP assisted the
Government to improve its utilization of public resources by substantially reducing the burden
of the PE sector on public finances. In the area of public resources management, the
Government strengthened its budgetary and expenditure control procedures. To do so, and
as foreseen under the PESAP, Government consolidated all of its budgets and stopped extra-



11      M l ' r fiscal and trade regimcrinitiatedin the PESAP were deepened in the contextof thopreparation and
        implement.tion of the ongoingStructunl Adjustment Loan (SAL 1 approvedin November 1990).

budgetary subsidiesof PEs. At the same time, Government introduced improvements with
regard to public enterprise management, and dealt with the sources of past imbalances, most
importantly by abolishing a decree which had required automatic transfer to the Treasury of
90% of PE profits. In order to more effectively control investment expenditures, in 1988the
Government started preparing successive three-year rolling public investment programs and
annual public investmentbudgets, and integrated the selection of projects into a
comprehensive macroeconomic framework. In addition, and as foreseen under the PESAP, in
1989the public investment budget was incorporated into the overall budget. Both the general
and public investment budgets have been regularly reviewed and approved by IDA.1'

6.3                  Due to the fact that the major source of past PE sector problems had been
investments in non viable activities, with financing often arranged through the Government
controlled bank @DM), the Government took action on two fronts to insure that no new PE
investment would be undertaken without adequatejustification of its economic and financial
viability. First, a fundamental reform of Government controlled banking sector institutions
@DM and CCP) was undertaken. The ownership and management of BDM were privatized
and CCP was delinked from the Treasury and its management privatized. Second, all PE
investments receiving direct financial support from the Government or government guarantees
for their financing are now routinely scrutinized on the basis of a systematic appraisal of
costs, benefits, and financial viability. All such investments are included in the Government's
investment budget and submitted to IDA annually for comment.

6.4                  Incentive Policiq. Under the PESAP, Mali's regulatory environment was
substantially liberalized. Between 1988and 1992, the Government took actions designed to
place greater reliance on market determined prices for the allocation of resources, and to
remove distortionsengendered by the fiscal and trade regimes that had existed prior to the
institutionof the PESAP. Price controls were abolished and regulatory procedures were
improved and simplified. These reforms were implemented more rapidly than originally
envisaged. Between January 1988 and January 1991the number of goods and services subject
to price controls was reduced from 58 to just one               - petroleum       products. To complete the
price liberalization program, a review of the taxation and pricing mechanism for petroleum
products was completed during 1991, under the Structural Adjustment (SAL) project, and a
phased program to liberalizepetroleum pricing was adopted. Petroleum prices were
completely liberalized in July 1992.

6.5                 With regard to the trade regime, the Government liquidated the state trading
company (SOMIEX) and abolished import monopolies on sugar, salt, tea and milk. In 1989,
it replaced the import and export licensing system with a registrationsystem, abolished import
quotas, simplified the formalities related to international trade transactions, and established a
one-stop window aichet uniaue) for the completion of administrative requirements. In order
to make the procedures more flexible, an evaluation of the one-stop window was undertaken
and the procedures were subsequently simplified in October 1990. Additionally, a firm was
hired to provide import verification services.




11       It ir clar, however, that further improvemenb are needed, in particularto incmee the efficiencyof resource
        d i m t i o n , stnnpthenthe monitoring of investmentspendingand mllocatc public expenditurein favor of the locirl
         =ton and maintenance. Theee imcs are curnntly part of IDA'r dialoguewith the Government.

(b)     Financial Sector Reforms

6.6              Financial Sector Policies. Mali's financial policies have been geared towards
strengtheningthe Government's fiscal position, settlingthe outstanding liabilitiesof liquidated
and privatized enterprises, and reducing Government's liabilitiesto the banking system.
These have been complemented by a monetary policy emphasizing expansion of credit to the
private sector and reduction in Government borrowing from the banking system, while
maintaining the growth of domestic liquidity at a rate consistent with the targets for economic
growth, inflation, and the external sector. The PESAP had included plans for the
Government to undertake a study of the financial sector to determine additional steps for
improving the sector, but this was waived given the reforms being implemented in the context
of UMOAIBCEAO since September 1989. The UMOA reforms aimed at replacing the
administrativecontrols over money and credit with a more indirect and market-oriented
system of monetary instruments. As part of these reforms, preferential discount rates were
abolished, commercial banks were given flexibilityin determining their rates on deposits and
loans, sectoral credit allocation was discontinued, and banking supervisionwas improved
through the establishment of a supranational Bank SupervisionCommission. Monetary
management was also facilitated by the restructuringof the state-owned development bank
(BDM), and of the postal checking institution (CCP).

6.7              Banaue de DCvelopement du Mali @DM). Until the 1980s, BDM dominated
Mali's banking system with about 50% of deposits and about 60%of loans. This was largely
due to BDM's role as principal banker to the public sector. By the mid-1980s, however,
BDM was confronted with serious problems due to poor performance of its clients. Its loan
portfolio, made primarily of loans to PEs, deteriorated and it became insolvent. As a result,
BDM resorted to heavy borrowing from BCEAO and local banks, jeopardizing the liquidity of
the whole banking system. As foreseen under the PESAP, Government then adopted and
implemented a comprehensive restructuringplan for BDM. As part of this plan, the bank was
transformed into a joint share company (soci6t6 anonyme) on July 1, 1989with a capital of
CFAF 3 billion of which 20% is held by Government, 20% by the BCEAO, 20% by the
Banque Ouest Africaine de Dkveloppernent (BOAD), 23.3% by the Malian private sector and
16.7% by the Banque Marocaine de Commerce Exftrieur (BMCE). The BMCE also assumed
management of the new bank under a management contract, and has since instituted new
management policies, overhauled procedures, sharply curtailed lending and concentrated on
improving BDM's operations and mobilizing deposits. As part of BDM's non-performing
asset restructuring, estimated at CFAF 62.4 billion in 1989, were removed from the balance
sheet and covered by BDM's original capital and reserves (CFAF 11 billion), PESAP
counterpart funds (CFAF 14 billion), CCCE's funds (CFAF 8 billion) from the consolidation
of CFAF 23.9 billion by the BCEAO, and cancellation of CFAF 5.5 billion owed to the
Government. The restructured bank retained a loan portfolio of CFAF 18 billion which was
guaranteed by recovery of written-off loans, the potential revaluation of BDM's fixed assets
and Government deposits.

6.8              Parallel to the financial restructuring, steps were taken to reduce BDM's
operating costs. The frequency and quality of supervision of BDM by the BCEAO was
increased; the size of BDM's staff was reduced from about 900 at end-1987 to 296 by end of
1989; three branches were closed and two branches were transformed into local offices of
other branches (guichets). To step up and facilitateloan recovery, BDM was given the same
legal rights as those of the Treasury in the recovery of loans.

6.9               Postal Checking. In order to facilitate financial transactions and mobilize
savings in areas not served directly by the banking system, under the PESAP the Government
transferred the postal checking and savings system (CCPICNE) from the postal company to a
mixed-capital financial institution, the Sociktk des Comptes CWques Postaux et de la Caisse
dBEpargne(SCPCE). SCPCE is owned by the Government (40%), private Malians (40%)
and Banque Intenmionale de 1'Afn'quede 1'Ouest (BIAO) (20%). It started operations on
April 5, 1991. The new institution, which is being managed under contract by the BIAO, is
authorized to take deposits and undertake transfers, but is barred by its statutes from
extending credit, its surpluses being placed on the money market of WAMU. The
Government also severed all links between the Treasury and the postal financial system, thus
halting the use of postal checking resources to cover Treasury financing requirements which
had precipitated CCPICNE's liquidity problems in the first place. As part of its restructuring,
the frozen deposits of the CCPICNE were reduced through a cancellation of Government
deposits, and the balance was reconstituted with resources from counterpart funds from the
PESAP (CFAF 5 billion) and the French Caisse Centrule de CoopkrutionEconomique (CFAF
4 billion).


(c)      Jnstitutional and Leeal Reforms

6.10              New Public Enternrise and Personnel Laws. Prior to the PESAP's
effectiveness, revised basic legislation (Law 87-511AN-RM) was adopted to govern the
relations between public enterprises and Government. In addition, in June 1989, Government
revised the law governing mixed capital companies to limit the Government's rights and
obligations in such companies to those of an ordinary shareholder. The PESAP envisaged full
application of the new laws, including revision of company charters and appointment of new
boards to all PEs, over the program period. The mixed-capital law has been respected by
Government since its introduction. The PE law, and the principles enshrined in it (managerial
autonomy, improved organization, and Government oversight through properly constituted
and autonomous Boards) were applied to eleven public companies by January 1990, and
extended to all public enterprises during the rest of 1990. In May 1991, additional
improvements were made to the basic PE legislation in consultation with the IDA in order to
strengthenPE managerial autonomy, further enhance the efficiency of enterprise management,
and increase transparency in the selection and firing process of PE management. These
improvements were incorporated into a new Ordonnance No. 911014 and into new decrees
covering the rights and responsibilities of board members for PEs, that of their chairpersons
and managing directors, and the methods for deciding on their remuneration. Ordonnance
No. 911014 was revised again in 1992by the new Government to reduce abuses in selection
of PE managers which had become evident in the last months of the transition Government.

6.11              As envisaged, the regulation of personnel management was also streamlined
under the PESAP. A new personnel law (Law 89-85lAN-RM of September 30, 1989),
which replaced Law 81-1OIAN-RM and governs PE remuneration and personnel management
has been fully implemented. In order to further enhance personnel management at the
enterprise level, the recruiting monopoly hitherto exercised by lBOflceNational de la Main
d'oeuvre et de 1'Emploi(ONMOE) was abolished in November 1990under the PESAP. In
May 1991the Code de I).avail was revised, under SAL I, in order to provide greater
flexibility in hiring and firing procedures, and to promote investment and job creation. A
revised Code de Commerce was also adopted in August 1992.

6.12               Performance Contram. The PESAP included a plan to institute performance
contracts for the six companies which were slated to remain in the public sector. A
performance contract with one of these enterprises (RCFM                     - railways)had       been adopted prior
to Board approval of the PESAP and has since been renewed, and a second contract (EDM -
power utility) was approved by the Council of Ministers in November 1989. As part of the
restructuringof the power and water sectors under the IDA-financed Power II project,
corporate charters were adopted for Energie du Mali (EDM) and W c e dlExploitationdes
Ressources Hydrauliques du Haw Niger (OERHN). The electricity generating facilities of
OERHN were brought under EDM's management, a separate performance contract was
signed between Government and OERHN, and revised water and power codes were adopted.

6.13               A fourth performance contract (OPT - the postal and telecommunications
company) was required to be approved prior to release of the second tranche of the PESAP,
but had to be postponed until OPT'S postal and telecommunications services were separated.
The separation officially took place in January 1990, and performance contracts were signed
with the ODce National des Postes (ONP) and Sociktk des Telecommunicationsdu Mali
(SOTELMAY. A sixth performance contract, was approved for COMANAV (river
transportation), but its implementation is awaiting agreement between the Government and
German firms on a program of additional assistance to that company.

6.14               Staff Com~ensationand Redeplovment. In view of the large number of PEs
slated for divestitureunder the PESAP, over 3,000 people were expected to lose their jobs.
A program of staff compensation and redeployment was instituted as part of the PESAP to
deal with the social and economic impact of divestiture. The financing plan for the program
included the payment of severance pay to these employees and the establishment of a
redeployment fund to facilitate the entry of these laid-off workers into the private sector
activity. These measures to compensateworkers terminated under the PESAP and to facilitate
their absorption into the private sector were implemented as foreseen. As of September 1991,
about 3400 terminated staff from 21 public enterprises had been paid termination grants from
the redeployment fund set up under the PESAP for the purpose. About 1800of the
terminated workers also benefitted from the reconversion fund to help them start and operate
small businesses. As of February 19, 1992, PESAP funds disbursed in severance pay and
termination compensation totaled CFAF 4.828 billion.

(d) Rationdization of the Sector

6.15               In order to reduce the burden of public enterprises on public finances and the
banking system, the Government established a program of restructuring and divestiture.
Thirty-fiveenterprises were covered in the first phase of the PE sector reform, and of those,
the Government intended to retain majority state ownership of sixg, liquidate another




-1
 I      The Governmentis planningto continueto improvethe managerial capacitiesof SOTELMA         IO a8 to eliminatethe
        existing borrlencclrswith respectto teltcommunicationa,and to upgmdt the portal delivery rervicerof ONP.
        SOTELMA staff are being trained in various operntionalaspects of telecommunicationrfacilitier .ndnumnagcment.


-21     Namely the enterprimesresponsible for power and water (EDM), teltcommunicationa d p o d a c ~ c c (Om,
                                                                                                             r      nil
        transpod (RCFM), river tmnspod (COMANAV), tobacco and matchel (SONATAM), and managementof the S6liagu6
        dam (OERHN).

fifteedl, and privatize the remaining fourteeg. During the first phase of this adjustment
program, studies of the remaining 22 other PEs were also carried out. Establishmentof an
action plan for these enterprises was a condition for the third tranche release.

6.16                Settlement of Cross-Arrears. Throughout the project's implementation, cross-
arrears between the Government, PEs and the development bank (BDM)were settled. In
1989, CFAF 14billion were paid by Government to the BDM as part of its restructuring. In
February 1991, the Government approved a definitive account of the end-1989 stock of cross-
payments arrears of the 35 enterprises included in the PESAP and a timetable for their
settlement. As foreseen under the PESAP, CFAF 3.0 billion were settled through cash
payments in 1988, an additional CFAF 12.0billion in 1989, and a further CFAF 10.8 billion
in 1990. Between January and December 1991, outstanding Government arrears to public
enterpriseswere settled through compensation, whenever possible, and the remainder of the
liabilities effectively owed was agreed to be settled on the basis of bilateral accords between
the Government and the creditorsconcerned. These accords provide for the issuanceof non-
interest-bearing Treasury bonds redeemable in ten years with an option, valid through the end
of 1992, to be exchanged for 20% of face value.

6.17                Divestiture. Prior to effectiveness of the PESAP, the Government had
dissolved the 15 enterprises identified to be liquidated and had initiated liquidation
proceedings to sell their assets and settle their liabilities. The credit agreement required that
liquidation be completed for ten of these companies prior to the release of the second tranche
of the proposed credit and completed for the remaining five prior to the release of the third
tranche. The liquidation of these 15 enterprises proceeded according to plan.

6.18               The privatization program for the remaining 14public enterprises, proceeded
with much more difficulty. While detailed timetables for privatization of each of these
enterpriseswere submitted to IDA in April 1988, lack of progress in this area delayed
disbursement of both the second and third tranches, in large part because valuable time was
lost searching for potential buyers for PEs whia were essentially non-viable. As explained
below, unanticipated changes in the institutionalset-up for implementing the divestiture
program and the resulting coordinationdifficulties also contributed to the delays.

6.19               The Government was fairly flexible in its approach to the privatization of PEs.
While its preferred method of divestiturewas to simply open up their capital to outside
shareholders, other alternatives were considered. These included: (i) establishmentof a
company to buy the assets of the existing company (which would then be liquidated), and (ii)
leasing of the assets to a management company.




-11      Air Mali, SOMIM (impoddistribution).SHM (hoteUtourism),SAT (mad rranrponnion). SCAER (agricultural
         equipment), SEBRIMA (brick manufacturing),SOCOMA (food procersing), SOCORAM (ndio menufacturing).
         SOMBEPEC (livestock products), SONEA (marketing of hides), SONEl'RA @ublicwork), OCINAM (cinema). LPM
         (books),CMTR (bucking) and EMAB (furniture).

-u       COMATEX (textiles), EDIM @ ~ t i n g )EMAMA @umps),GRAND H O T U (hotel management),ITEMA(tenilea),
                                               ,
         PPM @Lmurceuticaldistribution), SEMA (real estate), SEPAMA (groundnut oil prersing). SEFOM (oil
         rrfininglpackaging).SMECMA (agricultunlequipment). SOCAM (canning), SOCIMA(cement), TAMALI (unnery)
         end UCEMA (cenrnica).

6.20             Supervisionreports from November 1989onwards repeatedly commented on
the slow progress being made in the privatization process. In December 1989, the
Government agreed that progress on this aspect of the program should be more rapid, and
decided: (i) to clarify and adhere to the delineation of responsibilitiesbetween the Ministry of
Plan and the technical Ministries, and (ii) to establish clear criteria for deciding between
offers from potential private partners. Despite this, in June 1990privatization efforts still
appeared to be hampered by comdination difficultiesbetween government departments. At
this stage it was recommended to entrust the divestiture of some companiesto independent
brokers.

6.21             The Government identified four constraintswhich they encountered in
achieving the divestiture:

         (a)     the weakness of the Malian private sector.- Given the crisis in the Malian
                 banking system, private Malians had neither the resources nor the
                 management skills to successfully take over the public enterprises;

         (b)     the weak flow of foreign private investment into Mali, caused primarily by
                 Mali's isolation and the over-regulated nature of its internal mark&.- In
                 addition, the coup of March 1991introduced uncertainty about Mali's political
                 future and the destruction of some factories and offices during the riots of end
                 March understandably discouraged potential investors;

         (c)     the poor economic and financial situation in which the public enterprises found
                 themselves.- Many of the PEs resulted non-viable. Consequently did not
                 attract any investors and had to be liquidated; and

         (d)     the difficultyfacing the authorities in determining the appropriateprices at
                 which to sell these enterprises.

6.22             Combining these factors with the very shorttime horizon for the divestiture
program resulted in offers which the Government found generally unsatisfactorybecause they
were both too low and often accompanied by payment conditionswhich were notably
concessional. This put the Government in a difficult position: by selling the enterprises at
concessional rates, the administrationrisked being accused of selling off tangible assets of the
state to gain favor with the purchasers; by not sellingthem, it risked losing the funds of the
IDA credit by not meeting tranche release conditions and decided that it had no option but to
liquidate. The final outcome resulted in many enterprises taking this latter route, in line with
the sentiments expressed in the initial project brief in April 1984:

         "It has been argued that without foreign assistancemost of the PEs might go bankrupt
        within a period of one year. Thereforethe best strategy might be to stop foreign
        assistance to the sector and let the enterprises go under. However attractivethis
        solutionmay appear, from a purely financial point of view, it is politically, socially
        and even economically unworkable, because it would involve ... immeasurable costs
        in terms of potential political and social turmoil in the country ... our prime objective,
        easily justified on the economic and financial grounds, should be to help the
        Government reduce the PE sector, by encouraging measures aimed both at alleviating
        the political and social cost involved and at improving eficiency of the remaining
        sector."

In retrospect, the liquidationof lirms turned out to be socially and politically acceptable, since
many of the PEs were bankrupt. Similarly, the social impact of the lay~ffswas cushioned by
the compensation and redeployment schemes.

6.23             The final outcome of this privatization program is as follows. Majority
control of two of the enterprises (ITEMA and SEPOM) were transferred to the private sector
prior to effectiveness of the PESAP. Two other enterprises, SOCAM and Grand Hotel, were
privatized before the release of the second tranche. SOCAM was liquidated and its assets
were sold to another company in which the governmentheld minority shares, and the
management of the Grand Hotel was privatized under a contract with a private hotel
management chain. In March 1991, a fifth company, EDIM, was liquidated and its assets
were sold to a mixed capital company with 10%Government ownership, and 82 of the retail
outlets of a sixth company, PPM, were sold to private pharmacies. In 1991, satisfactory
progress was made in the privatization of the remaining 8 enterprises to allow disbursement of
the third tranche. SOCIMA was sold to a private Malian company, and Government shares in
EMAMA and SEMA were sold to private interests. After years of unsuccessful efforts to
privatize it, SEPAMA, which had ceased operationssince 1987, was liquidated and its assets
were sold to an oil seed company. Two of the four other enterprises, UCEMA and
SMECMA, were legally dissolved, and liquidators were appointed to oversee the disposal of
their assets. In November 1991it was decided to dissolvetwo of the remaining enterprises,
TAMALI and COMATEX, and liquidators were appointed for them. TAMALI has ceased
operations and its 79 workers have been laid off, but COMATEX is still operating, while
discussionscontinuewith potential investors.

6.24             In order to broaden the scope of the reforms, the Government also adopted a
plan of action for restructuring an additional 22 enterprises. Among these, five
(SOGEMORK, PETROSTOCK, BETRAM, TIM and SOMITRAM) have been liquidated, two
(ORTI and OGHA) have been merged, and three (EMASE, EMACI and CNREXlBTP) have
been transformed into public administrativeagencies (EPAs). The Government now holds
only a minority interest in two others -SONAM       and FRUITEMA. Four enterprises are
being privatized (SNED, ULB, PVM, and AFB), and five will be restructured (Operation
Puits, SONAREM, ADM, UMPP, and SOLIMA). A detailed timetable will be drawn up for
the remaining enterprises in light of the external financing available.

6.25            EnternriseRehabilitation. All of the six enterprises remaining fully in the
public sector have undergone rehabilitationand have signed performance contractsredefining
their relationshipwith the Government. Bilateral assistancehas been important in supporting
these rehabilitations: French and Canadian assistancesupported the rehabilitationof RCFM;
Chinese assistancesupported SONATAM; and the German Government has been instrumental
in the restructuring of COMANAV. The Government has also signed a document with the
German government proposing and describingthe main elements of a more comprehensive
restructuring of COMANAV's management which involves German co-management. The
restructuring of EDM and OERHN is being supported by the IDA financed Power I1 Project
(approved by the Board in March 1989) and by assistancefrom the African Development
Bank, the European Investment Bank, France, Canada and Germany.

6.26            Restructuring in the postal and telecommunications sectors involved the
transformationof the former W c e des Postes et des Tblbcommwu'cations (OPT) and
TblbcommunicationsIntem'onales du Mali (TIM)into the Socibtb des Tblecommunications
du Mali (SOTELMA) and the Ofice National des Postes (ONP). Restructuring turned out to

be an arduous task, much more complex than we had expected at inception, and is still
ongoing. Both institutionsbegan operations in July 1990.

G. JMPLEMENTATIONAND MONITORING OF ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM

7.1              The IDA credit was to be disbursed in three tranches and was expected to be
fully disbursed by December 31, 1990. The first tranche of US$15.5 million equivalent,
became available in September 1988upon credit effectiveness, and was disbursed by
November 1988. The second tranche of US$11.5 million equivalent became available and
was disbursed by December 31, 1989. This tranche was roughly six months behind schedule
because of a lack of progress with a number of aspects of the program, in particular, the
delays with the privatizations, and in applying performance contractsto EDM and OPT. The
third tranche of US$13.0 million equivalent was disbursed on November 1991. Delays in
disbursementof the third tranche were driven mainly by the political scene which exploded in
March 1991 and the delays in achieving the objectives of divestiture. The Credit was fully
disbursed although the closing date had to be extended twice in order to meet remnant
conditions for tranche releases.

7.2             Borrower Performance. When the project was designed, it was intended that
responsibilityfor implementationof the program would lie with an inter-ministerial
commission, chaired by the Prime Minister. The Cabinet Director of the Prime Minister's
office was to chair a technical committee charged with day-today implementation and
coordinationresponsibilities,and special units were created in both the Ministry of Plan and
the Ministry of Finance to monitor execution of elements under the control of their respective
ministries. In early June 1988, however, the post of Prime Minister was abolished, and
responsibility for co-ordination of the program was transferred to the Ministry of Plan. Two
inter-ministerial co-ordination commissionswere established, similar to the above
commissions, and were chaired by the Planning Minister and the Cabinet Director of the
Ministry of Planning. Day-today implementation and co-ordination of the program,
however, was carried out by the Bureau des Entreprises Publiques (BEP), which was
specificallycreated for this purpose in the Ministry of Planning.

7.3             Throughout the life of the project, implementation was impeded by a lack of
clear delineationof responsibilitiesbetween Government Departments and ineffective
coordination among them, a problem which the inter-ministerial commissions was unable to
resolve. This delayed overall project implementation, in particular the privatization
component of the project. The companies to be privatized fell under diverse ministries, and
in the absence of cooperation between them, the disappearance of the Prime Minister's office
(which was best placed to forge cooperation), significantly worsened Mali's capacity for
implementing divestiture under the PESAP. Foreign technical assistance, which had been
provided to the BEP under the parallel PE Institutional Development Project, also turned out
to be ineffective. A number of attempts were made to overcomethese problems, and while
they were never completely resolved, the transfer of the BEP to the Ministry of Fiance
helped to resolve some inter-ministerial conflicts and to improve coordination and
implementation. It was also discovered that the pace of implementationof the project
depended heavily on the characteristicsof the Directeur General of the BEP   -and   in
November 1989when a dependableDirector General was named, the pace of reform picked
up considerably. Interestingly, however, the political upheavals in March 1991had a
relatively minor impact on the pace of reform. Both the transition and the newly elected

government's commitment to reform were clearly established, and the program continued to
be implemented through the BEP.

7.4                Bank Performance. Due to the large number of conditions to be met
throughout the life of this project, the PESAP was supervised frequentlyfrom headquarters.
Specialistconsultants, (for studies, audits, enterprise valuation, and liquidations)also played a
large role in monitoringprogress with the divestiture component. However, project
supervision from headquarters suffered from frequent changes in task managers. Between its
appraisal and closing, the project was overseen by no less than four task managers, and
valuable time was lost in bringing task managers up to speed on Mali and the project. The
project was however monitored closely by the Resident Mission which provided the element
of continuity in supervision. Donor coordination was excellent in the case of BDM's
restructuring, but disagreements arose between the Bank and a major donor in the case of
CCP over the best methodology for restructuring this institution.

7.5               Rmortine and Auditing. BEP provided periodic (at least quarterly) reports on
progress. Annual audit reports were received normally on time and the audits were
satisfactory. The BEP also prepared special reports on particular components of the project,
such as the outcome of the reinsertion program, the results of liquidations, and the progress of
privatized PEs   .

H.                                          EARN D

8.1               The PESAP was designed as the first phase of a new effort to address the
underlyingproblems restricting Mali's long-term development. The success of the PESAP
was critical to the success of the wide-ranging adjustmentprogram the country was embarking
on. It attempted to correct some of the most fundamental distortions in the Malian economy
which were impeding the development of a healthy private sector. It also set the stage for the
wider macro-structural adjustments under the SAL. While it is too early to draw strong
conclusions about the success of this reform program, as some of the privatized enterprises
are still in difficulties and the process has not yet been completed, the reforms do appear to
have significantly enhanced the macro-economic environmentfacingprivate businesses. Since
PESAP started, there has been an increase in the number of recent enquiries and negotiations
by foreign firmsinterested in pursuing, or at least discussing, investment opportunities in
Mali, especially in mining. In addition, recent increases in remittances from Malians abroad
into the local banking system have been indicativeof increased confidence by Malians abroad
and are resulting in an infusion of much needed liquidity.

8.2               Overall, however, this adjustment operation was difficult and ambitious, and
the Bank was overly optimisticat the outset about the time it would take to implement this
program, especially the privatizationprocess. The difficultiesfaced in the privatization phase
of the program were echoed in the 1991WDR, having been faced in many countries
embarking on these sorts of programs. The privatization process proved to be an arduous
exercise due to factors including thin markets for domestic capital, the lack of an
infrastructurefor privatization   -lawyers,  accountant, merchant bankers and entrepreneurs  -
and the fact that Government departments had to be established and appropriately staffed to
manage the process. The cost of the staff compensationprogram also proved to be
underestimated, so that lack of funds is now hampering effective layoff at the last companies
to be divested. Increased sensitivityto these sorts of problems could lead to more realistic

privatizationtime-tables, fewer liquidations, and a medium-term focus on improvingthe
performance of the public enterprisesrather than resorting directly to privatization.

8.3             The PESAP's most important lessons can be summarized as follows:

        (a)     The Government's capacity to implement some reforms       - likereforms to price
                regulations and other Government regulations    - was considerable. Progress in
                this area proceeded much more rapidly than had been envisaged.

        (b)     The component of the program causing most of the implementation delays was
                the privatizationcomponent. During the life of the project, five of the 14
                enterprisesplanned to be privatized were liquidated because they were not
                viable. The institutional structurefor privatization was also inadequate and
                the time frame for privatizing companies was too short. In retrospect, it was
                learned that:

             (1)        privatization should not be advocated in the case of enterpriseswhich
                        are not viable. Instead, these should be liquidated and their assets
                        sold to other (private) companies;

             (2)        in future, more adequate and transparent institutional structures
                        (requiring little coordination among various units) should be used to
                        implement such complex programs. In particular, implementation of
                        the divestitureprogram might have been simpler if the PEs have been
                        transferred to one agency with full legal authority to negotiate the sale
                        and commit the Government to the privatization;

                        a longer and more realistictimetable is needed for implementing
                        divestiture. Given that it is impossibleto predict how long it would
                        take to privatize an enterprise, it was a mistake to make actual
                        privatization a condition of tranche release. Putting an end to
                        Government subsidy for the PE, naming a liquidator, or solicitingbids
                        from potential investors might have been better conditions.

8.4             Once it had been decided that a PE would be divested, no attempt was made
to improve its performance, and this affected the interest of potential investors. While it is
uneconomic to resurrect bankrupt companies for the sole purpose of privatizing them,
allowing such companies to deteriorate during the search for buyers, as happened in Mali,
only reduces the chances for successful privatization.

            PART 11: P   J CT   V




MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND FINANCl$
      Bureau of Public Enterpriaee




                           COMPLETION REPORT

            0

                                  1988-91




                                          Prepared by the Government of Mali

1. INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
2. REVIEW OF HISTORICAL BACKGROUND TO ADJUSTMENT    . . . . . . . . . . . .            18

   2.1   Malianpublic sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               18
   2.2   Need for PESAP and Credit Agreements             . . . . . . . . . .
   2.3   Reviewof PESAPobjectives    . . . . . .. .. .. . . . . . . . . . . 18         19
   2.4   Measures and actions incorporated in PESAP      . . . . . . . . . .           19
   2.5   Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE):
         for implementation of PESAP . . . . .institutional. .support. . .
                                                 . . . . .            . . .            19

3. EVALUATION OF EXECUTION OF PESAP  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
         Reform of PE institutional and legal environment         . . . . . . . 20
         Economic policy reform and investment incentive measures             . . .    21
         Reinforcement of key economic sectors (banking. energy.
         telecommunications) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
         Drawdown and allocation of funds
         Settlement of PE liabilities  . . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..24
                                                                                       23

         Rationalization of PE eector:
         privatization. liquidation  . .rehabilitation.. . . . . . . . . . 25
                                         . . . . . .
         Severance and redeployment program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
         Non-PESAP actions and initiatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
         Actions in progress . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28
4. PASEP IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               30

   4.1   Problems with drawdown and allocation of PASEP funds           . . . . . 30
   4.2   Problems with reform of PE institutional and legal
         environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
   4.3   Problems with management of social dimensions of PESAP            . . . . 31
   4.4   PESAP shortcomings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
5. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IMPROVED IMPLEMENTATION OF PESAP ACTIONS            . . . .31
6. CONCLUSION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               32

            INTRODUCTION

            This Project Completion Report, in addition to providing an ex-
poet evaluation of the public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP),
one of the vital links in Mali's general program of structural adjustment,
also recounts the difficulties experienced in implementing PESAP and puts
forward suggestions for improving similar projects in the future.  Prepared
for the World Bank and other donors, it follows the guidelines for documents
of this type dealing with inveetment and adjustment operations financed by
IBRD, IDA and other institutions.

            The main body of the text consists of:
      -     a review of the historical background to adjustment in Mali;
      -     an ex-poet evaluation of PESAP execution;
      -     an analysis of the problems associated with adjustment;
      -     suggestions for improving the implementation of future projects;
      -     conclusions based on identification of PESAP auccessee and
            failures.




            A brief survey of the public sector in Mali will help situate this
adjustment process in its historical context, besides providing a summary of
its objectives:

      2.1   Malian public sector

            Following independence, Mali pursued a deliberate policy of
developing the public sector as the keystone of ite economic policy.  After
the creation of 10 public enterprises (PEs) in 1961 alone, the number had
increased to 24 by 1968.  In 1980, or 20 years after independence, the sector
boasted some 77 such enterpriees, whereas the private sector had failed to
emerge from ite lethargy.

             From the early 1980s onwards, the public sector wae faced with a
serious crisis situation, manifested in major fiecal arrears, exceseive levels
of bank debt, overstaffing, bad debts, and mediocre growth and productivity
ratee.  The Government was forced to provide virtually all PEs - except UNPP,
FRUITEMA, SONATAM and ITEMA, which were profitable-with    subsidies and tax
exemptions to ensure their survival.



            Emergence and persistence of this crisis in the public sector
resulted in the need for adjustment programs and borrowing agreements.  As
initial adjustment measures taken following the diagnostic study of PEs
carried out by Cabinet P.A. in 1981 had proved too mild to effect a recovery
in the sector by 1987, the Government, on September 7, 1988, signed a Credit
Agreement with the World Bank to secure partial funding for implementation of
a Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP).

            Financing for PESAP came from the proceeds of the following:
      -     IDA Development Credit Agreement 1937-MLI (PESAP), dated
            September 7, 1988 (USS40 million).

      -
            Loan Agreement MLI-I with the Overseae Economic Cooperation Fund
            of Japan, dated February 22, 1989 (USS30.9 million).
      -     Grant Agreement with Japan, dated September 7, 1988 (Y 1 billion,
            or approximately USS7.7 million).
      -     Loan Agreement F/MAL/PR-SEP/88/25 with the African Developent
            Fund, dated September 25, 1988 (US$ 45 million).
      -     Loan Agreement with the Saudi Fund for Developnent, dated
            February 12, 1988 (USS 5.9 million).
      -     IDA Credit Agreement 1938-MLI (Public Enterprise Institutional
            Development Project), dated September 7, 1988 (SDR 7 million, or
            approximately USS9.5 million, allocated to PESAP).
      -     In addition, France provided budget subsidies and parallel
            financing in support of banking reforms (postal checking
            services). Non-program funds were allocated by the Netherlands,
            Germany, Canada, Belgium, OPEC, etc.



            PESAP, one of the key component8 of Mali's general program of
structural adjustment to create the preliminary conditions for economic
growth, had the following specific objectives:
      -     reduction of the burden placed by the PE sector on the economy and
            public finances;
      -     improvement of the economic and financial performance of viable or
            strategic PEE.

            Over and above theee objectivee, implementation of this sector
program was a manifestation of the Government's determination to foster
development of a dynamic private eector.



            Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, the measures and action.
instituted as part of the implementation of PESAP were to focus on four areas
of intervention:
      -
            Economic policy reform to ensure better manag'ement of public
            resources and provide incentives for private eector invemtmmnt.
      -     Reinforcement of key eectore:  banking and postal checking (BDM),
            energy (EDM), and communications (ONP, SOTELMA).
      -     Institutional and legal reform of Government/PE relations.
      -     Rationalization of the PE eector through liquidation, privatization
            and rehabilitation.  Thirty-five enterprises were to be the target.
            of rationalization measures.  A severance pay and redeployment fund
           was to be set up to mitigate the social impact of rationalization
           measures on employees of PES dismissed from their jobs.

           A second group consisting of 22 PEs was to be the target of
rationalization measures under a second phase of the Program.

     2.5   ereau
           B                       o          : inetit    fa1 nu~nortfox
            im~lementationof PESAP

            Institutional support for the implementation of PESAP was
available from the Bureau of Public Enterpriees, an agency created by
Executive Order No. 85007/PRM of May 23, 1985.  Initially attached to the
Ministry of Planning, it was then transferred to the Ministry of Economic
Affairs and Finance after the events of March 26, 1991.

            BPE worked in conjunction with a PESAP Coordination Committee,
which aseisted it in formulating public sector reform strategies.  BPE's role
in obtaining disbursement of funds, settling the liabilities of government-
owned corporations and enterprises, and ensuring effective application of
rationalization measures to the 35 PEs targeted by PESAP was eesential.

            In addition, actions to strengthen the managerial and monitoring
capabilities of government-owned corporations were handled by BPE, which
organized various training seminars:  one for directors of corporations, one
for auditors, one on promotion of the private sector, and one on
simplification of bureaucratic procedures.

            BPE also conducted studies to evaluate 14 enterprises identified
for privatization, as well as diagnostic studies on 19 of the 22 enterprises
not directly targeted by PESAP.

            In conjunction with certain other government department8 and
agencies, BPE initiated and monitored additional PESAP actione:  critical
appraisal and amendment of Law 87-51 AN-RM of August 10, 1987; replacement of
boards of directors of public enterprises; studies on the reorganization of
OTER, SUKALA and CNAR (outside the immediate ambit of PESAP); and monitoring
of severance payment and redeployment arrangements for personnel dismissed
from PEs.

            In 1988 and 1989, in addition to the assistance of the PESAP
Coordinating Committee, BPE had access to on-the-spot technical assietance
through Cabinet ICA, which was commissioned to assist BPE in identifying
cross-indebtedness and formulating privatization procedures.  As thie
experiment did not prove conclusive, BPE proposed a new approach to technical
assistance, to be obtained from local consultants; since this has given full
satisfaction, it ie to be expanded.


            EVALUATION OF EXECUTION OF PESAP

      3.1   Reform of PE inetitutional and leaal environment

            The first major PESAP reform in the institutional and legal sphere
was Law 87-51/AN-RM of August 10, 1987, which laid down basic principal8 for
the organization and operation of public industrial and commercial enterprises
(EPICs) and state-owned corporations, and in doing so marked a fundamental
change in Government/PE relatione.  In 1988, it was applied to a group of 12
state-owned corporations and EPICs, and subsequently, in 1990, to a group of 9
such entities.

            BPE conducted three successive evaluations of this legislation:
      -     The first, 10 months after promulgation, concerned with how
            consistent the law and its implementing regulations were with
            other legielative and regulatory instruments, resulted in
            reduction of the size of boards of directors and the number of
            their ordinary meetings.
      -     The second, in October 1989, concerned with the law's economic and
            financial impact on the performance of the PEE, demonstrated that

            after two years in force it had led to an overall net Fmprovement
            in their economic and financial results.
      -     The third, in late 1990, examined the conditions affecting
            application of the law and its Fmplementing regulations, and the
            effectiveness of boards of directors, whose terms of office had
            come to an end.

            With the accession to power of the transition Government, Law 87-
51/AN-RM was rescinded'and replaced by Order 91-014/P-CTSP of May 18, 1991,
which introduced the following modifications:
      -     combination of the functions of chairman of the board of directors
            and managing director;
      -     elimination of the post of Government commissioner;
      -     changes in the procedure for appointment of the chairman/managing-
            director;
      -     appointment to one director's seat of the workers' delegate for
            the EPIC or state-owned corporation.

            Other legislation was enacted to provide a better definition of
the framework within which the bylaws of state-owned corporations and EPICs
were to be written.  For instance:
      -     ~ a 91-051/AN-RM of February 26, 1991 prescribes the standard form
                w
            and content of EPIC bylaws.  It defines the nature of this type of
            enterprise, its organization, corporate purposes, asset structure,
            tax obligations, staff service rules, other legislation it is
            subject to, and procedures for its legal dissolution.
      -     Draft legislation prescribing the standard form and content of the
            bylaws of a state-owned corporation, its corporate purposes,
            organization, assets structure, staff service rules, and
            procedures for its legal dissolution.

            Another PESAP legal and institutional reform affecting EPICs and
state-owned corporations was effected through Law 89-85/AN-RM of November 1,
1988, which rescinded and replaced Law 81-1O/AN-RM of March 3, 1981.  It
governs the staffing of such entities and the employment of Malian personnel
by mixed-capital corporations.  Its essential purpose is to Fmprove the
economic and financial performance of EPICs and state-owned corporations by
vesting them with greater autonomy of personnel management.

      3.2   Economic ~olicvreform and investment incentive measures

            Creation of an economic environment conducive to investment was
regarded as one incentive measure likely to improve PE economic and financial
performance and promote development of the private sector.

            In order to ensure the success of PESAP, a sectoral program
forming part of its broad economic reform movement, the Government took
various steps to change the business environment:
      -     Liberalization of imports (elimination of all monopolies).
      -     Elimination of all price controls on petroleum products, and
            systematic adjustment of domestic prices in step with changes in
            international prices.

      -
            Introduction in 1988 of a special capital budget covering all
            government investments in PEs, including loan guarantees, which
            were to be subject to budgetary appraisal and prioritizing
      -     proceduree.

            In the fiscal arena, so as to place the PEE on a normal commercial
            footing;
            *     Decree 138, requiring automatic transfer to the Treasury of
                  90% of PE profits, was rescinded by Law 87-51, itself then
                  replaced by Order 91-014/P-CTSP; instead, boards of
                  directors of PEE were authorized to propose distribution of
                  profits as dividends or balances carried forward;
            *     PEE were authorized to deduct provisions for depreciation,
                  bad debts and deterioration of inventory from operating
                  income.
      -     The Investment code was amended to encourage the creation of
            private sector enterpriees by allowing them certain domestic tax
            advantagee; it also eliminated all exemptions from customs duties.

      3.3        o r c w n t of kev economic eectore fbawna. enerw.
            telecommunicatione).

            Major eteps were taken in the key economic eectors to consolidate
the position of enterprises operating within them.

            3.3.1  B e r m and telecomm&ations     sector:  The credit
Agreements supporting PESAP provided for:
      -     creation of a better inetitutional framework for the water and
            electric power eectors;
      -     creation of a better institutional framework for the postal and
            telecommunications sectore;
      -     progress with implementation of institutional reform measures in
            the postal, telecommunications, water and power sectors.

            Provision was also made for other, specific steps, including:
transfer of OERHN personnel to EDM; signature of a management contract between
these two corporations; and legal separation of telecormnunications activitiee
from postal and financial operations.

            These various provieions were acted upon, partially if not
completely, as follows:
      -    Law 90-10/AN-RM of February 19, 1990 prescribed the organization,
            etc., of the electric power sector, and Law 90-17/AN-RM of
            February 27, 1999 that of the water sector.
      -    Although no actual legislation affected the inetitutional
            organization of the postal and telecommunications eectors, the
            following agencies were created:    Office national dee poetee
            (ONP), 8ocf6t6 des t6l(lcoannunications du Mali (SOTELMA), and
            Soci6t6 dee cheques postaux e t de l a caiese dg6pargne (SCPCE).

           Other, specific measures which may be cited were:
      -
            amendment of the articles of incorporation of EDM and signature of
            a performance contract between it and the Government;

      -     signature of a management contract between EDM and OERHN in July
            1990.

            3.3.2  Reor ani a ion
                   s                           g                          g
p                     p                     l                     : The
Credit Agreements underlying PESAP provided for:
      -     reorganization of BDM;
      -     introduction of measures to ensure that postal checking and
            savings services would be administered and operated according to
            sound financial management principles;
      -     formulation of a satisfactory action plan for reform of the
            financial sector.

            BDM was reorganized in June 1989 along the lines provided for in
PESAP, a process which involved its conversion into a corporation with the
following shareholding pattern:
      -     BCEAO (Central Bank of West African States)                 20%
      -     BOAD (West African Development Bank)                        20%
      -     Government of Mali                                          20%
      -     BMCE (Foreign Trade Bank of Morocco)                        17%
      -     Malian private shareholders                                 23%

            BDM management was made the responsibility of BMCE.

            The following steps were taken to place BDM on a sounder financial
footing and to ensure its balanced management:
      -     cost-cutting measures (staff layoffs, reduction of overheads);
      -     settlement of CFAF 14 billion of PE debt to BDM;
      -
            application of legislation giving priority status to payment of
            sums outstanding to BDM.

            Reorganization of the Postal and Telecommunications Service (OPT)
involved establishment of a mixed-capital corporation known as SCPCE (SociBtB
des cheques postaux et de la caisse dV6pargne), the Government taking a 40%
shareholding.  Plans to restore liquidity to the postal checking and savings
system, at an estimated cost of CFAF 9 billion, were financed as follows:
      -     CFAF 5 billion:  PESAP;
      -     CFAF 4 billion:  Caisse centrale de coop6ration Bconomique (CCCE).

            The Government's monetary policy instruments were brought into line
with the institutional structure of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU).

      3.4   Drawdown and allocation of funds

            The financing mobilized under the Credit Agreements associated
with PESAP totaled CFAF 37.3 billion, although needs were initially estimated
in the range CFAF 70-80 billion.  Funds were released in three tranches, fully
drawn down between September 1988 and February 1992. Annex 10 showe the

proceeds available under the various Credit Agreemento and gives diebureement
details in each case.

            A difference of CFAF 0.2 billion between total funding provided
and actual diebursemente was the result of exchange rate fluctuatione.

            As Section IV of Annex 10 indicates, exchange rate fluctuatione
were unfavorable in the case of the AfDF Agreement.

            On occasion, drawdown of funds was hindered by the difficulty of
assembling import invoices from the different local financial institutions.

            All funds disbursed were utilized in accordance with Credit
Agreement provisions.  Annexes 11-1 and 11-2 show sources and uses of funde by
tranche and by year.

            Thirty-seven percent of PESAP proceeds were channeled into the
reorganization of BDM.  Expenditure categories were as follows:
      -     Undertakings re PEs liquidated
            (of which BDM reorganization approx. 41%)
      -     Government arrears to PEs                                   18%
      -     Reestablishment of liquidity of postal checking service     16%
      -     Severance and redeployment fund                             16%
      -     Settlement of liabilities of PEe privatized
            (of which BDM reorganization 4%)
      -     Settlement of liabilities of PEs retained in
            Government portfolio (of which BDM reorganization 0.7%)      1%



      3.5   Settlement of PE liabilities

            The PASEP action program provided for:
      -     settlement of GovernmentIPE cross-debts;
      -     settlement of PE debts to third parties.

            Approximately 67% of PESAP funds went into the settlement of
reciprocal debts and claims.  Up until 1989, the procedure followed in
settling croes-debts was the following:
      -
            BPE prepared an annual statement of outstanding debte and claims
            for each of the PEs targeted by PESAP;
      -     arrangements for settlement were decided in light of the
            debtlclaim situation on the one hand and the total allocated for
            settlements on the other;
      -     execution of the settlement arrangements decided upon.

            From 1990 this procedure was no longer followed. All expenditure6
in respect of settlement of liabilities were directly decided and handled by
the National Directorate of Budget and the Central Accounting Department
(Treaeury).

            Local funde allocated to settlement of reciprocal debts and claim0
totaled CFAF 21.3 billion, as per the details provided in Annexee 11-1 and
11-2.

      3.6   Rationalization of PE eector:  rehabilitation. ~rivatization.
            1iauidation

            PESAP rationalization measures affected 35 PEe grouped as follows
(V. Annexee 1-8):
      --    Group A:  6 PEs to be rehabilitated
            Group B:  14 PEe to be partially or fully privatized
      -     Group C:  15 PEe to be liquidated.

            3.6.1  m t a t e d :       Rehabilitation of PEE to be retained in
the Government'e portfolio reeulted in reorganization of OPT,reorganization of
the poetal checking and savings eyetem, settlement of the liabilitiee of
certain PEs, and signature of performance contracts between the Government and
each of these PEE.

            OPT (Office des postes et tbl6comunications) was legally
diesolved and replaced by ONP (Office national des postes) and SOTELMA
(Societ6 des t616communications du Mali).  The poetal checking and oavinge
eyetem was reorganized as SCPCE (Soci6tb des comptes de ch8que postaux et de
la caisse d86pargne), a mixed-capital corporation with a 409 Government
shareholding.  Over CFAF 5 billion was allocated through PESAP to restore
liquidity to the postal checking system, in addition to the CFAF 4 billion
provided by CCCE.

            An approximate total of CFAF 5.6 billion went into payment of the
Government's arrears to those enterprisee retained in it6 portfolio and
CFAF 0.44 billion to settlement of their liabilities.

            Prior to the end of 1991, the Government had entered into
performance contracts with the following corporations:  RCFM, ONP, SOTELMA,
EDM, OERHN, COMANAV and SONATAM.  Contracts of this type were also entered
into with such non-PESAP enterpriees as CMDT and OPAM.

            3.6.2  EnterDrises ~rivatized: Fourteen enterprisee were
partially or totally privatized (V. Annex 2).  By December 1991 the following
eight enterprises had been privatized:  ITEMA, GRAND HOTEL RENOVE, DEPOM,
SOCAM, PPM, SOCIMA, EDIM.  During the course of 1992, in view of the failure
of attempts to privatize them, the following enterprises were legally
dissolved and their assets liquidated:  SMECMA, UCEMA, COMATEX, TAMALI.
Privatization of SEMA and EMAMA was concluded in early 1992 with the eignature
of instruments of transfer to private sector grantees.

            The privatization strategy followed by the Malian authorities
proceeded in three stages:
      -     formulation and announcement of the Government's decieione and
            actions in each case;
      -
            preparation of the enterprises to be privatized;
      -     eelection and implementation, caee by case, of the appropriate
            privatization procedure.

            Four types of privatization procedure were experimented with:

      -     Privatization of management, as in the case of GRAND HOTEL.  The
            Government retains ownership of assets and receives a royalty
            payment over a 10-year period.
      -     Privatization of a specific function, as in the case of PPM.  With
            transfer of 84 of its dispenearies to private Malian investors,
            PPM wae relieved of the distribution function.
      -     Privatization by sale of shares, as in the case of corporations -
            for instance, SEMA and EMAMA.
      -     Privatization through liquidationjcreation of new entity, as in
            other caees.  It remains the preferred procedure, eince a block
            transfer of aeeets can be made to a new corporation in which the
            Government ie free to participate or not.

            Since completion of theee diepooals of shares or assets, eight
management and sale contracts have been monitored, namely those entered into
with SOCIMA, ITEMA, SEMA, EDIM, SMECMA, EMAMA, UCEMA, and GRAND HOTEL.
Partial transfers generated a total of CFAF 1.2 billion (V. Annex 8).  These
contracts were entered into after settlement of the liabilities of the
corporations concerned, for a total of approximately CFAF 2.5 billion.

            3.6.3  pnter~riseslicmidated:   Fifteen enterprieee were
liquidated (V. Annex l), all of them deficit enterprises operating in non-
strategic eectore.

            The liquidation procese coneieted of promulgation of an
announcement of legal diesolution, ieeue of a decree prescribing liquidation
proceduree, and eetablishment of an interministerial liquidation comnittee,
which appointed a liquidator from the private eector after considering
advisory opinione.

            On completion of theee liquidatione, ealee of aseeto had generated
a potential CFAF 10.4 billion (of which CFAF 5.4 billion hae been paid), while
eettlemente of debts had absorbed CFAF 8.1 billion (leaving CFAF 11.7 billion
outstanding).
            The cloeing balance eheet on liquidations wae ae followe:
      -     Physical aeeete not disposed of and
            outetanding claime not recovered                CFAF 8.7 billion
      -     Debte not settled                                   10.8 billion
      -     Closing balance                                      1.9 billion

            These sale and settlement operations took place after clearance of
liabilities amounting to approximately CFAF 12.7 billion.

      3.7   Severance and redeplovment Droaram

            Although IDA Credit Agreement 1937-MLI contained no express
prescriptione regarding the severance and redeployment program, the measures
lieted below were taken to offeet the eocial consequences of PESAP:

      (a)   Drafting of legislative and regulatory inetruments to govern the
program, namely:
      -     Order No. 88-21jP-RM of December 5, 1988 creating a fund to
            provide eeverance pay for workers laid off by PEE and meet the
            coete of their redeployment.

           -        Decree No. 363/PG-RM of December 8, 1988 preecribing t h e
                    organization and operating practice8 and procedures of t h i e
                    meverance and redeployment fund.

            (b)     Formation of an interminiaterial technical committee t o coordinate
t h e uee of redeployment funde.

            (c)     Severance payment8 t o s t a f f l a i d off by PEE i n accordance with t h e
provieione of t h e Labor Code.

            (d)     Payment of quarterly allocatione and of an amount to finance viable
new economic unite, i n accordance with t h e provieions of Decree No.                   363/PC3-RM
of December 8, 1988.

                    PESAP funde diebureed i n t h e form of severance pay and
redeployment coete totaled CFAF 4.828 b i l l i o n ae of February 19, 1992.

                    From 1985 to 1988, a total of 2,853 individual. were l a i d off aa a
r e s u l t of PESAP.     Severance pay arrangements led to t h e creation of 1,488
economic units, formed by 2,214 individuale.

                    Execution of t h e d i v e s t i t u r e component of PESAP resulted i n
severance payments being made t o 3,021 employeem.                    Out of t h i e number,
approximately 1,584 sought other jobs through Program redeployment
arrangements, which are still i n effect.

           3.8      yon-PESAP actions and i n i t i a t i v e @

                    Over and above t h e 35 PEe targeted by PESAP, stepe w e r e taken t o
reorganize a number of other PEs.

                    3.8.1   CNAR:     Under Law No. 88-54/AN-RM         of February 27, 1988, t h e
Government authorized opening up of t h e capital structure of CNAR, thereby
making poseible i t e own t o t a l or p a r t i a l withdrawal from a non-strategic
sector.

                    I n 1990, CFAF 102.7 million of PESAP funds w e r e channeled t o t h i e
corporation through eettlement of ite outstanding clahe on t h e PEe d i r e c t l y
targeted by t h e Program.

                    A valuation audit and compilation of particulate f o r negotiation of
t h e corporation's expanded c a p i t a l etructure, which w e r e completed i n February
1991 with financing from t h e Public Enterprise I n e t i t u t i a n a l Development
Project (PEIDP), led t o a recommendation f o r liquidation of CNAR a s it etood
and formation of a new corporation with both domeetic and foreign private-
sector majority ehareholdere (experienced i n the insurance field and i n trade
and commerce), and t h e Government and i t e agenciem ae minority ehareholdere.

                    In July 1991, a technical committee w a s set up t o comment upon t h e
valuation audit report and adviee t h e Government regarding t h e option of
diveatiture.          However, changes a t CNAR executive levels held up t h e
committee's work.

                    Ineurere such ae AFRICARE, PFA and PROPARCO indicated t h e i r
i n t e r e s t i n taking up eharee i n t h e new corporation.

                   Ae a r e e u l t of letter No.       1949/SP of April 30, 1991 from t h e CCCE
Representative i n Mali and t h e October 1991 v i e i t t o France by CNAR'e
chairman/ managing director, t h e Minieter of Economic Affaire and Finance
requested i n e a r l y 1992 t h a t CCCE finance a coneultante' etudy on CNAR which
would pay p a r t i c u l a r attention tor

          -         a new assessment of CNAR's position, i n l i g h t of t h e most recent
                    data, t h e finding6 of the audit report by Cabinet Garson e t Parts,
                    and the opinions of t h e ad hoc committee set up by t h e Ministry of
                    Economic Affairs and Finance:
          -         preparation of bidding guidelines and the accompanying General
                    Conditions of Bid:
          -         preparation of a social reorganization plan f o r CNAR personnel.

                    A response from CCCE is awaited.

                    3.8.2   SUKALA:     The Government began negotiation6 i n September
1991 with its Chinese partner regarding possible methods of converting SUKALA
into a mixed-capital corporation.               A s a result, t h e following list of future
partners and t h e i r shareholdings was arrived at:
          -         Chinese partner (CLECT)                              40%
          -         GovernmentlOffice du Niger                           20%
          -         Private investors                                    30%
         -          SUKALA workers                                       10%

                    Progress i n negotiations with t h e Chinese partner depends on t h e
findings of a study (by SEC DIARRA) t o appraise t h e corporation's assets and
t h e r e s u l t s of negotiatione with other potential private partners.

                    3.8.3   m:       A s part of t h e plan of action f o r case-by-case
reorganization of t h e ODRs, which was approved by the Government i n 1987, an
economic and financial f e a s i b i l i t y study on OTER (Operation des travaux
d'dquipement r u r a l ) , financed through PEIDP, was carried out by t h e consulting
firm GID.          Although the findings of t h i s study became available i n March 1992,
t h e Malian authorities have not yet assessed them.                   The consultants' chief
recommendation is t h a t a mixed-capital corporation be s e t up with t h e
Government, t h e ODRs and private investors a s shareholders.

         3.9       Actions i n proaress

                   Work is still proceeding on three PESAP components:
         -         divestiture by t h e Government;
         -         settlement of t h e l i a b i l i t i e s of PEs liquidated o r privatized;
         -         t h e severance and redeployment program.

                   3.9.1   Divestiture bv t h e Government:           The 35 PEs t o be
rationalized during the f i r s t phase of PESAP, through financial reorganization,
divestiture and rehabilitation, w e r e classified i n three groups:
         -         Group A:    6 strategic enterprises, t o be rehabilitated and
                   retained f u l l y within t h e Government portfolio.
        -          Group B:    14 enterprises, t o be e i t h e r f u l l y o r p a r t i a l l y
                   privatized.
        -          Group C:    15 enterprises, t o be liquidated.

                   Although operations affecting Groups A and C were completed, action
i n respect of three Group B enterprises continues (COMATEX, TAMALI, SEPAMA):

          (i) COMATEX               (Compagnie Halienne de t e x t i l e s ) :  PESAP called for
privatization o r liquidation.                   The corporation was legally dissolved under t h e
terms of Order No. 91-025/P-CTSP of June 26, 1991.                        The liquidator appointed,
SEC DIARRA, is responsible f o r appraising t h e value of its assets and
transferring them t o a new corporation, COMATEX S.A.,                        now being formed.   It8
c a p i t a l (CFAF 1.5 b i l l i o n ) would be held a s follows:
          -        Soci6t6 chinoise de t e x t i l e s                               49%
          -        Malian investors and COMATEX workers                              31%
          -        Government of Mali                                                20%

                   The enterprise continues t o operate a t minimum level while t h e new
corporation is being set up.

                   A d r a f t Shareholding Protocol was drawn up on t h e basis of t h e
minutes of t h e negotiations between t h e Malian and Chinese p a r t i e s which took
place on July 17 and 20, 1991.                    The Chinese have put forward a series of
observations t h a t w i l l be taken i n t o account i n t h e f i n a l version of t h e
Protocol.

                   COMATEX workers have proposed t h a t they be a l l o t t e d 7-10% of
capital, an o f f e r t h a t w i l l need t o be confirmed by t h e i r Economic Intereet
Group once it is established.                    Capital subscriptions from Malian investors are
now being solicited, and a d r a f t Order e x i s t s authorizing t h e Government's
participation.

                   June 30, 1992 has been set a s t h e deadline d a t e f o r establishment
of t h e new corporation.

       (ii)                    (Societe des tanneries du Ha1i)t             This corporation was
legally dissolved under t h e terms of Order No. 91-0023/P-CTSP of June 26,
1991, and its operations have been halted u n t i l a buyer is found.                       SEC DIARRA,
t h e liquidator appointed, has already drawn up t h e General Conditions of Bid
covering s a l e of a l l corporate assets.               Should t h e c a l l f o r tenders not lead
t o t h e emergence of a suitable buyer, t h e corporation is l i k e l y t o be
liquidated without further ado.

     (iii) SEPAMA (SociBtB d'exploitation des produits arachidiers du Hali):
A special session of t h e board of directors of SEPAMA recommended its legal
dissolution, a decision r a t i f i e d by t h e extraordinary general meeting of
stockholders.          Arrangements t o liquidate t h e corporation's r e a l e s t a t e and
other assets are now going ahead under t h e supervision of SNED, and i n actual
f a c t a r e t h e logical sequence t o suspension of its operations i n 1987.

                   3.9.2       S e t t eme t o
privatized:         A s insufficient reeources w e r e available under PASEP t o cover a l l
financing needs, still unsettled debts t o t a l an estimated CFAF 20.5 billion.

                   3.9.3       S                    s                  :    This PASEP component is
still incomplete.             An agency has now been created t o execute t h e worker
redeployment side of t h e program i n place of CARREC, which previously
performed t h i s function.                A t present, 14 corporations a r e involved:      COMATEX,
EDM, EMANA, PPM, SEMA, SEPAMA, SMECMAA, SOCAM, SOCIMA, TAMALI, UCEMA, MOTEL,
CNAR and SMERT.             Funds t o t a l i n g approximately CFAF 7.6 million remain t o be
mobilized.

                  In conclusion, two factors can be pointed t o a s t h e principle
reasons why c e r t a i n PASEP actions have not yet been completed:

          ( a )   d i f f i c u l t i e s associated with PE liquidation proceduree;

       (b)    the need for financing t o cover social costs.


4.               EP -TATION           PROBLEM

              Problems encountered i n implementing PESAP can be classified i n
four gtoups:

       4.1    Eroblems with drwbwn and allocation of PASEP fun&

       (a)    Program funds w e r e not drawn down within the periods set, because
of failure t o meet the conditions f o r t h e i r release within the time limits
applicable.    There w e r e some instances of release before a l l conditions had
been m e t ,however.

       (b)    Implementation of fund drawdown procedures did not always allow
for the difficulties ammociated with assembly of invoices.

       (c)    Funds w e r e utilized without regard t o the priority ranking of
expenditure categories.

       (d)    Funds for settlement of PE l i a b i l i t i e s were not allocated
according t o any previously defined criteria.

       (e)    PESAP financing requirements were significantly underestimated.
Liabilities still not settled amount t o CFAF 20.5 billion.

              A part of Program funds was used i n the context of the
Government's funds flow account.       Their reimbursement was invariably w e l l
behind schedule, disrupting execution of certain components (settlement of
outstanding claims and debts; personnel severance payments and redeployment).



       (a)   Law 87-51iA.N-RM of August 10, 1987 did not vest the PEE with real
autonomy where t h e i r strategic, and even operational, decisions were
concerned.   Although the degree of management autonomy envisaged has not been
achieved, the legal and institutional setting created has led t o a significant
improvement i n PE economic and financial performance.

       (b)   The implementing decree t o Law 88-34, authorizing divestiture, was
never issued, and the resulting lack of clear privatization procedures has
been a serious obstacle t o completion of these operations.

             Entry into effect of Decree 90-017/PRM of January 23, 1990, which
fixed basic monthly compensation scaleta for personnel of EPICS and state-owned
corporations, led t o salary reductions f o r certain categories of employees.

       (c)   Execution of early liquidation operations was not always
monitored, since it was the direct responsibility of interministerial
liquidation comittees.       This explains the lack of information on the
liquidation history of SOMBEPEC, SONEA, SONETRA and SCAER.

       (d)   There is every indication t h a t disposal of phyoical astaetta and
recovery of outstanding claims, and execution of transfers, were matters l e f t
t o the Ministry of Budget or the National Recoveriee Cornmisoion, once
liquidation balance sheets had been filed.        The scale of recoveries i e
evidenoe of the ineffectivenees of recovery arrangements.

       (8)   Difficultias encountered by invetatore i n obtaining bank credit
were a major obstacle t o privatization, since the financing capacity of the
majority of potential bidders wae very limited.

      (f)   For lack of intensive sensitization of managere and of commitment
on their part to the objective6 of privatization, coordination meetinge were
difficult to conduct and government supervieory department6 were neglectful.

      4.3   problems with manaaement of social dimensions of PESAP

      (a)   Funding requirement6 for the severance pay and redeployment
program were estimated at CFAF 3.5 billion, significantly less than the likely
real figure of CFAF 8 billion.

      (b)   Although workers dismissed by PEs possese vocational
qualifications, these are not sufficient to ensure that alternative projecte
will actually be eet up, and then properly managed.

            Training in rudimentary management techniques is not given for
those laid off.  PESAP contained no provision for a training plan or the
funding it would require.

      (c)   Workers dismissed during the 1985-88 period succeeded in eetting
up 1,488 economic units.  However, since PESAP included no provieion for
monitoring euch units, it ie now impossible to produce any type of balance
sheet showing how many have proved viable and how many have failed.

      (d)   The subsidies dismissed workers receive to enable them to mount
their own projects are not sufficient to fund continuation of the activities
of the PEs dissolved or liquidated, even in caeee where they have indicated
willingness to do so.  Additional funding for worker purchases or takeover6 of
PEs wae not provided.

      4.4   PESAP shortcominas

      (a)   Lack of a full-scale Privatization Act and ite implementing
decrees and regulatione. Had such legislation existed, it would have reduced
the number of coordination meetings and interministerial coneultationm needed
to manage privatization procedures.

      (b)   Lack of a line of bank credit for the benefit of potential
investors in corporations whose assete or shares were offered for sale.
Domeetic banks were not willing to assiet possible inveetore who preeented
themselvee in good faith but were otherwise not creditworthy.

      (c)   From the institutional standpoint, adminiatration of the
redeployment component of PESAP should have been entrueted to an independent
consulting firm, and preferably one specialized in the promotion of projects.

      (d)   The rehabilitation component of PESAP did not go far enough.
Corporatione such as EDM and COMANAV remain financially unstable and
unprofitable.


            NCOMMENDATIONS FOR IMPROVED IMPLEMENTATION OF PES-   ACTIOU

      (a)   Evaluation at regular intervale of the impact of Order 91-014/B-
CTSP of May 18, 1991, which sets the baeic principles governing the
organization and operation of etate-owned corporatione and EPICS. Thie
evaluation, which should also extend to the hplementing decrees and
regulations accompanying the Order, could be expected to lead to ongoing
improvement of the legal and institutional environment ae it affects the
performance of such entities.

           (b)   Amendment of t h e provieione of Decree 90-17/PRN of January 23,
1990, s o ae t o create t h e conditione f o r b e t t e r remuneration of t h e pereonnel
of state-owned corporatione and EPICe.

           (c)   Eetabliehment of a fund for training and f o r t h e financing of
project f e a e i b i l i t y etudiee.          Potential bueineee promoters ehould receive
allocatione from t h i e fund f r e e of charge.

           (d)   Provieion of supplementary financing f o r r e l a t i v e l y large-ecale
projecte.        O r , preferably, both t h e Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
and t h e Minietry of Planning ehould commit themeelvee t o eeeking a etable
source of funding f o r continuation of t h e process of public eector reform.

           (e)   The neceeeary etepe ehould be taken to:
           -     prepare legielation, and i t e accompanying implementing decreee and
                 regulatione, t o govern t h e privatization of PEe;
           -     eet up a l i n e of bank credit f o r potential purchaeere of etate-
                 owned corporatione offered for eale.

           ( f ) B e t t e r management of t h e eocial dimeneione of adjuetment w i l l
depend on t h e deeignation of a coneulting firm capable of i n s t i t u t i n g and
promoting inveetment projecte and of taking on t h e reeponeibility f o r t h e
eocial management of workere who a r e l a i d off.




                 Ex-poet evaluation normally focueee on t h e following aepecte of a
project :
           -     probleme encountered i n i t e implementation (deeign, execution,
                 monitoring, controle, etc.);

                 comparison of i t e planned objective6 and i t e actual reeulte;

                 aeeeeement of t h e effecte of t h e project on t h e t a r g e t univeree;

                 leeeone and conclueions t o be drawn from t h e project, and
                 recommendatione applicable t o similar projects.

                 This type of evaluation does not give r e l i a b l e reeulte unless it
is conducted after a lapse of time long enough t o give a perspective on the
record of t h e project i t e e l f and i t e impact.

                 The evaluation of PESAP provided by t h e Malian authoritiee i n t h i e
Report i e regarded by them ae more of a reeponee t o t h e wiehee of donor8 than
ae a vehicle f o r full-ecale aeeeeement of PESAP implementation.                    Although t h e
l a t t e r type of evaluation can beet be conducted over t h e next t w o yeare, t h i e
~ e p o r ti e  nevertheleee able t o draw attention t o t h e following etrong and
weak pointe i n PESAP:



           (i) PESAP hae produced the following improvemente in the PE sector:
           -     elimination of eyetematic government eubeidiee and unlimited
                 recouree t o t h e banking eyetem;
           -     c l a r i f i c a t i o n of t h e relationehip between t h e Government and t h e
                 eector;

      -     preparation of the sector for the elimination of all forms of
            protectionism and for the need to improve its performance in the
            face of competition from the private sector.

     (ii)   PESAP enabled the Malian authorities to affirm their determination
to foster development of the private eector, which had previously been held
back.  The resulting awakening of the sector has been the occasion for a
diagnostic study to identify all measures likely to pave the way for ite
expansion.

    (iii)   Adoption by the authorities of new economic policies and the
accompanying introduction of investment incentive measures have definitely
created a climate of confidence conducive to private investment.  The
resulting beneficial effects are expected to make themselves felt in the near
future.

     (iv)   The immediate outcome of the reorganization of such PEe ae BDM,
OPT, RCFM, EDM, etc., and of the reforms made in the financial sector, has
been creation of the kind of environment likely to elicit improved performance
from them.

            However, these positive results are still so fragile that it would
be advisable to reinforce them by launching a second phase of PESAP, in
conjunction with a private sector development project.

            Weak points

      (i)   The fact that completion of the privatization of certain PEs
within fixed periods was a condition for the release of PESAP resources proved
in the majority of cases to be an obstacle to successful and profitable
disposal of them.

     (ii)   The technical assistance with privatization which the Bureau of
Public Enterprises received was not always of the best quality, the reeult
being a considerable delay in the process over the 1988-90 period.

    (iii)   Underestimation of PESAP funding requiremente (settlement of
liabilities; social costs) led to adjustment of its initial objectives (e.g.
settlement of 20% of PE liabilities to third parties).

     (iv)   The real financing requirements of the severance and redeployment
fund for workers laid off by PEs were much greater than the resources
allocated to it, with the reeult that there is a climate,of social discontent
regarding the redeployment measures it has actually been possible to take.

            If PESAP is to continue into a second phase, these problems will
need to be addressed and solved.

List of companies to be liquidated

List of companies to be privatized

List of companies to be rehabilitated

Portfolio of Stateavned companies

List of companies outsidePASEP

Liquidation schedule: assest performance and debt settlement

Scheduleof liquidation closing: non-realized assets and debts to be settled

Privatization schedule: assets and transferred stocks

Performance evaluationof the Compensation and Rehabilitation Program

Financial Performance Evaluationsof the Credit Agreements of PASEP

Financing received and utilization of PASEP funds
(capsulepresentation)

Adjustment Program of PASEP
Financing received and cash expenditures 1988-1991

List of State-ownedcompanies to be liquidated
                 (Annex 1)




                MARCH 1992

                  PE Sector meritProject Com~letionRegs

                    List of State-owned companiesto be Privatized

                                      (Annex2)




NB: The privatizationof CNAR is an initiativeof the state and is not part of the
    conditionalitiesof PASEP.



                                    MARCH 1992

               PE Sector Adiustment Proiect Com~letionRe~ort

               List of Stateawned Companies to be Rehabilitated

                                    (Annex 3)




NB: Theperformance contract exercise has been extendedto include CMDT and OPAM.

    The EPICSand SEs are governedby the dispositionsof Ordinances91-014 P-CTSP of
   May 18, 1991 and its applicable texts.

           PE S@%mUjatment        ecQiectCompletion rep^
                 Portfolio of State-Owned Companies

                               (Annex 4)
                                                            1
COMPANY NAME     STATUS      STATE      CAPITALINPUT         C o M M e m S     EST.
                             OWNED      (INFRANCS)

                1          I 100% 1                --   -

                                                                              (
                'EPIC                      2.945 Million     To be rehab.      1960
                                                                              I
OERHN            EPIC      I 100% 1          34*Millioi

ONP                                            4 M i n


COMANAV                                    3,246 Million

SONATAM                                     1.748 Million

CNAR                         100%             50 Million     Capital being     1968
                                                             opened to private

               r+z-+                                         investon

PPM                                           70 Million     Retailoutlctr,    1960
                                                             privatized

SOTELMA                                                      Newly createdor   1991
                                                             catablished
                           I          I


                 SEM         20%      I    1,500 Million     Divesture         1969

SEMA                                                         Divesture         1969

EMANA                                        311 Million     Divcetwe

HUICOMA                                    1,500 Million     C d o n
                                                             Underway

EDM              SEM       I          1    2,500 Million     Toberehab.

                           I          I
COMATEX SA                                 1,500 Million     Formation
                 SEM         20k                             Underway

EDIM SA                                      150Million

SOMACO SA                                    300 Million
                                                         =
                 EPIC        100%            2S7 Million     To be partklly
                                                             privatized

DAM              EPIC      1 100;     I    1.081Million
                                              -


                                              63 Million
                                                             privatized       (
F'ETROSTOCK      EPIC        100%          5,000 Million     To be privathd/   1981
                                                             liquidated

                 SE          100%          10,000 M i o n

                 SE          100%          368.5 Million     To bc privatized 11975

UMPP             SE          100%          2,551 Million

                 SEM         5.16%         2,618 Million

5                                                                                  w
 NO. COMPANY NAME       STATUS   STATE      CAPITAL INPUT     COMMENTS        EST.
                                 OWNED      (IN PRANCS)

     SOLIMA             SEM      40%              $11 Million To be totally   1976
                                                              privatized

  26 FRUITEMA           SEM       10%             75 Million  To be           1981
                                                              tranefomedl
                                                              SEM*

  27 SNED               SA        82.04%          150Million  Tobe            1979
                                                              tranefomedl
                                                              SEM*

  28  ULB               EPIC      100%                                        1981

  29 SUKALA             SE        100%          9,994 Million To bepartially
                                                              privatiztd

  30  OTER              EPA       100%            99 Million
                                                                                   A




  36 SCPCE              SEM       40%             500 Million                 1990

  37  GRAND HOTEL       ?         100%                        Management
                                                              privatized



    *NB: Newly created companies in which the Stateholds a minority percentage.


     *SEM: Societe d'Economie Mixte: organizationheld by both the government and
          private investors.

                       PE Sector Adiustment Proiect Com~letionRe~ort


                              Liste of com~aniesoutside PASEP

                                         (Annex 5.1)

I. List of ~ubliccom~aniesof the 2nd Phase of PASEP.



        1.      Usine Malienne de Produits Pharmaceutiques (UMPP)
        2.      Aeroports du Mali (ADM)
        3.      Societe National de Recherches et d'Exploitation Miniere du Mali
                (SONAREM)
        4.      Centre Naitonal de Recherche et d1Experimentationpour le Bgtiment et les
                Travaux Publiques (CNREXIBTP)
        5.      EntrepBts Maliens au Senegal (EMASE)
        6.      EntrepBts Maliens en Cote d'Ivoire (EMACI)



B.1     Total Privatization

        7.      Union Laitiere de Bamako (ULB)
        8.      Societe National d'Etudes pour le Developpement (SNED)
        9.      Societe Malieme pour la Commercializationdes Fruits et Legumes
                (FRUrnMA)

B.2     Partial Privatization

                Abattoir Frigorifique de Bamako (AFB)
                Pharmacie Vetdrnaire du Mali (PVM)
                Societede Gestion de t'Exploration des Mines d'Or de Kalana (SOGEMORK)
                Societd Navale du Mali (SONAM)
                Huilerie Cotonnibre du Mali (HUICOMA)
                SocieteArabe LiByo-Malieme pour 1'Elevage et 1'Agriculture (SOLIMA)
                Base pour 1'Equipment des Transports Routiers (BETRAM)
                Operation Puits (O.P.)



        18.     Tel~mmuincationsInternationales du Mali (TIM)
        19.     Office de Gestion de 1'Hotel de 1'Amitie (OGHA)
        20.     Office des Relais Touristiquesde l1Int6rieur(ORTI)
        21.     Societt?Malienne d'Ingenierie et de Transports Maritimes (SOMITRAM)
        22.     Etablissement d'Approvisionnement et de Stockage en Produits Petroliers
                (PETROSTOCK)

II.     Other com~aniesoutside PASEP

       23.      Caisse Nationale d'Assurance et de Rhsurence (CNAR)

                                            - 41-

                PE Sector Adjustment Proiect Com~letionReport

                        List of Companies "OutsidePASEP"

                                      (Annex5-2)




(1) Streamliningplanned for 1992: 1-12

                                            - 42 -

                  PE Sector Adiustment Proiect Com~letionR ~ D o ~

               LiquidationSchedule: Stock fulfillment and settlement

                                         Annex 6




NB
The settlements were executed in the scopeof PASEP and on the national budget.

AU figurea are in millions of PCA

                                         - 43 -

                pe Sector AdiustmentProiect Com~letionR-n




   Schedule of Liquidation Closure: Non-realized assets and Debts to be settled

                                   (Annex 7)




m:*Informationnot available.


  ** Converted to FCFA.

               PESector Adjustment Proiect Comoletion Rewfl

                Privatization Schedule: assets and transferred Stock

                                     (Annex 8)
   I         I                   1
    Company    Assignee           Date        Form     Value     Paid
                                                       (thous.)

 1  SOCIMA     SOAKOF/IMACO       7/29/91    IAssets   250,000   100,000.m

 2  mMA                           6/21/90     stocks   200,000
               mockboldtnof                   (13.396)
               L ' m
                                             I
 3  FRUITEMA   SOGEFIH SARL       10/16/90    Stocks     24,154    PAID
                                              (3450)

 4  SEMA       Private Malian     1991        Stocks   229.735.6   57,433,910
               Citizens                       (16oo)

 5  EDIM       M.AUIU             1991        h t s    308,984.8
               T O r n A

 6  SMECMA     CMDTdPrivrtc       11/16/91
               Mrlin Citizenr

 7  BMAMA      SIAEI-             11/91       Stock#     165,000
               CONSUUSFIIXU                   (21880)

 8  UCEMA      PrivatoM.liaCi     12/91       Assets   Chargca
               .IdEmploy-

 9  GRAND      SOMATHO            1/19/90     Mgmt.
    HOTEL (1)                                 (10
                                              yn.1

                                              Assets


                                              puri.v

    OFmCINES   Citizens         l             Di.pmu
 l1IWM       IPrivUrMYul          9190        Y




NB:

    *FRUITEMA: is not part of the 15 companies originally scheduled to be privatized.

    ** companies undergoing development, Assignment contracts for COMATEX,
    TAMALI, SEPAMA.

    (1) GRAND HOTEL: 48 Million X 3 years and (68 Million X 7 years).

                                                 - 45 -

                       P _ E e n t           Roiect CompletionReoort

              of Implem

                                           (Annex 9)


The total amount utilized under the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PASEP) to
finance lay+ffs and the "Reinsertion" Program amounted to 4.8 billion FCFA.


This amount is divided as follows:

1sttranche                      2.7 Billion FCFA

2nd tranche                     1.2 Billion FCFA

3rd tranche                     0.9 Billion FCFA


TOTAL                           4.8 Billion FCFA


For the first two tranches, the payments were made by the Public Treasury, after transfer of
funds from the PASEP accounts to the Compensation and "Reinsertation" accounts.

The breakdown of payments made under the last tranche are given in the following table:

:omDanv                                                                               4!uuua
                                                                          (Billions of FCFA)

  SOCIMA

  SMERT                                                                                0.0087

  EDIM

  MOTEL

  SMECMA

  SEPAMA

  UCEMA

  COMATEX


       TOTAL                                                                           0.9102

                   ECONOMY AND FINANCE                                 REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                                               "UnPeuple Un But Une Foin
                                                                        -       -


                                              (Annex 10)



Sourceof Financing                                        Bxchanee Rate             kl!W!!a
                                                                         (in milk^ of FCFA)
IDA Credit                       29.4 Million DTS                392.71             11545.7
ADF Lmn                           35 Billion UCF                 376.68             13183.8
J a p p n c r t h                    4 Billion Yen                2.16                8640.0
SaudiLoan                        22 Million Riyaln                78.43               1725.6
J a m Grant                          1 Billion Yen                2.16                2.mQ
                                                                                    37255.1



11.                     (in Millions FCFA)
                            lilcb&s

IDA
FAD
Jap~neoeL m n
Saudi LOM
Japanese G m t




III. Detail of Disbwemenu
          (in Millions of FCFA)

                                                         Saudi J.om




TOTAL
1ST
TRANCHE
12/89
1/2/90
1/30/90
4/90
1/91

TOTAL
2ND
TRANCHE

Datc                IDA         FAD        Ja~anese   Saudi Lou    Japanese
                                              -
                                              Loan                   -
                                                                     Grant
9/24/90                       1710.2
8/91                          1850.5          844.4
1U10/91          1878.0                       593.8
1U20/91          1350.0
1U30191             96.4                                             313.5
1/10/92             12.6
1/17/92                       - - - -                                312.5

TOTAL            3337.0       3560.7         1438.2                    626
3RD
TRANCHE


Iv.    N$
       (in Millions of FCFA)

                              Aereement          Ex~enditur~ (2)        neoritical G a
                             Amownts(1)                                        (2)- (1)
IDA                              11545.7                  11555.0                +9.3
ADF                              13183.7                  13066.5               -117.3
Japanese Loan                     8640.0                   8953.0              +313.0
Saudi Loan                        1725.6                    1725.6                 0.0
Japanese Grant                    2160.0                   2203.9               +43.9




                        Rate of Expenditure = 37504 = 100%
                                              37255.1


V. COMMENTS

       The gaps stem form variations in the exchange rate.

       All PASEP funds have been disbursed.


                                                                     February 18,1992

                                                       - 48 -

                           Financine received and utilizationof PASEP fun&

                                        (in Millions of FCFA)

                                         Capsule Presentation

                                            (Annex 11-1)




 B) Aneumption of the
 Dcbtr of liquidated




 C) Aneumption of the
 Liilitb of the companitr
 to be privatizedincluding
 BDM rtptructu~g

 D) Anrumption of the
 Liabiliticr of cornpanice to
 be rnaintanied in the Statc
 portfolio including BDM


 E) Comptnsotionand
 "Reinsertion"Fundr

 F) Reliquificationof CCP




(1) including 125 Million from FED.
                                                                           February 20, 1992

                                   -49 -
MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE ET DES FINANCES
BUREAU DES ENTREPRISES PUBLIQUES

                   PE SECTOR ADJUSTMENTPROJECT COMPLETIONREPORT
       FINANCING RECEIWD AND EXPENDITURESPAID IN 1988-1989-1990-1991

 GRAND HOTEL

 d) Assumption of
 liabilities of other




 Reimbursement




(1)       of which 65 Million FCFA spent in February 1992 due to personnel of COMATEX
          for "allocationsfamiliales"
                                    .

                        PART I11 - STATISTICALINFORMATION



1. Related Bank Loans and Credits and/or Follow-on Adjustment berations

   LoanICredit                                              Year of
        Title                        I%!EQ%                A D D ~ O V ~      SUDlS


Cr. 1307-ML1            To strengthen management of           FY83      Fully disbursed
Economic                the Malian economy by
Management and          improving financial and
Training T.A.           economic policies and public
                        institutions and by training
                        Malian civil servants.


Credit 1938-MLI         To provide institutionalsupport       FY88      Ongoing
Public Enterprise       needed by the Government to
Institutional           extend and deepen its P.E.
Development             reform efforts.


Cr. 2054-MLI            To assist the Government              FY89      Ongoing
Education Sector        implement an integrated
Consolidation           package of reforms and
(Hybrid)                investments aimed at reshaping
                        the education system.


Cr. 2163-MLI            To support and consolidatean          FY90      Ongoing
Agricultural            evolving Government program
Sector Adjustment       to ensure agricultural growth
(Hybrid)                while diversifying production
                        and ensuring the sustainability
                        of the production system.

                                                                        Ongoing
Cr. 2188-MLI            To support Mali's overall             FY91
First Structural        adjustment program. It focuses
Adjustment Credit       on implementation in two key
                        areas: private sector incentives
                        and public resource
                        management.

2. Proiect Timetable




3. Credit DisbursemenQ (US$ '000)


                   Disbursement in US$  in SDR    As 96 of
                     Date       million  million    Total

   First Tranche   Dec. 1988    15.53    11.80    38.8%
   Second Tranche Dec. 1989     11.48     8.8     28.7%
   Third Tranche   Nov. 1991    12.99     8.8     32.5%


6.Use of Bank Resourcq

                               A. Staff InuuQ

           LENP    LENA   LENN     SPN    TOTAL

              4.7                       4.7

              83.3                      83.3

              41.4   75.9              117.3

              31.4   55.7 2.7          89.8

              17.2        22           39.2

              20.3   10.7 24.1         55.1

                               43.4    43.4

                               33.3    33.3

                               25.8    25.8

                               17.5     17.5

                          48.8 120    509.4

                                                                ANNEX I



    LIST OF 57 COMMERCIALLY+RIENTED PUBLIC ENTERPRISES


-                                                                      -
NO.    P(AME       -
                   STATUS     A      m                COMMENTS         EST.

EPIC: Induetrial & Commercial P.E.
EPA: A d s a t i v e P.E.
SEM: (Societe d1EconomieMixte) PE held by both, O M k private investors
SE:  Government wntrolled.

                                                                           Attachment 1
                                                                              Page 1 of 2



MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AFFAIRS AND FINANCE                           REPUBLIC OF MALI
Bureau des Entreprises Publiques




    COMMENTS ON PARTS I AND In OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
  PREPARED BY IDA ON THE PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
                              PROJECT (CREDIT 1937-MLI)



PESAP's Results

        It is indicated that the PESAP has attained all of its objectives. Such statement
is sort of ambiguous. As a matter of fact, the burden of public enterprises over
public finances has decreased, but the administration of those public enterprises
remaining under the State's domain have not improved in spite of the establishment of
a system of performance contracts. For example: The achievementsin the cases of
certain public enterprises, i.e., RCFM - SONATAM - EDM, have deteriorated in
recent months. These enterprises have not really been rehabilitated. In our view, this
component should be revisited.


PASEP' s Financing

        The amount of financing allocated to PASEP has been inadequate to be able to
cover all the needs of the program (repayment of liabilities).

       and Institutional Aspects

        The legal and institutional reforms introduced through the project agreements
have not produced all of the desired results. Indeed, Law No. 87-51IAN-RM of 10
August 1987 determining the basic principles of organization and functioning of state
enterprises and EPIC aimed at a great independencein the management of public
enterprises. The evaluation of that law has demonstrated that managerial autonomy is
relative.

Conditions for Release of Tranche funds

       The World Bank admits the fact that linking the relase of the tranches funds
with progress in the privatization process was an error.

                                                                          A-
                                                                             Page 2 of 2




Results of the Privatization

       The privatization has not enabled certain enterprises to increase their economic
and financial performance. Examples: SEMA and SOMACO, SA.

       The program for the adjustment of the public enterprise sector (PASEP) has
not foreseen follow-up measures for these enterprises.


Social Indicators

       The projects established by the laid off workers are not all successes. Costs to
society of the program have not always yielded tangible results.



