Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5739
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIJI
CYCLONE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 1921-FIJ)
June 28, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Ihk docmnt ha a resrbicted distribtio ad may be used by recpins oly in the perfornmance of
tIr offcal duEs. Its contes may not ohemw    be discosed withon World BanR audhorizato.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Hetric System
1 ton = 1,000 kg = 2,200 pounds
1 hectare = 10,000 square meters = 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      -  Asian Development Bank
DID      -  Drainage and Irrigation Division
FAO      -  Food and Agriculture Organization
GOF      -  Government of Fiji
MAF      - Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MPI      -  Ministry of Primary industry
MPWC     - Ministry of Public Works and Communications
NLDC     -  Native Land Development Corporation
NLTB     -  Native Land Trust Board
PWD      -  PubLic Works Department
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FIJI
CYCLONE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (LOAN 1921-FIJ)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page Noo.
PREFACE .......................................................
BASIC DATA SHEET ............................. i................. i
HIGHLIGHTS ....................................................    v
I.  BACKGROUND ....................................................   1
II. THE PROJECT ...................................................    2
III. PROJECT EVALUATION ............................................    4
IV. ASSOCIATED HURRICANE FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT .............    6
V.  IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS .......................................    8
VI. ASSESSMENT OF BANK PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED .....    ........   11
Annex A - Project Related Tables
1. Key Indicators
2. Project Cost Summary
3. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
4. Disbursement Schedule
Annex B - UNDP Contribution
Annex C - Comments from the Ministry of Communications, Transport and Works
Annex D - Comments from the Ministry of Primary Industry
Annex E - Comments from the UNDP Resident Representative
Map IBRD 15258
Thbdocmet hu a nmicted dimibution and may be used by apients only in the perfor_m
o°f t   Ofclduta in contents may o othw  be dwiedwabiout Wodd BIhkaudnoL



FIJI
CYCLONE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (LOAN 1921-FIJ)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
The loan, US$18.0 million, was approved by the Board on November 25,
1980, signed on January 21, 1981, and became effective on March 18, 1981. The
original Closing Date of June 30, 1984 was maintained but, to allow processing
of outstanding withdrawal applications for ongoing activities, the Bank agreed
to accept withdrawal applications until November 30, 1984. By that date the
loan had been fully disbursed. An additional contribution of US$1.2 million
by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) provided technical assistance
for project implementation under a Hurricane Flood Rehabilitation Project
(UNDP FIJ/801017) with the Bank, in association with FAO, as executing agency.
The combined Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF) and
Ministry of PubLic Works and Communications (MPWC) completion report submitted
to the Bank on February 1985 did not provide the informacion required for a
detailed assessment of annual costs and benefits. Both agencies approached
the completion report in a different manner and some of the information
provided, i.e., key indicators, was clearly outdated. This report, therefore,
reLies heavily on a thorough review of Bank supervision reports and of the
agencies' monthly and annual progress reports. It also includes the findings
of a supervision mission which took place at the time of the cLosing date for
the Bank loan, July/August 1984, and which included a joint review with the
Drainage and Irrigation Division and the Public Works Department technical
staff of the total project costs and output at that time and of the estimated
completion date for unfinished works. The mission also included extensive
field visits to all the project areas and discussions with Asian Development
Bank (ADB) and UNDP officials.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower on March 28,
1985. Comments received from the Ministry of Communications, Transport and
Works, the Ministry of Primary Industry, and the UNDP Resident Representative
have been taken in the account in preparing the final report and are in
Annexes C, D, and E, respectively.
This project has not been subjected to an audit by OED.



\f\~~~~~~~ 
01 ),
ir lI



- fIii-
PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
CYCONE RECOUSTCTOW PROJECT (LOAN 1921-FLt)
BASIC DATA SEILET
XEY PROJECT nA7A
Appra              Actual or       Actal as X of
expectation    current estimate  appraisal estimate
Project costs (05$ millon)                               31.0               33.2                107
Loan amount 0USS mdllion)                                 18.0                18.0               100
Date Board approal                                         -              11/25180
Tan Agreement date                                         -               GI1Z1181
Date Effectiveness                                      03/18/81          03/18/81               100/a
Date physical compoomnt. eoeted                            07/84              12184              11/a
Proportton then coopleted  t                            100               100                  100
Closing Date                                            06/30/86          03/06/84               100/a
Economic rate of return (Z)
HRighuv reconstruction                                   16                16                  100
Drainage vorks                                           15                16                  107
Institutional performae                                     -               Good
Agronomic performnce                                                    Satisfactory
CUrOLATrVE DISBURSE_15TS
FY82             FY83              FT84              FY85
Appraisal estimte (USS m)                          4.0              12.5              16.5              18.0
Actual (USS n)                                      -                9.9              16.6              tR.O
Actual as K of estimte                             0.0                79               101               100
Date of final disbursement                       09/21/84
Principal repa_d to (01/31/85) CS  million)        1.5
MlISSION DATA
Date    No. of    Wran-days  Specializations  Performance                Type of
isslaon          (mo/vr)  persons   in field  represented tb        rating /c   Trend Id  problems le
Preparation /f
Appraisal            97/80        3         36         E.C.A
Subtotal                                 36
Supervision  1       04/81         1         o1                            1           2           F
Supervision  2        12/81        2         24        T.A                1            2           F
Supervision  3       05/82         1          6        1                  t            2           F
Supervision  4        12/82        t          3        C                  1            2           0
Supervision  5        10/83        1          6        C                  1            2           T
Supervision  6       07/H4         1          6        A                  1            2           T
Subtotal                                51
Completion          02/85         1           3       A
Total                                   90
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrower                     Government of Fill
Executing agency              Ministrv of Agriculture and Fisheries
Fiscal Year of Borrower      January I - December 31
Name of currency (abbreviation)               Fill Dollar (FS)
Currency Exchange Rate
Appraisal vear average                     USS1.00 - FS 0.2
Intervening years average                  USS1.00 - FS 0.92
Completion year average                    US$1.00 - FS 1.11
Pollow-on project: Ig
/a  Calculated In terms of months from date of Board approval.
7iT  A - Agriculturist; E - Ecconomist; I - Irrigation V.nginer; C - Civil Engineer.
7;W  1 - problem-free or mlnor problenm; 2 - moderate pro!blems; and 3 - major problems.
7;i 1 - Improving; 2 - stationary; 3 - deteriorating.
7W  T - technical; F - fInancial; 0 - other.
7T  Because of emergency nature of project, no identification or preparation work was carried out by Bank
staff.
/R  Follow-on agricultural development project is belng4 Implemented by the Asian Development Rank (AD9)-



I4  
I-
a18. 



v
CYCLONE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (LOAN 1921-FIJ)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Highlights
1.        On Kay 8, 1980 the government of Fiji requested Bank assistance in
financing the reconstruction of roads and drainage works damaged by cyclone
"Wally" in March of the same year. The project was approved after review by a
Bank appraisal mission of the Government's proposal and included (a) recon-
struction of 32 km of the damaged highway; (b) reconstruction and improvement
of drainage works for some 12,000 ha of land along the southeast coast of Viti
Levu; (c) dredging of about three million cubic meters of flood deposits in
several rivers; and (d) nrocurement of construction equipment to execute part
of the above civil works by force account. Except for the procurement of
equipment, the scope of the project was substantially increased by GOF during
implementation. The h-ghway reconstruction component was implemented by the
Ministry of Public Works and Communications (MPWC) and the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF), at present the Ministry of Primary Industry
(MPI), undertook the drainage works rehabilitation and dredging components.
The total cost was estimated at US$31.0 million and a Bank loan of US$18.0
million covered the foreign exchange and a portion of the local costs for
civil works carried out by force account. To strengthen the implementation
capacity of the Drainage and Irrigation Division (DID) of MAF, UNDP provided a
grant of US$1.0 million, later increased to US$1.2 million. The grant covered
technical assistance, office equipment, and funds for an agricultural develop-
ment study for the productive use of lands rehabilitated under the Bank-
assisted loan. The Bank was appointed executing agency for the UNDP-financed
project, in association with FAO, which was responsible for supervision of a
portion of the technical assistance.
2.        The project was successfully implemented.  In spite of an upward
physical revision of about 50-60 per cent for the civil works, cost overrun
for the overall project did not exceed 72 and about 90% of project components
in physical terms were completed by the project closing date.  Considering the
increased project scope and the damage to works already completed by a new
cyclone, "Oscar", in 1983, these time and cost overruns can be considered
negligible.
3.        Project appraisal took place under conditions of emergency and
preparation of an appraisal report was waived. A President's Report was
prepared on the basis of the appraisal mission's findings. The fact that the
project was able to achieve its objectives practically on schedule indicates
that not only was the appraisal competently carried out under difficult
circumstances but that the implementing agencies, NAF and MPWC, performed
very well.



- vi -
4         The cost of the project is now estimated at about US$33.2 million.
The cost overrun of USS2.2 million is well justified by the addition of 24 km
of road reconstruction and realignment and substantial increases to the
original scope in length of seawalls, embankments and drainage channels, and
number of outfall structures. The GOF report does not provide data to
determine project benefits in a quantitative form, however, qualitatively the
economic rate of return would be better than the 16X estimated at appraisal.
The major agricultural benefits, however, would accrue from an agricultural
project recently financed by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) based on the
study carried out as part of the UNDP technical assistance. The ADB Appraisal
Report shows an ERR of 17.3% including the costs of the Bank-assisted project.
5.        The major implementation problems have been unavoidable weather
conditions which caused some delays; difficulties in reaching agreement with
farmer beneficiaries on consent to drainage works and grant of right-of-way;
delays in delivery of equipment and loan disbursement due to lack of familiar-
ity by some Fijian agencies with Bank procedures, and the lack of local
technical staff involved in the planning and supervision activities, thus
reducing the institutional impact.
6.        The major lessons from the project and additional points of interest
are that:
(a) participation of prospective beneficiaries is required in tne early
stages of project implementation, even under emergency conditions,
to avold delays due to misunderstanding of the benefits accruing to
them from the project (para. 5.06);
(b) attention to training of local staff cannot be relegated to a
secondary objective without creating a void after project compLetion
is achieved (para. 5.09);
(c) river dredging components should be supported by adequate catchment
basin protection programs to reduce the risk of recurrent
sedimentation problems (para. 5.14); and
(d)  Fijian government agencies when properly staffed as in the case of
PWD, are capable of carrying out extensive project works by force
account with limited technical assistance, once they are familiar
with the procurement and disbursement procedures of the financing
agencies (para. 6.06).
,.        The project has been successful but might have been more effective
and avoided delays if the prospective beneficiaries were involved during the
early stages of project implementation. It would have been useful to
ascertain that GOF officials had understood fully the instructions and
guidance given on procurement and disbursement procedures. More attention
should have been paid to the institution building aspects of both the Bank
assisted works and the associated UNDP-financed technical assistance.



FIJI
CYCLONE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (LOAN 1921-FIJ)
Project Completion Report
I. BACKGROUND
Project Objectives
1.01      Floods have raged at frequent intervals through the rivers of the
Central Division of Fiji building up and developing large and small associated
deltas. Most affected by these floods have been the Navua, Rewa, Waidina and
Waidanu Rivers. On April 1980, an extensive area of heavy rain associated
with Cyclone "Wally" moved over the Central Division causing record floods in
the Navua and Waimanu river catchments. The flood in the Navua River in par-
ticular was an extreme event with numerous landslides causing large amounts of
silt and debris to be carried and deposited on the Navua delta. The damage
caused by the floods was further aggravated by a state of disrepair of exist-
ing drainage works in the Navua and Rewa areas due to the closing some years
earlier of the mills operating in those areas. The deteriorating condition of
the drainage network and associated structures and the increasing level of
residential development and other capital investments in the area tended to
make the flood damage more serious than ever.
1.02      The Government of Fiji (GOF) requested Bank-assistance to repair
roads seriously affected by the cyclone, reconstruct the drainage works in the
more affected areas, and rehabilitate flood damaged agricultural areas while
encouraging further development in low-lying areas and providing means for
flood protection. To assist in the implementation of the proposed activities,
the Governing Council of the United Nations Development Programe (UNDP)
agreed to help finance the technical assistance required for reconstruction of
the damaged infrastructure and a study for an agricultural development program
for the rehabilitated areas.
Project Identification, Preparation and Appraisal
1.03      Because of the emergency nature of the project, normal processing
steps such as identification, preparation and appraisal were waived. The
major emergency needs were identified by GOF with assistance from the tech-
nical staff of an ongoing UNDP project (FIJ/73/011). A Bank mission of three
staff members visited Fiji on July 3-14, 1980 to determine the scope and com-
position of the final project; the likely schedule of implementation; the
details of disbursement arrangements; and the details of Bank assistance
required. Based on the mission's findings, a President's Report was prepared
for submission to the Board. The resulting proposal contained three major
components: (i} reconstruction, improvement and partial realignment of roads
affected by the cyclone; (ii) reconstruction and improvement of drainage
works; and (iii) dredging of several rivers to restore discharge capacity. In
addition, financing was provided for (iv) procurement of construction
equipment to carry out the above works by force account.



-2-
1.04      While no issues paper was prepared for the project, the covering
memorandum for the President's Report _/ clearly indicated that because some
of the Government's emergency needs for rehabilitation work were being assis-
ted by other bilateral and multilateral agencies, the resulting project had
assumed a more convential profile than the emergency relief operation origin-
ally anticipated. However, to ensure that implementation would take place
with the required urgency, a period of three and half years from the expected
date of effectiveness was established for disbursement and a decision was made
not to extend the Closi;g Date of the loan.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Components
2.01      Highway Reconstruction.  The 175-km Suva-Nadi highway, upgraded with
Bank assistance between 1971 and 1978 (Loan 771-FIJ), suffered severe damage
from the cyclone, particularly in the eastern half of its central section,
between Deuba and Naboutini where, for a total length of 32 km, there were
eight major landslides, two major bridges were destroyed, and over 6 km of
highway were covered by silt flows. Most of the landslides took place in
mountainous terrain with numerous sharp curves and steep gradients. The
project as approved was to realign 20 km of the total 32 km to be constructed
and to finance about 80Z of the cost of upgrading the central section of the
Suva-Nadi highway.
Drainage Works
2.02      The cyclone damage to drainage areas included breaches in the
seawalls, destruction of tidal outfalls, and silting up of natural streams and
drains. In addition, some 4,500 ha of land including about 2,000 ha of
pasture and some 1,600 ha of standing crops were damaged or destroyed. Under
the project, some 12,000 ha of productive land damaged by tidal innundation
and silt flows was expected to be reclaimed and surface drainage improved in
undamaged areas to allow more intensive agricultural use. The reconstruction
of the drainage works was carried out in ten subprojects under three Drainage
Boards which are responsible for maintenance of the drainage works and have
the power to levy drainage rates. The Navua Drainage Board covered 4,900 ha
in five subprojects in the delta of the Navua River and east and west of the
river. The Nausori Drainage Board covered 5,100 ha in three contiguous
subprojects in the delta of the Rewa River. The Naitasiri Drainage Board
covered 1,950 has of land bordering the Rewa River upstream of its delta. In
order to exploit the agricultural potential created by the activities under
the project, MAF carried out in-depth investigations and analyses and, on the
basis of tbose investigations, a detailed agricultural development plan was
prepared.
1/   Memorandum from the Director, Programs Department, to the Director
Projects Department dated 09/05/80.



2.03      Seawall Reconstruction.  The existing seawalls at the time of the
cyclone, which served to protect low-lying land from inundation at.high tides,
were breached in twelve locations by flood flows originating from the landward
side. Under the project, about 50 km of seawalls were expected to be
reconstructed to close the breaches and extend protection to areas vulnerable
to tidal inundation.
2.04      Tidal Outfall Structures.  Most of the existing outfalls, located
where the main drains enter the sea, were destroyed or badly damaged by the
cyclone.  Under the project, about 27 of .hese outfall structures were
replaced by new and more effective works, improving their ability to promote
better surface drainage, help to lower the water table, and prevent salt water
intrusion.
2.05      Internal Drains.  Some 100 km of man-made drains and about 50 km of
natural drainage channels were silted up by the storm. Under the project,
about 100 km of existing man-made drains and natural channels were to be
reconstructed or cleared and 150 km of new drains constructed. Reconstruction
of these internal drains was essential to reclaiming the areas damaged by the
silt flows.
2.06      Dredging.  During the cyclone, massive deposits of silt, sand and
gravel occurred in the lower reaches of the Navua and Rewa Rivers closing the
rivers to shallow coastal vessels and leading to much hikher flood levels.
Under the project, it was estimated that between 3 and 4 million cubic feet of
material would have to be removed from both rivers to reopen them to
navigation and to restore their flood discharge capacity. To expedite the
clearing of the river, financing was included to procure a 300 cu m/hr dredge,
with work boat, as well as 2,000 m of delivery pipe with booster pump, and an
additional pump to increase the output of the existing GOF dredge.
Organization and Management
2.07      General.  The two major components, because of their diverse nature,
were placed under the responsibility of two ministries: the Ministry of
Public Works and Communications (HPWC) and the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries (MAF). MAF was assigned the role of project coordinator.
2.08      Road Reconstruction.  Implementation responsibility for the road
reconstruction component was given to the Public Works Department (PWD) which
would carry out the work by force account, using existing and project-financed
equipment. This agency had the required technical capabilities and, at the
time of the cyclone, had been constructing about 160 km of roads and
maintaining about 4,000 km per year in Fiji.
2.09      Drainage Works.  The drainage works were implemented by the Drainage
and Irrigation Division (DID) of MAF which had already carried out similar
work in another Bank-assisted project (Loan 1266-FIJ) but would need addition-
al technical staff for the project activities. The additional staff was pro-
vided under the UNDP grant for the Hurricane Flood Rehabilitation Project. As



-4-
an emergency and stopgap measure, FAO/OPAS engineers 2/ from an ongoing UNDP
project (FIJ/73/011) assisted in the immediate rehabiLitation efforts and in
the drawing up of plans for reconstruction work. It was expected that the
seawalls and the internal drains would be built by local constractors under
DID supervision while the outfall structures would be built as a combined
effort of PWD and DID. Once the drainage works were completed they would be
turned over co the corresponding Drainage Boards for maintenance.
III. PROJECT EVALUATION
General Assessment
3.01      Overview.  In spite of substantial upward revisions introduced by
GOF in its desire to expand the scope of the project, road and drainage works
were practically completed, except for dredging operations, within the time
period estimated at appraisal. Works were carried out to satisfactory
standards. The drainage component received considerable amounts of technical
assistance through the UNDP-financed and Bank-executed Hurricane Flood
Rehabilitation Project while none was required for the road component. As a
result of project activities, traffic over a major road and important stretch
of Viti Levu has multiplied benefitting the tourist industry, the agricultural
farmers, and the pubLic in general. Reconstruction and upgrading of drainage
works in the Navua and Rewa plains has opened Lhe opportunity for intensifying
agriculture in already developed lands and bringing commonly-owned Mataqali 3/
land into production under an ADB-assisted project.
3.02      Under the project, 56 km of roads have been improved and realigned,
75% more than requested by Government at appraisal; 18 bridges were recon-
structed (as compared with 11 planned originally) and 16 culverts built
instead of the four originally planned. Delivery of road construction equip-
ment was somewhat delayed, and problems of land acquisition and labor avail-
ability caused some minor delays during the initial implementation phase.
However, by the closing date of the loan about 90% of the highway reconstruc-
tion work was completed (about 160% of the original estimate).
3.03      Flood protection and drainage improvement works actually carried out
under the project included 55 km of seawalls and flood embankments (10Z more
than planned at appraisal); 413 km of man-made drains and cleared natural
channels, an increase of 65% over the o._ginal plan, and 42 outfall struc-
tures, 15 more than the initially planned 27. Difficulties arose during
implementaLion in relation to the design of the outfall structures which faced
2/   Operational assistance engineers.
3/   Mataqalis are native groups of extended families under a village chief.
Agricultural development of these lands is often assisted by the Native
Land Development Corporation (NLDC) and the Native Land Trust Board
(NLTB).



-5-
leakage problems but they were corrected. Problems with farmer beneficiaries
caused delays because of reluctance to grant right-of-way and consent to
drainage works. A small number of these cases has yet to be resolved.
3.04      Dredging operations in the Navua River started late and were still
ongoing at loan closing date. Rewa River remains undredged. Slow and
incomplete dredging operation was due to delays in procurement of equipment
and slow recruitment of dredging operations staff. Adverse weather conditions
and a possible underestimation of the volume of sediment deposit at appraisal
(100% increase) made it almost impossible to complete the task within the
limited project completion time.
3.05      In genera'. terms, the objectives of the project were achieved for
all components except the dredging, which GOF is committed to complete. DID
has been given the responsibility of dredging all rivers throughout Fiji and
the work in the Navua and Rewa Rivers remain their priority. Key indicators
of the project's performance are shown in Annex A, Table 1.
Project Costs and Benefits
3.06      The major quantifiable benefits arising from lands reclaimed under
the project will only be achieved after completion of the Agricultural
Development Project financed by ADB. However, some other direct and indirect
benefits resulted from the project activities which, although not properly
quantified by the implementing agencies, have been partially analyzed
qualitatively and explained in the following paragraphs.
3.07      Project Costs.  Actual project costs (Annex A, Sable 2) have been
estimated at US$33.2 million compared to the appraisal estimate of US$31.0
million.  In view of a substantial upward revision of works, the cost over
of 7% is modest. Actual cost figures produced by both PWD and DID do not
include the cost of engineering supervision and administration which have been
estimated as 10% of local costs for this report. About 67Z of the loan pro-
ceeds were used for civil works and the remaining 33% were used for procure-
ment of equipment (Annex A, Table 3). These c3sts, however, do not include
US$1.2 million of technical assistance provided by the UNDP grant and which
constituted an inseparable and essential component of project implementation.
3.08      Highway Reconstruction Benefits.  At appraisal the ERR of the high-
way reconstruction component was estimated at about 16%. While no attempts
have been made by PWD to quantify the actual benefits, which makes it diffi-
cult to compare the appraisal assumptions of a traffic growth of 6% per annum
and benefits due to road user cost-savings, etc., with current traffic
volume. However, as there has been a phenomenal traffic build up due to the
location of a few resort hotels along the completed road alignment, ERR for
completed road works would exceed 16%. A cost-benefit analysis submitted
earlier to GOF by a firm of highway consultants for the central section of the



Suva-Nadi highway 41 shows an ERR of 17.8% based on a cost of US$20.3 mil-
lion. Since the actual cost was US$22.5 million, the 16Z rate of return
ippears acceptable.
3.09      Drainage Works Benefits.  Immediate benefits to farmers in the
project areas are evident although there has been no attempt by DID to
quantify them. Pasture Land considered marginal before the project has become
productive agricultural land. Flood and tidal protection resulting from the
seawalls and embankment construction was evident by the limited damage
suffered under cyclone "Oscar" in 1983. In addition to these benefits,
further intensification of reclaimed Land under the new ADB-assisted Agricul-
tural Development Project would benefit an area of about 3,300 ha owned by the
existing farmers and another 3,400 ha of new reclaimed land to be brought into
production. ADB appraisal report projects an annual incremental production of
about 15,000 tons of rice benefitting some 2,000 families. The ADB-assisted
project is estimated to cosc US$7.1 million and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1989. ADB's calculated economic rate of return for the project as
a whole is 23.4%, assuming expenditures under the Cyclone Reconstruction
Project as a sunk cost. rf the cost of the Bank-assisted project is taken
into account, the ADB calculates an ERR of 17.3Z.
IV. ASSOCIATED HURRICANE FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
Background
4.01      As indicated earlier (para. 2.09), UNDP had been providing technical
assistzn-.e to the GOF at the time of the cyclone. FAO/OPAS experts working
under Project FIJ/73/011 provided technical support and assisted the early
emergency rehabilitation efforts. At GOF request, the Governing Council of
the UNDP on December 11, 1980, approved a proposal to provide the additional
technical assistance and finance equipment and a study for an agricultural
development plan for the areas reclaimed under the Bank-assisted project.
Because of the close relation of this assistance to the Bank-assisted Cyclone
Reconstruction Project and the source of manpower for the majority of the
technical staff, the World Bank, in association with FAO, was appointed as
executing agency.
The Project
4.02      Under the UNDP technical assistance program, technical staff was to
be provided to DID to assist in the design, construction, organization and
supervision of the rehabilitated program described in paras. 2.02 to 2.06.
The technicians provided under the program were (a) a Principal Engineer act-
ing as Team Leader for Drainage and Irrigation works (OPAS); (b) a Senior
Design Engineer (OPAS); (c) a Senior Agricultural Mechanization Engineer
(OPAS); (d) a Drainage and Irrigation Engineer; (e) a Dredging Operations
4/   Rendel, Palmer and Tritton, Ltd.



-7-
Superintendent:; and (f) four associate experts. Three OPAS engineers and the
four associate experts were transferred from the UNDP-financed Drainage and
Irrigation Project (FIJ/73-011). A total of 162 man/months of independent
experts and OPAS engineers were to be funded under the new Hurricane Flood
Rehabilitation Project (FIJ/80/017) with a total cost of US$1.0 million. The
GOF contribution to the project represented 204 man/months of local technical
staff and a total cost of F$ 4.1 million.
4.03      Agricultural Development Study.  At the time of project inception,
an agricultural review and development planning team was envisioned with the
following specialization (a) an Agricultural Economist as Team Leader; (b) an
Agronomist; (c) a Soil Scientist; (d) an Agricultural Engineer; and (e) a
Rural Sociologist. This team was expected to review the project areas and
compile all existing data and relevant information to prepare a comprehensive
agricultural development plan including a soil survey, assessment of silt
deposits, present and potential land use and proposals for improving farming
systems. The team was expected to prepare a management and organizational
structure that could effectively implement the agricultural development
program resulting from the study. The study was to provide the economic
viability of existing and alternative agronomic and pastoral farming systems
and a cost/benefit analysis of the entire agricultural development plan.
4.04      Equipment.  Financing included the procurement of a mini-computer,
required accessories and software to be used for design and construction
monitoring as well as for storage and analysis of hydrometeorological data.
4.05      The originally budgeted inputs and actual expenditures corresponding
to the UNDP Hurricane Flood Rehabilitation Project are presented in Annex B.
Organization and Management
4.06      The UNDP Hurricane Flood Rehabilitation project was fully under the
implementing responsibility of MAF. The project had a primary function of
direct support and a secondary function of training and all UJDP inputs,
personnel and equipment, were assigned directly to the DID.
Project Evaluation
4.07      General Assessment.  The UNDP technical assistance was an essential
component of the GOF's efforts to rehabilitate the agricultural areas affected
by the cyclone and without it implementation of the Bank-assisted Cyclone Re-
construction Project would have been severely affected. The contribution of
the technical staff from the UNDP grant to the rehabilitation project is
difficult to measure since to a large extent these experts were responsible
not only for providing assistance but for actually implementing the activities
under the project. The agricultural development study, which was eventually
carried out by an independent consulting firm under contract, provided the
basis, with minor modifications, for an ADB-assisted Agricultural Development
Project in the two major areas affected by the cyclone.
4.08      Direct Support Objective.  This objective was fully accomplished
althotgh chanses in staff and adjustment of man/months took place during



implementation as the result of increasing cost of the experts and varying
requirements in the drainage works implementation. The original 162
man/months of technical assistance by the end of the project had escalated to
216 man/months, corresponding to the revised scope of the Cyclone Reconstruc-
tion Project (para. 4.03).  This increase in manpower included the addition of
a United Nations Volunteer.  However, it was later decided to utilize those
funds to extend the services of the Dredging Superintendent.
4.09      Training Objective.  The secondary project objective of providing
training to permanent DID personnel was only partially achieved.  The field
personnel benefitted from the supervision of the expatriate specialists, but
the core of the DID derived only limited training from the technical assist-
ance, probably because (a) there was not enough local staff of the appropriate
lavel to benefit from the training; (b) the demands of project implementation
relegated the training responsibility of the technical assistance experts to a
secondary level; or (c) a combination of both circumstances. In any case, the
objective was not satisfactorily achieved.
4.10      Institutional Impact.  The technical assistance provided and the
limited success of the training objective in the technical assistance program
had a direct impact on the implementing agency. The assistance allowed the
drainage works to proceed at a reasonable pace and within acceptable
standards. The departure of each expert, however, created a sensitive void
within the institution, especially at the onset of a new project (ADB Agricul-
ture Development Project) from which the benefits of the completed works are
expected. One positive aspect is that the presence of the expatriate
engineers allowed time to train abroad a limited number of national tech-
nicians. One of them, in fact, was appointed to replace the interim OPAS
Principal Engineer. By then, however, all expatriate experts had departed
except for the Dredging Superintendent, creating in the agency a serious
problem of lack of continuity and scarcity of experienced technical
personnel. Fortunately, UNDP has recently agreed to provide additional
technical assistance to DID for the 1985-86 period and emphasis will be placed
on a training component.
V. IMPLEMENTATION PROBLEMS
5.01      As in most projects, a number of problems arose during implementa-
tion some of which were of a general nature, affecting all components in vary-
ing degrees, i.e., adverse weather, administrative aspects, while others were
specific to the components. Training, which was an important component of the
UNDP-financed grant, was important to all aspects of the project but will only
be referred to in project implementation.
Highway Reconstruction
5.02      Adverse Weather.  The short dry period experienced in 1982 and the
occurrence of hurricane "Oscar" in March 1983 affected not only the progress
of highway reconstruction work but obliged the PWD to concentrate on repairing
the damage caused by the latter hurricane to the completed works. In spite of



- 9 -
these difficulties road reconstruction was increased from the originally esti-
mated 32 km to 56 km and including increases of 64% in the number of bridges
and 300% in the number of culverts.
5.03      Beneficiaries.  PWD reports considerable problems of land acquisi-
tion and labor supply. While the nature of these problems has not been
clearly described, they indicate a lack of understanding on the part of land-
owners along the route, of the benefits accruing to them from project works.
5.04      Procurement.  Some delays in delivery of critical equipment are
claimed by PWD as causing delays in road reconstruction. These problems do
not appear to have been very serious, possibly because of the availability of
PWD equipment from other projects.
Drainage Works
5.05      Adverse Weather.  As in the case of highway reconstruction, the
impact of long rainy seasons and the occurrence of cyclone "Oscar" in 1983
created delays in drainage works rehabilitation and contributed in part to the
need for revision of appraisal targets. As the result of this revision,
length of seawalls and flood embankments was increased by 16%; reconstruction
of drains and clearing of channels by 94%, and the number of outfall struc-
tures from 27 to 42. These revised targets were achieved by 90% except for
the outfall structures where a fauLty original design and repeated vandalism
of the completed structures resulted in construction of only 90% of the
original number or 51% of the revised plan while efforts concentrated in
correcting the leakage problems in the first design.
5.06      Beneficiaries.  Throughout project implementation, difficulties with
participating farmers have been indicated by DID and supervision reports as
the cause of serious delays. These problems include reluctance of the farmers
to give consent for drainage facilities to be built covering their land,
undefined boundaries of farm holdings, reluctance to allow right-of-way for
drainage works, lack of cooperation on the planting schedules, and conflicts
between adjacent farmers on the joint use of access on the common boundary.
While many of these problems are common to all drainage and irrigation
projects and may be somewhat exaggerated by the implementing agencies in their
exasperation, they do indicate a lack of understanding on the part of the
farmers of the benefits accruing from the project works.
Dredging
5.07      Adverse Weather.  Compared to other components, cyclone "Oscar" had
a serious effect on many of the country's rivers, and particularly on the
Navua and Rewa Rivers, because of its impact on the corresponding catch-
ments. Many of the channels in the corresponding deltas changed position and
increased the volume of deposits to be dredged. Estimated dredging require-
ments for the two rivers doubled compared to the appraisal estimates. Some of
this increase may be due to an underestimation of sediments in the earlier
calculation, but it was aggravated by the lack of a catchment protection
program.



- 10 -
5.08      Equipment.  Delays in the delivery of the project-financed dredge
and recruitment of the Dredging Superintendent under the UNDP-financed tech-
nical assistance project contributed to a late start and low rate of output
during the initial phase of implementation. The accidental sinking of the
project-financed dredge in mid-1984 further constrained the availability of
equipment. More accurate estimates of deposited sediments (para. 3.04) indi-
cated the neua for additional equipment and the GOF has taken steps to acquire
two additional dredges, one to be delivered in 1985 and the other in early
1986.
5.09      Training.  Lack of adequate training of local personnel has and
would create difficulties in implementation of the drainage works. The
adverse impact was pronounced in the case of the dredging component. The need
for properly trained staff, available at all times to operate or look after
the costly and complex equipment, requires an early and intensive level of
training. This lack of adequate training was partially responsible for the
sinking of the project dredge and the resulting loss of time in dredging
operations while the equipment was being salvaged and repaired. Unless GOF
addresses the issue and makes efforts to train its staff, dredging operations
will continue to require the services of expatriate specialists.
Agricultural Development Study
5.10      This UNDP-financed study carried out by a private consulting firm
under contract was practically free of implementation problems. One aspect
which resulted in delays to achieve the desired result was the emphasis placed
by GOF on developing a scheme for ethanol production. Considerable time,
effort and resources were concentrated on this objective until the scheme
proved to be economically unsound, at least under the present level of oil
fuel prices.
Other Problems
5.11      Sources of Personnel.  The combination of efforts by the UNDP and
the Bank allowed the GOF to implement the project without excessive difficul-
ties. A number of the technical assistance staff was recruited under the
Bank-executed portion of the Hurricane Flood Rehabilitation Project and
another group originated in OPAS and was under FAO supervision. These
arrangements established two different and at times conflicting lines of
command. This difficulty would have been minimized had the whole group
responded to a single local supervisor, but unfortunately this supervision
role fell upon a member of one of the two groups, as a result of which coordi-
nation was poor.
5.12      Disbursement.  The lack of familiarity of the GOF agencies with
World Bank disbursement procedures, particularly in respect to activities
carried out under force account, contributed to create a difficulty in prepar-
ing reimbursement claims which resulted in a total lack of disbursements until
FY 1983 (Annex A, Table 4). The attention of some of the supervision missions
and the clear-instructions issued by the Loan Department eventually overcame
this obstacle, but the problem should have been resolved earlier.



- 11 -
5.13      Monitoring.  Lack of proper monitoring during implementation has
resulted in insufficient information after project completion to carry out a
full evaluation of project impact. Although major benefits will only derive
from implementation of the agricultural development project made possible by
the project's drainage works, many other direct or indirect benefits resulting
from highway reconstruction, drainage improvement of cultivated lands, expan-
sion of immediately cultivable lands and benefits to navigation from dredging
could have been established through an early monitoring system.
5.14      Catchment Area Protection.  While efforts to provide flood protec-
tion have concentrated in the cultivable low lands, no activity was included
in the project to protect the slopes of the catchment areas thus reducing the
runoff which contributes to the floods and minimizing the transport of sedi-
ments to the corresponding rivers. It is possible that such component was not
included in the Cyclone Reconstruction Project because a separate proposal for
catchment protection had been prepared by DID for submission to UNDP. This
proposal, however, has never been implemented.
VI. ASSESSMENT OF BANK PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
6.01      There have been moderate problems in delivery of equipment and in
disbursement of t.'he loan, and minor difficulties in organization and manage-
ment during implementation.  These were partly due to the lack of experience
of some of the imple.'enting agencies with Bank procedures, and to the multiple
source of technical assistance. The President's Report, which had to be
hastily prepared because of the emergency nature of the project, was neverthe-
less comprehensive and indicated a good understanding of the project's major
objectives. The earlier smaller amount of reconstruction planned and of the
volume of dredging needed was unavoidable since the project, which was
originally intended to reconstruct the damage arising from hurricane "Wally,"
was later expanded to rehabilitate drainage works which were in serious
disrepair long before the emergency arose, and the length of road to be
rehabilitated was increased by GOF with Bank agreement. Supervision of
physical components by Bank staff was satisfactory and problems observed were
efficiently dealt with by the implementing agencies. The Bank's role in
supervising the administrative and technical assistance aspects was very
limited, largely due to the multiple source of the technical personnel and the
division of the executing responsibility of the UNDP-financed "Hurricane Flood
Rehabilitation Project" between the Bank and the FAO. The agricultural
development study conducted under the associated UNDP project and which is
expected to realize the major benefits from the Bank-assisted drainage works
rehabilitation was well prepared and has been accepted, with minor modifica-
tions, for financing by the ADB. The study provides the basis for development
of a net area of 6,715 ha mainly for rice production. Efforts to develop an
ethanol production scheme from sugarcane did not prove financially or
economically feasible.



- 12 -
6.02      The main lessons learned under the project are as follows:
(a) participation of beneficiaries in the early stages of implementation
of reconstruction schemes is essential to develop understanding of
the requirements and the benefits accruing to the farmers from the
project activities (paras. 5.03 and 5.06);
(b)  when dealing with agencies unfamiliar with Bank procedures for pro-
curement and disbursement, sufficient attention must be given during
the early stages of supervision to assist the staff responsible for
these activities in order to avoid undue delays in availability of
essential equipment and/or reimbursement of expenditures from Bank
loan proceeds (paras. 5.04, 5.08, and 5.12);
(c) training of local staff to carry out project activities after com-
pletion of technical assistance should be given high priority, par-
ticularly when the training involves the use and maintenance of
scarce and costly equipment (para. 5.09);
(d) dual supervision of technical assistance personnel should be avoided
to ensure coordination of the assistance with project objectives
(para. 5.11);
(e) a monitoring system should be established from the inception of a
reconstruction project, particularly when major benefits are long
term and the project is of a- emergency nature (para. 5.13); and
(f) whenever costly river dredging components are included in a project,
attention should be given to ensure that a catchment basin protec-
tion program is implemented, either as a part of the overall project
or with financing from other sources, to reduce the risk of render-
ing the dredging operations ineffective (para. 5.14).
6.03      In retrospect, a clear separation of actual reconstruction needs
arising from the cyclone from more extensive rehabilitation work of both the
highways and the drainage works, allowing the latter to constitute a separate
project with the normal preparation and appraisal stages, would have avoided
the substantial revisions of project scope and reduced the implementation time
for the emergency reconstruction activities. However, considering that in
spite of those revisions and of the difficulties arising from the limited
local staff in the DID, the project was about 90% complete by the closing date
of the loan, it is evident that Fijian agencies have the capacity with limited
technical assistance to carry out extensive engineering works by force
account. It is also evident that given the difficult conditions, the very
limited time allowed for appraisal, and the COF's inclusion in the scope of
road and drainage works beyond the immediate impact of the cyclone, the
project, as designed during appraisal, was well conceived, conservatively
costed and successfully implemented.



ARM A
-13 -                              Table 1
FTJI
CYCLONE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (LOAN 1921-FIJ)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Key Indicators
Actual /a
Unit   SAR /a  Actual   SAR (Z)   Rev. (Z)
Rigbway Construction
Roads                             km         32      56       175         85
Bridges                           no         11      18      164          90
Culverts                          no          4      16      400         100
Equipment                         lot         1       1      100         100
Flood Protection and
Drainage Improvements
Seawalls and flood embankment   km         50      55      110          95
Drainage channels                km       250     413      826          85
Outfall structures              no         27      42      156          90
Equipment                       lot         1       1      100         100
Dredging /b
Dredge Operation
Navua River                     Mm3 /c  1.0       1.6      160         180
Rewa River                      M m3      2.0       -        -           -
Equipment                          lot        1       1       100        100
/a  Appraisal estimates were revised in December 1983 to cover partial cost of
road between Korotogo and Naboutini and increase the length of drains and
number of structures to meet actual needs as per detailed design and
volume of dredging required.
lb Dredging operation to continue for next three or four years using 100%
government funds using equipment procured under the project plus addi-
tional equipment being purchased by GOF.
/c Million cubic meters.



ANNEK A
14 -                              Table 2
FIJI
CYCLONE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (LOAN 1921-FIJ)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Cost Summary /a
Appraisal estimate              Actual           Actual as Z
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   of appraisal
US$ million -             US$ million -         estinates
Civil Works
Hlgbway reconstruction       8.1    6.2      14.3     12.4    10.1    22.5          157
Drainage works               2.8    2.7       5.5      1.4      1.3     2.7         49
Dredging /b                  0.6    0.6       1.2      0.4     0.3      0.7         58
Subtotal                 11.5    9.5     21.0      14.2    11.7    25.9         123
Equipment                       -     8.5       8.5       -       5.9     5.9          69
Engineering and                1.5     -        1.5      1.4      -       1.4         93
Administration /c
Grand Total              13.0   18.0     31.0      15.6    17.6    33.2         107
/a  Using an average exchange rate of US$1   F$1.06 for the period 1981-84.
/b  Represents cost of 53Z implementation of appraisal estimate.
/c Estimated as I0% of local costs.



ANNE A
-15-                               Table 3
FIJI
CYCLONE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (LOAN 1921-FIJ)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$ million)
Original
allocation      Actual Use
US$      z       US$    %
civil works /a                                  9.0     50       12.1    67
Equipment, materials, vehicles and spares       7.0     39        5.9    33
and spares
Unallocated                                     2.0     11        -       -
Total                                     18.0    100       18.0   100
/a Includes road construction and drainage rehabilitation works.



ANNEX 4
-16-                                Table 4
CYCLONE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (LOAN 1921-FIJ)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate                      Actual
Z of                              Z of
FY        Annual  Cumulative  total loan    Annual  Cumulative  total loan
1982         4.0        4.0         22
1983        8.5        12.5         69          9.9       9.9          55
1984        4.0        16.5         92          6.7      16.6          92
1985 /a      1.5       18.0        100          1.4      18.0          100
/a Loan closing date was June 30, 1984. However, to allow the processing of
outstanding withdrawal applications for ongoing activities, the Bank
agreed to accept withdrawal applications until November 30, 1984.



ANNEX B
-17 --
FIJI
CYCLONE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT (LOAN 1921-FIJ)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UNDP Contribution /a
Project document             Actual
M/m        USS         m/m         USS
Project Personnel
Experts                           66       350,200       60.R      365,318
OPAS experts                      96       469,400      131.2      671,632
Other project personnel /b         -             -       24.0       11,344
Subtotal                      162       819,600     216.0    1,048,294
Official travel                      -        12,400         -         3,308
Consultants /c                       -       120,000        -        107,800
Equipment                            -        40,000         -        27,757
Miscellaneous                        -         8,000         -        12,861
Total                         162     1,000,000      216.0    1,200,0O0
/a Hurricane Flood Rehabilitation Project (FIJ/80/017).
/b Includes UN Volunteer expected to arrive in 1984, but funds later
allocated to extension of Dredging Operations Superintendent.
/c Contract for Agricultural Development Study which was the basis for ADB-
assisted Agricultural Development Project.



,,,~  I
\    ND



-1~~9-'A
PWMAFK MAIL-
,W NO. 2.P.Wo UUVA. rFIJI                             5pc/  
Comments from the Ministry of Commmications, Transport and Works
7 Nq 1985
Th                   DSiaxtIto?,
Opefti5 Evauaio  DSStSt
The Worldhk
1818 H Streets ER
Wasl4ngtou, D.C., 20433
USA.
near Sir,
PROJ.h  COIgI RE0W    off PM
CYClONE mm XNSTRUCTM POt BCT (TOAX 191-ME)
aving studied the dzaft report which YO enclosed with YOUr
letter dated 28 larch 1985, I have the follouing ccots to
1. *  Pse 4 - Project COMPauts, Sectio  2.01    h         econstraction
Mm section of the Sum/NAdi rod *bih affered seie
dama  dArig carolone "Wally" use that between Deubs and
Naboutini. This section had not been upgraded as pat
of the 1971-78 project (Loan 771-TJ)3. Me 1971-78
project consisted of upgrading, as wvel as sections of xeW
road, between Nadi-Sigstaka-rorotogo and between Deuba
.S&
2.    Page 7 -  Section 3.08 - HiEw4 Reconstrction BanefIts
Saffic increase has bee nsbstantial, bt oertainly
zot p,enammulf
I am pleasdto see that the Bank oosides the project to hame boe
welt conceived. realistically oosted aud scoeessffl3y implemented.
Tours faithbfla!,
(D I Stwr)
for POnX==nt Secretary for 11orks & TZweMort
INS/fi



t'11
I



21 -                    ANIE D
Comments from the Ministry of Prmar-y Industry
?CZC DIST9726 JUS0335
GEDOIiD
REF : TCP HC
*JS03S35 ZJY193 IN 06/16:51 OUT 06/16:52
2290 FIJIFISH FJ
ATTENTION : fMR. YUKINORI WATANABE
DIRECTOR - OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
-------------------------------------------
AA WE ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT OF DRAFT REPORTS ON SUGAR DEVELOPMfENT
AND CYCLONE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
BB  REPORTS SATISFACTORY AND NO FURTHER COMMENTS.   -
CC GRATEFUL IF CAN SEND TWO COPIES EACH OF THE FINAL REPORT.
D. NARAYAN
1ffI.
2290 FIJIFISH FJ
=05070525
ALT RTD FROM:OEDK
NNNN



I
I  (J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
S /q l~~



- 23 -
Comments from the UNDP Resident Representative    ALIMU E
Page 1
UNITED                         NATIONS
UNITED  NoN DEEOPMENT PROGRAMM
WOWr FOOD PROGRAMME
UNITED NTONS FUND FOR POPULATION ACTITIES
Offie at the Reldent Rermetae  for
FiJi. Kiriati Naurn Solomon Ws-au Teama
Cab&s UNDEVPRO SUVA     Trust Territory o the Pacific slnd Tuvlu ad Vamiatu   U&D.P.
Tel.u 2228                                                                    Mvegs man au
Tei lm  312 500                                                               SM. FIL
L.t No.s  1132
merwem FIJ/80/017
22 April 1985.
Dear Mr Watanabe,
Subject    Project Completion Report on Fiji Cyclone
Reconstruction Project (Loan 1921 - FIJ)
Thank you very much indeed for your letter of 28 March forwarding
the subject draft report for my consideration and couments.
I have read the report with interest and hasten to add that it is
well constructed and gives a thorough account of the project's background
and implementation problems, especially in respect of the associated UNDP
assistance through project FIJ/80/017 - Hurricane Flood Rehabilitation,
which section I am directly concerned with. I should like however to make
the following observations for your consideration when preparing the
final report.
Page 10, paragraph 4.09. Training Objective.
The training objective was a secon&ary function and, in my view,
was accomplished to some extent. The counterpart staff who understudied the
OPAS specialists now occupy the posts of Principal Engineer, Drainage and
Irrigation Engineer (Design), and Msechanical Engineer respectively within
the Drainage and Irrigation Department and are functional. I accept however
that it is too optimistic to expect training on dredge operations to be
fully accoamplished within three years. On this aspect, I believe training was
constrained by the lack of suitably qualified local staff to understudy the
Dredge Master and that given the demands of dredging operations, training was
accorded lower priority. In this connelion, UNDP has approved further
assistance to the Drainage and Irrigation Department to upgrade the local
capacity and capability of the Department to iplement the Government
dredging progranmes. Implementation of this project will start in mid-1985.
Mr Yukinori Watanabe
Director
Operations Fvaluation Department
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
WASHINGtICN, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.



-24-                          .ANNEX E
Page 2
UNITED NATIONS 4   NATIONS UNIES
In the interim period between the two projects, FAO is supporting the dredging
programmu by providing a Dredger Superintendent, for a period of five months,
with the following terms of reference:
-        to continue to lead the operations of the 'TKanabatibati'";
-        to commission the new 1,500 Beaver tugboat and related equipment;
-        to put the 1,500 Beaver into operation;
-        to prepare monthlv technical and final technical report on
project operations.
Page 10, paragraph 4.10. Institutional Inpact.
Project experts were phased out as and when their work was
accomplished in accordance with the requirements of the project, thus fulfilling
the developen't element we pursue. In this respect, I disagree with the
conclusion that a serious problem of lack of continuity and scarcity of
ex3merienced technical personnel was created by the denart re of the OPAS experts.
In fact all of these experts had counterparts who were trained and have since
taken over from the experts. As indicated above, the only hiatus was in the
area of dredging operations which, as correctly pointed, is addressed by a new
MIDP-financea nroject.
Finally, the costs of Associate Experts are not reflected in the UlNDP
project budget as they are financed by their respective Governments. Perhaps
you may wish to include this information in Annex B in order to reflect a true
perspective of total contributions to the project. In this regard, FAD would
be in a position to supply the figures.
Yours sincerely,      /
Ross "iuntain
Resident RepreselLtative a.i



th.hu.b..  $4INA JAPAN                        U
VWNU  tEVU         IL-.o                  O. .A
'ZAIVAMkN
V._                           _...             *HW*PPIN_S
,        ~ .I                                     jm-. ..  r !t D                                                                       -
MAl.               AUSTRALIA                         -
ftwl_d                        NEW ZEALANID                                        .                                             -
Ofd _                          T     _         S ,N I; ofe;0: -    L3g w   I-Th
Thu .wAi h.,pr0dhya.  rbMIm&an -aff  NW                                                                                                                 A   A. -w-
a          dr.m            d __a_er h .    s
4',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
~~~~~~~~~ X
f
),, :C



16RD 1525
SEPEMBER W1U
17a.n                                                                                                 FIJI
CYCLONE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
VITI LEVU
PROPOSED
4et SMa,                                                  _lROAD to BE RECONSTRUCTED UNDER CYCLONE
-:_,' W ,   \                                                       RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ROAD tO BE IMPROVED BY GOvERNMENT
AREAS FOR DRAINAGE IMPRtOVEMENT
C                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREVIOUS PROJECT
X'C"-    -j'2              -                                                   -     ROADS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 771 FIJ
-                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING
ROADS
f  AIRPORT
RIVERS
PMANGROVE
$3"                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELEVATIONS 'N FEET
-    251-IOAY
.I,'',:- ' _0
~~~V-~~ 
e;                                                       1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
E a  . i        i        °           10     ~     ~ 20           30
C
*           -Cl-_
_ _ __ _ 






