Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7420-BR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Federal Water Resources Management Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 20, 2007  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7420-BR 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated September 20, 2007, entered into between the  INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) and the FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (“Borrower”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have 
the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred 
to in this Agreement, the amount of fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000), as such amount 
may be converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2.03. 
The Commitment Charge payable by the Borrower shall be equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the Unwithdrawn Loan Balance, subject to any waiver 
of a portion of such charge as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. 
2.04. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one percent (1.0%) of the 
Loan amount, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as may be determined by the 
Bank from time to time. In the event that the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-
end Fee, the Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee not later than 60 days after the 
Effective Date.   
Page  3
-
2
-
2.05. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate equal to 
LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such interest as may be determined by the Bank from time to time; provided, that upon 
a
Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the interest 
payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount shall be 
determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
2.06. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.07. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.08. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time, request any of the following Conversions of the 
terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: (i) a change of 
the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency; (ii) a change of the 
interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of 
limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.09. 
The Borrower’s Minister at the time responsible for National Integration or the President 
of ANA, or any person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken under the provisions of Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and 
Article II of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this end, the 
Borrower shall, through: (a) ANA, carry out Parts 1(a)(i), 1(a)(ii), 1(a)(iii), 1(a)(iv), 
3(a)(i) and 3(a)(ii) of the Project; (b) SIH/MI carry out Parts 1(a)(i), 1(a)(ii), 1(a)(iii), 
1(a)(iv), 3(a)(i) and 3(a)(ii) of the Project; and with respect of Part 2 of the Project take 
all the necessary steps in order to ensure that each Existing Participating State performs 
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; (c) each Existing Participating State 
(as provided in the corresponding Umbrella Agreement), carry out Parts 1(b), 2 and 3(b) 
of the Project; and (d) each New Participating State (as provided in the corresponding 
Umbrella Agreement), carry out Parts 1(b), and 3(b) of the Project, all in accordance with 
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and except as 
the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - EFFECTIVENESS 
4.01. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness Deadline 
is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the 
eighteen (18) months after the Bank's approval of the Loan which expire on June 19, 
2008. 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Loan has been 
duly registered with the Central Bank of Brazil. 
ARTICLE V 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower. 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco P, 8
o
andar 
 
70048-900, Brasília, DF 
 Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3412-1740 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
With copy to: 
 
SEAIN - 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K, 5º andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, DF 
 Brazil 
 
Facsímile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
 
Agência Nacional de Águas 
 Setor 
Policial 
Sul 
 
Área 05, Quadra 03, Bloco M  
 
70610-200, Brasília, DF 
 Brazil 
 
Facsímile: (55-61) 2109-5296 
 
Ministério da Integração Nacional 
 
Secretaria de Infra-estrutura Hídrica 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco E, 9º andar 
 
70067-901, Brasília, DF 
 Brazil 
 
Facsímile:  (55-61) 3414-5493 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for  
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at 
Brasília, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
Authorized Representative 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/ Suely Dib de Sousa e Silva 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to promote efficient allocation and rational and 
sustainable use and participatory management of water resources at the Borrower's level and in 
the Participating States; (b) to provide reliable and sustainable water supply in selected areas of 
the Participating States; and (c) to scale up the impact of the Original Project by consolidating the 
institutional and legal reforms supported by the Original Project and allow for the expansion of 
actions to support the management of water resources in New Participating States and the 
increase in water supply for multiple uses in Participating States. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part 1
:
Water Resources Management
:
(a) 
At the Borrower's Level:  
 (i) 
Institutional 
Development
:
Strengthening of the institutional and 
regulatory framework for supporting the implementation of the 
SINGRH, through, 
inter alia
:
(A) provision of goods and consultants' 
services for the ANA; (B) technical assistance to implement bulk water 
tariffs and rights systems; (C) training programs designed to produce 
skilled water resources professionals and members of WUAs; (D) 
technical assistance for the preparation of water projects; (E) in respect 
of Federal Waters, development of a plan for the expansion and/or 
improvement of the existing hydrometeorological network, the 
installation of new strategic hydrometeorological stations as provided in 
such plan, and the development of a comprehensive information system 
(encompassing hydrologic data, information on water rights, water 
tariffs, hydraulic infrastructure, user associations and water availability, 
in quantitative and qualitative terms); and (F) support for the 
establishment of WUAs and River Basin Committees in Federal Waters. 
 
(ii)  
Planning and Studies
:
In respect of Federal Waters, preparation of: (A) 
water resources management plans, including the initial assessment of 
water resources, with priority for those river basins that have an actual or 
potential conflict in the use of water; (B) plans for recovering the 
existing infrastructure; (C) water resources management plans designed 
for mitigating emergency situations; and (D) related technical studies. 
 
(iii) 
Watershed Management Models and Pilot Initiatives
:
Carrying out of 
studies and activities agreed to between the Borrower and the Bank for 
the development of pilot experiences or replicable models for water 
Page  8
-
7
-
resources or watershed management in the areas of water quality, 
estuarine management, coastal zone management, erosion control, 
sediment transport, watershed protection and conservation, water reuse, 
or the management of Federal Rivers. 
 
(iv) 
Complementary Studies to Support the Implementation of Water 
Resources Infrastructure in the Northeast Region
:
Carrying out of 
studies and plans to support the development of projects for the 
implementation of hydraulic infrastructure in priority watersheds of the 
Borrower's Northeast region including, 
inter alia
,
environmental studies, 
environmental impact assessments, feasibility studies, economic 
evaluations, and any other technical studies agreed to between the 
Borrower and the Bank. 
(b) 
At the Participating State's Level: 
 
(i) 
Institutional Development: Strengthening of the institutional and 
regulatory framework for water resources management of the 
Participating States consistent with the principles set forth in the 
SINGRH, through, 
inter alia
:
(A) support for the establishment of 
capable water resources agencies in the Participating States; (B) support 
for the adoption of a tailor-made procedure for the design and 
implementation of water laws and regulations in the Participating States; 
(C) technical assistance to implement bulk water tariffs and rights 
systems; (D) development of specific studies and research to support the 
transition from federal participation to local participation in the decision 
making process; (E) training programs designed to produce skilled water 
resources professionals and members of WUAs; (F) in respect of State 
Waters and consistent with the activities set forth in Part 1(a)(i)(E) of the 
Project, development of a plan for the expansion and/or improvement of 
the existing hydrometeorological network, the installation of new 
strategic hydrometeorological stations as provided in the plan referred to 
in this paragraph, and the development of a comprehensive information 
system (encompassing hydrologic data, information on water rights, 
water tariffs, hydraulic infrastructure, user associations and water 
availability, in quantitative and qualitative terms); and (G) support for 
the establishment of WUAs and River Basin Committees in State 
Waters. 
 
(ii) 
Planning:  Development of: (A) water resources master plans at the basin 
and Participating State levels; (B) water resources management plans for 
State Waters, including the initial assessment of water resources, with 
priority for those river basins that have an actual or potential conflict in 
the use of water; and (C) plans for rehabilitation of the existing 
infrastructure in State Waters. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iii) 
Pre-investment and other studies:  Carrying out of: (A) pre-investment 
studies (including engineering studies, designs, cost estimates, social and 
environmental impact assessments, and resettlement and compensation 
studies) for potential Subprojects; (B) water availability studies; and (C) 
operational studies and decision support models for reservoirs and water 
resources systems. 
Part 2
:
Subprojects
:
Carrying out of Subprojects consisting of: (a) pipelines; (b) simplified water supply 
systems; (c) other related hydraulic infrastructure; (d) environmental mitigation and resettlement 
measures; (e) groundwater development systems; and (f) dams. 
Part 3
:
Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
:
(a) 
At the Borrower's Level: Provision of goods and consultants' services for the 
purposes of financing Project management activities, including: (i) overall 
coordination and routine management; and (ii) monitoring, evaluation, and 
support for auditing activities of the Project. 
(b) 
At the Participating State's Level: Provision of goods and consultants' services 
for the purposes of financing Project management activities, including: overall 
coordination, routine management, monitoring and evaluation of the Project 
activities executed at the level of the respective Participating State. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall maintain during Project 
implementation: (a) the UGPG within ANA; (b) the PROAGUA Managing Committee; 
and (c) the UGPO within SIH/MI, all with responsibilities, structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
The Borrower shall continue to employ monitoring and evaluation services for the 
purposes of, 
inter alia
:
(a) monitoring and evaluating Project implementation, including 
its socio-economic impact and any adverse environmental and resettlement impacts; (b) 
presenting its evaluation of the Annual Operating Plans and progress reports to the 
PROAGUA Managing Committee, for the approval by such Committee of said Plans; (c) 
furnishing semi-annual reports to the PROAGUA Managing Committee and to the Bank 
on the compliance by the relevant Participating States of their respective obligations 
under the Project; and (d) providing mid-term and final reports to the PROAGUA 
Managing Committee on the implementation of the Project. 
3. 
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank by November 30 of each year, an 
annual operating plan (the Annual Operating Plan), satisfactory to the Bank as endorsed 
by the PROAGUA Managing Committee and detailing the Project activities proposed to 
be carried out during the next succeeding year (including Subprojects) and the respective 
sources of funding therefore. 
4. 
(a) 
For the purposes of implementing Parts 1(b) and 3(b) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, prior to the submission of a Loan withdrawal application for the 
respective Project activities, enter into an agreement (the Umbrella Agreement) 
with each New Participating State, upon receipt from the Bank of a notification 
confirming that said New Participating State has a technical, financial, 
administrative and fiduciary capacity acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the 
technical, financial, administrative and fiduciary aspects of the federal and state 
participation in the implementation and use of funds of said Parts 1(b) and 3(b) of 
the Project, including the obligation of each New Participating State to: (i) 
maintain a management unit with structure acceptable to the Bank, including a 
coordinator, a financial manager and a technical manager; and (ii) maintain a 
state financial, budgetary and procurement system in place acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of implementing Parts 1(b), 2 and 3(b) of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, prior to the submission of a Loan withdrawal application for the 
respective Project activities, enter into an agreement (the Umbrella Agreement) 
with each Existing Participating State, setting forth the technical, financial, 
Page  11
-
10
-
administrative and fiduciary aspects of the federal and state participation in the 
implementation and use of funds of said Parts 1(b), 2 and 3(b) of the Project, 
including the obligation of each Existing Participating State to:  (i) maintain a 
management unit with structure acceptable to the Bank, including a coordinator, 
a
financial manager and a technical manager; and (ii) maintain a state financial, 
budgetary and procurement system in place acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under each 
Umbrella Agreement and cause each Participating State to exercise their rights 
and carry out their obligations under each said Umbrella Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan and except the Bank otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to 
enforce any Umbrella Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank a report, on June 30 and December 
31, starting on any such date after the Effective Date, indicating and listing the 
existing Umbrella Agreements entered into to the date; and (ii) make said 
Umbrella Agreements available to the Bank upon request. 
5. 
For the purposes of carrying out Parts 1(b) and 3(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall, 
through ANA and through SIH/MI: 
(a) 
continue, when applicable, entering into Institutional Development Agreements 
with an Existing Participating State or a New Participating State, as the case may 
be, for the purposes of: (i) governing such Participating State’s participation and 
responsibility in the carrying out of its corresponding activities under Parts 1(b) 
and 3(b) of the Project; and (ii) providing a Grant to finance part of the costs of 
such activities; and 
(b) 
continue exercising its rights and complying with its obligations under each 
Institutional Development Agreement in such manner as to continue protecting 
the interest of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of such Institutional 
Development Agreement or any provisions thereof. 
6. 
For the purposes of carrying out Part 2 of the Project, the Borrower shall, through 
SIH/MI: 
 
(a) 
continue, when applicable, entering into Subproject Agreements with an Existing 
Participating State, for the purposes of: (i) governing such Existing Participating 
State’s participation and responsibility in the carrying out of a Subproject; and 
(ii) providing a Grant to finance part of the costs of such Subproject; 
Page  12
-
11
-
(b) 
continue exercising its rights and complying with its obligations under each 
Subproject Agreement in such manner as to continue protecting the interest of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except 
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of such Subproject Agreements, or any 
provisions thereof; and 
 
(c) 
when presenting a Subproject to the Bank for approval, continue furnishing to the 
Bank an application in form and substance acceptable to the Bank, and in 
conformity with the Operational Manual, containing, 
inter alia
:
(i) an appraisal 
of the Subproject, and a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed, 
including those expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; (ii) a detailed description of how the relevant Existing Participating State 
and such Subproject meet the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational 
Manual; (iii) a plan for the administration, operation and maintenance of the 
proposed Subproject; (iv) evidence that land and rights in respect of land are 
physically and legally available for the purposes of the proposed Subproject; (v) 
evidence that the Existing Participating State holds the corresponding water 
rights for the purposes of the proposed Subproject; (vi) evidence that the Existing 
Participating State holds the corresponding environmental permits required for 
the execution of the works planned under the proposed Subproject; (vii) 
whenever applicable, evidence of compliance with the provisions set forth in 
Paragraph 7 of this Section I; (viii) whenever a Subproject requires the 
undertaking of environmental protection measures and/or resettlement of 
population: the corresponding environmental assessment and/or resettlement 
action plan, as such assessment and/or plan shall have been prepared in 
accordance with the Environmental Management Framework and with terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and, in the case of a resettlement action plan, 
in accordance with the Resettlement Framework; (ix) whenever a Subproject 
requires the undertaking of measures to ensure the development and protection of 
indigenous peoples, the corresponding IPDP, prepared in accordance with the 
Indigenous Peoples Development Framework; and (x) such other information as 
the Bank shall reasonably request in respect of the relevant Subproject. 
7. 
Whenever a Subproject includes the construction of a dam which is fifteen meters or 
more in height, or which is between ten and fifteen meters in height and presents, in the 
opinion of the Bank, special design complexities, the Borrower shall cause, or continue 
causing, as the case may be, each Participating State to: (a) establish and thereafter 
maintain during the design and initial operation of said Subproject, a Dam Safety Review 
Panel under terms of reference and arrangements acceptable to the Bank; (b) have the 
relevant dam, reservoir and related structures to be periodically inspected by independent 
qualified professionals under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, in order to 
determine whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such structures, or in the 
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of the same, which may 
endanger their safety; (c) furnish to the Bank for its review the periodic reports of the 
Page  13
-
12
-
Dam Safety Review Panel and the professionals referred to in subparagraph (b) above, 
together with each Participating State own comments; and (d) no later than six months 
before the expected completion of the relevant dam, reservoir and related structures, 
propose to the Bank for its review and approval, appropriate arrangements for their 
operation and maintenance. 
8. 
The Borrower shall cause, or continue causing, as the case may be, each Existing 
Participating State to: (a) whenever a Subproject requires the undertaking of 
environmental protection measures and/or resettlement of population, carry out the 
mitigation measures provided in the corresponding environmental assessment and/or 
carry out the resettlement action plan in a manner and within a timetable satisfactory to 
the Bank; and (b) whenever a Subproject requires the undertaking of measures to ensure 
the development  and protection of indigenous peoples, carry out the IPDP in a manner 
and within a timetable satisfactory to the Bank. 
9. 
The Borrower shall continue carrying out the Project in accordance with: (a) the 
Operational Manual; (b) the Water Sector Policy Letter; and (c) the relevant Annual 
Operating Plan, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A.
 Project 
Reports. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project 
Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions and 
on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operational Manual and agreed with the 
Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after end of the period covered 
by such report.  
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits. 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank, not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Borrower.  The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Bank not later than six 
months after the end of such period.
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Section III
.
Procurement
A.
 General
 
1.
 Goods 
and 
Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, refer to 
the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B.
 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
International Competitive Bidding.   
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which may be 
used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
Contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding are subject to the 
following additional provisions: 
(a) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in 
paragraph 2.52 of the Procurement Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid 
evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, 
and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to 
bid. 
Page  15
-
14
-
(b) 
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at 
least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil. 
(c) 
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (
consórcio)
 of 
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each 
case. 
(d) 
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices. 
(e) 
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change 
order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or 
other terms and conditions of sale. 
C.
 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 below, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality 
and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which 
may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Least-Cost Selection
 
(b) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Single-source Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants 
(e) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of 
Individual Consultants 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the Bank’s 
Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  16
-
15
-
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A. 
General. 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions 
of this Section and such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice 
to the Recipient (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this 
Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in 
the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of 
the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category:  
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) For Parts 1(a) and 3(a) 
of the Project: 
 
(a) Goods 
1,000,000 
40% until disbursements under this 
Category shall reach an aggregate 
amount of $400,000; and 20% 
thereafter. 
(b) Works (only for Part 
1(a)(iii) of the Project) 
-0-  
(c) Consultants’ services 
and training 
10,000,000 
40% until disbursements under this 
Category shall reach an aggregate 
amount of $4,000,000, and 20% 
thereafter. 
(2) For Parts 1(b), 2 and 
3(b) of the Project: 
 
(a) Goods 
9,250,000 
40% until disbursements under this 
Category shall reach an aggregate 
amount of $3,700,000, and 20% 
thereafter. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Dollars)
%
of
Expenditures 
to be Financed
(b) Works (except for Parts 
1(b) and 3(b) of the 
Project) 
19,050,000 
40% until disbursements under this 
Category shall reach an aggregate 
amount of $7,620,000, and 20% 
thereafter. 
(c) Consultants’ services 
and training 
9,950,000 
40% until disbursements under this 
Category shall reach an aggregate 
amount of $3,980,000, and 20% 
thereafter. 
(3) Incremental Recurrent 
Costs for Parts 1 and 3 of 
the Project 
750,000 
40% until disbursements under this 
Category shall reach an aggregate 
amount of $300,000; and 20% 
thereafter. 
(4) Front-end fee 
-0- 
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.04 of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
(5) Premium for Interest 
Rate Caps and Collars 
-0- 
Amount payable pursuant to Section 
2.08 (c) of this Agreement in 
accordance with Section 4.04 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
TOTAL 50,000,000
B
.
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period. 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be made: 
 
(a) 
from the Loan Account until the Bank has received payment in full of the Front-
end Fee, if the Borrower selects not to capitalize the Front-end Fee. 
 
(b) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent may be made for 
payments made during the twelve months immediately before this date for 
Eligible Expenditures under Categories (1) through (3). 
Page  18
-
17
-
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 21, 2009.  The Bank will only grant an extension of the 
Closing Date after the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance has informed the Bank that it 
agrees with such extension. 
Section V
.
Other Undertakings
The Borrower shall, no later than three months after the Effective Date:  (i) furnish to the Bank at 
least six Umbrella Agreements, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and, (ii) adopt 
a
new inter-ministerial resolution (
Portaria Inter-ministerial
)
for the establishment or 
reestablishment of the PROAGUA Managing Committee, all in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each February 15 and August 15 
 
Beginning on February 15, 2012 through 
February 15, 2023 
 
4.17% 
On August 15, 2023 
4.09% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original 
Installment Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
Page  20
-
19
-
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and 
outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date commencing 
with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, if at any 
time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of 
such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by 
the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior 
to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in 
the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the 
Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each 
Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  21
-
20
-
APPENDIX 
 Section 
I
.
Definitions
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Original Loan 
Agreement, its subsequent amendments and the General Conditions, have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and are hereby incorporated to this Agreement. Additionally, the 
following definitions also constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
1. 
“ANA” means 
Ag
ência Nacional de Águas,
 the Borrower’s National Water Agency, 
created and operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 9.984, dated July 17, 2000. 
2. 
“Annual Operating Plan” means each plan referred to in Section I.3 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
4. 
“Environmental Management Framework” means the document dated September 22, 
2006, as published and available to the public on the website 
www.ana.gov.br/proagua/biblioteca.asp
,
which contains the environmental protection 
measures in respect of the Project, including identification of existing environmental 
conditions and potential direct and indirect environmental impacts from the carrying out 
of the Project, recommendation of mitigation measures for each negative impact 
identified, as well as measures for enhancing each identified positive impact. 
5. 
“Existing Participating States” means the Borrower’s states of 
Piauí, Ceará, Rio Grande 
do Norte, Maranhão, Paraíba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia and Minas Gerais
,
all of which are hereby also deemed to constitute “Participating States” whenever this 
term is used in this Agreement and which are eligible for civil works financing under Part 
2
of
the Project. 
6. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005. 
7. 
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower: (i) through ANA, 
for the implementation of Parts 1 (b) (i), 1 (b) (ii) (A), 1 (b) (ii) (B), 1 (b) (iii) (B), 1 (b) 
(iii) (C) and 3 (b) of the Project, and through SIH/MI, for the implementation of Parts 1 
(b) (ii) (C), 1 (b) (iii) (A), 1 (b) (iii) (C) and 3 (b) of the Project as provided in each 
Institutional Development Agreement, for the benefit of a Participating State; and (ii) 
through SIH/MI, for the implementation of Part 2 of the Project as provided in each 
Subproject Agreement for the benefit of an Existing Participating State. 
8. 
“Indigenous Peoples Development Framework” means the document dated October 9, 
1997 and updated on September 22, 2006, published and available to the public on the 
Page  22
-
21
-
website 
www.ana.gov.br/proagua/biblioteca.asp
,
which contains the principles and 
policies that shall apply to the preparation and carrying out of any IPDP that may be 
required under the Project. 
9. 
“Institutional Development Agreement” means each agreement entered into between 
ANA on one hand and Participating States on the other hand as referred to in Section I.5 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement for the implementation of Parts 1 (b) (i), 1 (b) (ii) (A), 1 
(b) (ii) (B), 1 (b) (iii) (B), 1 (b) (iii) (C) and 3 (b) of the Project; and between SIH/MI on 
one hand and Participating States on the other hand for the implementation of Parts 1 (b) 
(ii) (C), 1 (b) (iii) (A), 1 (b) (iii) (C) and 3 (b) of the Project. 
10. 
“IPDP” means Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, a plan satisfactory to the Bank, for 
the purposes of mitigating any adverse impact on indigenous peoples as a result of a 
Subproject and ensuring that they benefit from such Subproject. 
11. 
“New Participating States” means the Borrower’s states of 
Acre
,
Amapá, Amazonas, 
Distrito Federal, Espírito Santo, Goiás, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Pará, 
Paraná, Rio de Janeiro, Rio Grande do Sul, Rondônia, Roraima, Santa Catarina, São 
Paulo
 and 
Tocantins
,
all of which are hereby also deemed to con
stitute “Participating 
States” whenever such term is used in this Agreement (the only difference being that 
New Participating States will have to undergo technical, financial, administrative and 
fiduciary assessment before becoming parties to Umbrella Agreements as hereinafter 
defined and will not be eligible for civil work financing under Part 2 of the Project). 
12. 
“Operational Manual” means the manual issued by the PROAGUA Managing Committee 
dated May 6, 1998, and updated on November 13, 2006 which contains the guidelines 
and operating procedures for the execution of the Project, including the Environmental 
Management Framework, the Indigenous Peoples Development Framework, and the 
Resettlement Framework. 
13. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Original Project between 
the Bank and the Borrower, dated June 3, 1998 (Loan No.4310-BR). 
14. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Original Loan 
Agreement. 
15. 
“Participating States” means any Existing Participating State or New Participating State 
which has met the criteria set forth in this Agreement and in the Operational Manual and 
has executed an Umbrella Agreement with the Borrower in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
16. 
“PROAGUA Managing Committee” means the managing committee established 
pursuant to 
Portaria Inter-ministerial
 No. 1 of March 27, 1998, as the same may be 
amended, abrogated or waived through a new inter-ministerial resolution (
Portaria Inter-
ministerial
)
to be adopted by the Borrower. 
Page  23
-
22
-
17. 
 “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project, dated 
November 10, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and 
paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to 
time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
19. 
“Resettlement Framework” means the document dated October 9, 1997 and updated on 
September 22, 2006, published and available to the public on the website 
www.ana.gov.br/proagua/biblioteca.asp
,
which contains the principles and policies that 
shall apply to the preparation and carrying out of any resettlement plan that may be 
required under a Subproject.  
20. “SIH/MI” 
means 
Secretaria de Infra-
estrutura Hídrica
,
the Borrower’s National 
Secretariat for Hydraulic Infrastructure within the Ministry of National Integration, 
created and operating under the Borrower’s Decree No. 5.847, dated July 14, 2006. 
21. “SINGRH” 
means 
Sistema Nacional de Gerenciamento de Recursos Hídricos
,
the 
Borrower’s National System of Water Resources Management described in the Water 
Sector Policy Letter. 
22. 
“Subproject” means an infrastructure subproject selected by the relevant Existing 
Participating State and endorsed by the Borrower, to be carried out by said Existing 
Participating States, as selected by the Borrower and approved by the Bank in accordance 
with relevant provisions of the Operational Manual, the Umbrella Agreement and the 
Subproject Agreement and comprising the activities set forth in Part 2 of the Project.  
23. 
“Subproject Agreement” means each agreement entered into between SIH/MI on one 
hand and Existing Participating States on the other hand as referred to in Section I.6 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement for the implementation of Part 2 of the Project. 
24. “UGPG” 
means 
Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto-
Gestão
,
the Project Management 
Unit within ANA in charge of the day-to-day management of Parts 1(a)(i), 1(a)(ii), 
1(a)(iii), 1(a)(iv), 3(a)(i), 3(a)(ii) and 3 (b). 
25. 
“UGPO” means 
Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto-Obras
,
the Project Management 
Unit within SIH/MI in charge of the day-to-day management of Parts 1(a)(i), 1(a)(ii), 
1(a)(iii), 1(a)(iv), 2, 3(a)(i), 3(a)(ii) and 3(b). 
26. 
“Umbrella Agreement” means an agreement (
Termo de Compromisso
), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, to be executed among ANA, SIH/MI on the one hand 
and, as the case may be, Existing Participating States or New Participating States, on the 
other hand, for the implementation of Parts 1(b), 2 and 3(b) of the Project. 
27. 
“WUA” means water users associations lawfully established in the Borrower’s territory.
Page  24
-
23
-
