                                       Documento f
                                    The World Bank

                              FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                   ReportNo: 35719-BR



    INTERNATIONALBANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                                   PROJECTPAPER

                                           ONA

                 PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING (LOAN)

                     INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$50.00MILLION

                                          TO THE

                       FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                          FOR A

          FEDERALWATER RESOURCESMANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                   November27,2006




Environmentallyand Socially SustainableDevelopment
Brazil CountryManagementUnit
LatinAmerica and the CaribbeanRegion


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performanceo f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective March 31,2006)
                      Currency Unit = Real (R$)
                             R$ 1.00 = US$0.45
                             R$2.23     = US$l.OO

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1    - December31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANA    AgGncia Nacionalde Aguas              National Water Agency
CAS    EstratCgiade Assistencia para o Pais   Country Assistance Strategy
CGU    ControladoriaGeralda Unigo             General State Control Bureau
CQS    SeleqBo Baseadana Qualificaqgo do      Selection Basedon the Consultants'
       Consultor                              Qualifications
DO     Objetivos de Desenvolvimento           Development Objectives
EL4    Estudo de Impact0 Ambiental            Environmental Impact Assessment
EMF    Arcabouqo de GestaoAmbiental           Environmental Management
                                              Framework
FM     Gerenciamento Financeiro              Financial Management
FMR    Relat6rios de Gerenciamento Financeiro Financial Management Reports
FSL    Emprtstimo com Amortizaqgo Constante Fixed-Spread Loan
FY     An0 Fiscal                             Fiscal Year
GOB    Govern0 do B r a d                     Government of Brazil
ICB    Concorrhcia Internacional para         InternationalCompetitive Bidding
       Contrataqgo de Obras
IRR    Taxa Internade Retorno                 Internal Rate of Return
LCR    Regia0da Amtrica Latina e Caribe       LatinAmerica and Caribbean Region
LCS    Seleqgo pel0 Menor Custo               Least-cost Selection
M&E    Monitoria e Avaliaqgo                 Monitoring and Evaluation
MIC    Pais de Renda MCdia                   Middle IncomeCountry
MI     Ministtrio da IntegraqgoNacional      MinistryofNationalIntegration
MMA    MinistCrio do Meio Ambiente           MinistryofEnvironment
NCB    Concor&nciaPublicaNacional            National Competitive Bidding
NGO    Organizaqiio NZo Governamental        Nongovernmental Organization
O&M    Operaggo e Manutenqgo                 Operationand Maintenance
PAD    Documento de AvaliaqBo do Projeto     Project Appraisal Document
PAOM   Plano de OperaqBo e Manutenqgo        Administration, Operation, and
                                             Maintenance Plan
PCPR   Projeto de Combate A PobrezaRural     Rural Project Alleviation Projects
PIU    Unidadede Implementaqgo do Projeto    Project ImplementationUnit
PGRH   Projeto de Gerenciamento de Recursos  Bahia Integrated Water Resources
       Hidricos da Bahia                     Management Project
PMSS   Projeto de Modernizaqgo do Setor      Sanitation Sector Modernization Project
       Saneamento

                                                                   FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY


          PNRH           Plano Nacional de Recursos Hidricos     National Water Resources Plan
          PROGERIRHProjet0 de Integraqiio e Gerenciamento        Cearh IntegratedWater Resources
                          dos Recursos Hidricos do Cearl         Management Project
          QAT            Time de Seguranqa da Qualidade          Quality Assurance Team
          QCBS            Seleqgo com Base em Qualidade e Custo Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
          REA             Avaliaqgo Ambiental Regional           Regional EnvironmentalAssessment
          RFV            Relatorio Final de Viabilidade          Final Feasibility Report
          RIO             Relatdrio de Identificaqiio de Obras   Work Identification Report
          RTP             RelatdrioTCcnico Preliminar            Preliminary Technical Report
          SAT             Equipe de Salvaguardas                 Safeguards Advisory Team
          SBD             Documento PadrSlo de Licitaqdes        StandardBiddingDocument
          SEAIN           Secretaria Especial de Assuntos        Secretariat for International Affairs
                          Internacionais
          SOE             Declaraqiio de Gastos                  Statement o f Expenditures
           S R H          Secretaria de Recursos Hidricos.       Secretariat for Water Resources
          TCU             Tribunal de Contas da UniSlo           National Accounts Court
          TIR             Taxa Interna de Retorno                Internal ReturnRate
          TOR             Termo de ReferCncia                    Terms o f Reference
           SIAFI          Sistema Integrado                      Integrated Federal Financial
                          de Administraqiio Financeira           Administration System
           SIGMA          Sistema de Informaqdes Gerenciais      Project Information System
          WRM             Gerenciamento de Recursos Hidricos     Water Resources Management
          WUA             Associaqiio de UsuArios de Agua        Water User Association


                                         Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                                      Country Director:       John Briscoe
                                        Sector Director:      Laura Tuck
                                        Sector Manager:       Abel Mejia
                                         Sector Leader:       MarkR.Lundell
                                    Task Team Leader:         Luiz Gabriel T. Azevedo




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                 BRAZIL
             FEDERALWATER RESOURCESMANAGEMENT PROJECT

                                                              CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                 Page


 I. Introduction            .........................................................................................................              2

 11. BackgroundandRationalefor additionalfinancingof US$50
 million  ...........................................................................................................................              2

 111. ProposedChanges                  ...............................................................................................             5

 IV. Consistencywith CAS                      .........................................................................................            9

 V. Appraisalof Scaled-upProjectactivities                                     ..........................................................          10

 VI. ExpectedOutcomes                    .............................................................................................             15

 VII. BenefitsandRisks                 ...............................................................................................             18

 VIII. FinancialTerms andConditionsfor AdditionalFinancing                                                         ..........................      19


 Annex 1: .Procurement .................................................................................................                           20

 Annex 2: Financial Management, Financial Reports and Auditing
 Arrangement        ..............................................................,..................................................              25

 Annex 3: Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Additional Financing......,...... . ..                                                     . .. ....  28

 Annex 4: Results Framework and Monitoring..............................................................                                           30




 This ProjectPaper wasjointly preparedbyLuiz Gabriel Azevedo, Manuel RSgo, Juliana Garrido, Daniele
 La Porta, andPaula Freitas. Comments and inputs were provided byDanielGross, Maria Isabel Braga,
 AllanCarroll, Musa Asad, andMartinGambrill. Peerreviewers were ManuelContijoc andMasood
 Ahmad. The team is grateful to Zelia Brandt andKarenRavenelle-Smith for logistical support andAlicia
 Hetzner for editorial services.
I                                                                                                                                                    I


                                        BRAZIL

                FEDERALWATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENTPROJECT

                               ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                            PROJECTPAPERDATASHEET

Date: November 14, 2006                     Team Leader: Luiz Gabriel T. de Azevedo
Country: Brazil                             Sector DirectodManager: Laura TucMAbel
Project Name: Additional Financing -        Mejia
Federal Water Resources Management          Country Director: John Briscoe
Project                                     Environmental Category: A
Project ID: P100154
Borrower: Federative Republic o f Brazil
Responsible agency: Ministry o fNational Integration and Ministry of Environment
through the National Water Agency
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY                 2007           2008          2009           2010
Annual                 2.25          30.00          14.00            3.75
Cumulative             2.25          32.25          46.25          50.00
Current closing date: December 31, 2006
Revised closing date: December 21.2009




                  Source                        Local        Foreign         Total
Borrower                                           150.00          0.00         150.00

IBRD/IDA    40.00    10.00   50.00
Others       0.00    0.00     0.00
Total       190.00   10.00   200.00

I.Introduction

This Project Paper seeks the approval o fthe Executive Directors to provide an additional
loan in an amount o f US$50 million (fifty million US dollars) to the Federative Republic of
Brazil, for the implementation o f the Federal Water Resources Management Project
(PROAGUA), P038895, Ln.4310-BR.

Theproposed additional loanwill help finance the costs associatedwith scaled-up activities
to enhance the impact o f a well-performing project inthe water sector. More importantly,
the loan will consolidate institutional and legal reforms supported by the project that
require time to mature and be fully integrated in government processes. The ultimate
purpose o f the additional loan i s to provide continuity to the financing o f the PROAGUA
activities consistent with the project's objectives, components, subcomponents, and present
expenditure categories. Consistent financing will enable the expansion o f actions to support
the management o f water resources and the increase inwater supply for multiple uses. The
Additional Financingwill support the continuation o f the existing infrastructure component
inthe Northeast Region. Theproject will also include a large institutional development
program to continue the support to the Northeastern States and to prepare other Brazilian
States for a future infrastructure-intense project. N o major changes are being proposed to
the Original Project scope.

The Original Project is performingwell and is the foundation ofthe World Bank's
assistance to water resources management inBrazil. Through the Additional Financing, the
project will expand its activities and impact incoordination with other Federal and State
government projects supporting water resources management, some of which have received
financial support from the Bank. These projects include Water Sector Modernization
Project -PMSS, Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects - PCPR, Cear6 Integrated Water
Resources Management Project -PROGERIRH, Rio Grande do Norte Integrated Water
Resources Management Project (inpreparation) and Bahia Integrated Water Resources
Management Project - PGRH I1(inpreparation).

Additional financing i s an important and effective instrument for expanding the Bank's
menuo f support to middle income countries (MICs). This instrument should lower
transaction costs based on the recognition that frameworks and procedures are inplace and
that implementationresults havebeen positive. This project has been the foundation o f the
Bank's water resources management support to Brazil, andit has been consideredbest
practice inthe LatinAmerica and the Caribbean (LAC) Region. The Brazilian clients'
perception about the Bank's provision o f additional support to this effort i s very positive.


11.Backgroundand Rationale for Additional Financingof US$50Million

Background

The PROAGUA, Loanno431O-BR, inthe original amount o fUS$198 million, was signed
on June 3, 1998. It became effective on July 30, 1998, and its original Closing Date was
December 31,2003. By the end o fNovember 2003, the Bank approved an extension o f the


                                                2

Closing Date untilDecember 31,2005 and a reallocation o f loan proceeds. As requestedby
the GOB,US$40 million were cancelled from the total loan amount.

The causes of the cancellationwere primarilytwo: (1) highdevaluation o fthe Brazilian
Real prior to and duringthe presidential electionof 2002. Devaluation causedthe project to
reduce the pace o f disbursement since the vast majority o f contracts were inlocal currency;
and (2) the relatively longtime needed by the new administration to understand the
project's innovative nature and to fully embrace its implementation. Following the sudden
slow-down inimplementation, the Ministry o f Finance determined that it would be
cancelled duringthe consideration o f the first extension o f closing date.

However, once the new GOBteam embraced the project implementation, it resumed at a
very strong pace. Technical staff at PIUs was maintained, and additional staff were hired.
New works were included, and funds were made available to implement the project. Since
then, PROAGUA hasbeenrecognized byboth Federal and State governments inthe
Northeast as one o f their most effective programs and has beenlisted as highpriority in
both governments agenda. InNovember 2005, GOBrequested a new extension o f the
Closing Date to December 31,2006 to enable the completion o f ongoing works and
activities. The Bank approved the request.

The two objectives o f the Original Project remain unchanged. They are to:

    1. Promoterational and sustainable use and participatory management o f water
        resources inBrazil ingeneral, and inthe Northeast inparticular
    2. Providereliable and sustainable access to water for domestic, agricultural, rural,
        municipal and other uses inpriority river basins inthe Northeast.

Duringproject implementation, some important changeswere requestedby the GOBand
reflected inamendments to the legal agreement. In 1999 the GOBreorganized its ministries
and created the Ministryo fNational Integration (MI) responsible, among other tasks, to
construct water infrastructure. Inthe following year, the GOBcreated the National Water
Agency (ANA), which i s responsible for implementing the water resources management
activities at the Federal level and also for assisting the States inthis task.

As aresult, the Secretariat for Water Resources (SRH), which originally was responsible
for project implementation was restructured and changed its role inthe GOB'Sstructure. In
consequence, the GOBrequested that SRHno longer participate inthe project, replacing it
with ANA and MI.ANA was made responsible for developingthe activities related to
water resources management. MI,through its Secretariat o f Water Infrastructure(SIH), was
responsible to assist the States inimplementing the water resources infrastructure.

The Original Project was composed o f five components:

    1. Water resources management
    2. Infrastructure
    3. Planning, studies, and project design
    4. Sgo Francisco watershed


                                                3

    5, Management, monitoring, and evaluation.

Duringproject implementation, two new components were added to the loan agreement to
meet new demands derivedfrom the change inthe GOB'Sstructure described above:

    6. Watershed management models and pilot initiatives enabled ANA to prepare studies
        and pilot experiences related to water resources management (WRM) issues for
        Federal Waters.
    7. Complementary studies to support the implementation o f water resources
        infrastructure in the Northeast region. This component enabled MI to carry out
        Federal studies and plans to implement infrastructure in priority watersheds in the
        Northeast region.

Theproject's overall implementation has beenconsistently satisfactory and compliant with
loan covenants. Disbursements reachedUS$149.5 million (94.6 percent o f the total loan
amount) as o f August 14,2006. Supervisions carried out for the Original Project have
shown that its execution i s consistent with its objectives and that outcomes and impact have
superseded expectations.

PROAGUA has made major progress toward achieving its objectives. The implementation
o f a comprehensive set o f criteria to select subprojects i s among the project's noteworthy
achievements. The GOBhas extended the use o f these criteria to most hydraulic works
financed by the Federal government. The project has contributed directly to the substantial
progress inthe semiarid beneficiary States inthe development and/or implementation of
legal and institutional frameworks to promote efficient WRM. Inaddition, the project has
financed many important watershed plans, operational and maintenance plans for water
systems, feasibility studies, and engineering designs. Several water user associations
(WUAs), water basin committees, State water resources councils, and water resources
information systems have been created and/or strengthened. These outputs already have led
to important outcomes such as improved allocation o fwater rights; reduction inthe
frequency and severity o f conflicts among water users, or between users and water
agencies; and improved allocation o f fiscal resources to the implementation o f the most
viable projects.

Inregard to priority works, the project is financing atotal o f42 water infrastructure works,
directly benefiting a population o f 2 million inhabitants (originally estimated at 1.3 million)
inthe Northeast. Additionally, 2 millionwater users inthe Fortalezametropolitanareawill
directly from the completion o f the rehabilitation work inthe Umburanas subproject,
bringingthe total number o fbeneficiaries to nearly 4 million. These subprojects have
significantly reduced the vulnerability o fNortheast communities to recurrent droughts. The
subprojects also have contributed to major improvements inthe quality o f life o fthe poor
by improvingthe reliability o f services andthe quality ofwater delivered. The results have
been reduced diarrhea and other diseases, significant time saved primarily by women and
children infetching water, and improved welfare from supplyingwater to cattle and other
economic activities.




                                                4

Rationalefor the Additional Financing

Fromthe beginning,the PROAGUA project was conceived as aprogrammatic line ofwork
that would include 3 loans for an estimated US$l billion. The implementation o f the first
project started well. It disbursedUS$26.4 million inthe first year and US$28.4 million in
the second. However, it then faced challenges that hinderedproject implementation. The
Brazilian currency had been significantly devalued from project effectiveness to 2003
(from approximatelyR$ 1     .lo to the US$, to R$ 3-60), which resulted inslower than
anticipated disbursement rates. Additionally, the government change at the end o f 2002
created additional delays. Nevertheless, following an initial period o f difficult relations
with the Bank, the new administration was convinced by the project's very positive
successes. From this point on, the GOBhas considered PROAGUA as one o f the Bank's
best projects inmany years. The project has beenfully supported by the Federal
government as well as by the ten Northeastern beneficiary States. This supported was
confirmed by the rapidapproval o f the project's Carta Consulta (Additional Financing) and
through numerous correspondences from the Minister o fNational Integration and other
high-level authorities.

The GOB'Simplementation capacity under this new administrationhas improved
consistently as reflected inthe execution ofthe project. For example, inFY06 the project
disbursedUS$46.1million. The mechanisms are inplace, PIUs are trained; States are
performingwell; and the GOBis readyto prepare the biddingdocuments to be financed
duringthe first year o fthe Additional Financingperiod. This scenario would facilitate
implementation and disbursements, within the three-year period. Additionally, a declining
share o f IBRD financing has been agreed with the GOB,starting at 40 percent from the loan
duringthe early stages o fproject implementation and going down to 20 percent inthe
secondkhird year. This arrangement would facilitate faster disbursement from the Bank
loan duringthe first two years o fproject execution.

Key Issues and Government Strategy

Water resource management continues to be a highpriority on the GOB'Sagenda, because a
National Water Resources Plan recently was launched based on the guidelines set forth in
the Water Resources Management Policy, Law 9433/1997. Despite the significant progress
achieved, especially inthe Northeast, the region still has a long way to go to achieve
sustainable and efficient WRM and to significantly improve the quality o f government
spendinginthe implementationo fwater resources infrastructure.

In2005 the government indicatedto the Bank that it would liketo pursue the original idea
o f a long-term program-succeeding     the existing loan with two other projects. The second
would be a smaller short-term loan (Additional Financing) that would bridgethe current
project and a hture and muchlarger phase (possible futureproject). The third project
would be national inscope and expand PROAGUA (includinginfi-astructure) to States in
other Brazilianregions.

The Carta Consulta for the Additional Financingloan was approved on December 26,2005
for an incremental total project amount o fUS$200 million, corresponding to an IBRDloan


                                               5

o f US$lOO million for 3 years.' Additionally, in a letter from the Minister o fNational
Integration, co-executor o f the project, the GOBrequested the Bank to proceed with the
Additional Financing. Duringnegotiations, the Borrower requested that the loan amount be
reduced to US$50 million due to a change intheir fiscal policy, maintaining the overall
project amount.

The AdditionalFinancingwill continue to support the implementation o f actions and
activities that promote and reinforce the achievement o f the original objectives through the
implementation o f infrastructureinthe semiarid region. The new loan also will expand
management activities to other BrazilianStates and it would enable the project to scale up
its successful results. In addition, the new loan would strengthen the position o f the Federal
ImplementingAgencies (ANA and MI) indeveloping and applying more restrictive criteria
for the allocation o f Federal funds to finance the implementation o f water resources
infrastructure by States. The tightened criteria inturn would improve the quality o f projects
and increase the benefits o f public investment inthe sector.

The proposed Additional Financingwould confirm the Bank's continued support to
consolidate the progress achieved inthe semiarid beneficiary States and expand the
project's impact o f improving WRM and planningto other regions.

111.ProposedChanges

The Additional Financingwill scale up the achievement o f the same development
objectives established by the Original Project. The financing will go from January 1,2007-
December 21,2009. There would be more focus on the implementation o f activities to
improve water resources management and planningat national level and in States outside
the Northeast region. Incontrast, there should be the opportunity to expand the benefits o f
water infrastructureto other areas inthe semiarid Northeast region with a combination o f
works. These would include water pipelines and conveyance systems, construction o frural
water supply systems, construction and/or rehabilitation o f dams, and other similar
hydraulic infrastructure for multiple uses. The priorities would be the rehabilitationo f
existing systems and the expansion or completion o f unfinished works. This additional
period will be extremely important to consolidate institutional and legal reforms inthe
participating States.

Civil works will consist o f subprojects fully compliant with the environmental screening
system developed by the Original Project and considered best practice byboththe LCR                       -
Latin and Caribbean Region Safeguards Advisory team and by the GOB.Engineering
designs, cost estimates, and environmentalscreening data sheets were prepared for the 14
subprojects preselected2 for possible implementation duringthe first year, following the

'"Carta  Consulta" is the approval from the Ministries o fPlanning and Finance for international loans.

 At this stage, projects listed for possible implementation duringthe first year o fAdditional Financing have
not received a final no objection from the Federal government or the Bank. These subprojects are being
evaluated for coherence and compliance with PROAGUA's criteria through the project's screening process,
which involves three distinct phases, as described later inthis document.



                                                       6

revised environmental framework developed for this new phase. Both Federal and State
agencies are working toward the completion o f designs and biddingdocuments for first-
year implementation.

Thepotential subprojects preselectedto be financed by PROAGUA are part of a State
Water Resources Plan and/or a Watershed Master Plan and/or the Atlas o f Water Resources
publishedby the National Water Agency (ANA).3This screening provides a solid starting
point indicating that proposed subprojects have been analyzed as part o f a broader context.
This approach also indicates that the problems to be addressedby the proposed subprojects
constitute regional priorities and that the solutions chosen result from a planning process
(upstream planning process).

The same criteria adopted by PROAGUA for access to resources and the eligibility of
works will be maintained for the first year o f implementation. For the following years,
additional criteria may be defined and included inthe Operational Manual. These criteria
will accord with the development stage o fWRM at the State level. They will consider the
specificity o f each geographic region inwhich project activities will be implementedas
well as the characteristics o f some o f the new works to be financed. An Operational Manual
i s beingupdated and will be concluded before Negotiations.

Most activities supported under the Original Project will bemaintained. However, to make
impact assessments more objective and facilitate the management and monitoring tasks, the
first component o f the Original Project would consolidate other components related to
planningand studies issues. The result will beonly three components for the proposed
Additional Financing: (1) Water Resources Management (which will include the original
components 1,3,6 and 7); (2) Priority Works (same as the original component 2); and (3)
Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation (same as the original component 5).

Implementation Arrangements

Overall project management will remain unchanged: the National Water Agency (ANA)
and the Ministry o fNational Integration (MI) will be the Federal ImplementingAgencies
with support from the States. At the State level, project coordination will continue to rely
on a managing agency nominatedby the participating States. The fiduciary tasks o f
procurement and financial management arrangements will remain the same as those in
place for several years. Audit reports and reviews during supervision missions will attest to
their effectiveness.

However, the procurement guidelines to be used by the project will be changed from the
Original Project due to the launch new Bank guidelines inMay 2004. Therefore, the
procurement methods and thresholds and Procurement Plan will follow the new guidelines


   The Atlas o f Water Resources preparedby ANA identifiedthe water needs: where the sources are; how the
water gets to the communities-including     quantity and quality; what the alternatives to improve the water
supply are; and what the costs related to these alternatives are. The study was carried out in 1,300
municipalities encompassing approximately 34 million inhabitants inthe semiarid region.




                                                         7

and the minor method and thresholds changes agreed between the GOBand the Bank due to
the government's implementation capacity (Annex 1).

The Participating States o fthe Original Project will remainthe same: Alagoas, Bahia,
Ceara, Maranhilo, Minas Gerais, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte, and
Sergipe. These States will have the opportunity to consolidate their WRM frameworks and
implement or rehabilitate water infrastructures benefitingapproximately 2 million
inhabitants. Inthe Original Project, each Participating State signed a Project Agreement
with the Bank.For the Additional Financing, each Statewould sign an Umbrella
Agreement with ANA and MIimmediately after signingthe loan agreement.

Originally, other States were potential beneficiaries o f the project only through its Federal
component. These States now benefit from the project's soft components ineither o ftwo
ways

    1. The terms o freferencehpecificationsfor studies and water resources management
        activities would be prepared by the beneficiary State, and ANA or MIwould be
        accountable for the procurement process to implement the proposed activities; or

    2, The State would sign an Umbrella Agreement with ANA and MIindicatingthat the
        State would be responsible for carrying out project activities related to components
        1and 3 at the State level. The Bank requires a fiduciary and technical assessmento f
        the new participating State before they are able to co-execute project
        implementation. The Umbrella Agreement, for the new participating states, would
        be signed only after this evaluation.

N o infrastructure subproject will be implementedby States that were not beneficiaries o f
the original loan. However, the opportunity for beneficiary States to execute other activities
that previously were contracted only through the Federal government component i s
intended to develop implementationcapacity for a possible future third phase o f the
program.

A draft UmbrellaAgreement will be parto fthe Negotiations package, subject to Bank
approval, and will be based on the original Project Agreement Statements. A New
Participating State will need to meet certainminimumcriteria for Bank assessment before
requesting the Umbrella Agreement to be signed, although additional criteria can be
required as a result o fthe Bank assessment. The minimumcriteria are:


    0   Management unit structured with, at least, a coordinator, financial manager and
        technical manager well trained to carry out responsibilities for project activities; and
        readyto inform auditors and the Bank when necessary
    0   Management unittrained by the Federal management units
    0   State financial and budgetary system inplace capable o f demonstrating the flows o f
        funds from the IntegratedFederalFinancial Administration System (SIAFI)
    0   Project Information System(SIGMA) inplace and operating




                                              8

    0   Clear procurement cycle management inplace; control systems inplace, safe and
        complete record-keeping and staff well trained inBank's procurement guidelines.

Fundingfor the preparation o freports such as the Work Identification Report (RIO);
Preliminary Technical Report (RTP), and Final Feasibility Report (RFV) will be provided
by the Ministryo fNational Integration, instead o fANA. However, ANA will continue to
be incharge o f selecting and certifying the eligibility o fpriority works inaccordance with
PROAGUA criteria.

The costs for components for the Additional Financingwill consist o f (Table 1):


                                              Project cost       Financing      Loan allocation
 Component                                    (US$mill)               %             (US$mill)
 A-Water Resources Management                              60              25              15.00
 B-Priority Works                                        127               25              31.75
 C-Management, Monitoring, and                             10              25               2.50
 Evaluation
 Recurrent cost                                             3              25               0.75
 Total                                                   200               25               50.0

The implementation schedule for the Additional Financingi s expected to be more
significant duringthe second year (Table 2).

Table 2. Imdementationschedule for DroDosedAdditionalFinancing
                                          Calendar year                               Total
                             2007             2008                 2009                         I
  IBRDfinancing                  18.00              21.20               10.80             50.00
  Totalfinancing                 45.00             101.00              54.00             200.00

A reviseddisbursement schedule is inAnnex 3.

IV. Consistencywith CAS

The proposed Additional Financingoperation is consistent with the Brazil Country
Assistance Strategy 2003-2007 (Report no27043-BR, last discussed on December 9,2003),
which nominates three major pillars for action: equity, competitiveness, and sustainability.
Brazil's government i s effectively addressing the double challenge o fmacroeconomic
stability and fiscal discipline, with reduction o f social deficits. Additionally, the GOBi s
makinga strong effort to balance economic growth with social development and the
maintenance and improvement o f environmental quality.

Inaddition, the proposed Additional Financingis consistent with the CAS ProgressReport
(Report no36116-BR,last discussed on June 5,2006). It contributes directly to the
sustainability pillar through expandingthe access to local water services and improving


                                                9

water quality and water resources management, especially inthe semiarid region inthe
Northeast.

The objectives pursued by the Additional Financing support the CAS and the CAS Progress
Report. The Additional Financingaims at ensuring the expansion o f good quality bulk
water supply for multiple uses, promoting the sustainable use o f water resources, and
recouping presently unused investments. The ultimate goal i s to reduce extreme poverty
and achieve a better quality o f life for Brazilians, especially inrural areas. Through its
infrastructureimprovement activities, which will increase the efficiency o f the water sector,
the project will contribute to enhancing the Federal and State governments'
competitiveness, improving resource allocation, and consolidating the legal frameworks
and institutions. Additionally, by enhancing the role playedby local WUAs and basin
committees inWRM, the project will improve local governance.

V. Appraisal of Scaled-up ProjectActivities

Economic and Financial Analysis

The methodology to be used for the economic and financial feasibility analysis o fthe
priority works to be financed will be the same as for the Original Project, as described in
the Operation Manual and accepted by the Bank. The main economic and financial
indicators require (a) an economic internal rate o f return (IRR) o f at least 12 percent; (b) the
collection o f tariffs over the use o fbulk water covering 100 percent o f operation and
maintenance costs and at least 25 percent o f the investment cost; and (c) a cost not higher
than US$200 per beneficiary. A detailed economic and financial analysis was carried out
for each subproject proposed for being implemented inthe first year as part o f the regular
feasibility study requested inthe Original Project.

Technical. Technical capacity is inplace and has improved since the beginningo f the
Original Project. The update o f the project information system will continue to be active,
with quarterly reports beingprovided on time. The technical criteria applied by the Original
Project will continue inforce for the Additional Financing. To obtain resources to finance
activities that may improvement water resource management tools, participating States
mustshow evidence o f a minimumlegal and institutional framework to ensure the
appropriate management o f their water resources. Access to water infrastructure actions
will depend on the evolutionary stage achieved by the proposing State's water management
system. Only States counting with advanced WRM instruments may access projects to
expand their water infrastructure. Furthermore, an identification report, a technical
preliminary report, and a final feasibility report will be required, covering all works to be
financed. These reports will provide (a) a brief description o fthe work; (b) target
population; (c) supply problem; and, (d) technical feasibility, considering all types o f works
and, more specifically, dams, pipelines, andpumpingstations. The GOBis confident that
the approval process will be carried out and that biddingdocuments for at least ten
subprojects will be submitted to the Bankby end 2006. The other four will be readyby
April 2007.




                                                 10

Institutional. For the States already implementing the project, the institutional frameworks
and staffing are inplace. The Federal and State PIUs are inplace, trained, and staffed. The
institutions have increased their capacities to implement the project and WRM activities.
Some o f the new States have experienced some WRM improvement and/or have
implementedBank supported projects. ANA has an action plan that focuses on buildingthe
capacity o f these States to implement the water management activities within the project's
criteria and Bank's guidelines. It has been agreed between the Bank and the Government
that, to be able to directly implement activities supported by the project, each new State
will need to meet minimumcriteria to be validated by Bank's fiduciary team. Untilthen,
ANA/MI will beresponsible for assisting the new States.

Fiduciary

Financial management,financial reports, and auditing arrangements, The financial
management system to be used under the proposed Additional Financingi s Brazil's
Administrative Financial System (SIAFI) and SIGMA (Project Management System), the
same as those being used under the ongoing PROAGUA project. They comply with OP/BP
10.02 and the Guidelines for Assessment o f Financial Management Arrangements, which
are to:

    1. Ensurethat funds are used only for their intended purposes efficiently and
         economically while implementing agreed activities
    2. Enable the preparation o f financial reports that show costs budgeted and incurred
         for the current period and the total budget and cost o f the project to date
    3. Enable the Implementing Agencies (National Water Agency and the Secretariat o f
        Hydraulic Infrastructureo f the Ministryo f Integration) as well as participating
         States to monitor efficiently implementation o fthe project
    4. Safeguard the project's resources and assets.

EachImplementingAgency shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, for monitoring purposes
and as part o fthe project Report, not later than 45 days after each calendar quarter, interim
unaudited financial reports for the project covering the quarter inform and substance
satisfactory to the Bank.

Theproject's accounting and reporting system is inplace, audit complying with provisions
o f Section 5.09 o f the General Conditions (Annex 2). Overall FMrisk i s considered Modest
(taking into account both Federal agencies' and States' project units).As there i s no
intentionto make changes inthe implementation arrangements for the Additional Financing
phase, a review o f the Financial Management capacity was made on both Federal
implementation agencies and site visits to three States. The satisfactory results and
improvements made inFMarrangements duringthe implementation o f the Original Project
are considered satisfactory. The Borrower initially will keep transactional-based
disbursements through statements o f expenditures (SOEs), but has the installed capacity to
move to unaudited interim reports (FMR) disbursements. The project will keep the current
Federal governmental reimbursement disbursement practices.




                                               11

Procurement Assessment

A new assessmento fthe capacity o fthe ImplementingAgencies to implement procurement
actions for the project was not carried out since ImplementingAgencies at boththe Federal
level and in all States inthe Northeast participatedinthe implementation o f Loan 43 10-BR,
which had regular supervision missions. Infact, 12 visits as part o fprocurement post-
review exercises took place between 2003 and 2005. Inall cases, an assessmento fthe
agencies was done and recommendations and proposed actions shared with the Borrower.
There canbebeneficiaries that did not receive funds from Loan 4310-BR; therefore, a
procurement assessmenthas neverbeen done. Such new States and agencies will be either
(a) subject to a procurement capacity assessment prior to launching any biddingprocess, or
(b) ANA and MIwill be accountable for carrying out all steps o f aprocurement process for
these newcomers.

Procurement activities under this new phase will be carried out by various agencies. At the
Federal level, ANA and MIwill have the role o f ImplementingAgencies as well as a
supervisory role for contracts implementedby beneficiary States. Many States that received
funds from Loan 4310-BR are expected to bebeneficiaries o fthis new operation. In
addition, new States will be allowed to apply for funds to improve their WRM capacity.

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits)" dated May 2004,
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,') dated
May 2004, and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement. The general description o f
various items under different expenditure categories i s described inAnnex 1. For each
contract to be financed by the Loan, the procurement methods or consultant selection
methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and
timeframe are agreed betweenthe Borrower and the Bank project team inthe Procurement
Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the
actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Safeguards

The ongoingproject is classified as Category "A," andno new safeguardpolicy will be
triggered duringimplementationo f the Additional Financingphase. Duringthe Original
Project's implementation, adequateplanning with environment strategy and close
supervision (field based) has ensured satisfactory compliance with safeguards. Safeguards
specialists were part o f the team since preparation and throughout project implementation.

The main assuranceinterms o f compliance with safeguards is the strong positive track
record o f implementationo f this project. Procedures are inplace; PIUs are staffed and
trained; and the implementation o f 42 subprojects over the past 7 1/2 years has
demonstrated the capacity to detect problems and resolve them. The focus o f the work to
prepare the Additional Financinghas been to improve the overall framework. This task has
beensuccessfully implementedby incorporating lessons learned with the implementation o f
the project and by revising it to conform with changes that have taken place inrelevant
policies (for example, resettlement and indigenous peoples). The revised framework will be


                                               12

applied to every subproject presented for the Additional Financing phase. The GOBhas
been proactive interms o f disclosing all environmental reports and studies developed
duringthe first phase. The revisedframeworks already havebeendisclosed inBrazil. They
also are available at the World Bank Infoshop together with preliminary studies and
information o f subprojects being considered for implementation duringthe first year o f the
Additional Financing.

Environmental

Interms ofcompliance with Banksafeguards, despite the largenumber ofinfrastructure
systems that havebeen financed by PROAGUA, there are no major unaddressed
environmental issues. Whenever detected, potential problems were dealt with effectively.
Ina country with strong civil society groups, PROAGUAhas neverbeen the source o fany
complaint. Quite the contrary, throughout its implementation, it often was praised for its
efforts to address questions. Furthermore, the project has financed major environmental
studies; important environmental components were financed by subprojects (for example,
Aguas Vermelhas, inMinas Gerais4); and environmental education programs have been
financed inalmost all participating States. The project also financed a regional
environmental analysis duringpreparation. Later, duringimplementation, the project
developed and improved a screening system that continues to beusedby project
beneficiary States.

Additionally, environmental, social, and resettlement frameworks for the construction o f
dams and water supply systems were developed and approved duringthe preparation o f the
Original Project. Manuals with environmental guidelines for the construction of dams and
water pipelines also were prepared and adopted duringproject implementation. (These
manuals are appendixes to the Environmental Management Framework, or EMF.)

Inpreparation for the proposedAdditional Financing, three major activitieshtudies were
developed:

     a. Review o fthe environmental and screening procedures carried out duringthe first
         phase and an evaluation of results and lessons learned
     b. Updateo fthe original environmental assessmentand frameworks, adjustingthem to
         reflect the improvements made duringproject implementation and to revised
         safeguard policies including an update o f the resettlement framework
     C.  Preliminary environmental assessmento f the 14 subprojects proposed to be
         implemented inthe first year, with preparation o f environmental screening
         datasheets for all subprojects and site visits to 4 (1 dam and 3 water supply
         systems). Prior to project implementation, the sites for all subprojects proposed for
         the first year will be visited by a team of environmental and social specialists.

These three studies were the basis for updatingthe EMF.

 The Aguas Vermelhas water supply subproject included as environmental components the implementation
o f sewage systems, solid waste collection and sanitary landfill, an environmental education program, recovery
of riparian forest, and a program to monitor and control schistosomiasis.



                                                      13

These studies identified no major new issues. The potential subprojects to be implemented
duringthe first year o fAdditional Financingwill be approved within the scope o fthe
updated environmental safeguards eligibility criteria. The other proposed subprojects, to be
implementedduringthe second and third years, will follow the same environmental
framework.

The studies didrevealthe needto improve the supervision o fmitigation measures after the
conclusion o f construction works and during operation o f the subprojects. To address this
issue, the following have been added to be carried out by MI'SUnit:

     a. Train Federal and State Units on the methodology for subproject supervision during
         the operational phase
     b. Include amitigation measures monitoringplaninthe administration, operation, and
         maintenance plan (PAOM) for each subproject5
     C.  Assist the States to implement the PAOMs for the subprojects (including the
         subprojects constructed within the Original Project)
     d. MIsupervise the implementation ofthe measures after subproject constructionand
         throughout its operational phase.

Inall cases, subproject proposals would cover the institutionalarrangements, determining
the responsibility for the implementation and supervision o fthe programmed environmental
mitigation measures. The costs o f such actions will mandatorily ineach subproject's budget
for economic and financial evaluationpurposes. As inthe Original Project, the future works
to be financed will not cause major negative environmental and/or social impacts.

The following additional documents also would be submitted to the Bank: (a) aplan for the
administration, operation, and maintenance o f the proposed work; (b) evidence that the land
and the rights to that land are physically and legally available; (c) evidence that
Participating States hold the rights over the water for the proposed work; (d) evidence o f
the corresponding environmental permits; and (e) whenever required, a resettlement plan.

Following the practice for the Original Project, a Dam Safety Panel would be established to
approve the final engineering designs, supervise contracting, and inspect the construction o f
any large dams that may be financed, to comply with OP 4.37 (Safety o f Dams). The panel
would behired by the MIUnit and would assist all demanding subprojects.

For the first Category "A" level subproject to reach the advanced EA stage within the
subproject preparation cycle, the (a) client's Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and
(b) Terms o fReference (TORS) for supplementary environmental analysis to beprepared
for Bank sign-off to cover any additional safeguards-related issues that are not covered in
the EIA document itself will be submitted to SAT for review. The subsequent Category "A"

 The Administration, Operation, andMaintenance Plan (PAOM) is developed for each subproject to identify
the responsibilities and financial and economic mechanisms that will ensure infrastructure sustainability. In
the Additional Financing phase, an effort will be directed to improve the collaboration between the Ministry
o f National Integration and the Ministry o f Cities on the development o f this plan.



                                                         14

subprojects would be subject to a similar Bank review prior to their approval, but this
review would be undertaken by the environmental specialist on the Task Team.

Social

The Original Project has received strong support by local stakeholders. One reason was the
direct benefits from the water works financed. A second reason was the environmental
educational, training, and mobilization activities carried out and the support givento WUAs
and committees.

Beneficiaries o f the Original Project perceived water scarcity as one o f the main hindrances
to their quality o f life. After project implementation, the improvements o f water quality and
availability have ensured significant improvement o f their lives.

Project implementation i s highlyparticipatory involving State agencies as well as water
users and beneficiaries. Consultationtakes place both upstream when watershed and State
water resources plans are developed as well as downstream duringthe development prior to
and duringimplementation o f subprojects. Beneficiaries have the opportunity to provide
inputs and suggestions. Often, project designs are adjusted to respond to their inputs.The
final designs o f most subprojects implemented (for example, Garrincho, Serra de Santana,
Congo, and Aguas Vermelhas) were influenced and modified by local communities'
inputsS6These designs included the location of standpipes for water withdrawal,
communities to be serviced, and the operation and maintenance (O&M) model to be
adopted.

There are no indigenous groups living inor near areas inwhich works have been proposed
for the Additional Financing. Duringthe Original Project, a model TOR was developed
following OP 4.20 to be used inthe evaluation process o f any subproject that could
possibly affect indigenous areas. However, no subproject triggered this policy. The
Brazilian law highly restricts the implementation o f interventions regarding indigenous
lands. Therefore, the first phase o f the project focused on other critical areas. For the
Additional Financingphase, no subproject i s expected to affect indigenous areas. However,
a revisedindigenous people's framework has been developed as part o f the project's
Environmental Management Framework (EMF). It will be used inthe event that any
subproject to be considered affects indigenous areas.

Exceptions to Bank Policies

The scaled-up project will not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.

VI. ExpectedOutcomes




 The Sera de Santanasubproject had24 additional communities included inits design; Garrincho, 6; Congo,
15; and Aguas Vermelhas, 1.



                                                 15

The Additional Financingis expectedto improve water resources management throughout
the Brazilian States involved and inthe rivers under the domain o fthe Federal government.
At the same time, as a result o fthe expansion and optimization ofwater infrastructure
works, 2 million people, especially inthe country's less developed semiarid region, will
benefitdirectly from project activities.

As a result of the Original Project's activities, a number of important outcomes regarding
the improvement o f people's quality o f life were identified. These successes include (a) the
decrease o f water-borne diseases, such as schistosomiasis (Aguas Vermelhas subproject,
State o f Minas Gerais) and diarrhea (Serra de Santana, State o f Rio Grande do Norte); (b)
local development due to the opportunity to establish new economic activities and/or
increase the value-added o f local production. This development has created job
opportunities for the local population, as reflected in lower emigration; (c) increased life
expectancy; and (d) decreasedchild mortality.

The results o fmost subprojects have shown that water scarcity, which was the key issue in
these areas, i s no longer the focus o f government activities and community concerns. Their
attention has turned to other important issues, such as education, health, and socioeconomic
development,

Inaddition, the project supported pilot experiences that mobilizedand trained to operate
and maintain the subprojects. These practices have shown great results by guaranteeing the
O&M o f small water supply systems with lower costs and increasing community
empowerment.

The experiences and methodologies adopted inthe Original Project are considered models
to be replicated. The proposed Additional Financingphase i s expected to maintain and
improve the developed activities and enhance stakeholder involvement.

The types o factivities undertaken would be alignedwith the Original Project and its
indicators. Inaddition, the targets were revised, based on the existing monitoring and
evaluation system, to reflect the new investments to be carried out.

The broad range o f activities to be supported by the Additional Financingincludes:

        Institutionalstrengthening o f the water resources planning and management
        agencies o f the 27 States
       Updating and adapting water laws infour States
        Establishinghmplementing6 State water resources councils, and establishing or
        strengthening 120user organizations and river basin committees

       Regulatingprocedures for the allocation o fwater rights infour States
       Implementinga water user register ineight river basins
       Establishingbulk water tariffs systems infour States



                                               16

         Designing4 State water resources plans, 8 river basin plans, and 4 water
         infrastructureoperation and maintenance plans
         Developing and implementing four hydrometeorological information systems
         Installing 40 hydrometeorological and water quality monitoring stations
         Preparing 6 studies on water resources or applied research, 8 environmental studies,
         8 water availability studies, and 16 hydraulic works identification studies
         Buildingcapacity o f200 technicians associatedwith water resources systems and o f
         200 representatives o f water user committees and associations

         Organizing 80 training events
         Establishing, regulating, and/or operationalizing six State funds for water resources
         management

         Implementing and/or rehabilitating a minimumo f 15 water infrastructure works
         benefitingup to 2 million inhabitants

         Institutional strengthening o f at least two agencies responsible for the
         implementation and operation o f water infrastructure, at both the Federal and State
         levels

         Implementing at least one water environmental project.


It i s expected that the implementation o f this set o f activities will translate into an effective
project interms o f achieving its development objectives.

The expected project outcomes will be significant and will represent an important
contributionto WRM inthe beneficiary States. The main noteworthy projected outcomes
are: (a) reliable access to safe drinkingwater inone o f Brazil's poorest regions; (b) more
cost-effective water supply systems; (c) improved infrastructureto store and regulate water
supplies inthe semiaridregion; (d) comprehensive data bases, models, and decision support
systems to promote sound water policies and strategies to manage the nation's water
resources; (e) milestone for integrated groundwater and surface water management; and (0
systematic implementation o f WRM practices.

A revised Results Framework that takes into consideration the extensive monitoring
activities carried out duringthe Original Project implementation was prepared and included
as Annex 4 o f this document.

Inadditionto the framework, a final, complete monitoringandevaluation(M&E) system
will be developed to improve the methodology o f evaluating the project's outcomes. This
system will complement and improve the existing system used during implementation o f
the Original Project. The existing system was designed based on (a) three M&E studies that
designed and implemented an evaluation systemto measure the immediate effects and final
results on the living conditions o f the local beneficiary populations o f the Original Project;
(b) 27 baseline studies carried out to prepare a diagnostic o fthe beneficiary population
before the implementation o f the water supply systemand to measure key development


                                                  17

indicators; and (c) 3 baseline studies to assess and diagnose the water resources
management scenario in each o fthe 10beneficiary States and Federal institutions.


VII. BenefitsandRisks

BeneJits
Major WRM benefits o f the Original Project have been identifiedby independent
consultants inthe evaluation ofthe participating States' performance. The evidence was o f
major improvements, including inthose States that, at the beginning o f PROAGUA, were
at a less advanced stage and to which only a minimumof funds from the Competitive
Management Fundwere allocated
An institutional assessmento fPROAGUA sponsored by the National Water Agency
between October, 2004-April, 2005 concludes:
         "PROAGUAhas approached the roots of theproblem associatedwith water
        resources management in the semi-arid region with greatprecision: guaranteeing
        water supply in quantity and quality to thepopulation; increase in the execution
        capacity of beneJiciaries;and the sustainability of implemented actions.'"
As to the increase inwater supply, over 1million people already have benefiteddirectly
from the project. By the completion o f the Original Project, this figure will be increased by
another 1.7 million to 2.7 million people. Additionally, the present Federal administration
has demonstrated a strong commitment toward the project. The proposed Additional
Financingoperation will allow the necessary time for the consolidation o f criteria and
mechanisms developed through PROAGUA. The incorporation of such criteria in
government processes requires time. Inaddition, the technical assistance(TA) provided by
the Bank and the perception, by participating States, o f the Bank as a "honest broker" are
considered by the GOBas fundamentally important aspects for the future success o f the
program.


Risks

The underlyingrisks and mitigation measureshave not changed significantly since the
development o f the Original Project and therefore are not an obstacle to successful
implementation. The upcoming elections and a change in administrationmay disrupt the
project's strong implementationrecord since 2004. However, PROAGUA i s fully
supported by the Government o f Brazil and by the 10beneficiary States, which guarantees
a strong degree o f commitment to project implementation. The awareness achieved by the
target audience (direct beneficiaries) as well as by opinion makers, and the demand from
participating States, has institutionalized positive pressure on behalfo f the project's
implementation, minimizing the impact o f changes inthe administration. The project i s
considered highpriority by the Federal government, as well as by these States.



 National Water Agency, 2004.



                                               18

Another risk to the project's success would be insufficient or delayed financing o f
counterpart funds, especially to finance local infrastructure for water distribution. The fact
that the proposed project i s included among the "Presidential Targets" i s an additional
guarantee o ftimely counterpart funds. Overall risk will be mitigated by the importance o f
the project at boththe Federal and State levels, commitment o f PIUpersonnel, experience
gained from implementing similar activities duringthe Original Project, and demonstrated
capacity o f the ImplementingAgencies.


VIII. FinancialTerms and Conditions for the Additional Financing
The financial terms and conditions will remain unchanged from the original loan. The GOB
has chosen a Fixed Spread Loan inUS dollars and repayment over 17 years, including a
five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The Federative
Republic o f Brazil shall pay the Bank a front-end fee inan amount equal to 1percent o f the
amount o f the loan, subject to any waiver determined by the Bank.




                                              19

                                       Annex 1. Procurement
        A.      General
        Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," dated May
2004; "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,"
dated May 2004; and the provisions stipulated inthe Legal Agreement.8 The general
description o f items under different expenditure categories i s described below. For each
contract to be financed by the Loadcredit, the different procurement methods or consultant
selection methods, need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements,
and timeframe are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank project team inthe
Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually, or as required,
to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional
capacity.

Procurement of works. Works procured under this project, would include construction
rehabilitation and/or expansion o f water pipelines and conveyance systems, Construction o f
rural water supply systems, construction and/or rehabilitation o f dams, construction and/or
rehabilitation o f irrigation systems, and other similar hydraulic infrastructure. The
procurement will be done usingthe Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBDs) for all
InternationalCompetitive Biddings(ICBs) and the model biddingdocuments prepared by the
Secretariat for International Affairs (SEAIN) for National Competitive Biddings(NCB) or
other documents agreed with (or satisfactory to) the Bank. Considering the experience and
outcomes o f similar contracts inLoan 4310-BR, it is expected that the Borrower will duly
consider, whenever possible, following a supply-and-install approach to construct new
pipelines and include both civil works services and supply o frelated goods inthe same
biddingpackage.

Procurement of goods. Goods procuredunder this project would include printing
materials, office equipment, suppliesfor capacity-building events, pumps, pipes, and
electrical equipment. The procurement would be done usingthe Bank's SBD for all ICB,
the model biddingdocuments prepared by SEAINfor NCB, or other documents agreed
with (or satisfactory to) the Bank.

Procurement of nonconsulting services. A large number o f capacity-building events are
expected for this operation and, thereby, a great deal o f small contracts to provide logistics
support to them. Most o f them are expected to fall into shopping thresholds (up to the
maximum amount o f US$lOO,OOO).         Contracts above shopping threshold will use the Bank's
draft biddingdocuments for technical services or other documents agreed with (or
satisfactory to) the Bank.

Selection of consultants. Many consulting assignments are expected for this operation.
Some o fthem are engineering designs, works supervision, project management services,


  A complete procurement planhas beensubmittedby the Government and it has been approved by the Bank
    prior to negotiations of the loan.



                                                20

individual consultants for the PIU, water supply master plans, advice on water supply
strategies, and preparation o f environmental campaigns. Inaccordance with the provisions
o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines, short lists o f consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely
of national consultants. The Borrower did not inform the Bank o f any special arrangement
or requirement for employment o f universities, government research institutions,
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), or related organizations.

Operational costs. Project design describes that the operation i s expected to finance PIU
staff through individual consultant contracts as well as provide PIUs office equipment and
publication of various working materials. All contracts shall follow the procedures defined
inthe Guidelines andthe loanagreement.


        B.       Assessment of the Agencies' Capacity to Implement Procurement
Procurement activities will be carried out by various agencies. At the Federal level, ANA
(Agencia Nacional de Aguas, or water supply regulatory body) and MI(Ministerio da
Integragiio Nacional, or Ministryo fNational Integration) will have the role o f
ImplementingAgencies as well as supervisors o f contracts implementedby beneficiary
States. Many States that received funds from Loan 4310-BR are expected to be
beneficiaries o fthis new operation. New States also will be allowed to apply for funds to
improve their water resources management capacity. A project implementation manual
shall be prepared before contract signature.

Assessments o f the ImplementingAgencies' capacity to implement procurement actions for
the project were not carried out. Both ImplementingAgencies at the Federal level as well as
all States o f the Northeast and some o fthe Southeast regions participatedinthe
implementation o f Loan 4310-BR, which had regular supervision missions. Infact, 12
visits took place as part o f procurement post-review exercises in2003 and 2005. Inall o f
these visits an assessment o fthe agencies was done and recommendations and proposed
actions shared with the Borrower.

Because Additional Financingcan have beneficiaries that did not receive funds from Loan
43 10-BR, these beneficiaries have not had prior procurement assessments. Either (1) such
new States and agencies will be subject to a procurement capacity assessmentprior to
launching any biddingprocess, or (2) ANA and MIwill be accountable for carrying out all
steps o f a procurement process for them.

Risks.The overall project procurement riskis high.

Most o f the issuedrisks concerning the procurement component to implement the project
have been identified. They are:
     Procurement i s highly decentralized to various participating States.




                                              21

    States that were not beneficiaries o f Loan 4310-BR will be allowed to apply for funds
    from the Water Resources Management and Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation
    components o f the project duringthe Additional Financingphase.

    Multiyear civil works contracts might be affected by Federal resolutions related to
    budget.

    The new procurement guidelines issued in May 2004 will apply to this operation,
    which has many beneficiaries used to following the previous version o f the guidelines.
    This is not a risk but a strength. However, the project team will organize a seminar to
    highlightthe differences between the two versions.

    The approach used for construction o f water pipelines and power plants involves civil
    works and supply o f related goods. This approach can include the procurement o f both
    works and goods under one bid, or separately

Corrective measures. The agreed correctivemeasures are:

    All Northeast States as well as the State of Minas Gerais were visited by the Bank in
    procurement post-review exercises for Loan 4310-BR. The Implementing Agencies'
    assessments o f these States will be updated in the supervision missions o f this new
    operation. Moreover, States that were not beneficiaries o f Loan 4310-BR will either (1)
    be assessed prior to launching bidding processes, or (2) have ANA and MI carry out
    their procurement processes.
    This loan will become effective after elections. Its implementation phase is scheduled
    to be completed during the next Presidential term, thus mitigating risks related to
    budget decisions.
    To the extent possible, construction and expansion o f existing pipelines should follow
    supply-and-install approaches in order to couple civil works services and supply o f
    related goods inthe same contract.

       C.       ProcurementPlan
The Borrower has developed a Procurement Plan for project implementation that provides
the basis for the procurement methods. This plan i s being revised. Some discussions with
the Bank procurement team already have taken place, and a final revised version is
expected to beready before Negotiations. It will be available inthe project's database and
inthe Bank's external website. The Procurement Planwill beupdatedinagreement with
the project team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs
and improvements ininstitutional capacity.




                                             22

The procurement methods are:



       11.Works
        <US$500,000                                  Shopping
        US$500,00O-10,000,000                        NCB
        > us$lo,ooo,ooo                              ICB




        3. Consulting services
        (a) Individual Consultants
        <US$50,000                                   Qualification
       I>US$50.000                                   Oualification
        (b) Firms
        <us$200,000                                  CQS, LCS, QCBS
        > US$200,000 - US$500,000                    QCBS
        > US$500.000                                 OCBS

For purposes o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services
estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national
consultants.


        D.BankReview of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth the contracts that shall be subject to the Bank's Prior
Review. For reference, table Al.2 was agreed with the client to assist the preparation of the
Procurement P1an.


        Categories                                   Subject to prior review
        1.Works                          All ICBs and Drocessesabove US$5.000.000
        2. Goods                         All ICBs andprocessesabove US$350,000
        3. Consulting services
       I(a) Individual Consultants
        (b) Firms                       IAll processes
                                             mocesses above US$50.000
                                         All             above US$lOO,OOO

Prior review o f contracts to employ individual consultants above US$50,000, reports on the
qualifications and experience o f all evaluated candidates, terms o freference, and terms o f
employment o f the consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank.

All Terms o fReference o f contracts to employ consulting services (individual and firms)
are subject to prior approval by the Bank.



                                                 23

All other contracts shall be subject to post review by the Bank.


        E.      Frequency of Procurement Supervision
Inadditionto theprior review supervision to becarried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessmento f the ImplementingAgency has recommended biannual supervision missions
to the field to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.




                                               24

   Annex 2. FinancialManagement,FinancialReports, and Auditing Arrangements


The project i s implemented by two separate agencies: (1) Ministry o f National Integration(MI) and
(2) Ministryof Environmentthrough the National Water Agency (ANA); and participating States
through subproject agreements. States that do not participate inthe ongoing project will need
financial management (FM) assessmentprior to being responsible for implementation.

Conclusionof FinancialManagementAssessment

Both Federal agencies (MI and ANA) are satisfactory to Bank's requirements and, financial
management systems in place: Brazil's Federal Integrated Financial Administration System
(SIAFI) and, Monitoring and Administrative Management System (SIGMA) can provide
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status o f the project. Overall risk
associated to the project is rated as Modest. Current arrangements should be kept in for the
Additional FinancingLoan.

ImplementingEntity/FinancialManagement UnitiStaffing

Current implementation agencies administrative structures should be kept for the Additional
Financing. At the Federal level, both agencies-UGPO and UGPG were considered adequately
skilled and no recent turnover has occurred. At the State level, installed capacity varies from each
State implementation unit arrangements.
Training: adequate training will be a priority for the Additional Financing Loan; both agencies
would prepare a training program.

Flow of Funds

Flow o f funds has changed since Original Project design; modified arrangements have been agreed
with the Bank and put in place throughout the years o f implementation. The flowchart in
Attachment 1 shows the current disbursement flow o f funds, which will be included in the revised
version o f the operational manual. All accounting and financial transactions are made through
SIAFI. All Funds (Project and Federal counterpart) are advanced by National Treasury Secretariat
to each implementation agency, which signs an agreement (conve^nio)with each participatory State,
enabling it to receive funds, and opens a specific account by agreement. The same arrangements
will be kept for the Additional Financing Loan. In addition, counterpart funds are now expected to
be deposited at the same agreement specific account.

Disbursements

Upona Governmental decision inFebruary2004, all Federalprojects special accounts were
closed and disbursements are now being made on a reimbursement basis. Project would
initially keep the current disbursement transaction-based arrangements through Statement o f
Expenditures and Summary Sheets (thresholds to follow procurement limits). Incase o f a consensus
by both agencies, as capacity is installed, it would move to disburse through Interim Un-Audited
Reports (FMR).All support documentation is to be retained inthe relevant Federal agency or State.

Audit Arrangements: ExternalAudit

Current arrangements should be kept. SFC i s responsible for auditing project's account and
financial Statements up to six months after closing o f fiscal year. The reports required are:


                                                 25

            1. Opinion on Project Financial Statements
            2. Opinion onthe use of SOE methodology (ifapplicable)
            3.  Opinion on Special Account (ifapplicable)
            4. Management Letter.

Accounting Policies, Procedures, and Internal Controls

Current procedures should be retained. Both Federal agencies follow Law 4320/64, the Brazilian
accounting policies and procedures of the accounting system prevailing for Public Entities. SIAFI
(Federal Integrated Financial Administration System) is used to control budget and financial
execution, and SIGMA i s used for monitoring purposes. To better monitor the project, both
agenciesas well as the States use SIGMA to enter data and produce reports.

Financial Reports

As the rigidity of SIAFI does not allow the agencies to prepare FMR, SIGMA is being used by
many other Federal projects for monitoring and reporting.

For the Additional Financing Loan, quarterly FMRs will be produced and submittedto the Bank by
each agency. Each report will contain the figures for the quarter, accumulated for the year and
accumulated for the project. Variance will be compared to annual budgetary approved figures. All
FMR supporting documentation will be filed in the respective agencies and States for auditor's
inspections and the Bank's supervision missionreview. The reports to be produced are:

        1. Sources and Uses of Fundsby Components
        2. Expenditures by Cost Categories
        3. Actual Spending Statement.

Supervision Plan

Biannual financial management supervision missions are proposed covering both the Federal
agencies(ANA and MI) and field visits to States.

Operational Manual

Both agencies will update the Operational Manual, as mentioned above, to reflect the current flow
of funds arrangements at the Federal level and other specifics of the Additional Loan.




                                                26

u,

                 Annex 3. DisbursementSchedulefor ProposedAdditionalFinancing



TableA3.1Disbursementschedule


                             Amount o fthe Loan
                            Allocated (Expressed in         % of Expenditures
          Category                 Dollars)                    to be Financed

(1) For Parts l(a) and 3(a)
o f the Project:

(a) Goods                           1,000,000       40% untildisbursements under this
                                                    Category shall reach an aggregate
                                                    amount o f $400,000; and 20%
                                                    thereafter.

(b) Works (only for Part                  -0-
l(a)(iv) of the Project)

(c) Consultants' services          10,000,000       40% untildisbursements under this
and training                                        Category shall reach an aggregate
                                                    amount o f $4,000,000, and 20%
                                                    thereafter.

(2) For Parts l(b), 2(a),
2(b) and 3(b) o f the
Project:

(a) Goods                           9,250,000       40% untildisbursements under this
                                                    Category shall reach an aggregate
                                                    amount o f $3,700,000, and 20%
                                                    thereafter.

(b) Works (except for Parts        19,050,000       40% untildisbursements under this
1(b) and 3(b) of the                                Category shall reach an aggregate
Project)                                            amount o f $7,620,000, and 20%
                                                    thereafter.

(c) Consultants' services           9,950,000       40% untildisbursements under this
and training                                        Category shall reach an aggregate
                                                    amount of $3,980,000, and 20%
                                                    thereafter.

(3) Incremental Recurrent             750,000       40% until disbursements under this
Costs for Parts 1 and 3 o f                         Category shall reach an aggregate
the Project                                         amount o f $300,000; and 20%
                                                    thereafter.


(4) Front-end fee                          -0-      Amount payable pursuant to Section
                                                     2.04 of the Loan Agreement in

                                                  28

                                          accordance with Section 2.07 (b) of
                                          the General Conditions.

(5) Premium for Interest           -0-    Amount payable pursuant to Section
Rate Caps and Collars                     2.08 (c) o f the LoanAgreement in
                                          accordance with Section 4.04 of the
                                          General Conditions.

TOTAL                       50,000,000




                                        29

                                       Annex 4. Results Framework and Monitoring


          PDO/ Global                                         Outcome Indicators                                         Use of Outcome
 Environment Objective                                                                                                      Information
1.Promote the rational and                WATERRESOURCEMANAGEMENT
sustainable use and the                       IO.1. Number o fBrazilian states that have specific                Y2 - Mid-term evaluation will
participatory management o f                  water management agencies and that are reasonably                  indicate the relevance o f works
water resources inBrazil in                   well-staffed or have promoted public selection                     and support provided to states
general, and particularly inthe               processes for hiring personnel                                     for water resource management,
Northeast.                                    10.2. Use o f eligibility criteria for the approval o f            and will support the definition o f
                                              PROAGUA works being applied to the selection o f                   actions for the review and
2. Provide for reliable and                   works financed by the MIandlor by the States                       complementationo f initiatives
sustainable access to water for               10.3. Reduction inprevalence rates qf waterborne
domestic and municipal use and                diseases inthe areas served by PROAGUA works.                      Y3 Final program evaluation
                                                                                                                      -
for other uses inpriority river               10.4. Degree o f improvements inhousing or inthe                   will highlight lessons learned on
basins inthe Northeast                        hydro-sanitpry system o f households inareas benefiting            strategies to be expanded,
                                              from PROAGUA works                                                 reviewed or created for
                                              10.5. Reduction inwater losses indistribution systems              expanding positive impacts, the
                                              o f areas that have benefited from PROAGUA works                   sustainabilityo f works and o f
                                              10.6. Percentage o f communitiesAocalities that have               management processes infuture
                                              benefited from program works that have active and                  water resource management
                                              regular representation and participation inthe water               programs and policies
                                              management systems (user associations, river basin
                                              committees)
   Intermediate Results                         Result Indicators for Each Component                              Use of Result Monitoring

1.WATER RESOURCE                              IO1.1. Number o f states outside the Brazilian Semi-Arid
      MANAGEMENT                              that have accessed program funds                                   Y l - Y 2 - Evaluationo f the
1.1. Management tools have                    101.2. Overall andper state evolution o f the degree o f                  relevance o f supported
      been implemented and                    implementation o f low complexity water resource                          proposals and their
      water resource agencies                 management tools, assessedinaccordance with the                           potential impact on water
      have been institutionally               scale developed by ANA*                                                   resources management in
      strengthened,                           IO1-3. Overall andper state evolution of the degree o f                   the states, allowing for the
      consolidating the national              implementation o f intermediate complexity water                          re-pactuation o fpriorities
      water resources                         resource management tools, assessedinaccordance with
      management system                       the scale developed by ANA*
                                              101.4. Overall and per state evolution o f the degree o f
1.2. The efficacy and efficiency                                                                                 Y3 - Identification o f the most
                                              implementation o f advanced complexity water resource
      o f management o f surface              management tools, assessed inaccordance with the                          effective strategies and
      and ground water                        scale developed by ANA*                                                   mechanisms to strengthen
      resources has been                                                                                                the water resource
                                              101.5. Overall and per state evolution o f the degree o f
      expanded, in a                                                                                                    management systems,
                                              implementation o f management tools, according to their
      decentralized and                                                                                                 considering the different
                                              nature: legal, institutional and social articulation tools;
      participatory manner                                                                                              conditions o f states andor
                                              planning; information and support; operational       *                    regions.
1.3. Strategic and operational
      planning has been
      consolidated as guiding
      instruments for
      governmental action inthe
      field o fwater resources


(*) A prototypefor astate qualification system regarding water resource managementis presently being evaluated by ANA. It is based
   -
on the evaluation of about 30 variables, each one o f them associatedto a management tool, grouped into five major groups of tools: legal,
institutional and social articulation tools; planning tools; information and support tools; operational tools. Variables also are classified
according to the complexity of the management tools to which they refer: basic, intermediateor advanced. The Result Indicators are
basedupon the concepts and on the methodology proposedby this system

                                                                       30

   IntermediateResults                 ResultIndicatorsfor EachComponent                     Use of ResultMonitoring

2. PRIORITY WORKS                    102.1, Percentage o f new water structure works         Y1- Identification o fthe main
2.1. Infrastructure works that       completed and functioning (performance)                      bottlenecks and changes
have been rehabilitatedandor         102.2. Relative expansion on water supply service            needed inthe execution
implementedwhile complying           coverage inthe areas benefitedby the works                   and supervision o f works
with principles o f sustainability,  102.3. Percentage o f completed works that have
technical, environmental,            implemented the actions identified on their respective
economic and financial               Administration, Operation, and Maintenance Plan         Y2-Y3 - Evaluationo f the
feasibility.                         (PAOM)                                                       relevance o f the eligibility
                                     102.4. Beneficiaries' satisfaction regarding access and      criteria to induce
2.2. Incomplete water systems        quality of the water supply service: water quantity and      sustainability and
      and works have been            quality, and regularity o f supply                           effectiveness o f water
      completed and are                                                                           supply systems.
      operational, inaccordance      102.5. Number o f works with public hearings held with       Identification o f
      with the principles o f        the benefitedpopulation                                      mechanisms to enhance
      sustainability, technical,                                                                  relevance and efficacy o f
      environmental, economic                                                                     water works
      and financial feasibility.

3. MANAGEMENT,                       103.1. There are periodic reports by the P M U          Yl-Y2 - Identification and
      MONITORINGAND                  (MI/ANA) on: i)analysis o fthe program's operational         resolution o f problems on
      EVALUATION                     performance; ii)data and analysis o f outcome                the program's institutional
                                     indicators; iii)records o f decisions and changes on         arrangements and
                                     actions, terms and resources.                                management
3.1. Efficient and effective         103.2. Number o f contracted works that are suspended
management o f the program           or cancelled                                            Y3 - Learning about the main
assuring achievement o f goals                                                                    problems and potentialities
and objectives                                                                                    o f the management model
                                                                                                  adopted by the program.

3.2. A monitoring and
evaluation system has been
implemented, allowing prompt
supervision o f the program's
performance, results, and
impacts on beneficiary groups




                                                            31

               832   83E




                            hl
                            m




     Y




e    D    e

               54    4
                     5




L
a




     8 - M

     3  Y

     N 0
          II
t t

   z e,




   z e,



                    0




           0
           \o   Q
           0  z E
           N




a                  a     a


