Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
RESTRUCTURING 
Report No.:  AB4910 
Project Name 
Federal Water Resources Management 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Water supply (53%);Sub-national government administration 
(20%);Central government administration (18%);Other social 
services (9%) 
Project ID 
P038895 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL 
Implementing Agency 
 
National Water Agency  
Ministry of Environment 
Setor Policial Sul, Área 5, Quadra 3 
Bloco L, sala 111 
Brasília, DF 70610-200 
Brazil 
Tel: 55-61-2109-5221 Fax: 55-61-2109-5296 
Secretariat of Water Infrastructure  
Ministry of National Integration 
Esplanada dos M
inistérios Bloco E, 7º andar, sala 717
 
Brasília, DF 70067-901 
Brazil 
Tel: 55-61-3223-1550 Fax: 55-61-3322-3692 
Environment Category 
[X] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
July 1, 2009 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 5, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
December 19, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
There is more freshwater available per capita in Brazil than in other upper-middle income 
countries, but it is extremely unevenly distributed. Brazil has 5,700 km3 of water availability, 
which is 12% of the world’s total. About 73% of Brazil’s freshwater is concentrated in the 
Amazon River Basin, while the semi-arid Northeast, with 35% of the population, has only 3% of 
the country’s water resources. In the industrialized South and Southeast, with nearly 60% of the 
population, water pollution and availability problems are severe. Almost all rivers crossing urban 
areas are highly polluted, affecting the health of poor populations, causing environmental 
damage, and increasing the cost of water treatment for downstream users.  
 
In 1997, the National Water Resources Management System (SINGERH) was created with the 
main objectives of coordinating water management at the national level and developing a 
National Water Resources Policy.  In addition, in 2000 the National Water Agency (ANA) was 
Page  2
created and is responsible for the implementation of this Policy as it relates to water resources 
management.  
 
Since 1997, major achievements in the water sector have included: development and/or 
implementation of legal and institutional frameworks in the states to promote efficient water 
resources management; preparation of many important watershed plans, operational plans, 
feasibility studies, and engineering designs; and creation and/or strengthening of several water 
user associations, water basin committees and national and state water resources councils, and 
water resources information systems. 
 
Although good progress has been made, there is still a long way to go to achieve sustainable and 
efficient water resources management (WRM). Problems with water supply, sewage, and solid 
waste collection services affect many smaller towns with scant financial and managerial capacity 
to address them. While overall access of Brazil’s urban households to water supply services is 
high, at about 90%, coverage varies considerably from region to region and state to state, and 
quality differs dramatically from one part of a city to another. Some 56% of urban households 
are connected to a sewage system and 16% have septic systems, but coverage is more uneven for 
sanitation than for water supply. Little of the collected wastewater is treated, resulting in health 
hazards and environmental degradation, especially in urban areas.  Water supply and sanitation 
coverage is highest in the relatively affluent South and Southeast and lowest in the poorer North 
and Northeast. A large part of the unserved population lives in peri-urban areas, slums (
favelas
), 
and smaller towns, with mainly lower-income populations. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The Federal Water Resources Management Project (PROAGUA) financing has been through 
Loan No. 4310-BR of US$158 million and through an Additional Financing (AF) Loan No. 
7420-BR of USD$50 million approved in December 2006.   
 
For the AF, the objectives of the original project remained unchanged aiming at (i) promoting 
rational and sustainable use and participatory management of water resources in Brazil in 
general, and in the Northeast in particular; and (ii) providing reliable and sustainable access to 
water for domestic, municipal and other uses in priority river basins in the Northeast.  
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The AF confirms the Bank’s continued support to the consolidation of the progress achieved in 
the semi-arid beneficiary states and expands its impact on improving the water resources 
management and planning to other regions. 
 
The AF continues to support the implementation of actions and activities that promote and 
reinforce the achievement of the original objectives through the implementation of infrastructure 
in the semi-arid region, and expands management activities to other Brazilian states.  This has 
been enabling the project to scale up its successful results.  
 
4. Description 
Page  3
The PROAGUA
,
Loan nº 4310-BR, in the original amount of US$ 198 million, was signed on 
June 3, 1998.  It became effective on July 30, 1998 and its original Closing Date was December 
31, 2003.  By the end of November, 2003, the Bank approved an extension of the Closing Date 
until December 31, 2005 and a reallocation of loan proceeds.  As requested by the Government 
of Brazil (GoB), US$ 40 million were cancelled from the total loan amount.  In November 2005, 
GoB requested a new extension of the Closing Date until December 31, 2006 which was 
approved by the Bank to allow the conclusion of on-going works and activities. The total revised 
loan amount of US$ 158 million was fully disbursed by December 31, 2006. An AF Loan No. 
7420-BR in the amount of US$ 50 million was approved by the Board on December 19, 2006.   
 
The AF loan became effective on November 8, 2007 and its Closing Date is December 21, 2009. 
The purpose of the ongoing AF operation is to scale up the achievement of the same 
development objectives established by the Original Project, in a three-year period.  All activities 
supported under the Original Project are maintained, however, in order to make impact 
assessments more objective and facilitate the management and monitoring tasks, the first 
component of the original project consolidated other components related to planning and studies 
issues, resulting in only three components for the AF: (i) Water Resources Management (which 
included the original components i, iii, iv, vi and vii); (ii) Priority Works (same as the original 
component ii); and (iii) Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (same as the original 
component v). 
 
Results so far indicate that the overall Project impact is very positive at national and state levels 
and that Project Development Objectives remain achievable by Project completion although the 
AF project implementation has suffered several delays since Board Approval.  The Project has 
been instrumental in the creation and strengthening of the National Water Agency, ANA, which 
is now considered to be a world class water management institution. The water resources 
management systems in semi-arid states, where the Project focused its main actions, have 
evolved beyond the other Brazilian states. With the AF, the Project has continued and deepened 
the water resources management support including providing support to the other Brazilian states 
outside the Northeast. In the Original Project the works were very important in linking 
investments and management, and empowering the newly created state water agencies.  The 
works component also helped states to access federal financing for water resources 
infrastructure, which financing was not readily available. 
 
However, because of delays in start up and implementation, a number of activities that were to 
be supported with the AF will not be completed in time. Therefore, in March 2009, the GoB and 
the Bank agreed on a project restructuring that proposed cancelling part of its activities. In 
addition, the restructuring would ensure that results indicators are in line with the restructured 
Project, measurable within the timeframe for Project completion and in line with the activities 
being supported by the Project. On May 5, 2009, the Bank received the restructuring proposal 
with final approval by the Borrower.  
 
The changes made with restructuring include revision of the scope, targets, and result indicators, 
including canceling of some water resources activities and works; and revision of the project 
costs related to the 3-year Additional Financing period from US$200 million to US$72.5 million, 
Page  4
cancelation of US$23 million from the Loan amount of US$50 million, and increase in the 
disbursement percentages to 100%. With the restructuring, a few activities were cancelled from 
the water resources management component and the originally planned civil works were reduced 
from 16 to 7 sub-projects under the infrastructure component. All of the 7 remaining sub-projects 
are fully compliant with environmental screening system developed by the Original Project and 
have already been approved by the Bank.  
 
5. Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 45.50 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
27.00 
 Total 
72.50 
 
6. Implementation 
 
Overall project management remains unchanged: the National Water Agency and the Ministry of 
National Integration are the federal implementing agencies with support from the states.  At the 
state level, Project coordination continues to count with a managing agency, nominated by the 
participating states. The fiduciary tasks of procurement and financial management arrangements 
remains the same as they have been in place for several years, with audit reports and reviews 
during supervision missions attesting to their effectiveness.  Procurement guidelines being used 
by the Additional Financing project changed from the Original Project due to the launch by the 
Bank of new guidelines in May, 2004.  Therefore, the procurement methods and thresholds; and 
Procurement Plan follows the new guidelines and method and thresholds changes agreed 
between the GoB and the Bank, due to their implementation capacity. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Water resource management continues to be a high priority on the GoB’s agenda as a National 
Water Resources Plan was recently launched based on the guidelines set forth at the Water 
Resources Management Policy, Law 9433/1997.  Despite the significant progress achieved, 
especially in the Northeast of Brazil, there is still a long way to go to achieve sustainable and 
efficient water resources management (WRM) and to significantly improve the quality of 
government spending in the implementation of water resources infrastructure. 
 
In 2005, the Government indicated to the Bank that it would like to pursue the original idea of a 
long term program, following the existing loan by two others. The second would be a smaller 
short term loan (additional financing) that would serve as a bridge between the Original Project 
and a possible future project.   
 
The 
Carta Consulta
1
for the AF loan was approved on December 26, 2005, for an incremental 
total project amount of US$ 200 million, corresponding to an IBRD loan of US$ 100 million for 
a
period of 3 (three) years. Additionally, the Government of Brazil (GoB) has requested the Bank 
1
Approval from the Ministries of Planning and Finance for international loans. 
Page  5
to proceed with the AF through a letter from the Minister of National Integration, co-executor of 
the project. During the negotiations of the AF Loan, GoB requested a reduction in the IBRD loan 
amount to US$ 50 million, which was compensated with an increase in counterpart funds, 
keeping the total project amount to US$ 200 million. 
 
Considering the delays in project start up and implementation, during the project supervision 
mission of March 2009, the GoB and the Bank discussed and agreed on a project restructuring. 
On March 25, 2009, the Bank received a copy of the formal restructuring proposal, submitted by 
the implementing agencies for the review of the Ministry of Planning and the Treasury. 
Subsequently, on May 5, 2009, the Bank received the final approval from the Borrower through 
the Secretariat of National Treasury (STN). 
 
Although the scope of the AF supported activities is being significantly reduced with the project 
restructuring, all of the activities will still be completed by the Government.  The Federal 
Government Growth Acceleration Program (PAC) provides guaranteed government financing 
for the implementation of all of the Project works, although their completion in many cases will 
be well beyond Project closing date.  Activities that will be cancelled under the Water Resources 
Management component will also be completed by the Brazilian government, although beyond 
the closing date, using government resources. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM).  
Establishment of an IWRM approach at 
the basin and local level is essential to reconcile cross-sectoral water demands. 
Conflict Resolution. 
Inter-sectoral allocation of water is a sensitive issue, involving high 
political costs and challenging decision-making issues. Facilitating consensus among the various 
parties, conflict resolution mechanisms and clearly delineated areas of authority and 
responsibility, is crucial.  
Cost Recovery, Water Tariffs and Water Rights
.
When there is competence in the institutional, 
legal and regulatory frameworks for water rights system, Bank experience shows that rational 
water use can be supported through the establishment of water rights, with water charges 
reflecting adequate cost recovery. In addition, effective collection of water charges is a function 
of the stakeholders' participation in the process and appreciation of the benefits to be derived 
from the system. Introduction of water use charges prior to delivering demonstrable benefits to 
users inevitably results in controversy and lack of adequate collection experience. Experience 
points to the need for sound educational and public information programs to preempt such 
problems. 
Decentralization and Beneficiary Participation. 
Bank experience has confirmed the need to 
decentralize and promote stakeholder participation in WRM. Bank projects in the Northeast have 
demonstrated that, while firm government commitment to the project objectives is absolutely 
essential to help compensate and overcome institutional weaknesses, the stronger the 
participation of users and their sense of "ownership", the more successful the project will be in 
achieving its development objectives and sustainability of its actions.  
Page  6
Project Focus. 
 Past experiences have shown that projects which focus solely on infrastructure 
works are often unsustainable and that in order to increase the likelihood of sustainability, it is 
important to promote a balance between resource management and infrastructure.   
Implementation of a comprehensive set of technical, economic, financial, environmental and 
social criteria to ensure sub-project sustainability
.
The experience of PROÁGUA/Semi-Arid 
has shown that clearly defined criteria for the eligibility of infrastructure works is necessary to 
ensure sustainability of such activities.  These criteria continued to be applied in the Additional 
Financing in order to ensure sub-project’s sustainability. 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
The ongoing project is classified as Category A, and no new safeguard policy will be triggered 
during implementation of the additional financing phase.   
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[x] [ 
] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Project Appraisal Report for the Federal Water Resources Management Project (PROÁGUA) – 
Loan 4310-BR 
Plano Nacional de Recursos Hídricos
,
MMA, 2006 
Draft Project Paper prepared by the Borrower, February 2006 
Aide Memoire of the meeting in Fortaleza (April 24 and 25, 2006) with MI, ANA and States to 
confirm priority to the project, review technical, environmental, social, procurement and FMS 
aspects of implementation and agree on strategy and criteria for the additional financing phase 
Aide Memoire of the follow up meeting in Brasília (May 29, 2006) with MI, ANA and State 
Secretaries to refine strategy and recommendations from Fortaleza 
Financial Management Assessment: Back to Office Report: Financial Management Supervision  
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
Federal Water Resources Project 
–
PROÁGUA – Additional Financing Phase (Scale Up) 
Loan 43100 BR – ID # P038895 (August 18, 2006) 
 
Environmental Assessment: (a) Review of PROÁGUA environmental implementation; (b) 
Environmental framework for the Additional Financing; and (c) Preliminary environmental 
assessment of the proposed first year infrastructure works, August 2006 
 
Revised Resettlement Framework 
 
Revised Indigenous Peoples Framework 
 
Environmental Management Plan 
 
Environmental Assessment Report for Ibaretama Pipeline System, August 2006 
 
Environmental Assessment Report for Missi Dam, August 2006 
 
Resettlement Plan for the Missi Dam 
 
Resettlement Plan for the Riacho da Serra Dam 
 
Proposal for Revision of Loan Agreement 7420-BR prepared by the Borrower, March 2009 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Douglas Olson 
Title: Lead Water Resources Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-9227 
Fax: (202) 522-3132 
Email: Dolson@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington, DC (IBRD) 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
