Report No. PIC3424
Project Name                   Ghana-Village Infrastructure Project
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Agriculture
Project ID                     GHPA41150
Borrower                       Government of Ghana (GOG)
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA)
P.O. Box M. 37
Accra, Ghana
Contact: Dr. Sam Kojo Dapaah, Chief
Director
Ministry of Food and Agriculture
Telephone: 233-21-666-567
Fax: 233-2-668-245
1.   Country/Sector Background.   Agriculture, the dominant sector of
Ghana's economy, accounts for nearly 50 percent of GDP, about 60 percent
of foreign exchange earnings, and provides livelihood for an estimated
70 percent of the population. It is also the most important component
of the private sector, with millions of smallholder producers and
processors being predominant. Ghanaian agriculture is also well
diversified and supports production of various food and export crops
under a broad range of agro-ecological conditions. With only 29 percent
of the total area of 23.9 million ha under cultivation and a production
system characterized by low technology, there is significant untapped
potential for intensification of existing farming systems using improved
on-the-shelf technologies, and from environmentally-benign expansion
into new areas. These features of Ghanaian agriculture -- high
employment, a large contribution to economic production dominated by
low-income smallholders, and high untapped potential -- make it a
desirable vehicle for inducing higher growth leading to poverty
reduction.
2.   However, agriculture+s contribution to overall economic growth and
poverty alleviation has been well below expectations during the last
decade. The slow growth in agriculture is due firstly to its
subsistence nature and secondly to factors that perpetuate this state.
Subsistence production is largely characterized by millions of small
producers using low-input, low-output technologies on rainfed crops.
With increasing population pressure, the traditional bush-fallow system
which, under conditions of low rural population density, naturally
regenerated soil productive capacity has been dangerously shortened in
many places, resulting in soil fertility decline. Significant growth in
agriculture has also been constrained by non-agronomic factors, such as
the limited scope and poor conditions of rural infrastructure which has
led to the relative isolation of rural communities from markets and high
post-harvest losses.
3.   Project Rationale.   The recent Extended Poverty Study (EPS)
estimates that one-fifth of Ghana+s population of 16.5 million still
live below the poverty line (defined as one-half of mean per capita



household expenditures). Poverty in Ghana is predominantly rural and
agricultural: 54 percent of those classified as poor are food crop
producers who depend on farming as primary source of income; 39 percent
of them live below the poverty line. The main constraints to improving
rural living standards have been identified as the poor state or non-
existence of infrastructure for rural water, village post-harvest and
rural transport on which the poor depend for their livelihood. The
proposed project is a core part of IDA Country Assistance Strategy. It
would help achieve its objectives by improving access of the poor to
technical and financial resources for village infrastructure and
enhancing rural communities+ capacity to manage and sustain poverty-
reducing interventions.
4.   Project Objectives.   The primary objective of the Village
Infrastructure Project would be to improve the quality of life of
Ghana+s rural poor by increasing the transfer of technical and financial
resources to improve basic village-level infrastructure. Specific
project objectives are to: (i) empower local communities and
beneficiary groups through technical assistance and other measures to
identify, plan, implement and maintain small, village-level
infrastructure investments; (ii) increase rural communities+ access to
development resources through small grants; (iii) strengthen community
and district-level institutions to improve the efficiency of rural
resource transfer and ensure the sustainability of poverty-reducing
interventions.
5.   Project Description and Components.   Four components have been
identified: (i) Rural Transport Infrastructure, comprising small access
roads, village tracks and trails and small bridges over village streams;
(ii) Rural Water Infrastructure: comprising hand dug wells, boreholes,
handpumps and small reservoirs (for livestock) and peri-urban
agriculture; (iii) Village Post-Harvest Infrastructure: comprising
threshing and drying floors, and basic village storage, including cold
storage for coastal fishermen and women, and; (iv) Institutional
Strengthening: comprising technical assistance for strengthening
beneficiary communities in project implementation, management and for
carrying out basic O&M.
6.   Project Financing.   Total project cost is estimated at US$70
million with an IDA contribution of US$50 million representing 71
percent of project costs. GOG would contribute US$7 million, about 10
percent of project costs, while beneficiary communities would provide an
estimated US$3 million mainly through in-kind contributions such as
community-based labor. Co-financing of US$10 million and DM15 million
(about US$10 million) is expected from IFAD and KfW, respectively.
7.   Project Implementation Arrangements.   Overall project
implementation would be coordinated by a Project Policy Committee (PCC)
that would comprise the Ministries of Finance and Economic Planning,
Food and Agriculture, Local Government and Rural Development, Works and
Housing, Trade and Industries, Environment, Science and Technology, and
Transport and Communications. The PCC would provide overall policy
guidance to project. It would also coordinate activities among the
sector ministries. The PCC would normally meet at least twice a year to
discuss workplans, review progress reports, and provide overall
- 2-



implementation advice.
8.   At the technical level, the project will be coordinated by a
Steering Committee that will provide specific sectoral expertise drawing
upon the technical background of each of the collaborating agencies. It
will also ensure that implementation experience from IDA and other donor
funded operations in these sectors are taken into account in
implementing the proposed Village Infrastructure Project. In addition
to the Chief Directors of the implementing ministries of Food and
Agriculture, Local Government and Rural Development and Works and
Housing, the Steering Committee will consist of the following agencies:
the Community Water and Sanitation Division, the Department of
Cooperatives, National Board for Small-Scale Industries, Ghana National
Association of Farmers and Fishermen (GNAFF), Private Enterprise
Foundation (PEF), the Extension and the Postharvest Departments of the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture, and a representative of the NGO
community. The Technical Steering Committee will be chaired by the
Chief Director, Ministry of Food and Agriculture.
9.   Implementation Arrangements.   The Ministry of Food and Agriculture
will have primary responsibility for implementing all aspects of the
project related to agriculture infrastructure, such as postharvest
storage and processing, water for livestock and agriculture production,
non-motorized transport and rehabilitation and/or construction of
village tracks and trails for improved access between farms and
villages. The Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development will
be responsible for implementing the institutional strengthening of the
District Assemblies, and the Community Water and Sanitation Department
will implement the village water supply component. Project preparation
and implementation will explicitly take into consideration the existing
projects in the rural areas, such as the Agriculture Sector Investment
Project (ASIP) and the Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP) in
order to maximize synergies in the development of rural infrastructure.
10. Project Sustainability. To ensure sustainability of project
benefits, measures would be taken during project preparation to promote
local ownership and involve beneficiary groups in developing project
concept and refining local priorities. This process would begin with a
series of regional client consultation workshops (CCWs), for which CCF
resources have been approved. These workshops would be followed by the
placement of facilitators at the district-level to promote general
awareness of the project among communities and districts. In addition,
the project would support the strengthening of district assemblies and
local development organizations to assist beneficiary communities in
organizing themselves to meet project eligibility criteria.
11. Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement. Since 1989, government
strategy for agricultural development has been driven by its Medium-Term
Agricultural Development Strategy (MTADS) which was developed with IDA
assistance. Key lessons from implementation of the MTADS have been:
(i) a realization that significant dearth of implementation capacity
exists at both the central and local levels and this has been a major
constraint to achieving accelerated growth; (ii) access to isolated
farms and villages with increased production potential is often a
limiting factor to achieving this potential; (iii) training of farmers
- 3-



and villagers in group ownership and operations and maintenance is vital
for sustaining rural infrastructure; and (iv) technical support agency
have limited capacity and are reluctant to participate in small
subprojects that are located in remote villages. The project would
incorporate these lessons in design features and the nature and scope of
technical assistance.
12. Poverty Category. The primary impact of the proposed operation
would be on poverty alleviation; about 80 percent of anticipated program
impact would be on the rural poor.
13. Environmental Category. Category B.
14. Project Objective Category. The project would contribute to
poverty alleviation and local capacity building.
Task Manager              Rudolph Polson
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel.: (202) 473-5526
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



