Document of
The International Development Association
Acting as Administrator of the Interim Trust Fund
Report No. 15942-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
April 28, 1997
Agriculture Group III
Country Department 10
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Cedi (C )
US$1.00    =    C 1,800 (December 31, 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and
measures used in this report are metric.
I metric ton (ton)   =    2,205 pounds (lb)
I hectare (ha)   =    2.47 acres (ac)
I kilometer (km)   =    0.62 miles (mi)
I meter (m)   =    3.28 feet (ft)
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Ghana
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASIP          Agricultural Sector Investment Project
CBOs          Community-based Organizations
DAs           District Assemblies
DACF          District Assemblies Common Fund
DFR           Department of Feeder Roads
DTB           District Tenders Board
ERPU          Economic Recovery Program
GAPVOD        Ghana Association of Private Volunteer Organizations in Development
GIDA          Ghana Irrigation Development Authority
GOG           Government of Ghana
GNAFF         Ghana National Association of Farmers and Fishermen
IDA           International Development Association
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development (Rome)
IMTs          Internediate Means of Transport
KfW           Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Frankfurt)
MLGRD         Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MOFA          Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MTADS         Medium Term Agriculture Development Strategy
NGOs          Non-Governmental Organizations
NTSC          National Technical Steering Committee
PPCC          Project Policy Coordinating Committee
RICU          Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit
VIP           Village Infrastructure Project
VTTs          Village Tracks and Trails
ZCUs          Zonal Coordinating Units
Vice President     - Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director   - Serge Michailof
Technical Manager   - Jean Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader - Rudolph Polson



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY. ................................                                ..
1I. INTRODUCTION .I
2. BACKGROUND ..............              .            ...2
A. THE ECONOMIC SETTING                                                 .2
B. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                                                .3
C. IDA COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY                                             .7
D. IFAD's STRATEGY AND LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE                                        .7
E. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS                                                 .8
F. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT                                              .8
G. RATIONALE FOR IFAD'S INVOLVEMENT                                             .9
H. LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS OPERATIONS                                            .9
3. THE PROJECT.12
A. PROJECT RATIONALE, OBJECTIVES AND CONSISTENCY WITH CAS                                   .12
B. SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT                                           .1 2
C. DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS .13
4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ................................................    .       .       ........................... 20
A. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES ...........................                                                               20
B. PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN ...........................                                                              2 1
C. PROCUREMENT ............................21
D. DISBURSEMENT ............................25
E. AUDITING AND REPORTING ...........................                                                               27
5. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ...........................                                                29
A. OVERALL PROJECT COORDINATION ............................                                                        29
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ...........................                                                  30
C. COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION AND OWNERSHIP ....................................................................................................... 33
D. BENEFICIARY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA ............................                                                    34
E. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION ...........................                                                    34
F. PROJECT SUPERVISION ...........................                                                                  35
6. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...........................                                           38
A. DETERMINATION OF BENEFITS AND COSTS ...........................                                                  38
B. F INANCIAL AND ECONOMIC VIABILITY ...........................                                                    39
C. PROJECT BENEFITS ...........................                                                                     42
D. PROJECT RISKS ............................44
E. PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ...........................                                                         45
F. IMPACT ON WOMEN ...........................                                                                      46



-i_-
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION....47
A. AGREEMENTS OBTAINED DURING NEGOTIATIONS ...................................................................... 47
B. CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS .....................................................................                                  48
C. RECOMMENDATION .....................................................................                                               48
TABLES:
TABLE 4.1: PROJECT COSTS SUMMARY .....................................................................                                20
TABLE 4.2: PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN BY PROJECT COMPONENTS .....................................................................     21
TABLE 4.3: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .....................................................................                  22
TABLE 4.4: SUMMARY DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE .....................................................................                        26
TABLE 6.1: SENSITIVITY OF PROJECT NPV TO CHANGES IN  SELECTED RISK VARIABLES ....................................... 41
TABLE 6.2: RISK ASSESSMENT MATRIX .....................................................................                               45
FIGURES:
FIGURE 5.1: ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF THE DISTRICT ASSEMBLIES ... .............................................................. 31
ANNEXES:
ANNEX I: P ROJECT COSTS SUMMARY .49
ANNEX 11: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE .52
ANNEX 111: ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA - VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT .53
ANNEX IV: TERMS OF REFERENCE - FINANCIAL AND PROCESS AUDITS .55
ANNEX V: ORGANOGRAM - PROJECT MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS .57
ANNEX VI: TERMS OF REFERENCE - NATIONAL TECHNICAL STEERING COMMITTEE .58
ANNEX VII: TERMS OF REFERENCE - RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE COORDINATING UNIT (RICU) ..................................... 59
ANNEX VIII: OPERATING PROCEDURES AND POLICIES OF THE DRIF .....................................................................            63
ANNEX IX:  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .....................................................................                                       65
ANNEX X:    LOGICAL FRAMEWORK/M&E INDICATORS .....................................................................                       69
ANNEX XI:   QUANTITATIVE INPUTS / OUTPUTS, TARGETS AND KEY PROJECT FACTORS .................................................. 74
ANNEX XII:  BILL OF ESTIMATED QUANTITIES FOR VILLAGE TRACKS .....................................................................          78
ANNEX XIII:  TENTATIVE PROJECT FIELD SUPERVISION SCHEDULE .....................................................................          79
ANNEX XIV: SPOT IMPROVEMENT OF I KM FEEDER ROAD (RURAL TRANSPORT COMPONENT) ........... .                          .................. ............ 80
ANNEX XV:  PERFORMANCE CHARACTERISTICS AND RELATIVE COST OF SOME IMTS ............................................ ........... 81
ANNEX XVI: COMPARATIVE COSTS OF VILLAGE-TO-FARM TRACKS .                               ..................................................................... 82
MAPS: IBRD NO. 28274 GHANA - PROJECT COORDINATING ZONES
IBRD NO. 28275 GHANA - AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES
The project was pre-appraised from April 8 to 26, 1996 by a team that included Nlessrs./Mmes. R. Poison (Task Team Leader), R.
Roche (Sanitation Engineer), A. Drabo (NGO Specialist), L. Campbell (Rural Engineer, consultant), J. Dawson (Agricultural
Economist, consultant), D. Spencer (Institutions Specialist, consultant) and L. Gyckye (Rural Sociologist, consultant.) The IFAD team
comprised Messrs./Mmes. M. Tounessi (Project Controller) and B. Trottier (Rural Sociologist, consultant). KIW was represented by
Mr. N. Gasten (Economist). The project was appraised from July 17 to August 17, 1996. Mmes. A. Goffin, W. Wiltshire, and A. Lodi,
Task Assistants, AFTA3, provided technical support in preparing the final documents. Mr. J.P. Chausse is the Technical Manager,
Agriculture Group III and Mr. S. Michailof is the Director, Country Department 10, Africa Region.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:   Village Communities, Farrner Associations, District Assemblies, and NGOs;
the Ministries of Food and Agriculture, and Local Government and Rural
Development.
Amount:         SDR 20.8 million (US$30.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard with 40 years maturity
Project
Objectives:    The project would support the efforts of the Government of Ghana to reduce
poverty and increase the quality of life of the rural poor through increased
transfer of technical and financial resources for the development of basic
village-level infrastructure that can be sustained by beneficiaries. The project
would also support capacity building of District Assemblies to better plan and
manage these investments and would empower rural beneficiary groups and
associations through training and other forms of technical assistance that
would enable them to sustainably operate and maintain these investments at
the community level.
Project        In support of these objectives, the project would have the following
Description:    components:
(a) Rural Water Infrastructure. The project would support the integrated
development and management of water resources, including catchment
management and other water conservation practices, and investments for the
rational use of water for agriculture, livestock and human consumption
including small dams, dugouts, boreholes, hand-dug wells, streamflow
diversion and pumping to support small-scale irrigation in the dry season, and
rainfall conservation and management for more effective use in rainfed crop
production.
(b) Rural Transport Infrastructure. The project would support selective
rehabilitation and spot improvements of degraded feeder roads, the
development of village trails and tracks (VTTs) linking farms to villages that
would permit the use of simple wheeled vehicles for reducing the drudgery



-_j-
from head porterage (a task performed mainly by women and children), and a
pilot program to develop intermediate means of transport (IMTs) for the rural
poor to increase the efficiency of evacuating produce from farms to villages
and onwards to markets.
(c) Rural Post-Harvest Infrastructure.  The project would support the
development of on-farm and village-level drying facilities to reduce post-
harvest losses, on-farm and community storage and other village-level market
infrastructure for more efficient marketing of produce, appropriate facilities
for processing of crops, livestock and fisheries products to increase their
quality shelflife and market value, and income-generating activities targeted at
the poorest segments of the rural population to enable them to enhance their
incomes.
(d) Institutional Strengthening. The project would support capacity building
within District Assemblies (DAs) to strengthen their planning and financial
management of rural infrastructure; strengthen NGOs and other community-
based organizations (CBOs) to provide more effective implementation support
to beneficiary communities and groups in developing sustainable rural
infrastructure; and empower beneficiary associations and groups to take direct
responsibility for the sustainable operations and maintenance of rural
infrastructure.
Project Benefits: Main project benefits would be: (i) increased smallholder productivity,
employment and rural incomes; (ii) strengthened community institutions to
participate more effectively in rural development; and (iii) improved
community health and nutritional status. All of these benefits would help to
reduce rural poverty, provide development and integration of the rural
economy, and improve the overall quality of rural life.
Project Risks:   Major project risks are: (i) slow development of capacity of DAs and farmer
organizations, which may affect implementation performance; (ii) inadequate
coordination among various partners in rural development; and (iii) slow
adoption of new technologies. These risks are evaluated in the report and
mitigation measures have been incorporated in the project design to reduce
their likelihood.
Poverty
Alleviation:     The project has a high poverty alleviation objective. It is targeted at poor
farmers, rural communities and District Assemblies. At least 500,000 rural
families would benefit directly from the project.



_jjj_
Project Costs and Financing Plan:
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Comwonent                                Local                     Foreien                 Total
(in US $ million equivalent)
Rural Water Infrastructure               10.8                       3.0                     13.8
Rural Transport Infrastructure            9.5                       3.6                    13.1
Rural Post-Harvest Infrastructure         3.8                        1.0                    4.8
Institutional Strengthening               5.5                       4.1                     9.6
Rural Infrastructure Coordinating         6.4                       0.7                     7.1
I]nit
Refinancing PPF                           0.7                       0.5                      1.2
Base Costs                               36.7                      12.9                    49.6
Physical Contingencies                    3.4                        1.2                    4.6
Price Contingencies                       4.4                        1.4                     5.8
Total Project Costs                      44.5                      15.5                    60.0
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
Financier                                Local                     Foreign                 Total
(in US $million equivalent)
IDA                                      21.2                       8.8                    30.0
KfW                                       4.1                        2.9                     7.0
IFAD                                      6.2                       3.8                    10.0
Government of Ghana (GoG)                 7.1                                               7.1
District Assemblies (DAs)                 3.0                       --                      3.0
Beneficiaries                             2.9                       --                      2.9
Total                                    44.5                      15.5                    60.0
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Fiscal Year                 FY98          FY99         FYOO         FYOI          FY02          FY03
Annual                   0.5           2.0           3.5          6.5          8.5           9.0
Cumulative               0.5           2.5           6.0         12.5         21.0          30.0
Economic Rate of
Return (ERR):   26 percent
Environmental
Category:            B;  An Environmental Impact Analysis (EIA) has been completed  for all
potential subprojects.
Maps:                 IBRD No. 28274  Ghana - Project Coordinating Zones
IBRD No. 28275 Ghana - Agro-ecological Zones






REPUBLIC OF GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Ghana's efforts at macroeconomic reforms over the past decade have been relatively
successful. In the ten years since its inception, the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) has
produced an average annual GDP growth rate of nearly 5 percent for the economy as a whole.
The early stages of the ERP were focused on structural reforms, and progress has been good on
several fronts. Specifically in the agricultural sector, the reforms have led to the elimination of
most government monopolies, especially in the seed subsector, the liberalization of inputs and
output prices, and improvement in the legislative and regulatory framework. These reforms have
also contributed to the creation of a more competitive environment for private sector
involvement in agricultural development.
1.2   However, measured by their impact on improving rural living standards, the economic
reforms have been less successful. The agricultural sector, which accounts for more than
45 percent of GDP, has grown only at an average annual rate of 2.3 percent over the last five
years, compared to a population growth rate of around 3 percent. Poverty remains high in rural
areas in spite of over ten years of economic reforms. A recent study, the Participatory Poverty
Assessment (PPA), revealed that nearly 54 percent of Ghana's poor are food crop farmers who
derive primary income from farming and other farm-based activities. Given the strong link
between agriculture and rural poverty, sustainably reducing the incidence of rural poverty would
require strong, sustained and broad-based agriculture sector growth.
1.3   Achieving broad-based agriculture growth in Ghana, however, will require not only on-
farm productivity increases but also removing the existing off-farm constraints, including
inadequate post-harvest processing, storage, drying and internal transport. In rural Ghana, access
to markets is a severe constraint for most farmers as feeder and access roads are in poor
conditions, with only a small percentage passable year-round. Transport constraints, when
combined with the inherent low capacity of on-farm storage and processing, result in high post-
harvest losses. It is estimated that farmers lose nearly a third of their output during the post-
production phases. Rural marketing systems are also underdeveloped and market information is
rudimentary and unreliable, with weak linkages existing between agriculture and the increasingly
important industrial sector.



2. BACKGROUND
A.   THE ECONOMIC SETTING
2.1   Following eight years of sustained fiscal adjustment and falling inflation since the start of
the ERP in 1983, Ghana's fiscal performance received a setback during the run-up to the 1992
general elections and has remained fragile since then. Expenditure over-runs have resulted in
large fiscal deficits and rising inflation. Though divestiture receipts helped to finance the excess
expenditures in most of these years, the impact on inflation and public debt was unavoidable. On
a year-end basis, inflation rose from 10 percent in end-1992 to 71 percent in end-1995 and
interest obligations rose from 1.5 percent of GDP in 1992 to 4.5 percent of GDP in 1995. The
latter was due to the growth in domestic debt and in Bank of Ghana's open market operations as
well as the rising nominal interest rate. Since 1994, the Government has had to borrow
domestically to service part of the interest bill which is an unsustainable situation.
2.2  In the face of rising inflation and balance of payments pressures, the Government entered
into a three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) with the IMF in June 1995.
The first year of the ESAF was completed in June 1996. However, large fiscal slippages, mostly
in the second half of the year, have delayed the start of the second year of the ESAF which is
now likely to be negotiated by the end of 1997 upon the implementation of several upfront
measures. The narrow fiscal deficit in 1996 was 3.2 percent of GDP compared to the program
target of a surplus of 1.8 percent of GDP. This was primarily due to over-runs in development
expenditures and in non-interest recurrent expenditures. In addition, shortfalls in revenues from
import taxes, excise taxes on petroleum, and non-tax sources also contributed to the slippage.
Interest obligations increased to 5.6 percent of GDP and the Government's domestic borrowing
was equivalent to 5.1 percent of GDP.
Recent Economic Developments
2.3   Notwithstanding the large fiscal slippages, the economic out-turn in 1996 was favorable.
Real GDP grew by 5.2 percent largely on account of agricultural growth of 4 percent. Inflation
fell from 71 percent at the end of 1995 to 32 percent at the end of 1996. This was due, in part, to
the lagged effects of fiscal and monetary restraint in the first half of 1996 and, in part, to lower
cost-push factors emanating from a good harvest, postponed adjustments in petroleum and power
tariffs, and lower nominal depreciation of the Cedi due to foreign exchange market interventions.



-3 -
B.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sector Characteristics
2.4   Agriculture is the mainstay of the Ghanaian economy, accounting for 45 percent of GDP,
60 percent of export earnings and employing an estimated 70 percent of the rural labor force.
However, agriculture is small-scale, characterized by low input, low output technologies.
Farming systems are predominantly of the traditional bush-fallow system, with relatively few
purchased inputs being used -- fertilizer imports have only been between 20,000 and 25,000
metric tons each year during the last 4 years. About 5.3 million ha, or 22 percent of Ghana's
arable land area, were estimated to be under cultivation in 1995. Total area planted to the major
food crops was 2.2 million ha, comprising of maize (28 percent of the total planted area), cassava
(23 percent), and sorghum and millet (22 percent). Food crops, livestock and fisheries together
account for 75 percent of agricultural GDP; non-food crops, notably cocoa and forestry, account
for the remaining 25 percent. Ghanaian agriculture is largely based on smallholder farms.
Although there are some large farms, particularly for plantation crops such as rubber, oil palm
and cocoa, about 60 percent of all farms in Ghana are less than 1.2 ha, 25 percent are between 1.2
to 2 ha, and only 15 percent are over 2 ha in size.
2.5   These salient features of Ghanaian agriculture -- high employment, a large contribution to
economic output dominated by smallholders, and significant untapped potential -- make it a
strong potential vehicle for inducing high and equitable growth leading to poverty reduction.
However, agriculture's contribution to overall economic growth and poverty alleviation has been
below expectations during the last decade. The slow growth in agriculture is due to a
combination of factors that reduce farmers' incentives to invest and produce. These include the
high taxation of agriculture through explicit (export tax on cocoa) and implicit (parastatal
inefficiencies) taxation, and severely constrained access to input and output markets due to the
poor conditions of rural infrastructure. The later constraint has led to the relative isolation of
rural communities from markets and to high post-harvest losses. Given that only about 8,000 km
of the total 22,000 km of feeder roads are classified within the maintainable network, significant
drudgery is imposed on rural dwellers, especially women and children, who must headload
produce from fields to the villages, and onwards, to local markets. The poor state of rural roads
presents a massive impediment to the spread of modern farm inputs and improved technology,
and also to farmers' incentives to produce for the market, intensify production and diversify their
farming activities. On-farm/rural labor productivity is also severely constrained by inadequate
access to clean water which requires women to spend considerable time to secure the water
necessary for household uses, an activity which also has a negative impact on their health.
Agriculture, Poverty and Rural Infrastructure
2.6   The profile of poverty in Ghana shows that it is largely rural and agricultural: 54 percent
of those living in poverty are food crop farmers. Poverty also has a strong regional bias, linked
to the relative natural resource endowment (climate, water, good soils and vegetation) of the
three main agro-ecological zones of the country. Both the incidence and depth of poverty are
found to be greater in the rural savannah than in any other parts of Ghana, but major pockets of



-4-
poverty also exist in the forest zone, the coastal belt, and in large urban centers such as Accra and
Kumasi. Gender is also an important dimension of poverty, especially in northern Ghana, where
sharp distinctions between the income-earning roles of men and women exist. Women also bear
a disproportionate share of the burden of being poor -- they are obliged to spend a great deal of
time not only at working in family enterprises, but also nurturing and rearing children, and
performing other important household tasks, such as cooking and fetching water and firewood.
These factors have strong implications for poverty targeting interventions (PTIs), not only on the
basis of geography, but also on gender.
2.7    Given the strong links between the poor state of rural infrastructure and rural poverty,
improving basic rural infrastructure on which the rural poor depend can act as a catalyst in
accelerating rural development. For example, improvement in rural access roads lead to reduced
transport costs, increased access to markets and market information, and lowered post-harvest
losses. These, in turn, increase profitability and spur expansion in agricultural output. Increased
market access not only enhances rural farm incomes, but also empowers rural people to better
manage the risks associated with rainfed agriculture through crop diversification and better off-
farm employment opportunities. When investment in rural transport infrastructure is linked to
complementary facilities such as rural water supply and village storage, important synergies
result that lead to significant multiplier effects in rural communities: improved health enables
the poor to engage in productive activities such as farming, which in turn increase incomes and
food security. One of the main issues associated with rural infrastructure is its maintenance. The
sustainability of rural infrastructure development depends, to a large extent, on the level of
community ownership, beginning with their active participation in planning, developing,
prioritizing and implementing rural development programs, and culminating with their
assumption of direct responsibility for operations and management. Proposing sustainable
solutions to these issues is the basic objective of this operation.
2.8    Rural Water Infrastructure. While Ghana has an abundance of water from rainfall, this
resource is very unevenly distributed both geographically and seasonally. Even in the high
rainfall (over 1500 mm per annum) belt in the south and west of the country, water can be scarce
in the dry season which lasts three to five months. In the northern and the southeast regions,
annual rainfall is normally less than 1,500 mm, and in some areas below 500 mm, with the dry
season spreading over eight to nine continuous months. In much of the drier regions, a large part
of villagers' time, particularly of women and children, is occupied in collecting water from
distant and often unsafe sources. This takes away a substantial amount of time from other
gainful activities. Only an estimated 35 percent of rural communities presently have continuous
and easy access to safe potable water. Scarcity of potable water increases the risk of water-borne
diseases and has a very negative impact on labor availability and productivity. Provision of safe
water and good sanitation in the rural areas is high among the rural development priorities of
government. Recent client consultations among rural communities also indicate that the most
pressing demands in the northern drier half of the country are for safe and reliable supplies of
water. Even in the higher rainfall areas, the need for water is high among the priorities of rural
communities particularly for intensification of valley bottom cultivation.



-5-
2.9   The scarcity of water, particularly in the low rainfall areas, is also a major limiting factor
to crop and animal production. The rainfall in the drier parts of the country could be more
effectively utilized for intensifying the production of crops and livestock. This would involve
appropriate water conservation practices, such as storage in accessible aquifers and in simple
surface storage facilities such as ponds, tanks, dugouts and small reservoirs for use in the dry
months. In addition, free flowing seasonal springs and streams could be important sources for
supplemental irrigation in the rainfall months or for diverting to storage facilities for later use
during the drier months. There are also good prospects for making better use of water in the
higher rainfall zones for producing high value crops and livestock, and for fish culture to
improve incomes and nutrition of the populations.
2.10  Coastal Zone Degradation. The districts of Ghana's coastal zone represent only about
6.5 percent of the total land area of the country, yet these districts are home to 25 percent of the
nation's population. Environmental degradation in the coastal areas has been identified as a
major issue in Ghana's National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP). Poverty is also extensive
along Ghana's coast. Average welfare levels among food farmers in rural coastal areas, as
estimated by the Ghana Poverty Assessment, are 12 percent below the national average, and
about 38 percent below that in urban centers. Complex interlinkages exist between the resource
base of coastal areas and the communities that subsist on these natural resources. Conflicts of
resource use often lead to ecosystem degradation and deteriorating health in communities.
Coupled with ailing health, the poverty and environmental degradation contribute to a vicious
circle that inhibits socio-economic development in coastal areas. The lack of sanitation and
waste disposal facilities leads to large amounts of waste being dumped directly into the ocean,
left in piles on the beaches or dumped directly into lagoons causing the destruction of mangroves
and coastal wetlands which have important economic and ecological uses. These wetlands
provide valuable habitat to migrating birds, serve as spawning grounds for shrimp, lobster and
other commercially important fisheries and also prevent flooding by absorbing excess waste
water and runoffs. Fish smoking activities and lack of sanitation and waste disposal facilities in
overcrowded coastal settlements pose a health hazard to the communities living in them and
significantly limit the tourist potential of these areas.
2.11  Rural Transport Infrastructure. In addition to low coverage, two-thirds of Ghana's
feeder road network are in poor conditions due to past neglect. Good rural roads are essential for
achieving increases in agricultural production, especially in non-food export crops, which in turn,
can lead to expanded use of agricultural credit, increases in land values, proliferation of traders
and small shops, and expansion of rural markets. Improvements in rural transport infrastructure
benefit the rural poor in two distinct ways: (i) directly, by generating employment through labor-
intensive construction and maintenance programs; and (ii) indirectly, by reducing the cost of
transport for goods and passengers. Since the rural poor tend to be small farmers or landless
laborers, they benefit, along with the rural population at large, from better roads to the extent that
roads decrease the cost of agricultural inputs and/or essential consumer goods within the village,
or expand the labor market and increase the demand for unskilled labor. However, the extent to
which the poor would benefit from rural roads to increase their access to output markets or
economic and social services would be enhanced if they have access to affordable means of
transport. The need therefore is not only for transport to link larger communities and markets,



-6-
but also for appropriate and cost-effective means of getting produce from farms to villages,
including the use of non-motorized wheeled vehicles.
2.12 Postharvest Management. The inadequate levels of post-harvest facilities in Ghana
provide a major bottleneck to any strategy aimed at accelerating agricultural growth. Many
small fanners, particularly the poorer ones, are invariably forced to dispose of their produce
immediately after harvest to meet urgent cash needs and reduce losses of highly perishable crops
such as vegetables. It is estimated that losses due to pests and other forms of spoilage averages
around 30 percent of the harvest. The impact on the poor of such high losses could be
considerably reduced (to less than 5 percent) if improved post-harvest handling and processing
techniques were adopted on farms and at village level.
2.13  Opportunities readily exist for small farmers and rural communities to reduce post-
harvest losses and substantially increase the benefits from their crop, livestock and fish products.
These include primary processing such as cleaning, smoking, drying, sorting, grading and
storage, and secondary processing such as grating, frying, roasting, milling, extracting, juicing,
fermenting and packaging, which further increase earnings by adding value to the intermediate
products. Most of these techniques are simple in concept, appropriate in use, and easy to
transfer. Also, evidence points to the fact that low level financial interventions do lead to
significant improvements in incomes of the poorest of the poor. Local experience has shown that
incomes of target groups could be doubled within two years of the adoption of improved
practices and, in many instances, increases could be considerably larger. The secondary benefits
arising from increased incomes for poor farmers can also be substantial, especially on housing,
sanitation and health, and education, all of which further enhance rural populations' capacity for
generating and sustaining higher incomes from other economic activities.
Decentralization and Local Empowerment
2.14  In Ghana, decentralization  has involved the devolution of considerable fiscal,
administrative, and development responsibilities to all 110 District Assemblies (DAs). In
addition, each District Assembly has a Common Fund to which the central government cedes a
portion of the total national revenue for development purposes. For 1996, the total amount ceded
to all DAs was Cedis 82 billion (about US$41 million), averaging US$372,000 per District.
Each DA also prepares a five-year District Development Plan to prioritize rural development.
While the principle of decentralization is now well advanced in Ghana, in practice, its progress
has been affected by many factors, including the following: (i) the reluctance of sector ministries
to devolve part of their authority to the districts; (ii) the lack of qualified and experienced staff
within many DAs, and (iii) poor logistics and lack of capacity for planning rural development at
the District-level. In addition to lack of equipment and transport, many DAs lack the capacity to
effectively support development programs because of inadequate skills in participatory
development planning, project implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
2.15 Ministry of Food and Agriculture. During the past two years, the strategy of the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA), the government's agency responsible for the crop,
livestock and fisheries subsectors, has been to develop local capacity as the key to achieving



-7-
broad-based and sustainable agricultural growth.  In this respect, MOFA has appointed
agricultural coordinators to all the 1 l 0Districts as part of the decentralization process, as well as
district agricultural advisory committees, comprising representatives of farmers and other
community-based organizations, to participate in the fornulation and preparation of the five-year
District Development Plans. MOFA's efforts to enhance grassroots capability is consistent with
the government's national development strategy as embodied in its Vision 2020. Recent sector
work on Rural Institutions, undertaken by MOFA (with IDA assistance), has contributed to
better understanding the nature and role of grassroots institutions in rural development, and
helped to develop specific strategies for strengthening them.
C.    IDA COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.16  IDA assistance strategy in Ghana supports the efforts of the government to reduce
poverty through rapid and shared economic growth and human resource development. The core
of the IDA assistance program are rural development, macroeconomic stability, and human
resource development. This assistance has five medium-term goals. The first is to help the
government to redefine its poverty reduction strategy and to develop a gender strategy. During
the last year, the government designed a National Action Program for poverty reduction, and
established a Poverty Task Force to implement the program. IDA's involvement in this task has
been limited to advising on priorities and assisting in developing a set of action plans, including
a national system for poverty monitoring. IDA is also assisting the government in the
fornulation of a gender strategy, for which GOG provided a special line of credit of one billion
Cedis in its 1995 budget. The second area of IDA assistance is in stabilizing the macroeconomy,
and reducing inflation in order to create a better environment for investments and growth. IDA,
in collaboration with the IMF, continues to provide assistance through non-lending instruments
and policy advice. The third focus of IDA assistance is capacity building, involving assistance
for civil service reforms and the strengthening of public sector institutions. The fourth pillar of
IDA assistance is private sector development, including support for the privatization of public
sector enterprises. In this context, IDA is also supporting the government's new initiative to
promote Ghana as the trade and investment gateway to West Africa. The fifth pillar of IDA
assistance is environmentally sustainable development, which includes support for the National
Environment Action Plan (NEAP), among other initiatives
D.   IFAD'S STRATEGY AND LESSONS FROM EXPERIENCE
2.17  To date, IFAD has financed six projects in Ghana, for a total loan amount of about
US$71 million. These projects focus mainly on agricultural development, with most of them
also including rural infrastructure components (feeder road rehabilitation, rural waters supply for
human, livestock and small-scale irrigation). Several operations are helping to strengthen rural
financial services to smallholder farmers, including women. The ongoing projects are located in
the northern half of the country because of the widespread and pervasive nature of poverty in this
agroecological zone. IFAD's present medium term strategy includes five major elements: (i)
focus on smallholder food production and food security and arresting environmental degradation;
(ii) promotion of farm and non-farm income generation; (iii) focus on poverty alleviation and the



-8-
means by which the poor can be reached more efficiently and effectively; (iv) provision of
specific support targeted at the rural poor, including women; and (v) close collaboration with
NGOs and institutional support to government agencies especially at district levels to support the
decentralization process. IFAD's strategy for assistance to Ghana aims at close collaboration and
partnership with major donors to ensure that the Fund's intervention is playing a catalytic role
and maximizing synergies with other donor programs of poverty alleviation.
E. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
2.18   Since 1962, IBRD and IDA lending to Ghana has reached a total of US$3.5 billion, of
which IDA accounts for US$3.2 billion, with total disbursements about US$2.7 billion. The
current IDA portfolio consists of projects with undisbursed balance of nearly US$833 million.
Nine of these projects are in the agriculture sector. The most recent project in the sector, and the
last of the MTADS generation of projects, is the Fisheries Capacity Building Project
(US$21.5 million), which became effective in August 1995. The thrust of the agriculture sector
portfolio is to support basic services for agricultural production (Agricultural Extension,
Agricultural Research, Livestock and Fisheries), the diversification of agricultural sector
activities (Agricultural Diversification), the rehabilitation of the cocoa sector (Cocoa
Rehabilitation), the development of rural infrastructure (Agricultural Sector Investment Project),
and the improvement of natural resources and environmental management (Forestry and
Environment).
F.    RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.19  The recent Participatory Poverty Assessment (PPA) in Ghana estimates that one-fifth of
Ghana's population of 16.5 million live below the poverty line. The main constraints to
improving rural living standards have bee identified as the poor state (or non-existence) of basic
rural infrastructure (rural water supply, village post-harvest and rural transport infrastructure) on
which the poor depend to improve their livelihood and which is needed to unleash a rigorous
supply response from agriculture. Improving the quality of life of the rural population, therefore,
requires significant investments in these types of basic rural infrastructure and this would require
support of Ghana's partners in development, including, IDA. The Village Infrastructure Project,
which is fully consistent with the objectives of IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Ghana, would be a primary vehicle for rural development and poverty reduction. It would assist
rural beneficiaries to improve employment opportunities, have better access to basic services,
reduce post-harvest losses, improve the nutritional value of their produce, and increase value-
added through processing. It would increase access of the poor to rural water, both for home use
and for agricultural intensification, and help to reduce drudgery which rural people face through
the lack of appropriate means of transport between farms an villages. A central feature of the
project is the empowerment of rural beneficiaries, community-level institutions such as NGOs,
and DAs and their staff to participate in the design and implementation of development activities
in their area. All of these interventions would help improve rural incomes and living standards.



-9-
G.   RATIONALE FOR IFAD'S INVOLVEMENT
2.20  The proposed operation is consistent with the country medium-term IFAD strategy given
its focus on poverty alleviation through the development of basic, village-level infrastructure
leading to productivity and increase better farm incomes for the benefits of poor smallholders. A
central feature of the project is the empowerment of rural beneficiaries and community-level
institutions such as NGOs and District Assemblies through training and other forms of technical
assistance. The proposed project will also allow IFAD to join forces with IDA on a larger scale
for supporting the government strategy to decentralize planning and implementation of rural
development at local level. The operation has many elements that are already contained in
various projects funded by IFAD in Ghana (feeder roads, dams/dugouts, marketing and income-
generation activities). Therefore, the involvement of IFAD would help incorporate a poverty-
focused client-led approach based on experience gained over 15 years of rural development work
in Ghana.
H.   LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS OPERATIONS
2.21  Lessons from  the MTADS.  Since 1989, government strategy for agricultural
development has been driven by its Medium-Term Agricultural Development Strategy (MTADS)
which was developed with IDA assistance. The medium-term strategy focused on the following
key areas: (i) agricultural sector reforms to liberalize internal markets and create an enabling
environment for wider private sector participation in output marketing and input supply;
(ii) expansion in agricultural services (extension, research and animal health) to smallholder
producers; and (iii) provision of rural infrastructure such as small-scale irrigation, access roads
and rural markets. One of the key lessons from implementation of the MTADS has been that
significant shortage of implementation capacity exists at both the central and local levels and that
this shortage is a major constraint to achieving accelerated growth. While counterpart funding
has been a major problem for the sector in the past, there has been marked improvements in the
past two years. Government has taken measures, both in terms of its own Public Expenditure
Review (PER) process and in on-going dialogue with IDA, to ensure that counterpart fund
requirements are met in a timely manner. Also, with the decentralization process well advanced,
District Assemblies, although they still lack the financial resources needed to implement their set
development objectives, are more aware today of their pivotal role in local development. These
recent developments in terms of counterpart fund provision and greater awareness of
development responsibilities by local governments therefore provide a positive environment for
implementing the proposed operation.
2.22 Project-Specific Lessons. The three on-going IDA-financed operations supporting the
development of rural infrastructure are the Agriculture Sector Investment Project (ASIP), the
Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP), the Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP).
and the National Feeder Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (NFRRMP). The ASIP
focuses on marketing infrastructure, with sub-projects financed through matching grants to local
governments, communities and farmer groups. The key lessons from its implementation, which
are internalized in the design of this project, are that: (i) strong community participation in the
planning, implementation and management of rural infrastructure is essential for sustainability;



-10-
and (ii) project design must take into account implementation support by private sector firms and
technical services agencies. The main lessons from implementing the CWSP are that: (i) rural
water development must not focus simply on physical structures, but also on the institutional
arrangements needed to sustain these investments; (ii) to ensure maximum impact, water
resources must be developed in an integrated manner to address twin needs of household
consumption and agriculture, including livestock; and (iii) community management and
participation are essential elements of ensuring the sustainability of rural water development.
Despite early teething problems, the experience of the TRP suggests that, if properly designed in
a manner that is consistent with the resource base and culture of beneficiaries, intermediate
means of transport (IMTs) can have significant impact on the economic life of rural dwellers.
While affordability is likely to remain a considerable constraint, one lesson of the TRP is that
this problem can be addressed by providing users with a more flexible menu of choices of IMT
technologies and affordable hire-purchase arrangements. NFRRMP has generated important
lessons in labor-based contracting and budgeting an prioritizing for feeder roads rehabilitation.
These lessons are also taken into account in the design of this project.
Lessons from IFAD Operations
2.23  IFAD's experience has shown that targeting the poor, while desirable, is often difficult in
practice. One way to limit "leakage" of project benefits to the non-poor is by geographical
targeting, whereby a project focuses on physical areas where the vast majority of the population
is poor. This approach is feasible in Ghana where there is substantial uniformity of poverty
within rural communities of a given ecological zone, and where poverty is perceived as a
phenomenon that affects the community as a whole. However, even the most uniformly poor
community will have some residents who are at a greater disadvantage. In the interests of the
poor, it is essential to adopt a non-confrontational approach that does not compromise local
solidarity systems. This can be done through the strong social pressures that are placed on
everyone, including those who are relatively better-off, to contribute actively to general
community well-being. Targeting within the community would be effected by applying
participatory rural appraisal techniques that bring to light the more vulnerable or disadvantaged
sub-categories of the inhabitants, facilitate a critical analysis of their specific constraints, provoke
discussions on how they would benefit from the project, and also how it would benefit the
community as a whole.
2.24  IFAD's experience has also shown that appropriate rural credit operations can have a
major impact on increasing the production and incomes of smallholders. The main lessons of
IFAD's experience are that: (i) careful organization and training of groups in credit use are
determining factors in credit success, and recovery rates vary with the type of activities financed;
(ii) groups organized and trained by NGOs have shown promising results mainly when group
membership remained small and manageable; and (iii) to sustain the rural financial system, a
strong emphasis should be put on savings mobilization. In addition, the experience has
demonstrated that given a sound macro environment, the involvement of credit institutions
(commercial banks, rural banks, credit unions) is essential in providing a souDd competitive
environment which directly benefits the smallholders. Finally, IFAD's experience has shown
that there are quality problems in implementing the rehabilitation of dams and dugouts through



-1 1-
labor-intensive methods. It is essential to use qualified private sector engineering firms for more
technically complex and large investments such as dugouts. Furthermore, dam rehabilitation
work should only be started if the benefiting community has set up user associations with a firm
commitment to operate and maintain the system once rehabilitation and community labor for less
technically complex activities has been completed.
2.25  The lessons from these projects have been taken into account under the proposed project
as follows: (i) the design of the rural infrastructure components would include provisions for
beneficiary participation in planning, implementation and management; (ii) NGOs and other
commnunity-based organizations would be contracted to assist beneficiaries in implementation
and to enhance their management skills to enable them to take direct responsibility for O&M of
sub-projects; (iii) interventions would be targeted at the poorest communities and most
vulnerable groups to ensure real impact on intended groups; (iv) rural water resources would be
developed in an integrated manner, with community participation in watershed management; and
(v) a more flexible menu of IMT technologies would be introduced on a pilot basis to farmers
and introduction of IMTs in villages would be systemic -- linked closely to the development of
other village level infrastructure such as village tracks and trails and to private sector provision
of critical support services such as spare parts.



3. -- THE PROJECT
A.   PROJECT RATIONALE, OBJECTIVES AND CONSISTENCY WITH CAS
Project Rationale and Objectives
3.1   The primary objective of the Village Infrastructure Project is to enhance the quality of
life of Ghana's rural poor through increased transfer of financial and technical resources to
develop and sustain basic village-level infrastructure. Specific project objectives are to: (i)
empower local communities and beneficiary groups to identify, plan, implement and maintain
small, village-level infrastructure investments; (ii) increase rural communities' access to
development resources to leverage the implementation of rural development priorities set by
government beneficiaries; (iii) strengthen institutional capacity at community and district levels
order to improve the efficiency of rural resources transfer and to ensure the sustainability of
poverty-reducing interventions; and (iv) support the government's strategy of decentralization of
development responsibilities to District Assemblies and other local government entities.
Consistency with CAS
3.2   The 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) has as its central objective support for the
government's efforts to reduce poverty through rapid economic growth and human resource
development. This operation, with its focus on the development of rural infrastructure as a
means of improving the incomes and productivity of rural inhabitants the majority of whom are
poor, is fully consistent with the objectives of the CAS It would assist rural beneficiaries to
reduce post-harvest losses, improve the nutritional value of their produce, and increase value-
added through processing and storage. It would also increase access of the poor to rural water
and help to reduce drudgery which rural people face through the lack of appropriate means of
transport between farms and villages. A central feature of the project is the empowerment of
community-level institutions such as NGOs and DAs, through training and other technical
assistance, and the improvement of their capacity to plan and manage local initiatives.
B.   SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
3.3   The project would finance civil works, equipment and technical assistance for the
development of village-level infrastructure for rural water, rural transport, including intermediate
means of transport (IMTs), and post harvest treatment of crop and animal products, particularly
storage drying, and other simple processing techniques. In addition, the project would strengthen
the capacity of local government and beneficiary groups to maintain these investments. The
duration of the project is five years and its total estimated cost is US$60 million.



-13-
C.   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
Rural Water Infrastructure
3.4   This component would finance the integrated development of water resources for both
agriculture and household uses. This would include dugouts (with adjoining facilities for
drinking water), boreholes and wells, as well as small-scale irrigation development through
streamflow diversion and pumping and run-off management to increase yields of rainfed crops.
Detailed description of this component is given below.
3.5   Ponds, Dugouts, and Other Surface Impoundments. The topography of much of the
drier regions of Ghana does not easily lend itself to efficient surface water storage. Although
dugouts, ponds and other small water reservoirs may have relatively large water surface and
shallow depths with disproportionate volume of earth moved in relation to water stored, they
provide the only option for water supply in many areas of the North. Risks of contamination by
diseases would be minimized by appropriate fencing to restrict general access to the water
storage areas and their catchments by people and animals. In addition, safe water abstraction
points would be installed into which the water would be filtered for human uses. Drinking ponds
or special troughs would also be provided for livestock. Protection against erosion of exposed
slopes and against siltation would be given priority by appropriate planting of trees and vetiver
grass or other similarly deep-rooting and easily-managed vegetation. The project would finance
the construction and/or rehabilitation of about 92 dugouts and other small surface impoundments
over a five-year period, including the cost of engineering designs.
3.6   Boreholes, Hand-dug Wells and Spring Development. Much of the country's ground
water is deep and slow yielding. Shallow ground water that may be tapped by relatively
inexpensive means such as washbores and hand-dug wells is found in very limited areas. The
deep aquifer water is expensive to extract with capital cost of boreholes and handpumps
estimated at US$1,100 per cubic meter daily discharge capacity (ddc). Its use could only be
justified for human and livestock consumption (although for the latter, the physical effort of
raising the water with hand-operated pumps may be tiresome and unattractive to the persons
tending the animals). Washbores and hand-dug wells in shallow aquifers cost substantially less
per unit of daily discharge and could be cost effective in small-scale irrigation producing high
value crops. The project would support the development of about 425 washbores, tubewells and
spring development on a demand basis, including the civil works, equipment, engineering design
and the support for organizing and training communities for their operations and management.
The project would also support spring water development in farming areas where the opportunity
exists. This source of water is normally very reliable and relatively easy and inexpensive to
harness for community use. Provision is being made to develop small farmers' plots in lowland
areas using this technology.
3.7   Streamflow Diversions and Pumping. The project would finance the development of
small-scale irrigation from streamflow diversions, pumping and run-off management. Gravity-
fed systems usually involve lower costs and management skills and would generally be preferred
to systems requiring pumping. Opportunities exist for such water extraction and use along the



-14-
considerable coastline of the Volta Lake and along many of the perennial streams and rivers in
the transition and forest zones. Provision is being made to develop about 2,400 ha using these
technologies to be managed by about 6,000 farm families.
3.8   Runoff Management. The yield of rainfed rice and other grain crops in the middle and
northern belts are highly dependent on timeliness and distribution of the limited and often erratic
rainfall. Failure of crops frequently occurs in these areas because of the unpredictability and
irregularity of the rains. Simple and proven practical techniques are available to increase
infiltration and retain in the soil a larger proportion of the rainfall for later use of crops and to
raise their yields. These water conserving measures are cost effective and are being promoted in
the northern areas where they are known to increase rice yields from about 800 kg/ha to over
2,500 kg/ha. The main investment costs are for the establishment of basic water retaining
infrastructure such as earthen terraces, banks, bonds and other flow controlling structures to
reduce the runoff and increase infiltration.
3.9   Pilot Integrated Catchment Management. Sustainable development of agriculture is
strongly linked with sound conservation and watershed management practices which protect the
soils, water, vegetation and wildlife. These types of activities should best be done by the owners
and others who depend on the land and its natural resources for a living. Technical guidance in
applying best practices may also be necessary under certain circumstances to achieve the desired
objectives. The rural water component of the project offers opportunities for communities to
improve agricultural production through a variety of activities such as those briefly described
above. Communities would be assisted to prepare integrated water management plans for
making productive use of available water, including related physical works and overall watershed
management. Since local or community ownership is essential for success in such activities,
beneficiary communities would be given the responsibility for undertaking integrated
management of the catchment resources as well as the economic activities they support.
3.10 The project would support a pilot program to develop these basic skills in communities
and set the stage for appropriate application of recommended catchment management practices
as widely as possible throughout the country. Focus would be placed initially on selected
catchments which reflect the major climatic zones in the country, including sahelian (Northern
Region), transitional (Brong Ahafo Region), forest (Central Region) and the coastal plains (Volta
Region). These pilots would be implemented under contract with local institutions which have
capacity for conduct of such studies, including the four universities and some of the research
institutes. Implementing agencies would be assisted by local NGOs for mobilizing the
communities within the pilot catchment areas, and organize the required training programs in the
recommended techniques. The pilot watershed management study would complement the
development of a broader, region-wide National Water Resources Management Strategy by
providing the opportunity to put community based watershed management into practice in these
agroecological zones.
3.11 Pilot Coastal Zone Management. The project would finance a pilot program to improve,
with community participants, water supply, sanitation and waste collection and disposal in
coastal settlements as well as along the shore line of the Volta Lake. These interventions are



-15-
aimed at reducing the stresses on the fragile coastal ecosystems, which are currently threatened
by inadequate facilities and services as well as the lack of awareness among coastal communities
of the link between responsible methods of waste disposal and community health. The high
water table along the shoreline contributes to the problems of coastal degradation and health
hazards. Specific interventions would include (i) small-scale sanitation; (ii) water supply; (iii)
domestic waste collection and disposal; (iv) small-scale industrial waste collection and disposal;
(v) mangrove restoration and reforestation; and (vi) fuelwood lots. The pilot would also provide
technical assistance for the development of criteria for eligibility, application processes, review
and supervision processes, targeted environmental, sanitation and hygiene education to
communities, and evaluation and supervision of community activities.
Rural Transport Infrastructure
3.12  The project would finance selective improvements in existing feeder roads, construction
and upgrading of village arterial tracks and trails (VTTs), and promotion of various intermediate
means of transports (IMTs) to reduce drudgery among the rural poor. Under this component,
interventions would be planned to maximize synergy in the provision of rural transport
infrastructure, such as that achieved by linking the development of village trails and tracks to the
provision of IMTs with private sector support for services, and with NGOs' support for
implementation assistance at the training, planning, and supervision stages. Implementation
would be by labor-based method, following on the successes of the Department of Feeder Roads
(DFR) with this method in its feeder roads programs. The DFR would coordinate the
implementation of the feeder road rehabilitation program at the District level, and would train
small local contractors where such skills do not exist for program implementation using mainly
community labor, part of which would be the beneficiary groups' contribution to the
investments.
3.13  Feeder Roads Rehabilitation. The project would finance the rehabilitation of at least
1,300 km of feeder roads and spot improvements (including provision of culverts and appropriate
drainage) where the existing dilapidated conditions of these roads are major impediments to the
development of the rural economy. The DFR would work with the District Assemblies and, in
consultation with MOFA, agree on the priority target feeder roads to be rehabilitated and the
timing for linking them with the tracks and trails to be improved. These roads would then
become part of the DFR programs for routine maintenance and would be covered under the Road
Fund. DFR would be responsible for ensuring design standards and specification and would
supervise implementation of contracts for the rehabilitation and spot improvements of the feeder
roads.
3.14  In Ghana, feeder road maintenance work is being gradually transferred from the public
sector to private contractors. The DFR would provide guidance in selecting consultants for
planning the roadworks, and pre-qualifying and training local contractors to implement this sub-
component. It would also provide overall quality control and supervision of the performance of
consultants and contractors. With the recent establishment of a Maintenance Performance
Budgeting System (MPBS) and the Feeder Roads Maintenance Fund within the DFR, it is
expected that resources would be made available by the DFR for the long-term maintenance of



-16-
feeder roads rehabilitated under the VIP. Assurances have been obtained from government that
all such rehabilitated feeder roads would be included in the DFR annual maintenance programs,
with such periodic maintenance financed under the Road Fund. The annual maintenance
requirements would be drawn up jointly by the DFR and the participating District Assemblies,
prior to preparation of feeder roads annual maintenance budgets.
3.15  Village Tracks and Trails. The project would finance the development of an estimated
270 km of priority village-to-farm tracks and trails (VTTs) identified by beneficiary
communities. This component would also include institutional support particularly in training
communities for routine maintenance. NGOs would be used for this training as well as for the
planning of the works. The tracks would have standard cross-sectional dimensions with a
standard width of 2.5 meters and shallow side ditches. Drainage would have safe outlets to
reduce risks of erosion. An important consideration in the choice of target tracks and trails
would be the linkage between village and main roads. Works would be implemented by labor-
based contractors who would hire workers from beneficiary villages. To qualify for track
rehabilitation, communities would have to agree to provide some of the initial labor and to
assume full responsibility for maintenance of the improved tracks. This arrangement would be
put in place with the knowledge and support of traditional and other community leadership. The
sustainable development of communal VTTs is based on a long-standing tradition of community
self-help and the age-old practice whereby common users of tracks and trails that form the main
access routes to their farms meet periodically for routine bush clearing and maintenance of the
paths.
3.16 Improvements in Intermediate Means of Transport (IMTs). Improvement of tracks and
trails linking farms to villages would be conditional on the communities willingness to improve
the efficiency of transporting materials to the farms and their produce to the villages and onwards
to the markets outside the villages. This would involve the substitution of headloading by one or
the other of three forms of intermediate means of transport (IMTs) which have been gaining
acceptance in many parts of the country. These are mainly: (i) cycle trailers (CTs); (ii) donkey-
carts; and (iii) light trailers drawn by power units of small garden tillers. The use of CTs was
widely promoted under the Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP) and is becoming widespread
in the urban fringes of the Northern Region. It has not yet penetrated into the actual farming
areas because of the lack of appropriate roadways or tracks to allow for their proper use.
Donkeys are used in many areas of the Upper West and Upper East Regions for ploughing and
transport, but the scope for their wider application is indicated by their widespread use in
neighboring countries such as Burkina Faso. The garden power tiller has been successfully
tested in some parts the forest zone during the last 10 years as a multi-purpose tool for light
farming operations, as a source of power for short-haul light transport, water pumping for
irrigation, and for threshing, shelling and milling of grain, grating of cassava, and soil tillage. Its
importance, particularly for light farm transport, is being widely accepted and farmers are willing
to save to purchase them. They are easily operated and maintained and spare parts and repair
capacity are locally available with private sector agents.
3.17  The project would finance the purchase of IMT equipment, technical assistance from
local NGOs to demonstrate the efficient application of IMTs, training workshops, and support to



-17-
private firms in promoting their use. The greater number of cycle-trailer units that would be
procured under this project reflects their lower capital costs and greater affordability by the rural
poor and huge impact. It is envisaged that donkey carts, cycle trailers, and light transport trailers
powered by garden tillers would be made available to farmers' associations, upon certification by
a support NGO that they have been properly trained and are ready for this investment.
3.18   Technical Assistance, Technology Improvements and Training. The main measures for
ensuring that these investments are properly maintained would rest on the training of users to
operate in groups to take full responsibility for these access tracks, trails and transport facilities
and to undertake their routine maintenance. This training would be undertaken by NGOs and for
VTTS with technical guidance from the DFR. Experience with cycle trailers in some areas of
Ghana has shown the need to improve the design for a more robust unit to cope effectively with
the conditions between farms and villages. To address this need, the Project would enter into
contractual agreements with the Intermediate Technology Transfer Unit (ITTU) in various parts
of the country to test improved designs of IMTs.
Postharvest Infrastructure
3.19  This component would provide facilities for post-harvest treatment of crops and animal
products to enhance their value and shelflife (on-farm and village-level facilities for drying,
processing, storage, and other income-generating activities). It would also finance rural market
facilities. Given their limited resource base, farmers produce a wide range of crop and livestock
commodities in small quantities, but most of the products need some forms of post-harvest
treatment or processing to improve their nutritional and market values, convenience in use, and
storage capabilities.
3.20   Village-level Drying and Processing Facilities. Funding would be provided for the
construction and/or rehabilitation of small-to-medium size postharvest facilities such as drying
floors and platforms, cribs, crop processing and fish smoking units for small farmers and fish
handlers working in formal groups. These facilities (average cost of about US$1,500 per unit)
are applicable throughout the country but are particularly needed in the high rainfall zone of the
southwest and east where improper drying and storage often lead to high levels of waste and
lower crop values.
3.21   The range of crops which could benefit from intermediate processing includes food grains
(maize, rice, sorghum, millet), oils and seeds (sheanut, groundnut, oil palm, coconut), roots and
tubers (cassava and yams), and vegetables and fruits (tomatoes, plantains, bananas and
pineapples). The project would finance the procurement of eligible processing equipment and
facilities such as grinding mills, digesters, extractors and presses and other miscellaneous
equipment where the communities have organized themselves into management groups, saved
the required down payments, and acquired the skills to manage the investment on a commercial
basis.
3.22  Coastal and inland fishing villages would also benefit from this component. It would
provide support to fishermen along the Atlantic coastline and the shoreline of the Volta Lake, to



-18-
improve technologies for fish smoking and drying in order to be able to store the products and
take advantage of the market when prices are favorable to them. These activities are essentially
undertaken by women. Priority would be given to the simple and relatively inexpensive
"Chorkor" fish smoking technique which has been shown to be highly effective in producing a
better quality product in less time and with less firewood than the traditional method. Ownership
and management of these smoking and storage facilities would be by individuals or by groups,
with implementation assistance from NGOs in pre-requisite skills training.
3.23  On-Farm  and Village Storage.  The project would support the development of
appropriate individual as well as group-owned and managed storage facilities for small producers
of grain and other crops. In the maize belts of the Brong Ahafo, Ashanti and Eastern Regions,
these interventions are essential for protecting crops from damage by insects and other pests and
for maintaining quality while awaiting higher prices in urban markets. Technical support would
be provided by NGOs which are active in the development and management of appropriate
methods of storage and with expertise in crop inventory credit, for training beneficiaries, to
develop and manage these storage facilities.
3.24 Cottage Industries and other Targeted Income-Generating Activities. This component
is aimed at the more deprived families, particularly those headed by women. It would help them
to undertake to increase their incomes through small-scale business opportunities which could be
started with small amounts of "seed money" and with appropriate training by NGOs. Special
efforts would be made to target the more remote and isolated villages which are particularly
vulnerable to deprivation towards the end of the long dry season and during the rainy season
before the crops have matured.
3.25  Technical Assistance - Organizing and Training Users. The project would finance
technical assistance through local NGOs to assist beneficiaries to organize themselves into
manageable groups, who would then be given the essential management skills, including the
ability to get into a savings mode so as to ensure reliable debt service capacity for future credit
operations. Beneficiaries would be required to set aside on a regular basis a part of the income
from the operations of the investment and hold it in escrow in savings accounts in rural banks for
repairs, equipment replacement, or expansion of the operation. The operation of the savings
account would be one of the conditions for support from the project and monitoring its proper
maintenance would be one of the functions of the NGOs assigned to assist user groups. An
important function of properly maintained savings accounts is the building of the type of
confidence between bank and account holders required to establish credit worthiness, and to link
rural groups to the fornal financial sector, preparing them to be self-sufficient and independent
in making future investment decisions.
Institutional Strengthening
3.26  Rationale.  The main objectives of institutional strengthening under the proposed
operation would be to: (i) develop the capacity of local communities and beneficiary groups,
through technical and financial assistance, to plan and maintain village-level infrastructure in a
sustainable manner; (ii) strengthen the capacity of district-level institutions to improve the



-19-
efficiency of rural resource transfer; (iii) strengthen the capacity of the District Assemblies for
planning and financial management (District Development Plans and district budgets); and
(iv) strengthen the planning, coordination and management functions of supporting departments
of MOFA and Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) and agencies
such as Ghana Irrigation Development Authority (GIDA) and DFR that provide policy and
technical assistance to the districts and communities.
3.27  Specific Interventions.  The project would finance technical assistance for the
strengthening of farmer groups and community associations and their training in specific skills
(management, small enterprise development, relevant technical skills, etc.). Technical assistance
for beneficiary groups would be implemented by local NGOs and other community-based
organizations. Other capacity building efforts would be targeted at the District Assemblies and
their staff (participatory planning, district tendering capacity, procurement, financial
management, etc.), sector institutions (regional MOFA and MLGRD offices, regional
development planning committees, etc.) and community leaders. The project would also finance
equipment for training, office equipment, vehicles and installation and training for basic
Management Information System (MIS) with District administrators. In addition, the project
would train the more experienced and technically capable NGOs to provide skills enhancement
to weaker, but indigenous community-based organizations, thereby leading, over time, to the
creation of a larger pool of qualified NGOs that would provide implementation assistance to
beneficiaries in this and future operations. Small contractors and other local entrepreneurs would
be trained in the basic skills for organizing labor intensive roads construction and maintenance.
Farmers being served by new or improved tracks and trails would be trained in routine
maintenance of their tracks and transport facilities.
Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit (RICU)
3.28  Project implementation would primarily be at the district level under the supervision of
District Assembly operational staff.  At the national level, however, responsibility for
coordinating implementation support to Districts and communities would be vested in a Rural
Infrastructure Coordinating Unit (RICU) with head office in Accra and four Zonal Offices
located at Tamale, Kumasi, Cape Coast and Accra (para. 5.10). Management coordination costs
over the five year period would cover the cost of staff assigned to these offices and their essential
equipment and operating costs, the establishment of a management system (MIS) for project
planning and monitoring, as well as the monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the program
on beneficiaries.
3.29 Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The first claim on the credit would be for
reimbursement of withdrawals from the PPF for financing of project preparation, including
essential pre-project activities and pilot programs in village infrastructure development.
3.30  Unallocated. The project would have a total of US$2.8 million in unallocated resources
to provide flexibility in respond'ing to changes in client needs and to be more responsive to
changes in priorities during implementation.



4. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.    PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
4.1    Total project cost, including duties and taxes, is estimated at US$60 million (Cedis 229.7
billion) over five years, of which US$15.5 million (Cedis 58.4 billion), or about 26 percent of
total cost, is in foreign exchange. Duties and taxes are estimated at US$5.8 million (Cedis 19.9
billion) or about 9.7 percent of total project cost. Price and physical contingencies are estimated
at US$5.8 million and US$4.6 million, equivalent respectively to 12 percent and 9 percent of
project base cost. Price contingencies on local costs are based on the projections of domestic
inflation of 14.2 percent in 1997, and remaining steady at 5 percent thereafter up to the year 2001
(COD, 1996).  Price contingencies on foreign exchange costs are based on estimates of
international inflation of 3.4percent in 1997, 2.9percent in 1998, and 3.0percent for the
remaining three years of the project. Project costs are summnarized in Table 4.1 and detailed
estimations of project costs are included in Annex I.
Table 4.1:    Project Costs Summary
Local   Forei2n   Total   Percent   Percent of
Project Components                        (US$ million)        Foreign    Base Costs
Exchange
A. Rural Water Infrastructure  10.8       3.0    13.8        22         28
B. Rural Transport Infrastructure    9.5  3.6    13.1        28         26
C. Post-Harvest Infrastructure  3.8       1.0     4.8        21         10
D. Institutional Strengthening  5.5       4.1     9.6        42         19
E. Rural Infrastructure
Coordinating Unit               6.4       0.7     7.1        10         14
F. Refinancing PPF              0.7       0.5     1.2        40          2
Total Base Costs            36.7     12.9    49.6         26        100
Contingencies:
Physical Contingencies            3.4      1.2     4.6        27          9
Price Contingencies              4.4       1.4     5.8        23          12
Total Project Costs                44.5      15.5    60.0        26        121



-21-
B.    PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN
4.2    The project would be financed by international donors (IDA, IFAD, KfW) and by the
Government of Ghana, District Assemblies, and local communities and beneficiary groups. The
IDA credit of US$30.0 million would finance 50 percent of total project costs, including
contingencies.  IFAD  and KfW   would provide co-financing  of US$10.0 million  and
US$7 million, respectively (16.7 percent and 11.7 percent of total cost). The Government of
Ghana would finance US$7.1 million (11.8 percent), including duties and taxes of US$5.8
million, District Assemblies US$3 million (5 percent) and beneficiaries US$2.9 million (4.8
percent). Participating District Assemblies would provide counterpart funding from their District
Assembly Common Fund (DACF). Preparation of District Development Plans (in a participatory
manner to ensure that the priorities of communities are included) would be an eligibility criterion
for district participation in the proposed project (para. 7.6). Beneficiary communities would
contribute in kind and/or in cash. The financing plans are detailed in Table 4.2 below:
Table 4.2:   Proposed Financing Plan by Project Components
(US $ million)
District   Benefi
IDA  IFAD   KfW    GOG   Assemblies  ciaries  Total
Rural Water Infrastructure  7.5   2.0.   2.4   2.9     1.2        1.0   17.0
Rural Transport Infrastructure   6.6   2.3   3.3   2.4  0.9       0.7   16.2
Post Harvest Infrastructure  2.0   0.9   0.9   0.6     0.3        1.2   5.9
Instinttional Strengthening  7.5   1.8   0.4   1.0     0.6       --    11.3
Rural Infrastructure      5.2   3.0   --      0.2      0.6       --      8.4
Coordinating Unit
Refinancing PPF            1.2  --    --    --        --         --      1.2
Total                    30.0  10.0   7.0   7.1        3.0        2.9   60.0
C.    PROCUREMENT
4.3   Procurement procedures for the proposed  project are detailed  in the  Project
Implementation Manual, previously reviewed by the Bank, and would follow procurement
arrangements consistent with Bank Procurement Guidelines. For clarity and transparency, two
types of procurement activities are recognized: those by the beneficiaries in implementation of
their rural development programs, and those by the Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit.
Given the large number of small subprojects spread over a wide geographical area, a fair amount
of procurement activities would be through local shopping procedures. The summary of
procurement activities under the project is in Table 4.3 below.



-22-
Table 4.3:    Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Local    Consulting
Project Item                ICB       NCB       Shopping    Services       Total
Civil Works                --        20.7         13.8        --          34.5
(8.3)       (5.5)       --         (13.8)
Goods and Equipment        1.2         0.9         0.9        --           2.9
(0.4)      (0.4)       (0.4)       --          (1.2)
Vehicles                   4.1        --           0.5        --           4.6
(3.0)      --          (0.3)       --          (3.3)
Consulting Services       --          --          --           5.0         5.0
--  --  --  (3.6)       (3.6)
Training                   --          0.7         1.1        --           1.8
(0.4)       (0.5)       --          (0.9)
Studies                   --           0.7         1.0        --           1.7
*-        (0.4)       (0.5)        --          (0.9)
RlCU/Operating Costs      --           3.3         5.0        --           8.3
--     ~~(2. 1)     (3 .1I)     --(5.2)
Refinancing PPF            --         --           0.5         0.7         1.2
--      ~~(0-5)      (0.7)       (I. 1)
Total                      5.3        26.3        22.7         5.7        60.0
(3.4)     (11.4)      (10.9)       (4.3)      (30.0)
Figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the IDA credit. Totals include contingencies.
Procurement for Works (Subprojects)
4.4    Procurement for works by the District Assemblies would follow the procedures and
guidelines of the District Tender Board (DTB). These procedures are acceptable to IDA and are
detailed in the Implementation Manual. The RICU would monitor the process, ensuring that all
procurement are done in accordance with transparency and in line with the principles of economy
and efficiency. The project would, during the first year, assist in strengthening district-level
procurement teams in carrying out these tasks.
4.5    Applicable Thresholds. Applicable thresholds for civil works would be as follows:
(a)    Contracts for up to US$50, 000 up to an aggregate amount of US$13.8 million.
The DAs would administer such contracts and the Zonal Project Office would
approve financing after review of the costs estimates and bills of quantity.



-23-
Contracts would be through price quotations from at least three contractors from a
pre-qualified list of contractors in the respective Zone.
(b)   Contracts of more than US$50,000 but less than $100,000 up to an aggregate of
US$20.7 million would be through District Tender Board procedures. These include
advertisement of tenders in local newspapers, detailed procedures on bid opening,
evaluation and award, and award to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. The Zonal
Project Office would verify and issue a "no objection" before disbursement occurs. The
zonal office would replenish the DACF for the amount of the contract less the districts
contribution (counterpart) funding.  When the amount of the contract exceeds the
envelope of the DACF, the Zonal Project Office would pay the supplier directly upon
verification by the zonal engineer that the work or applicable portion thereof has been
completed as specified under the contract. The threshold for subprojects for each Zonal
Coordinating Unit is US$100,000.  Contracts above US$100,000 but less than
US$200,000 are within the threshold of the National RICU and the RICU engineer would
review and clear such contracts before award. The threshold for IDA prior review is
US$200,000 and selection and contracts would be reviewed and approved by the IDA
Project Officer at the Resident Mission before disbursement. The RICU has prepared
simplified bidding documents and these are available at all zonal offices.
(c)   Contracts of more than US$200, 000, if any, would follow national shopping
procedures, with selection and contracts approved by the IDA Project Officer at the
Resident Mission.  Given the nature of individual subprojects involving small
construction work scattered in a rural environment, it is not envisaged that there would be
any ICB for civil works for district and/or community-based subprojects.
4.6   Local Communities and Beneficiaries. When the work is carried out by the beneficiary
groups themselves, disbursement for the physical work completed would be made after
certification by the engineer from the responsible Zonal Project Office. Communities and groups
would be assisted by NGOs in selecting contractors from the prequalifed list. The District Rural
Infrastructure Fund (DRIF) manager would witness all contracts signed between the
communities and the contractor, with a copy sent to the zonal office. The zonal office would
replenish the DRIF or pay suppliers directly. All such procurement will follow procedures
detailed in the implementation manual.
Procurement for Goods and Equipment
4.7   Procurement of all goods and equipment, including rental of earthmoving equipment,
pumps, building materials, etc., would be based on the following procedures:
(a)   Goods and equipment costing less than US$10,000, up to an aggregate of
US$900,000. This would be through direct purchases from local suppliers. If only one
supplier is available, beneficiaries should also check the nearest urban center to compare
prices. The Zonal Project Office would keep a database of costs for purposes of
comparison and monitoring and provide advice to beneficiaries on such purchases.



-24-
(b)   Goods and equipment above US$10,000 but less than US$50,000 would be
through price quotations of at least three suppliers. Regular audits would be made ex-post
by auditing firms assigned to each Zone of the project by comparing costs with prevailing
market prices.
(c)   Goods and equipment exceeding US$50, 000 up to an aggregate of US$900, 000.
NCB procedures using standard bidding documents with IDA prior review for contracts
above US$75,000.
(d)   ICB procedures would be used for lots exceeding US$250,000 up to an aggregate
of US$1.2 million.
Procurement of Consultancy Services
4.8   Given that the rural areas do not have a critical mass of private sector consultants, each
Zonal Project Office would assist District Assemblies and beneficiaries groups in putting
together a list of qualified consultants in each zone. Payments for contracts for technical
assistance to groups, communities, and Districts would be through the DRIF, replenished
periodically by the Zonal Office. Contracts exceeding the capacity of the DRIF would be paid
by the Zonal Project Office directly to the supplier. The Zonal Office would also prequalify all
NGOs active in the zone, with input of GAPVOD (the apex organization of NGOs in Ghana),
taking into consideration their areas of expertise, staffing, experiences and current areas of work.
This list would be available to all DAs and beneficiary groups participating in the project.
(a)   Contracts less than US$15,000. At least three consultants or NGOs would be
consulted from the prequalified list and the contract awarded to the lowest quotation. The
contract would be between Beneficiary group and the NGO/firm, and witnessed by the
DRIF, with a copy of the contract sent to the Zonal Project Office.
(b)   Contracts more than US$15,000 but less than $50,000 The Zonal Project Office
would request detailed proposals from interested firms and groups in the Zone and award
contracts based on the lowest quotation. The threshold for each zone is US$50,000.
Contracts exceeding US$50,000 would be sent to the national RICU for review.
(c)   Contracts exceeding US$50,000. Both technical and financial proposals would be
solicited from at least three firms from the pre-qualified list and the contract awarded to
the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. IDA would review the selection and contract
before award. For purposes of efficiency and economy, the threshold for IDA prior
review is US$ 100,000.
4.9   The RICU shall package procurement of vehicles, equipment, and goods where
appropriate, when several Districts and beneficiaries are involved. These are expected to be
larger lots that would serve the needs of a collection of Districts and other beneficiary groups.
Procurement of such vehicles and goods and equipment would normally be through international



-25-
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, apart from units or equipment required out of normal
scheduling which will be procured from IAPSO or national shopping procedures. Such contracts
will not exceed US$50,000 for an aggregate amount of US$400,000.
4.10  Assurances were received during negotiations that the procurement arrangements
described above would be implemented (para. 7.9)
Procurement under the RICU
4.11  Procurement of goods and consultancy services for the RICU and its Zonal Offices are
detailed in the Implementation Manual.
4.12  Procurement of goods and equipment for use by the RICU and its zonal offices would be
based on the following procedures:
(a)   Goods, equipment, and supplies costing less than US$50,000 up to an aggregate
of US$5. 0 million would be purchased by the RICU or any of its zonal offices through
direct purchases based on price quotations from at least three suppliers.
(b)   Goods and equipment costing more than US$50, 000 up to an aggregate of
US$3.3 million would be procured through NCB procedures with IDA prior review of
contracts exceeding US$100,000.
D.   DISBURSEMENT
4.13  The IDA credit of US$30 million would be disbursed over a period of six years beginning
in FY98. The disbursement profiles assumes that very limited civil works would be undertaken
during the first year as the initial year would be devoted to project start-up activities, including
setting up of the Zonal Project Offices, evaluating and pre-qualifying NGOs, and strengthening
the implementation capacities of the District Assemblies.  After the initial year, project
disbursement would be expected to increase gradually as familiarity with the procedures
increases and more districts and organizations meet initial eligibility requirements for
participating in the project (Annex III). While the current disbursement profile for Ghana is
eight years, the anticipated slightly faster schedule under the VIP reflects the following: (i)
greater autonomy and decentralized procurement responsibilities to zonal offices based on pre-
determined thresholds; (ii) the increased familiarity of borrower with procurement procedures
through on-going projects; (iii) emphasis on pre-project activities in order to lay foundation and
put mechanisms in place before effectiveness; and (iv) detailed planning of procurement
activities before effectiveness. Detailed disbursement schedule is in Table 4.4 below.
4.14 A Special Account for the project would be opened in a commercial bank in Accra at
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. An initial amount of US$1 million would be deposited
into this account for the first year of operations; this would be increased to US$2 million during
the second year when the zonal project offices in Kumasi, Tamale, Cape Coast, and Accra
become operational. In addition, a Project Account would be set up in Accra for receipt and
disbursement of borrower's counterpart funds. The establishment of the Proiect Account by the



-26-
Borrower with an initial deposit of US$100,000 equivalent would be a condition of effectiveness
of the IDA credit (para. 7.12).
Table 4.4:   Summary Disbursement Schedule
Amount Allocated            Amount Financed by (US$ million)
Expenditure Category  (US$ million)    IDA      KfW    IFAD    Total by Donors      %
Civil Works               34.5         13.8     6.3      4.3          24.4          71
Goods and Equipment        2.9          1.2     0.4      0.4          2.0           69
Vehicles                   4.6          3.3     0.1       1.3         4.7           98
Consulting Services        5.0          3.6     0.2      0.3          4.1           82
Training                   1.8          0.9      --      0.5          1.4           78
Studies                    1.7          0.9     --       0.3          1.2           71
RICU/Operating Costs       8.3          5.1     --       3.0          8.1           97
Refinancing PPF            1.2          1.2      --       --           1.2          100
Total Project             60.0         30.0     7.0      10.0         45.9          77
Note:  Donors finance 100 percent of foreign exchange costs.
4.15   Disbursement for expenditures under contracts valued below US$75,000 for each zonal
project office would be on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs). IDA would replenish
the Special Account upon review and verification of all SOEs. SOEs from the zonal offices
would be sent directly to the responsible project officer at the Resident Mission with copy sent to
the RICU in order to avoid delay.
Advances to Zonal Offices
4.16   Funds would be transferred from the Special Account in Accra to the four Zonal offices
on the basis of a 90-day advance. The zonal offices would, at the start of operations, submit to
the RICU a forecast of their needs for the first six months of operations. The RICU would
review these requests and for the first of such advances, submit a letter to the IDA Disbursement
Division requesting concurrence to the establishment and operation of such advances. The
amount of such advances will be reviewed every six months and the necessary adjustments made
in the level of advance based on actual usage of the funds. In assessing the requests of the zonal
authorities, the RICU would ascertain that each zonal authority concerned has an accounting and
financial unit in a place that will be responsible for: (i) the proper recording of expenditures
incurred; (ii) the collection of the necessary documentation justifying these expenditures; and
(iii) their submission to the central RICU in Accra on a timely basis. The zonal authority should
open a Bank account in a commercial Bank within the zone and notify the RICU of the name of
the officials permitted to make withdrawals from this account. The operations and accounts of
the Zonal project offices will be reviewed every six months by independent auditors to ensure



-27-
that replenishment requests submitted by these authorities reflect expenditures related to project
activities eligible for financing under the project.
4.17 Replenishment of the Zonal Accounts. The zonal project offices would every month,
but no later than the fifteenth day of the following month, submit to the RICU a replenishment
request in the forrn of a letter signed by the Financial Manager and Zonal Coordinator indicating
the amount claimed on the basis of supporting documentation. The zonal authority should
submit to the RICU, along with this letter, the original of all invoices for expenditures incurred,
attaching an up-to-date Bank statement showing withdrawals made from the Bank account for
the payment of these expenditures. The RICU shall agree not to advance any additional funds to
the Zonal authorities without IDA's concurrence and will ensure that the zonal authorities receive
only the equivalent of funds they can justify through the submission of appropriate
documentation and invoice. Replenishment requests and documentation so approved by the
RICU would be sent to IDA as part of the documentation supporting the replenishment of the
Special Account in Accra.
E.   AUDITING AND REPORTING
4.18  There shall be two types of audits:  (i) a semi-annual review of implementation
performance of the Zonal Project Offices and the financial management performance at the
District level (both the DACF and the DRIF accounts), to be carried out by independent firms
under contract to the RICU; and (ii) the regular annual audit of the Special Account, Project
Accounts and SOEs to be carried out by an independent auditing firm (to be distinct from the
semi-annual audit).
4.19 Semi-Annual Performance Review. Given the large number of District Assemblies and
potential number of small subprojects covering a wide geographical area, the project would
employ the special services of four local auditing firms acceptable to IDA to conduct, on a
regular basis, semi-annual reviews/process audits of project financial performance at the zonal
and district levels. Terms of reference of the audit firms are in Annex IV. The objectives of the
audits would be to: (i) provide an early warning system to zonal project management; (ii) assist
the District Assemblies in improving their internal financial management and controls by
providing advice and feedback on their performance; (iii) provide advice to District Assemblies
on issues of procurement and disbursement, ensuring that procedures laid down and/or internal
controls are being adhered to; and (iv) conducts audits of zonal accounts. All reports of the
independent auditors would be made available to IDA and government. The frequency of the
review would be increased or decreased depending on acceptability of performance.
4.20 Annual Audits. All project accounts would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. The auditors would submit audited financial statements and a long form.
These reports would be submitted no more than six months after the end of the government's
fiscal year (December 31).
4.21  Reporting. In addition, each Zonal Project Office will prepare semi-annual progress
reports of project implementation in each zone that would cover physical achievements,



-28-
procurement, disbursement, key monitoring indicators, and studies under implementation in each
zone. These reports would be aggregated into a national report by the RICU Coordinator based
in Accra.
4.22  Assurances were obtained during nepotiations that the auditing and reporting
arrangements described above would be implemented (para. 7. 10).



5. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
5.1   Rural poverty alleviation and capacity building requires multi-faceted interventions, and
as such, project implementation would require close collaboration and coordination between
several ministries and agencies as well as local governments and community-based institutions.
During project preparation, broad consultations were undertaken with all sector ministries and
agencies and with the NGO community on project design, and these consultations provided the
framework for detailed project implementation arrangements. The arrangements are underpinned
by the following requirements: (i) the need for strong coordination on policy matters that affect
the efficient delivery of rural infrastructure services to the poor; (ii) the need for close technical
coordination at the level of various implementing agencies; (iii) the need for an autonomous
agency responsive to beneficiaries and with flexibility to work efficiently across many sector
ministries and institutions; (iv) the need to build capacity within the administrative staff of the
District Assemblies as the focal point of support for the government's decentralization strategy;
and (v) the need to ensure efficient and transparent management of numerous small infrastructure
contracts scattered over a wide geographical area.
A.   OVERALL PROJECT COORDINATION
5.2   Project Policy Coordinating Committee. Policy coordination would be at the ministerial
level, while technical coordination would be at the levels of the chief directors (for ministries)
and directors (for agencies) or equivalent levels for other collaborating institutions. At the policy
level, the project would be coordinated through an inter-ministerial Project Policy Coordinating
Committee (PPCC) comprising representatives of the following ministries: (i) Finance; (ii) Food
and Agriculture; (iii) Local Government and Rural Development; (iv) Works and Housing;
(v) Environment, Science and Technology; (vi) Trade and Industries; (vii) Employment and
Social Welfare; and (viii) Transport and Communication. The PPCC would provide overall
policy guidance on project implementation and would be chaired by the Minister of Food and
Agriculture (or his designate). It would meet at least twice a year. Terms of reference of the
PPCC are in Annex VI. Durin2, negotiations, assurances were received from government
regarding the establishment, composition and responsibilities of the PPCC (para. 7.4).
5.3   National Technical Steering Committee. At the technical level, the project would be
coordinated through a National Technical Steering Committee (NTSC) that would comprise
representatives of the three main sector stakeholders - the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, the
Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development, and the Ministry of Works and Housing
- as well as representatives of: (i) the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR); (ii) the Ghana
National Association of Farners and Fishermen (GNAFF); (iii) the National Board for Small
Scale Industries (NBSSI); (iv) the Department of Cooperatives (DOC); (v) the Ghana Irrigation
Development Authority (GIDA); and (vi) the Ghana Association of Private Volunteer
Organizations in Development (GAPVOD). Membership would also include the Ministry of
Health, and the Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology (MEST). The NTSC would



-30-
be chaired by the Chief Director, MOFA or his/her designate, and the RICU Coordinator will
serve as Secretary to the Technical Committee. It would meet semi-annually to review the work
program and progress reports of the project, and make recommendations to the management on
the steps needed to achieve program targets. Terms of reference of the NTSC are in Annex VI.
During negotiations, assurances were received from government regarding the establishment,
composition and responsibilities of the NTSC (para. 7.4).
B.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
District-level Management
5.4   The Local Government Law 1988 (P.N.D.C.L 207) which established the District
Assemblies empowers each District to be responsible for all development activities within the
District. Each District has an Executive Committee, headed by a Chief Executive, with
specialized Departments for Planning and Budget, Finance, and Administration. In addition,
each DA has the following (i) statutory sub-committees responsible of rural development
planning; (ii) a 5-year District Development Plan; and (iii) a District Assembly Common Fund
(DACF) to which the Central Government cedes in an annual basis, a portion of the national
revenue for rural development purposes. This level of fiscal and administrative decentralization,
coupled with the preparation of district-level rural development plans, provides an important
foundation for empowering rural stakeholders to sustain rural development. However, planning
and financial management capacity are generally weak within the Districts and strengthening
these functions is essential to any strategy of sustaining rural development. A key project
objective would therefore be to strengthen the capacity of DAs to better organize and implement
rural infrastructure programs in a participatory, sustainable, and cost-effective manner. This is
essential if rural communities and Districts are to be truly empowered to take direct
responsibility for infrastructure development at the community-level. Given this emphasis, no
parallel structure would be established at the district level for purposes of project
implementation. Instead, project management would be mainstreamed within the existing
administrative structure of each participating District Assembly, with training and other technical
assistance provided to directly strengthen such functions as procurement, financial management,
internal controls, and reporting. The existing administrative structure of the DA relevant for
project implementation is summarized in Figure 5.1.
5.5   District-level Subprojects. Each participating District would provide counterpart funds
from its District Assembly Common Fund (DACF) for sub-projects that are included in the
District Development Plan. For such eligible sub-projects, the District Executive Committee,
chaired by the District Chief Executive or his representative, would meet periodically to decide
on the priority subprojects such as feeder roads, dugouts, or boreholes that are within the
District's Development Plan and to also allocate the level of counterpart funding required from
the DACF. Implementation would begin once agreement has been obtained from the responsible
zonal project office as to the eligibility of the sub-project, the costs, and the availability of
District counterpart funding.



-3 1-
Fig. 5.1: Administrative Structure of the District Assemblies
F  DISTRICT CHIEF EXECUTIVE   |5 | ITRICT EXECUTsIVE commIr7EE|
T  District Co-ordinating Director       tF Development Planningcb
cnAdminstr th on    f   l   Finance      | Planning and Budget   F Works/Infrastructure
|~~~~~~~~~~                                     I
DiPersonnel Development sub- Revenue  c       Developmnt Budget   thJustice and Secumiy py
soamon each           General Accountrict would e              Finance and fAdminstration
buS a  c        woil Servicnt t
-Monitoring and  t      maouation      D
The District may pre-finance the entire investment from  its DACF, using the applicable
procurement procedures. After completion of works or portions thereof in accordance with the
contract, the zonal office would replenish the DACF less the counterpart fmnding provided by the
cistrict. Where the sub-project cost is too large relative to the DACF, the zonal office may pay
suppliers and consultants directly (para. 4.5b).
5.6    Communit-Owned Subprojects. For sub-projects owned by community groups and
associations, each participating District would establish a District Rural Infrastructure Fund
(DRIF). Subproject applications from beneficiary groups and cormunities would be sent to the
DRIF Committee for vetting and approved sub-projects forwarded to the manager of the DRIF
for processing, i.e., ensuring that beneficiaries, with NGO assistance, provide their matching
grants, sign contracts with partnership organization, receive training and are properly organized
to manage the investment. The DRIF committee would be inter-departmental and would be
chaired by the District Chief Executive and would comprise the District Coordinating Director
and the District Head of Finance, Planning, Works, Agriculture, and one representative each of
an NGO and Fanner organization and two community leaders. The secretary to the committee
should be the Manager DRIF selected from the private sector, but responsible to the DA.
Decisions by the committee would be by consensus. Approved sub-projects are then forwarded
for financing through the DRIF. The Draft Operating Procedures and Policies of the DRIF and
termns of reference of the DRIF Manager are in Annex VIII. Evidence acceptable to IDA that at
least 5 Districts have satisfied the eligibility criteria for participating in the p2roject would be a
condition of effectiveness of the Proiect (para 7. 13).



-32-
Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit
5.7   While each District would be in charge of implementing its rural development program,
there is a need to effectively coordinate rural infrastructure development activities across
potentially 110 District Assemblies, and as many communities and groups. This is necessary to
ensure that a common strategy exists, to avoid duplication of efforts, and more importantly, to
avoid stressing the weak capacities of the Districts. There is also the need to coordinate the
activities of the various donors. For the initial process, and until DAs are properly strengthened,
these activities are best carried out through an autonomous unit flexible enough to respond to the
diverse needs of the many stakeholders.
5.8   Coordination of implementation support to the Districts and communities oin a the day-to-
day basis would therefore be through an autonomous Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit
(RICU). The RICU would be composed of a national office in Accra and four zonal offices in
Tamale, Kumasi, Cape Coast and Accra. It would be headed by a National Coordinator, selected
through a competitive search process and whose experience, qualifications and terms of reference
would be acceptable to IDA. The National Coordinator would be supported by two core staff: a
Rural Infrastructure Engineer to coordinate technical aspects of subproject implementation and
an Institutions Development Specialist to coordinate institutional building efforts among the
Districts, communities, and NGOs. In addition to these staff, there will be other appropriate
technical and financial officers responsible for finance, accounting, MIS, and internal audits.
During Negotiation. a2reement was reached that all staff of the RICU would be appointed on
fixed-term contract through a competitive search process (para. 7.2).
5.9   A key responsibility of the RICU would be to coordinate technical and institutional
strengthening aspects of the project, linking directly with the zonal offices and providing the
technical liaison with the sectoral ministries and agencies. It would be responsible for the policy
and technical liaison with the PPCC and NTSC, ensuring that project actions and interventions
complement those of other similar projects and donor initiatives in the sector. In addition to the
administrative functions of the project, including timely reporting and auditing, the RICU would
establish and maintain a strong MIS to provide up-to-date information on the status of
implementation of sub-projects in the various zones. MOFA would second to the RICU at least
four staff of the Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Division (PPMED) who would be
responsible for monitoring and evaluation and impact assessment activities of the project in each
zone. The project would provide the appropriate logistics and training, where required, to enable
the staff to carry out their responsibilities. During Negotiations. agreement was reached
regarding the integration of the Project Unit of the ASIP into the RICU to create a single unit for
implementing the government's rural infrastructure program (para. 7.3).
5.10  Zonal Project Offices. The RICU would establish four decentralized zonal structures as
follows: (i) Zone I, with head office in Tamale, for the Northern, Upper East and Upper West
Regions; (ii) Zone II, with head office in Kumasi, for the Ashanti and Brong Ahafo Regions; (iii)
Zone III, with head office in Cape Coast for the Central and Western Regions, and (iv) Zone IV,
with head office in Accra, for the Greater Accra, Eastern and Volta Regions. Each Zonal Project
Office would be headed by a Zonal Project Coordinator, with a full complement of technical and



-33-
administrative staff. To facilitate quicker response and faster processing of beneficiary requests,
each zonal office would have autonomy within pre-determined thresholds as set out in the
Implementation Manual and would not have to defer to the national office of the RICU on
routine implementation matters (para. 7.1). Zonal offices would provide technical input to
Districts within each zone in implementing all sub-projects, including the implementation of
technical assistance to rural communities and beneficiary groups. Zonal offices would draw
upon the services of short-term consultants and contractors as needed to assist in various aspects
of project implementation assistance. They would also work with the various regional and
District level agencies of government as well as with NGOs in coordinating assistance for the
implementation of the District rural infrastructure program. Measures taken within the scope of
the project to ensure financial accountability of the zonal offices and the administrative offices of
participating districts are detailed in Annex IV and para. 4.19. Terms of reference of the Zonal
Project Offices are in Annex VII.
C.    COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION AND OWNERSHIP
5.11  Community  groups and associations will play  an  important role in project
implementation. Through their elected representatives within the District Assemblies, they
would meet to vet the District development plans and, therefore, the nature, priority and location
of the infrastructure subproject to be financed under the project. They would also be responsible
in part or in full, for the maintenance of community-level facilities. Each beneficiary community
would contribute in cash or in kind towards the capital costs of the investments, with different
levels of contribution set based on the different categories of subprojects.
5.12  Beneficiaries' contribution are detailed in the Project Implementation Manual. For each
sub-project, a committee of beneficiaries would be established to handle the operation and
maintenance of facilities, including the collection, management and safekeeping of funds, and
the purchase of goods and services required for the efficient functioning of the investment.
Communities would also designate caretakers who would receive training and appropriate tools
as part of the project technical assistance, and who would be responsible for all routine
preventative and simple corrective maintenance of the facilities.
5.13  An important aspect of the sustainability of income-generation investments under the
project would be to put associations and groups of these poor small farmers and villages into a
savings mode and link them with rural financial institutions. NGOs would provide guidance in
opening and operating group and individual savings accounts. The contributions of the
participating groups to the investments would be met partly from these savings as well as from
pooled funds. The savings accounts of groups would be maintained during implementation of
sub-projects to take care of necessary repairs and replacements of parts. The long-term benefits
of a savings strategy is that poor rural groups would develop the capacity to deal more effectively
with formal financial institutions in obtaining credit at market rates. During the early stages of
group formation, the cost of development and training would be borne by the project and would
form part of the institutional development benefits to these rural communities and groups.



-34-
5.14  For private-good subprojects such as postharvest facilities whose benefits accrue to
individuals, beneficiaries would be expected to repay the principal of the investment over a
period of time and installment amounts defined in the applicable contract signed with the DRIF.
Such repayments would go into the DACF, and would only be used for development purposes
within the District. These development activities are expected to be those that facilitate private
sector activities within the districts.
D.   BENEFICIARY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
5.15  The eligibility criteria for participation by districts, communities and farmer groups and
associations are detailed in the Implementation Manual. A summary is provided in Annex 1II.
These criteria were finalized during appraisal, and agreed upon during negotiations (paras. 7.6
and 7.7). However, these criteria are guidelines and would therefore be subject to periodic
reviews and adjustments made as necessary based on implementation experience.  Such
adjustments would be agreed upon between IDA and the Borrower during supervision mission.
In order to avoid start-up delays, steps have been taken by MOFA to ensure that as many
potential beneficiaries as possible meet these requirements in the period after appraisal and prior
to credit effectiveness. The eligibility criteria for District Assemblies would include: (i) adequate
staffing; (ii) agreement to use the District Assembly Common Fund account for purposes of
counterpart funding; and (iii) a District Development Plan, prepared in a participatory manner
with the communities. Before project effectiveness in each District, an assessment of the
institutions strengthening needs would be undertaken to ensure complimentarity with other donor
programs (para. 7.8).
5.16  Beneficiary groups and associations would be required to have formed an association,
whose membership is consistent with the needs and cultural outlook of the group (where such
organizations already exist, their current functions could be expanded to include developing and
managing infrastructure facilities to be supported under the project). They would also have to
agree as part of the technical assistance contract signed with the partnership NGO, to take full
responsibility for the proper operation of the facility, including adequate routine recurrent
maintenance to sustain it. For post-harvest equipment, such as those for small-scale processing,
drying, storage, etc., the project would require that beneficiaries have opened an account with the
local rural bank or other commercial bank from which they would; (i) provide a designated
amount of the capital costs of the investments; and (ii) part of the annual net income of the
investment would be lodged in a rural financial institution to be applied to operate and replace
assets and diversify into other infrastructure type ventures in the district. NGOs would be
contracted to provide technical assistance to the groups from the sub-project identification stage
through the implementation and management stages and would monitor and ensure that the
group goes through the essential learning steps to sustain the investments.
E.    PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
5.17 The RICU, the Policy, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Departments (PPMEDs) of
MOFA and MLGRD and IDA would monitor project implementation performance on a regular
basis through reports, audits, and supervision missions. The monitorable indicators for specific



-35-
project actions are in Annex X. Quantitative input and output matrix with major project factors
are in Annex XI. In addition, IDA would monitor the compliance of the RICU with procurement
and disbursement procedures, and credit agreements and legal covenants.
5.18 Implementation Monitoring. The RICU unit would provide regular and up-to-date
information and data on the progress of each subproject and the progress made on all relevant
sub-projects as of program implementation. The RICU would set up and maintain a modem
Management Information System (MIS) for monitoring implementation progress. The MIS
would monitor the timeliness of pre-investment actions (awareness campaigns, pilots,
workshops), the efficiency of processing beneficiary requests (response time, number of visits,
time taken to complete individual steps, number of beneficiaries covered, etc.), and the
performance of supporting NGOs.  The RICU would prepare regular reports on these
performance indicators for submission to NTSC and IDA. In addition, independent firms would
be contracted to provide, on a semi-annual basis, process audits of all sub-project activity at the
zonal and District-level. These process audits will include contracting procedures, internal
controls procedures within District financial units, transparency in approval of sub-project
requests, record keeping, physical location of sub-projects, and standards and specifications.
5.19 Impact Assessment. The RICU will also collect data on the impact assessment of the
project on beneficiaries (communities, Districts, and groups) and this will be supported by the
collection of baseline information on project environment and potential beneficiaries. Both the
PPMEDs of MOFA and MLGRD would be strengthened to meet the specific needs of impact
assessment, including training and logistics.
5.20 Financial Monitoring. Financial audits would be conducted (see paras. 4.19 to 4.20) to
monitor management of accounts and compliance with procurement procedures. These would be
conducted by independent auditing firms.
F. PROJECT SUPERVISION
5.21  IDA supervision will be closely linked to the project implementation schedule (Annex 1I).
IDA supervision will include: (a) continuous supervision and implementation assistance through
the resident project supervisor; (b) regular supervision and monitoring of key events through
supervision missions; and (c) yearly review of the work program, the project launching workshop
and the Mid-Term review. MOFA will participate in supervision through progress reports and
participation in supervision and review missions.
5.22 Regular Supervision and Review Missions. Regular supervision will include review of
progress reports, procurement, correspondence and implementation assistance to the Borrower.
Apart from the Task Team Leader (TTL), the regular supervision team will include: a rural
infrastructure specialist, a rural sociologist, a procurement analyst, a disbursement analyst, and a
financial analyst.  The infrastructure specialist will focus on the technical quality of the
investments, the management of the contracts, and recommend adoption of standard formulas in
contracts with small contractors. The Institutions Specialist will review participation issues with
local communities and design ways to improve project impact.  The procurement and



-36-
disbursement specialist will assist the Borrower with implementation of IDA's procedures and
requirements. The financial analyst (or economist) will review the financial management
(including Special Accounts) and recommend ways to improve financial management.
5.23  The Project supervision missions will focus on the physical implementation, the
management performance, impact assessment and financial control. The key areas to supervise
are:
(a)   Physical implementation: the physical project targets such as number and type of
projects; number and type of beneficiaries; involvement of local communities;
implementation rate; regional investment spread; etc.
(b)   Management performance: project response to local demands; subprojects lead
times; procurement, disbursement and accounting practices; subprojects cost
control; and
(c)   Financial control: maintenance of adequate  controls at all levels of
implementation.
5.24 Project Launching Workshop. The Project Launching Workshop will take place as soon
as the conditions for effectiveness are met. The workshop will focus on: (i) general and specific
procurement guidelines such as: local shopping, price quotation, direct contracting, guidelines for
recruitment of local consultant; (ii) disbursement methods for project funds such as direct
payments to suppliers, Statements of Expenditure and documentation to be kept and to be
forwarded to IDA; (iii) management of the Special Account and the control of the revolving
fund; (iv) audit requirements; (v) project supervision and reviews (vi) communications with IDA;
(vii) implementation of the project; and (viii) other subjects of particular interest to the Borrower
and zonal Offices.
5.25  First Year Implementation Review. At the end of the first year of implementation, a
joint review by IDA and the Borrower would be undertaken in order to examine the overall and
detailed performance of the project and, if necessary, make recommendations and take steps to
improve the project performance. It will cover the same subjects as the supervision mission, but
will enter into much more detail on the physical project implementation aspects (quality,
standards, efficiency of implementing subprojects, etc.).
5.26 Mid-Term Review. The Project mid-term review will evaluate in-depth the physical and
financial aspects of project implementation, and in particular, its developmental impact. To this
extent the government, and in particular PPMED, will prepare a Mid-Term report of the project
to facilitate this review. Terms of Reference for the MTR will be drawn up during the project
implementation at least three months before the time of the review and will be agreed upon with
IDA.
5.27  Implementation  Completion  Report.   An  Implementation  Completion  Report
summarizing the achievements of the project and its impact vis-a-vis its objectives will be
submitted by the government to IDA not later than six months after the completion of the project.



-37-
The ICR will be carried by the government and IDA and will cover a full ex-post evaluation of
the project.
5.28  Participation by Borrower. Borrower will participate in the supervision through half-
yearly progress reports by the RICU to be sent to IDA. The Borrower will assist all supervision
missions by providing information on the project and organizing wrap-up meetings. The
Borrower will participate in all reviews:   Proiect Launching Workshop, First Year
Implementation Review, Mid-Term Review and Implementation Completion Review.
5.29  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above monitoring and evaluation
arrangements would be followed (para. 7.9).



6. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.    DETERMINATION OF BENEFITS AND COSTS
Measurement of Benefits
6.1   The approach taken here is to include in the economic analysis only those benefits that
can be quantified. Intangible benefits, such as health status of the community from accessing
safer water sources which are difficult to quantify, are excluded from the economic analysis. To
the extent possible, these nonquantifiable benefits are described in terms of their impact on the
welfare of rural communities and groups.
6.2    Quantifiable Benefits. Benefits of post-harvest facilities are measured from two sources:
(i) reduced losses; and (ii) lowered cost of processing, the latter measured in terms of the
opportunity cost of time saved as a result of substituting traditional technologies with more
efficient processing methods. In addition to reduced losses and time saved, processing of food
crops would also result in improvement in the quality of food available for consumption or sale
and quantity. A third category of benefits of post-harvest technologies is employment. The
adoption of post-harvest technologies would lead to increased demand for operators and
unskilled workers, as farmers expand farm size in light of higher prices, improved storability and
greater demand for processed products.
6.3   Benefits from rural water are measured both by the value of time saved and the "imputed
price" of water. For water used for small-scale irrigation, such as that from streamflow diversion
and pumping, benefits are measured in terms of the incremental yield of crops and the value of
additional dry season cultivation made possible with the availability of water. For water
consumed by rural families, an important benefit is the reduction in water-borne diseases as safer
water sources are made available close to the villages, but this is difficult to quantify. Given that
the primary use of most dugouts and streamflow diversions proposed for development under the
project would be for intensification of agriculture, estimation of benefits focused mainly on the
incremental value of agricultural production due to the adoption of these technologies.
6.4   Rural transport infrastructure, such as village trails and tracks, increase access of rural
inhabitants to a wide range of social and economic facilities and services. Access roads and
village tracks also facilitate easier transport of agricultural inputs to farms as well as the efficient
evacuation of crops from farms to villages and onwards, to urban markets. The timely
evacuation of crops reduce post-harvest losses and the availability of inputs and increased access
to markets enable smallholders to respond quicker to market signals, either by expanding farm
size or changing their crop mix. Development of trails and tracks, combined with appropriate
introduction of intermediate means of transport (IMTs), can also significantly reduce drudgery
associated with headloading produce from farms to villages, an activity largely performed by
women and children. The benefits of rural transport infrastructure development are many but



-39-
only few are quantifiable. Determination of the economic viability of rural transport subprojects
therefore focused on two sources: benefits of increased agricultural output from the zone of
influence of the road, and reduction in transport costs. The zone of influence is estimated to be
within a of 5 km corridor on both sides of the rehabilitated feeder roads or 3 km for village trails
and tracks developed. These benefits from rural transport were estimated using the procedures of
Beenhakker and Lago, 1989.1
Determination of Costs
6.5    All costs were estimated using prices for goods, equipment, labor and other inputs
prevailing in Ghana in March 1996. The costs of post-harvest equipment were from the various
regional Intermediate Technology Training Units (ITTUs). Cost information for rural water
resource, including the costs of dugouts, streamflows and diversions were from the Irrigation
Development Authority, updated during appraisal. Cost data for feeder road rehabilitation and
for the construction of village trails and tracks were furnished by the Department of Feeder
Roads and validated during field visits to the North, Ashanti and Brong Ahafo Regions. The
rural wage rate was estimated at Cedis 1,200 per person-day for unskilled farm workers. All
agricultural outputs were priced at the farmgate, and prices of processed products were ex-
processing units. For internationally traded commodities, such as rice and maize that would be
produced from small-scale irrigation, import parity prices were estimated on the basis of the
prevailing world market price for each commodity, appropriately adjusted for transport costs
(international and domestic), local handling and other charges and converted to local currency
equivalents (Cedis) using the exchange rate US$1.00 = Cedis 1,600 that was prevailing during
appraisal (March 1996). Prices for internationally traded commodities were from the World
Bank Commodity Markets and Developing Countries (May 1996).
B.    FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC VIABILITY
Financial Models
6.6    Post-harvest Investment. Financial models were constructed for post-harvest processing
investments and income-generating activities. The financial models for post-harvest equipment
were based upon the following assumptions: (i) a useful life of equipment of 10 years for mills
and 15 years for engines; (ii) an estimated life of 20 years for physical structures; and
(iii) investments are through group ownership but with hired operator/manager providing custom
services. Cost of technical assistance provided by the project for organizing and training users
The functional form can be stated as: PMB (Q2 - Q  = (C2 - Cd - (K2Q2 - K,Qd, where, B = B, + B2; B, = P2Q2 -
P,Q, (C2 - Cd; B2 = F2Q2 - F,Q, (K2Q2 - K,Q,); and where, Pm = market price of crop measured in Cedis/ton; PIQ1.=
price and quantities of product without project situation, measured in Cedis; P2 Q2 = prices and quantities of crops
with project situation; Cl C2 = economic costs of producing the entire output with and without the project; F1 F2 =
fare paid to evacuate one ton of surplus over the access roads, with and without the project; if access road did not
exist, the cost of headloading can be used as a proxy; and K, K2 = economic costs of evacuating a ton of commodity,
with and without the project.



-40-
was considered a grant and therefore not included in the analysis. No financial models were
estimated for roads, tracks and dugouts development given the public good nature of these
investments. The financial models showed a positive cashflow after the initial one-year
investment period for all options of processing technologies, indicating the relative profitability
of these investments for smaliholders.
6.7    Crop Models - Small-scale Irrigation.  Financial models were also constructed for
agriculture production using small-scale irrigation technologies. The investment in streamflows
and diversions would enable smallholders to grow higher value crops in valley bottoms or to
extend cultivation to the dry season. The main crops planted were assumed to be maize and
vegetables in the North and maize and irrigated rice in the South, with supplemental irrigation for
dry season production of rice. Around peri-urban areas, higher value vegetable crops would be
grown for sale to larger stores in nearby centers. The financial profitability of intensification of
farming, using small-scale irrigation are high and justify on profitability grounds, adoption of
these technologies by small farmers.
Economic Analysis
6.8    Assumptions.  Financial prices were converted to economic values by removing
distortions in market prices of tradable and non-tradable commodities. Tradables were valued at
border prices, appropriately adjusted for domestic transport and handling. For non-tradable
commodities, a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.85 was used to convert financial prices
into economic terms. The opportunity cost of labor was also estimated based on the standard
conversion factor.
6.9    The determination of the economic viability of the project was based on the following
assumptions: (i) a project life of 20 years with a one-year lag for the accrual of benefits; (ii) an
investment period of five years; (iii) all prices expressed in constant 1996 values; and (iv) an
opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent. Based on these assumptions, the economic rate of
return (ERR) for the individual project components are as follows: post-harvest, 32 percent;
rural water infrastructure, 23.1 percent; and rural transport infrastructure, 26.6 percent. Overall,
project economic rate of return (ERR) is 26 percent with a net present value (NPV) of
Cedis 218,683 million. The models for the economic analysis are in Annex IX.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.10   The procedure used to determine the sensitivity of project outcomes to various changes
was the switching value method. It measures the extent of change in the project NPV that would
make the project to "switch" from being acceptable to unacceptable. Based on pre-appraisal
mission findings, it was determined that project viability would be sensitive to the following
factors: (i) implementation delays, due to the time required to conduct community awareness
and implement other institutional strengthening measures before actual construction of
subprojects can begin; (ii) changes in project benefits due to fall in output prices or lower-than-
expected prices for processed output; and (iii) increases in costs of production mainly as a result



-41-
of increases in the rural wage rate. These factors therefore formed the basis of the sensitivity
analysis whose effect on project ERR are summarized in Table 6.1 below:
Table 6.1:    Sensitivity of Project NPV to Changes in Selected Risk Variables
Project Components
Post-harvest    Rural      Rural        All Project
(a)        Water    Transport
Base Case:
ERR                                       32.0         23.1        26.6           26.0
NPV @ 12 percent OCC (Million Cedis)     173,363      129,138     38,897         218,683
Scenario I
Output-Side Sensitivity
20 percent fall in benefits:
ERR                                 n.a         17.1        22.0           20.1
Switching Value (percent)           n.a          33          57             84
Scenario II
Input-Side Sensitivity
Costs increased by 20 percent:
ERR                                 n.a         18.7        23.5           18.9
Switching Value (percent)           n.a         53           77             64
Scenario III
Project Delayed by One Year:
ERR                                 n.a         23.0        24.2           23.5
Switching Value (percent)           n.a          86          97             93
Source: mission estimates.
n.a: not applicable; (a) Not estimatedfor postharvest component given various intermediate processing stages.
6.11   These estimates showed that overall project NPV is not sensitive to changes in either
project benefits or costs within a 20 percent deviation from the base case. Similarly, individual
project components were also less sensitive to changes in benefits and costs of magnitudes not
exceeding 20 percent. Even for the most sensitive component, rural water, it would require at
least a 33 percent fall in benefits to render this investment component uneconomic. Because
there are numerous intangible benefits not captured in the economic analysis, the switching value
of 33 percent is within an acceptable limit for purposes of assessing the viability of aggregate
investments in rural water. However, during implementation, the viability of individual
subprojects, where applicable, would be ascertained before investment takes place.
Fiscal Impact
6.12   Government financing  responsibility  under the proposed  project is estimated  at
US$7.1 million, which includes duties and taxes totaling US$5.8 million. Since the duties and



-42-
taxes represent transfer payments, the actual central government contribution would amount to
US$1.3 million over five years. Because the proposed operation is targeted at farmer groups,
communities and District Assemblies, and it provides little support for sectoral ministries, the
fiscal burden on the central government is therefore assumed to be negligible.
6.13  The second level of fiscal impact is at the level of the District Assemblies. The project
would leverage development resources ceded by the central government to local governments
entities for the purpose of undertaking projects which are included in the District Development
Plan. For participating District Assemblies, project funds would complement the existing
District Assemblies Common Fund (DACF). Under the project, the total counterpart fund
requirements for districts is currently estimated at US$3.0 million over five years, averaging
5 percent of total project costs. The counterpart fund requirement therefore compares favorably
with a total of Cedis 82 billion (US$42 million) ceded to the District Assemblies in 1996 as
Common Funds allocations. The counterpart fund requirements under the project would
therefore not impose any undue financial burden on District Assemblies for the following
reasons: (i) DAs receive ceded revenues from the central government for undertaking
development activities on a regular basis; (ii) and the project would finance sub-projects already
in the Districts' Development Plans, for which budgetary allocations would have been made by
DAs; and (iii) annual counterpart fund requirements would be minimal, compared to the average
level of ceded revenue of Cedis 350 million (US$184,000) per annum per District, equivalent to
US$158,000 per annum.
6.14 Matching Grants and Advances. Assistance to DAs would be in the form of grants that
would be used to leverage the implementation of subprojects in the District rural development
plan. However, districts would be expected to provide counterpart funding from their Common
Fund and to budget for O&M and other operating expenses in their recurrent budgets. Project
resources transferred to beneficiary groups and farmer associations, would be subject to the
following: (i) groups must contribute in cash or in kind to the investments; and (ii) groups would
be required to open an account with a rural bank or branch of a commercial bank to which
regular contributions would be made, for the required initial contribution by the users
undertaking O&M activities, replacing asset when it reaches the end of its useful life, or as a
collateral to secure additional loans from the bank for second generation investments; (iii)
beneficiaries would be expected to pay back the principal of the investments in equal
installments as set out in the contract; (iv) the reflows would be into the DACF, and these would
be used for development purposes as defined under the existing operating procedures and
policies of the DACF.
C.   PROJECT BENEFITS
6.15  Key project benefits would be: (i) increased productivity and incomes; (ii) increased
rural employment; (iii) reduction in rural poverty; (iv) human resource development; and
(v) institutional development.
6.16 Increased Productivity and Incomes. The project would lead to higher incomes for at
least 500,000 households over the investment horizon. The introduction of labor-saving



-43-
technologies would free up time previously devoted to transport, food-processing and water
collection. In parallel, improved access to safe potable water would result in a healthier and
more productive work force. As agricultural output grows, improvements in post-harvest
facilities would enable rural communities to reduce crop losses and undertake more higher value-
added activities. Incomes and employment would grow with the development of village-based
agro-industries. This effect would be further stimulated by enhanced income from livestock,
especially in the arid North, where access to water resources would help to stabilize herds.
Improvement of rural transport capacity would facilitate the movement of harvests from farm to
village; and of semi- processed products from villages to markets. Improved access to health,
educational and extension services as a result of better rural road linkages would also have a
beneficial longer-term impact on rural productivity and incomes.
6.17 Increased Rural Employment. The project would lead to increase employment of both
unskilled and skilled labor in the rural areas. This would come from the hiring of operators of
processing enterprises and of unskilled labor to provide services for bagging, packing and
storing. The rehabilitation of roads and the construction of village trails and tracks through
labor-based methods would also create employment opportunities in rural communities, and this
direct infusion of cash into erstwhile poor communities would promote food security and help to
reduce poverty.
6.18 Impact on Poverty Reduction. Given that isolation and drudgery are two central defining
characteristics of rural poverty, the project would play a significant poverty-alleviating role.
Improved access to potable water carries substantial benefits in terms of time and energy savings
and improved health. A reduction in the workload associated with food-processing and off-road
transport would also contribute significantly to time and energy savings for the poor. Improved
access to health and educational facilities would help the poor to break out of the cycle of
poverty in which they are currently trapped. Insofar as women are primarily responsible for
food-processing for household needs as well as for most transport tasks, including the collection
of water, they are expected to benefit significantly. Coastal communities will also benefit from
improved sanitation facilities, water supply and waste collection and disposal facilities.
6.19 Human Resource Development. The project would lead to capacity building in the rural
sector through basic training of rural communities and districts in technical and managerial
skills. The core civil service within District Assemblies, notably financial, planning and
budgeting officers, would be strengthened and this would lead to a greater pool of skilled and
experienced staff for planning and managing rural development at the District-level.. Other
benefits would be training of members of farmer associations and groups in basic financial
management skills are timely provision of O&M.
6.20 Institutional Development. The project would lead to institutional strengthening of
District Assemblies, community groups and farmer associations. It would also develop capacity
among the local NGOs that would be involved in providing sub-project implementation
assistance to beneficiary groups. These efforts would promote sustainability of the poverty
reduction interventions being provided under the project. Stronger District Assemblies would be
better able to provide support to community development efforts, attract development resources,



-44-
and better manage scarce resources. Stronger farmer associations and other rural groups would
lead to empowerment of rural beneficiaries to take direct responsibility and play a more active
role in local development efforts.
D.   PROJECT RISKS
6.21  The likely project risks are: (i) slow development of capacity especially at the district
level; (ii) lack of coordination among various partners in the implementation of the program;
and, (iii) slow adoption new technologies by poor farmers, which may affect both the patterns
and uptake of new technologies. The likely impact of these risks on program viability are
summarized in Table 6.2
6.22 Slow Development of Capacity. While significant institutional capacity building is
programmed for under the project, capacity building is however a slow process. Slow
development of capacity especially at the District level would result in implementation delays for
key project components. However, from the sensitivity analyses, delays of one to two years
would have very little impact on achievement of project outcomes. Measures taken in project
design to mitigate these risks include close monitoring of NGO assistance, regular quality
supervision and management audits of all participatory District Assemblies, and regular training
of project beneficiaries and NGOs. A capacity assessment of Districts and NGOs would be
undertaken before effectiveness and interventions designed to address capacity deficit problems.
6.23  Weak Coordination Among Many Stakeholders. Project success would depend on
effective coordination and sequencing of activities among a large number of stakeholders -
community associations, District Assemblies, local NGOs, private sector actors, financial
institutions, and sector ministries. Weak coordination would diminish potential synergies arising
out of the project and would affect outcomes. The likely impact of this risk on the project would
be implementation delays. However, project ERR is not very sensitive to this risk. Measures
taken to reduce this risk are the establishment of the RICU as an autonomous agency, preparation
of detailed operating procedures and policies of the RICU and a full-scale information education
and communication (IEC) program to increase awareness of beneficiaries, including their roles
and responsibilities.
6.24 Slow Adoption of New Technologies. Some project activities would involve the
introduction of new processes and techniques with which beneficiaries may not be altogether
familiar. This is likely to be the case particularly with some types of IMTs. While conditions for
technology dissemination appear favorable, the introduction of new technologies is rarely
straightforward, and resistance among beneficiary communities may slow down project
implementation. The project has taken steps to ensure that technologies are simple and
appropriate; that they are cost-effective; and that they would be monitored regularly to ensure
that cultural problems are addressed.



-45-
Table 6.2:    Risk Assessment Matrix
Risk Factor        Likely Impact        Probability of         Mitigatory Measures
Occurrence
Slow            Project implementation   Low to medium    Steps taken before credit effectiveness to
Development of  may be delayed or some    probability.   provide training.
Capacity        components made difficult.               Continuous monitoring and feedback.
Regular training programs
Lack of         Delayed implementation.   Medium to high   Extensive IEC campaigns.
Coordination    Lack of transparency.    probability.    Group training and feedback.
Among Many                                               Ensure regular meeting of local
Project                                                  implementation committees.
Interests                                                Regular monitoring and intensive
supervision.
Slow Adoption   Delays in Project benefits.  Low.        Simple technologies selected.
of Technologies  Impact less than                        NGO support for beneficiary training.
anticipated.                             Flexibility in menu of options.
Pre- and post-investment support.
E.    PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
6.25   The project is classified as Category B for purposes of environmental assessment. The
various interventions proposed are therefore expected to create localized environmental
problems. For example, establishment and/or rehabilitation of dugouts, village tracks and trails,
and threshing and drying floors could, if improperly done, raise localized gully erosion, water
contamination and groundwater depletion. The sinking of additional boreholes would increase
the abstraction rate from the aquifers in the immediate vicinity of the wells (less so on the overall
level of groundwater resources). Appropriate mitigation measures have been prepared for each
specific sub-project to minimize these environmental effects. The environmental aspects of all
project interventions were carefully reviewed by the Ghana Environmental Protection Agency
and appropriate mitigation measures designed for implementation under the project, including
water quality testing of sources likely to be used for human and livestock consumption. The
design of the watering points for cattle, for example, would also include measures to minimize
contamination from surface sources. Test will also be made of aquifer yield potential before
decisions are made to establish new wells, to ensure that abstraction rates are compatible with
sustainable yields of the aquifer. The project would also have some possible environmental
impacts through implementation of the integrated catchment management and coastal zone
management components. Coastal communities would be assisted with water supply and
sanitation services as well as with technical assistance to restore and rehabilitate wetlands,
afforestate mangroves, promote fuelwood lots and other such environmentally-responsive
interventions.



-46-
F.   IMPACT ON WOMEN
6.26  The project is part of a comprehensive effort to assist rural women and girls to better their
living conditions through direct transfers of technical and financial resources. Women would
benefit in several ways. First, given the dominance of agro-processing activities by women
groups, they would be the primary beneficiaries of this component. Reduction in post-harvest
losses, coupled with value-added through processing would directly increase incomes of rural
women. Second, women and girls are the major participants in the daily efforts to secure safe
drinking water for households. This activity often involves trips of up to 3 km to fetch water,
especially in the drier North of the country. Therefore, the development of water resources close
to village communities would result in time-savings and reduction in drudgery among rural
women. The time saved would give rural women greater flexibility to undertake other tasks such
as taking better care of children or engaging in productive economic activities, and girls, the
opportunity to go to school. Third, women and girls are the main headloaders of produce from
farms to the villages. The development of village tracks and trails and the introduction of IMTs
would remove some or all of the drudgery for them and reduce on-farm losses as products would
be evacuated more efficiently and quickly to village storage. Women in coastal fishing villages
would benefit through the provision of improved technologies for fish smoking and drying and in
the provision of storage and waste disposal facilities.



7. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER,
CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.   AGREEMENTS OBTAINED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
During Negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
7.1   Establishment of the Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit, decentralized with
four zonal offices in Tamale, Kumasi, Cape Coast and Accra, with broad autonomy to
implement within pre-determined thresholds and on a day-to-day basis, the coordinating
support for rural infrastructure development (paras. 5.8 and 5.10).
7.2   That staff of the Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit and the zonal offices
would be contract staff hired through a competitive process with terms of reference,
qualification, and experience acceptable to IDA (para. 5.8).
7.3   MOFA would ensure that the existing Project Unit of the Agricultural Sector
Investment Project (ASIP) would be integrated into the Rural Infrastructure Coordinating
Unit to establish a unified institutio:nal arrangement for the delivery of rural infrastructure
services to the poor (para. 5.9).
7.4   Composition and terms of reference of both the Project Policy Coordinating
Committee (PPCC) and National Technical Steering Committee (NTSC) acceptable to
IDA (paras. 5.2 and 5.3).
7.5   The appointment of independent firms of local auditors to provide semi-annual
reviews of financial management procedures and recordkeeping and monitor sub-projects
implementation performance at the District level and the performance of the zonal offices
(para. 5.18).
7.6   The eligibility criteria for participation in subprojects by District Assemblies,
amongst which will be the following: (a) adequate staffing; (b) development of a District
Development Plan in a participatory manner; and (c) agreement to use the District
Common Fund for counterpart funding purposes under the project (para. 5.15).
7.7   The eligibility criteria for participation in subprojects by communities and groups
and the nature of beneficiary contributions (para. 5.16).
7.8   The Assessment of District Assemblies institution strengthening needs to ensure
complementarity with the initiatives of other donors (para. 5.15).
7.9  Implementation monitoring (para. 5.18), assessment of project impact on
beneficiaries (para. 5.19), financial audits (para. 5.20), and implementation of all



-48-
procurement procedures in accordance with criteria and thresholds specified (paras. 4.3 -
4.11).
7.10  Regular supervision of physical implementation, management performance and
financial controls (para. 5.22), and preparation and organization of the project Mid-Term
Review (para. 5.26) and the Implementation Completion Report (para. 5.27), and
participation of the Borrower in these activities (para. 5.28).
7.11  As conditions for Board, the Borrower has established the Rural Infrastructure
Coordinating Unit and its zonal offices acceptable to IDA (para. 5.10); prepared detailed
operating procedures and policies of the District Rural Infrastructure Fund (DRIF) and
terms of reference of DRIF Managers acceptable to IDA (para. 5.6 and Annex VIII); and
prepared detailed terms of reference of independent auditors for purpose of conducting
semi-annual audits of DRIF and zonal implementation performance (para. 5.18; Annex
VII).
B.   CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
7.12 The deposit by the Government of Ghana of US$100,000 equivalent into the
Project Account in a Commercial Bank (para. 4.14).
7.13  Evidence acceptable to IDA that at least five (5) District Assemblies have met the
eligibility criteria for participation in the Project (para. 5.6).
C.   RECOMMENDATION
7.14  Based on the above, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of
SDR 20.8 million (US$30.0 million equivalent) to the Government of the Republic of
Ghana.



GHANA
Village Infrastructure Program
Components Project Cost Summary
(Local Million)                              (US$ Million)
%     % Total                              %      % Total
Foreign   Base                             Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign      Total    Exchange  Costs   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
1. Rural Water Infrastructure                    25,364.8    7,153.5    32,518.2       22      28      10.8     3.0    13.8       22       28
2. Rural Transport Infrastructure                22,175.1    8,544.0    30,719.0       28       26      9.4     3.6    13.1        28      26
3. PostHarvest Infrastructure                     9,020.7    2,333.0     11,353.6      21       10      3.8     1.0      4.8      21       10
4. Institutional Strengthening                   13,029.0     9,457.0    22,486.1      42       19      5.5     4.0      9.6       42      19
5. Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit        15,088.0     1,682.6    16,770.5      10       14      6.4     0.7      7.1       10      14
6. Refinancing PPF                                1,638.4     1,092.3     2,730.6      40        2      0.7     0.5      1.2       40       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                86,315.9    30,262.2    116,578.1     26     100    36.7    12.9    49.6         26      100
Physical Contingencies                            7,891.6    2,917.0     10,808.6      27        9      3.4     1.2     4.6        27       9
Price Contingencies                              76,424.7    25,259.8    101,684.5     25       87     4.5      1.4     5.9       23       12
Total PROJECT COSTS                                170,632.2    58,439.1    229,071.3     26     196    44.5    15.5    60.0         26      121
-o
>
X



GHANA
Village Infrastructure Program
LocaVForeign/Taxes by Financiers
(US$ Million)
District
IDA           KfW            IFAD        Assemblies    Beneficiaries The Government       Total
Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %
I. Foreign                   8.8   57.0    2.9   18.6    3.8   24.4         -       -      -       -    0.0       -   15.5   25.8
II. Local (Excl. Taxes)     21.2   54.6    4.1   10.6    6.2   16.0    3.0    7.8    2.9    7.6    1.3    3.4   38.8   64.6
111. Taxes                     -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -    5.8  100.0    5.8    9.6
TotalProject                  30.0   50.0    7.0   11.7   10.0   16.6    3.0    5.0    2.9    4.9    7.1   11.8   60.0  100.0
0
>
3
0w



GHANA
Village Infrastructure Program
Components by Financiers
(USS Million)
District                                                                 Local
IDA             KfW             IFAD           Assemblies      Beneficiaries   The Government        Total        For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %                          Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
1. Rural Water Infrastructure                     7.5    43.9     2.4    14.1      2.0    11.7      1.2      7.2     1.0      6.0     2.9    17.1    17.0    28.3        3.7    11.3       2.0
2. Rural Transport Infrastructure                 6.6    40.9      3.3    20.1      2.3    14.3      1.0     6.1      0.7     4.1      2.4    14.5    16.2    27.1       4.5     9.4       2.4
3. PostHarvest Infrastructure                     2.0    34.4      0.9    14.8      0.9    14.5     0.3      4.5      1.2    21.1     0.6    10.7       5.9     9.8      1.2     4.0       0.6
4. Institutional Strengthening                    7.4    65.7      0.4     3.9      1.8    16.2      0.6     4.9     0.0        -      1.0     9.2    11.3    18.8       4.7     5.9       0.7
5. Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit         5.2    62.4      0.0     0.2      3.0    35.4     0.0              0.0        -     0.2      1.9      8.4    14.0      0.8     7.5       0.1
6. Refinancing PPF                                1.2   100.0        -       -        -       -       -        -            -         0.0               1.2     2.0      0.5     0.7         -
Total Disbursement                                 30.0    50.0      7.0    11.7    10.0    16.6       3.0     5.0      2.9     4.9      7.1    11.8    60.0   100.0    15.5    38.8         5.8
Ln
U-Q
0~r



GHANA
VILLAGE INFTRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Impiementation Schedule
Borrower's Fiscal Year                                             FY97               FY98               FY99                FY00               FY01               FY02               FY03
Quarter                                   Responsibi lty      1   2 34                  3     4    1   2    3    4   -1-  2   3 T4-  1   2    3    4    1              34        1 T2 T3T 4
Negotiation                              IDA, GOG
Board Presentation                       IDA
Effectiveness Date                       IDA
Project Managenment
Recruit National Coordinator           GOGIMOFA
Recruit Zonal Coordinators             MOFA
Pre-Project Activities
Study for Rilots                       RICU
Recrit NGOs/consuftants               RtICU
initial trainng activities             PICU
Launch PtLW Activities                 RICU
Qualification and Training
Pre-qualitcation of NGOs              PJCU
Assessmient of District cap.           RICU
Assessment of training needs           PJCU
Design of training modules             RICU
Pro-Qualify contractors                RICU
Prepae Sample documents                RiCU
Inofornation, Education, Communication
Project lEC Campaign                   RUCU
Begin public annoxicem,erts            PJCU
Recruit district facilitators          RICUIDAs
Train facilftators                     RICU
Project launching                      RICUIMOFA
Implementation of Subprojects             RICU 
Reviews
Supervision missions                   IDA/KfWIIFAD--m-
First year review                      IDA
Mid- Term Reviews                      IDAIGOG
Semi-annual audits                     RJCU
Annual audits                          RICU
Project conmpietion
Projec closing date                   IDA
Project completion date               IDA
Implementation completion              RICWMOFA/IDA
CDQ



-53-
ANNEX 1I1
Page I of 2
GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria
1.    Eligibility Criteria. The following pre-requisites would have to be satisfied before
individual districts and communities could benefit from the provisions of the VIP. In order to
avoid start up delays, it would be important to prepare for these requirements in the period after
appraisal and prior to credit effectiveness. The credit effectiveness conditions would include at
least 5 Districts having satisfied the eligibility criteria set out below.
A.   DISTRICTS AND COMMUNITIES
2.    Implementing capacity at the District level would depend on the available skills of the
core administrative staff of the District Assembly. The following senior staff would have
assumed duty within the District Administration: (a) District Coordinating Director; (b)District
Financial Controller; (c)District Engineer; (d) District Financial Controller; and (e) District
Agricultural Officer.
The required training for these staff, where necessary, would be provided in part under the PPF.
Training programs would be designed to complement those provided by other donors such as the
EU and GTZ.
3.    The District Assembly would have an operating District Assembly Common Fund and
agreement that the DACF would be used for providing counterpart funds for subprojects
financed under the project for the District.
4.    The District Assembly would have established a District Rural Infrastructure Fund
(DRIF)as a separate window for financing private sector infrastructure.
4.    Adequate operational facilities would have been provided, including:   office
accommodation, together basic office equipment, and materials safe storage and other
operational space.
5.    The District Assembly would have prepared a participatory District Development Plan, in
close consultation with the community, taking into account their priority needs and resources,
implementation capacity and sustainability considerations.
B.    COMMUNITIES AND GROUPS
6.    For private community infrastructure, communities would be required to take ownership
and to operate and maintain them at sustainable levels. The benefiting communities would,
therefore, have to organize themselves to take full responsibility for the proper operation of the
facilities and to provide routine maintenance. The process of assuming ownership would require
contributions from the users, primarily in kind (labor and/or materials) to the capital investments
and full responsibility for their operation and maintenance. Community and beneficiary groups



-54-                               ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
would also be expected to repay the principal of the investment to the District Rural Assembly
Common Fund. Such second generation funds can only be used for development purposes at the
District-level and not for recurrent expenditures of the District. The following requirements
would have to be satisfied for support under the VIP:
(a)   The beneficiaries would have formed a user group or association formally
registered in accordance with prevailing regulations on group activities for
accounting and monitoring purposes.
(b)   The user association or group would have satisfactorily completed appropriate
training in group dynamics and management provided through a partnership
NGO, as well as receive basic understanding of the nature of operating the
investment as a rural enterprise. The Executive Officers of the organization
(Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer) and at least four other literate members
would have to satisfactorily complete special training in (i) managing
(c)   finances of the organization and the investment, and (ii) basic technical and
management procedures for the efficient operations and maintenance of the
facility.
(d)   The user group or association would be required to have opened and operated a
savings account in a commercial bank for at least three months immediately prior
to application of the VIP, and to have saved the minimum financial contribution
to the investment.
(e)   The organization would also be required to provide adequate assurances that its
required contributions to the capital investment would be available at a time and
at a level to be mutually agreed upon. It would also agree take full responsibility
for the proper operation of the facility, including adequate routine recurrent
maintenance to sustain it and to repay the principal in installments as set out under
the agreement with the DRIF.



-55-
ANNEX IV
Page I of 2
GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Financial and Process Audits
I.    Financial management and audit services are provided under this project to cover
all districts participating in the project for oversight purposes of the DRIF and to ensure
financial accountability and transparency at all levels of implementation. In general, the
services of the independent auditors would include: (i) technical assistance to DAs in
proper financial management and accounting, stores management and procurement; (ii)
auditing of DA special and project accounts and SOEs for individual subprojects; and (iii)
auditing zonal accounts ad procedures.  Emphasis will be given to establishing
constructive and cooperative working relations between the zonal project entities and the
DAs with a view to resolving financial management issues as they arise, and to provide
guidance to the District Financial Management Team.
Tasks:
2.    Financial management support to DAs and process audits will be undertaken for
each DRIF account by private sector auditors. Key responsibilities will include the
following:
(a)   conduct financial management workshops before the start of subproject
actions in each participating District;
(b)   undertake semi-annual field visits to each participating DA to provide on-
the-job training, financial management support, accounts and stores
supervision, physical and financial audits;
(c)   assist DAs to follow good financial and stores management practices;
(d)   regularly compare the efficacy of financial management systems in the
districts with those recommended in the VIP Implementation Manual and
recommend any necessary changes to the DA;
(e)   regularly review the stores management and procurement procedures in
place in the DA in order to determine their adequacy for authorization,
purchase, storage, recording, security, stock-taking and control of stock;



-56-                         ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(f)   review the accuracy and timeliness of the application of recommended
financial and stores management procedures by the DAs in administering
the project accounts;
(g)   examine the ability, competence and efficiency of the finance and stores
personnel responsible for VIP activities within each district, and make
recommendations for reassignments, appointments and in-service training
as applicable;
(h)   maintain close liaison with Technical Service Agencies, especially with
respect to cost estimates, timely purchase of materials by the DAs in line
with the scheduled program of civil works;
(i)   present a detailed semi-annual audit report (June 30 and December 31 of
each calendar year) to Zonal and National Project Coordinators and the
Resident IDA supervision authority, clearly outlining and qualifying the
findings and indicating those problems which it has not been possible to
resolve with the relevant DA. The reports should clearly express the
auditor's professional opinion regarding the degree to which the DAs
expenditure statements and DRIF processes are: (i) in line with the level
of execution of subprojects, including materials purchased and in store, (ii)
cost estimates for the subprojects as approved by the zonal offices; and
(iii) comparison with prevailing market prices;
(j)   during each semi-annual field visit, follow-up on the issues identified
during preceding visits with the DAs with a view to resolving problems in
a collaborative and constructive manner;
(k)   at the end of each subproject cycle, prepare and submit a "final" report that
would certify expenditure properly undertaken for each completed
subproject which have been reconciled with record held by TSAs, and
make recommendations for enhancing the effectiveness of implementing
any future activities in the districts; and
(1)   all reports must be submitted to the RICU, Resident IDA representative
and responsible zonal office within one month of a field visit.



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Coordinating Arrangements
Inter-ministerial
Technical Steering Committee
Rural Infrastrucuture
Coordinating Unit (RICU)
Zone I                                       Zone 11                                  Zone 1II                                   Zone IV
Project Office                               Project Office                            Project Office                             Project Office
(Tamale)                                     (Kumasi)                                (Cape Coast)                                 (Accra)
District Assemblies                         District Assemblies                       District Assemblies                         District Assemblies
Communities              NGOs c       :>    Communities         <= NGOs               Communities              NGOs c             Communities
Farmer Associations                         Farmer Associations                       Farmer Associations                         Farmer Associations
>,



-58-
ANNEX VI
Page I of I
GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
National Technical Steering Committee
1.    An inter-ministerial Technical Steering Committee (NTSC) would be established
with representatives of key sector stakeholders such as Ministry of Food and Agriculture
(MOFA), Ministry of Works and Housing (MWH), Ministry of Local Government and
Rural Development (MLGRD), Ministry of Health, Ministry of Environment, Science
and Technology, the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR), Ghana National Association of
Farmers and Fishermen (GNAFF), National Board for Small-Scale Industries (NBSSI),
Department of Cooperatives, Ghana Irrigation Development Authority, and GAPVOD.
The National Coordinator of the RICU will act as secretary, to the NTSC and will be
charged with implementing the decisions of the Committee. Each meeting of the NTSC
would have clear minutes that would be distributed and kept on file for reference.
2.    The NTSC would meet twice a year to review the semi-annual work program of
the RICU and to provide guidance on sectoral issues and priorities. Decisions taken at
this level should be communicated to the regional and district levels within two weeks by
the RICU. Issues which would require policy decisions should be referred to the Project
Policy Coordinating Committee for urgent attention in order to remove all bottlenecks to
project implementation.
3.    The tasks of the NTSC would include the following:
(a)   discussion of semi-annual progress reports submitted by the National
Coordinator of the RICU;
(b)   discuss and approve the project annual workplans, and provide additional
inputs after six months to the revised plan; and
(c)   advise on sectoral coordination problems that may arise;
(d)   advise the National Coordinator on general implementation issues; and
(e)   deliberate on any other issues referred to by the National Coordinator or
donors.
4.    The NTSC would from time to time, visit project sites to assess on-the-spot
progress and receive feedback from beneficiaries. Such field visits would be coordinated
by the RICU and its zonal offices.



-59-
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
A.   Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit (RICU)
1.    The government would establish a Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit (RICU)
for purposes of implementing its rural infrastructure program. Initially, the RICU would
serve both the ASIP and the VIP but with time, it would be expanded to handle projects
from other sectors as well. All staff of the RICU will be directly hired through a
competitive process and will not be seconded from any individual ministry or agency. In
the latter case, the official would have to resign and go through a competitive hiring
process. At the national level, the RICU will consist of the following core staff: a
National Coordinator and two core staff, a Rural engineer and a Rural Institutions
Specialist. Other staff of the RICU will include finance, internal atudit, procurement,
public relations, administrative assistant, etc.  The RICU will be responsible for
implementing the policies established by the Project Planning Coordinating Committee
(PPCC) and Technical Steering Committee, assuring direct linkages with the 9 Sectoral
ministries, and the day-to-day management of the project, including reporting, monitoring
and evaluation, and audit services.
Tasks:
2.    The specific tasks of the RICU would be to:
(a)   plan, organize and control project operations;
(b)   represent the project towards third parties and donors;
(c)   manage project information and promotion campaigns;
(d)   elaborate and review of standard project documents and procedures;
(e)   coordinate the activities of the Zonal Project Offices;
(f)   carry out project disbursement and accounting in cooperation with zonal
offices;
(g)   manage project funds including the Special and Project Accounts;
(h)   review qualifications and prequalifications of supporting agencies, NGOs
and consultants in collaboration with zonal offices and participating
districts;



-60-                           ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 4
(i)   evaluate the performance of supporting agencies, NGOs and consultants in
collaboration with zonal project offices;
(j)   report semi-annual progress to IDA and the National Technical Steering
Committee and annually to IDA;
(k)   elaborate work plans and cash flow projections;
(1)   liaise with and receive Monitoring and Evaluation reports from PPMED
and other sector evaluation functions;
(m)   develop all manuals for training activities associated with the project and
program the training sessions in collaboration with the appropriate training
institutions and consultants;
(n)   develop project financial reporting formats for the use of zonal offices in
collaboration with appropriate consultants; and
(o)   develop and maintain a MIS to track project progress and performance,
including the timing of specific subprojects and the effectiveness of
implementation assistance provided by NGOs and consultants.
B.    ZONAL COORDINATING OFFICES
1.   In addition to the RICU there would be four zonal project offices (Tamale for
Zone I -- North, Upper East and Upper West Regions; Kumasi for Zone II -- Northern
and Brong Ahafo regions; Cape Coast for Zone III -- for Western and Central regions,
and Accra for Zone IV, for Greater Accra, Eastern and Volta Regions). These zonal
offices will be responsible for the day-to-day implementation of the project in each
geographical area. Each zonal office would be headed by a Zonal Coordinator, who will
report to the National Coordinator, and consist of Rural Engineers,  Community
Development Specialist, a Finance Officer, an Internal Auditor and a Gender Specialist.
Other staff of the zonal offices would be added as needed and as project implementation
proceeds. All staff would be directly recruited on fixed-term contracts.
2.    Zonal offices would have appropriate authority and responsibility to liaise and
interact with each participating DA, with the objectives of ensuring that a district program
of rural infrastructure is developed and implemented efficiently and effectively, and in
accordance wit prudent management practices. In interacting with the districts, the role
of the zonal office is primarily to serve and service the districts, who bear primary
responsibility, in collaboration with communities, groups and individuals, -for
implementation of individual subprojects. In performing its duties, zonal offices will
interact closely with the RICU and keep it informed on issues relating to policy or
availability of funds.



-61-                             ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 4
3.    Each zonal office would exercise a limited degree of autonomy with
predetermined thresholds as set out in the implementation manual. However, zonal
offices will report to the RICU on all administrative matters and copy the RICU on all
communications. Each zonal office will keep and maintain a zonal MIS but these would
be aggregated and fed into the RICU.
4.    Independent auditors would be assigned to each zonal office for purposes of semi-
annual audits and review of progress made and determine that procedures are being
followed and that appropriate procedures are also in place.
Tasks:
3.    The key tasks of the Zonal Project Offices shall be to:
(a)   initiate meetings and other activities as appropriate with DAs to enable
them to prepare integrated district development plans that contain
subprojects prioritized by local communities;
(b)   zonal offices will have responsibility to effect financing decisions for
procurement and disbursement within agreed thresholds;
(c)   zonal offices will have responsibility to give appropriate corrective advise
to DAs concerning implementation of subprojects;
(d)   zonal offices will receive, review and approve subprojects for the districts
within agreed thresholds; and signature contracts between communities
and partner NGOs on DRIF programs;
(e)   forward to the attention of the RICU implementation issues at the zonal
level requiring intervention by the National Technical Steering
Committee;
(f)   engage technical consultants, audit firms, NGOs and private sector
institutions from a list of prequalified institutions shortlisted for the zone
to provide assistance to DAs in the planning, organizing and implementing
subprojects;
(g)   assist DAs to initiate procurement processes and to strengthen financial
management;
(h)   receive and review all reports emanating from audit firms, consultants and
contractors during implementation;
(i)   assist National Coordinating Unit to review and negotiate agreements
between financial institutions, contractors including NGOs, IMT
manufacturers and DAs within agreed limits and thresholds;



-62-                          ANNEX VIl
Page 4 of 4
(j)   organize the training program for participatory groups through NGOs;
(k)   review  procurement and  disburse  within  agreed  thresholds  for
beneficiaries and communities; and
(1)   prepare quarterly and annual reports as appropriate for the RICU on
progress made in the zone.



-63-                        ANNEX VIII
Page I of 2
GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
A.   Operating Procedures and Policies of the DRIF
For small-scale infrastructure such as boreholes, villages trials and tracks,
bottomland development, agro- processing, storage, drying floors, etc. and private good
a(income-generation activities), the DA would establish a District Rural Infrastructure
Fund (DRIF) as a separate fund or a specific window of the DACF. A district-level
committee comprising members of the DA, NGOs, and private sector would be
constituted as the decision-making body of the DRIF. The Committee would consist of:
the District Coordinating director, District Agricultural Officer, district Planning officer,
district Financial Officer, a NGO active in the District and two representatives or elders
in the District. A private manager would be hired by the DA to manage the Fund. The
Committees would approve the operating policies and procedures of the fund, menu of
eligible subprojects, and the share of funding for the DRIF. It would also approve the
individual investment subproject proposals from communities and associations.
The Management of the DRIF. The day-to-day management of the DRIF would be
entrusted to a manager hired on contract by the DA through a competitive process.
Responsibility of the manager would include:
(a)   receiving, reviewing, and presenting individual investment proposals to
the District Assembly committee on rural infrastructure;
(b)   managing the procurement and disbursement process of implementing
subprojects, liaising with the appropriate district official (finance,
budgeting, etc.);
(c)   being accountable to the DA, supervised by the RICU, and audited each
quarter by independent external auditors.
Investments are funded through matching grants, not through credit.  The
proportion of the grant varies with the pubic good nature of the project, with beneficiaries
contributing a significant amount to the investment costs.
Procurement arrangements. Procurement arrangements would be as follows:
(a)   private procedures would apply for infrastructure/goods/consultancy
services financed by the DRIF;
(b)   clear and efficient (thresholds) would be established for procurement
decisions; and



-64-
ANNEX Vill
Page 2 of 2
(c)   subproject proposals must some with fully justified O&M arrangements, if
at all possible with secured technical assistance from NGOs.
Supervision and Control.  Supervision and control would be vested in the RICU and
in zonal levels.   The national RICU  would provide overall monitoring and
financial/auditing supervision.
Flows of Funds. There would be an initial advance from the respective zonal
project account to a District Rural Infrastructure Fund (DRIF) for financing smaller,
community-level subprojects and small income-generating activities. The DRIF manager
would manager the DRIF account.  Advances would be replenished based on
disbursement requests from the DACF and the DRIF. Altematively, the national RICU
office would also repay suppliers directly.
Terms of Reference of DRIF Manager
As a condition for participating in the VIP, each District would establish a District
Rural Infrastructure Fund (DRIF) that would be under the control of the District
Assembly. The DRIF would be a sustainable widow for financing small-scale,
community, and group infrastructure at the level of the District. Each District would hire
a manager who would be responsible for managing the day-to-day activities of the DRIF.
The manager would be backstopped at the technical level by the zonal office. The
manger would be paid by the DA through project funds, and would report directly to the
District Chief Executive. The manager will not be a civil servant of the DA, but would
be contract staff serving the District to ensure an efficient implementation of its rural
infrastructure program. The manager serves at the pleasure of the DA.
Specific terms of reference of the manager:
(a)   The review and process of all applications for subprojects for submission
to    RICU;
(b)   ensure proper procedures are followed;
(c)   work with NGOs and other support groups in reviewing applications for
subprojects;
(d)   preparing annual ad periodic reports, as necessary;
(e)   liaise with the zonal project office in ensuring that timely actions are taken
on requests;
(f)   prepare certification of work completion for payment of works; and
(g)   manage the DRIF, preparing adequate records to facilitate quarterly audits.
At the zonal level, in addition to the technical staff, there should be management
specialist to provide backstopping of the DRIF manager.



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Net Flows to Postharvest Investments
Cassava          Fish Processing       Grain Milling    Oil Palm Processing       Sheanut           Crop Storage       Net
Year  Model I  Model II   Model I  Model II    Model I  Model II   Model I  Model II    Model I  Model II    Model I  Model II   Flows
1       -6,600  -15,136      -9,900  -17,820     -2,750   -4,950      -5,313   -8,701      -4,300   -6,820     -9,900  -10,230  -102,420
2        1,200    1,020        860   -1,200         420    2,950       1,043   -2,564      -1,200   -1,200       1,784      544    3,657
3        3,996    2,202       1,786    2,435        349    3,736       1,526    3,245       1,346    3,478      2,345    1,189   27,633
4        4,262    2,907       2,412    7,906        517    7,920       1,822    7,685       1,631    7,612      2,675    1,844   49,193
5        4,529    3,790      3,024    8,468         683    4,651       2,545    9,474       1,910    8,528      3,309    2,480   53,391
6        4,529    4,015      2,336    7,939          73    4,415       2,153    9,461       1,988    8,484      3,527    3,102   52,022
7        4,529    3,482      3,090    9,090         568    4,232       1,345    7,829       1,293    6,840      4,125    3,270   49,693
8        4,262    3,200      3,219    8,876         402    3,573       1,723    8,266       1,367    7,205      4,194    4,194   50,481
9        3,996    2,759      3,357    9,169         232    2,552       1,455    7,231        637    5,905       4,275    4,275   45,843
10       3,739    2,261       3,051    9,455         61    2,423         999    7,355        820    5,367        4,286    4,286   44,103
11       3,196    2,342       3,622   10,238        214    3,573       1,297    8,741       2,425    3,014       4,436    4,436   47,534
12       3,739    2,572       2,328    7,448        110    2,552       1,651    4,581       2,278    4,897       4,515    4,515   41,186
13       3,739    2,541       2,431    7,448        216    2,423       2,027    5,787       2,278    5,580       4,465    4,465   43,400
14       3,739    2,541       2,431     7,448       216    2,884       2,027    5,787       2,278    5,580       4,465    4,465   43,861
15       3,739    2,541       2,431    7,448        216    3,664       2,027    5,787       2,278    5,580       4,465    4,465   44,641
ERR @ 12% OCC           33%
NPV                   143,964
Assumptions on technical capacity:
Cassava Model 1: 2,000 kg tuber/day    Fish Model 1: 500 kg/yr         Sheanut Model l: 1,000 kg/yr
Cassava Model 2: 5,000 kg tuber/day    Fish Model Il: 1,500 kg/yr     Sheanut Mdoel Il: 2,500 kglyr
Oil Palm Model 1: 1,500 fib/day        Grain milling Model 1: 1,000 kg/yr  Crop Storage Model 1: 180 tons/yr
Oil Palm Model II: 4,000 ffb/day       Grain milling Model II: 3,000 kg/yr  Crop Storage Model II: 360 ton/yr
X
cassmi xis



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return of Rural Transport Development
Feeder Road Rehabilitation                                   Village Tracks and Trails
Periodic   Benefits   Benefits Net                          Regular       Benefits     Benefits       Net
Year  Investment Rout/Maint Farmers   Trarsprt Flow             Investment    Maintenance    Farmers     Transprt       Flow
1   1,904,546   190,455         0       0 -2,095,001            2,033,102      508,276         0             0   -2,541,378
2   3,999,561    399,956  1,615,875   94,904 -2,688,739          3,084,666     771,167   1,292,700        1,518   -2,561,614
3   12,598,550  1,259,855  5,639,925  165,622 -8,052,858        5,223,147    1,305,787   4,511,940        2,650   -2,014,344
4   13,228,469  1,322,847 13,262,268  243,412 -1,045,635        5,208,706    1,302,177  10,609,814        3,895    4,102,826
5  31,731,126  1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 -19,812,002        16,692,100    4,173,025  10,609,814       3,895  -10,251,416
6              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684
7              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684           l
8              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684           a
9              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684           l
10              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684
11              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684
12              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684
13              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684
14              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684
15              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684
16              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684
17              1.586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684
18              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684
19              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684
20              1,586,556 13,262,268  243,412 11,919,124                      4,173,025  10,609,814        3,895    6,440,684
ERR                                                  15.39%                                                                 29,84%
NPV @ 12% OCC ('000 Cedis)                         2,727,705                                                             15,936,633
;>
r- z
CD
oz



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Returns to Small-Scale Irrigation
Yrl         Yr2         Yr3         Yr4          Yr5         Yr6         Yr7        Yr8         Yr9      YrlO-20
Inflows                                    25,625,250   68,334,000   68,334,000   85,417,500  85,417,500  85,417,500  85,417,500 85,417,500  85,417,500
Investment                     122,116,950  20,352,825    13,568,550   13,568,550   13,568,550
216,272    242,628      310,394     352,500      336,360     336,360    336,360    336,360    336,360    336,360
Outflows                        6,488,162  16,983,965   27,935,442   35,250,005   33,635,960  33,635,960  33,635,960  33,635,960 33,635,960  33,635,960
Net Incremental Benefits      -128,605,112 -11,711,540   26,830,008   19,515,445   38,212,990  51,781,540  51,781,540  51,781,540  51,781,540  51,781,540
ERR@ 12%OCC                        23.10%
NPV @ 12% OCC ('000 Cedis)      95,036,392
>
uq X
ON 



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Retum, All Components
Postharvest            Rural Water Component                      Rural Transport Component                          Total Project
Net                 Recurrent               Net                Recurrent           Net                     Recurrent     Total        Net
Year      Inflows    Investment   Costs     Benefits   Inflows   Investment  Costs  Benefits  Inflows       Investment Costs        Benefits    Inflows
1997       -102,420  122,116,950    6,488,162      0 -128,605,112   3,937,648   698,730      0   -4,636,378  127,640,898   8,808,933       0 -136,449,831
1998         3,657   20,352,825   16,983,965 25,625,250  -11,711,540   7,084,227  1,171,123  2,908,575   -5,346,775   30,045,052  22,401,079  34,940,138  -17,505,994
1999        27,633   13,568,550   27,935,442  68,334,000  26.830,008  17,821,697  2,565,642  10,151,865  -10,235,474   37,351,347  37,484,944  95,569,365  20,733,074
2000        49,193   13,568,550   35,250,005 68,334,000  19,515,445  18,437,175  2,625,023 23,872,082    2,809,884   42,208,525  46,687,530 109,289,582  20,393,528
2001        53,391   13,568,550   33,635,960  85,417,500  38,212,990  48,423,226  5,759,581  23,872,082  .30,310,725   71,199,976  47,804,531  130,643,957   11,639,450
2002        52,022               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540      0  5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957  82,839,426
2003        49,693               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540         5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957  82,839,426
2004        50,481               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540         5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957  82,839,426
2005        45,843               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540         5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957  82,839,426
2006        44,103               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540         5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957   82,839,426
2007        47,534               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540         5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957  82,839,426
2008        41.186               33,635,960 85,417,500  51,781,540          5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957   82,839,426
2009        43,400               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540         5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957  82,839,426
2010        43,861               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540         5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957  82,839,426
2011        44,641               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540         5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957   82,839,426
2012        44,641               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540         5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957   82,839,426
2013        44,641               33,635,960 85,417,500  51,781,540          5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112.501           47,804,531  130,643,957  82,839,426   1
2014        44,641               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540         5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130.643,957   82,839,426
2015        44,641               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540         5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957   82,839,426
2016        44,641               33,635,960  85,417,500  51,781,540         5,759,581  23,872,082   18,112,501           47,804,531  130,643,957   82,839,426
Project ERR   33.02%                                        23.10%                                    26.66%                                         26.00%
NPV (million)   173,363                                 129,138,634                                 38,897,958                                   218,683,339
Note: This includes the cost of institutional strengthening, for which benefits are not captured in the economic analysis. In addition, only
those quantifiable benefits from the three components are included. During appraisal, the database would be expanded to capture
those benefits excluded from the present analysis.
>
ElX



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Logical Framework/M&E Indicators
Means of               Risks/Assumptions/
Project Components                 Narrative Summary                         Objectively Verifiable Indicators               Verification                  Comments
Development Objectives       To improve the quality of life of the rural  -Average income of rural beneficiaries increased by at  Quarterly reports  Project is evaluated as viable and
poor through increased transfer of financial   least 25% during project life;                  mid-term Review        donor funding is available
and technical resources for the improvement  - No. of groups with agro-processing increased by 30%  Project ICR       Beneficiaries trained in O&M
of basic infrastructure                   by 2002
- Additional 750 km of feeder roads in maintenance
network by 2002
Specific Obiectives          Develop post harvest infrastructure to    - Incomes of project beneficiaries increased by at least    Mid-term Review  Post harvest losses currently
increase value-added and incomes of the   25% by 2000.                                         Project ICR           estimated at 30%. About 80% of
poor, especially women                    - No. of common groups benefiting increased 50% by                          Ghana's agricultural output consumed
2000                                                                       in raw form
Development of integrated rural water     - Yield levels of program farmers increased by 25% for   Mid-term  Review
infrastructure for agriculture and household   food grains                                     Project ICR
use to increase the productivity of small  - Incidence of disease reduced by 20% by end of project
farmers and reduced incidence of water-   - No. of villagers benefiting from safe water increased
bome diseases                             by 50% by end of project
Develop rural transport infrastructure to  - 750 kmns of feeder roads rehabilitated by 2002    Mid-term Review        Rehabilitation limited to existing
improve access of the poor to markets,    - 1000 Kms of access tracks constructed              Project ICR           feeder roa&c village.
construct village trails and tracks and pilot    - Level of adoption of IMTs expanded to 50 new                       Access tr   and trails to be
introduction of intermediate of transport  communities by 2001                                                       maintaineo .y communities
(IMTs) to reduce drudgery and costs of    - Reduction in transport costs
moving surpluses from farms to villages
Strengthen District Assemblies' capacity for   - 110 of DAs financial staff trained by 2000    Mid-term Review       DAs lack capacity for planning,
project management; strengthen beneficiary    - 200 beneficiary groups trained by 2000         Project ICR            implementation and monitoring
groups to take responsibility for post-project   - 400 community leaders trained by 2000
sustainability; and train community leaders;    - At least 50 NGOs participating in implementation by
strengthen NGOs to provide technical      2000
assistance
N >
Z
Z
X



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Logical FrameworkWM&E Indicators
Means of                     Risks/Assumptions/
Project Components                   Narrative Summary                          Objectively Verifiable Indicators                  Verification                       Comments
Rural Water Infrastructure
Dugouts/dams                  Finance the integrated development of water    Inputs
resources for agriculture and household      - 92 dugouts/dams constructed/ rehabilitated by 2001    Supervision              Dependency syndrome: no maintenance
Borehole                      users. To include dugouts and other surface    - At least 115 boreholes constructed by 2001                                   or protection
empoundments, built to minimize                At least 3000 hectares of low land intensification by   Supervision            Land may be monopolized by the non-
Small-scale                   contamination and fence to restrict general  2001                                                                             poor and/or men
irrigation                    access to water storage areas by cattle.     - No. of pumps provided                             Supervision                  Bilharzia may be introduced from
Run-off control               Special design to protect against erosion, such                                                  Quarterly and Annual         outside
as tree planting, physical works to include 92   Outputs                                         reports
Off-stream pumping            dugouts, 115 boreholes, 141 spring           - Yields increased by 20% for vegetables through
development and over 3 000 ha of small-scale  supplemental irrigation by 2001                                                 Access to extension service required
irrigation                                  - Dry season crop intensification of at least two    NGO reports                 Assumes no conflict in access rights
harvests for vegetable each year                    MTR                          Assumes proper management of water
- Access to safe water assured                      Site surveys                 resources
Outcomes
- Incremental crop production of at least 20% per                                Crop diversification and use of
annum                                                                            improved varieties follows current
- Water-bome disease reduced. 10% annually by       Annual Reports               projections
ype of illness, by gender and by age                MOFA
- Supplemental income increased by 25% for farmers   Briefs
Impact (indicators)
- Food security enhanced due to greater survival of
livestock (insurance policy in rural areas), more
reliable crop production and dry season sources of                              Access to markets crucial for sales of
income. Better quality of life due to higher incomes                             surpluses
from sales of additional surpluses aWn safe water   Comparison with baseline     Storability of processed product
- Local capacity strengthened (catci ent area and   data
slopes of reservoirs and dugotits protected, boreholes    Socio-economic studies  Effective Community mobilization
properly maintained)                                                            required
- Communities better organized to;                  Periodic visits
- deal directly with district techni.al offices,    Project management Field
- identify, plan new operations, and                studies
- provide regular O&M
rs>
oX



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Logical Framework/M&E Indicators
Means of                 Risks/Assumptions/
Project Components                     Narrative Summary                         Objectively Veririable Indicators             Verification                   Comments
Rural Transport Infrastructure
Feeder                            Finance selective rehabilitation of existing  Inputs
feeder roads, construction and upgrading of    - 750 kms of feeder roads rehabilitated by 2001  Supervision         VTr and IMT must be integrated to
Tracks and trails                 village arterial tracks and trails, and     - 270 kms of tracks and trails constructed by 2001  Quarterly           optimize impact
integrating these with various forms of     - At least 1000 units of IMTs in use by 2001       Progress Reports
Labor-Based Contracts             intermediate means of transport (IMTs).      - At least 10.000 additional beneficiaries trained 2001   Annual Reports
Investments integrated to ensure synergy.
Road rehabilitation through Department of   Outputs
Feeder Roads using labour-based contractors.   - Level of adoption of IMTs
- Kms of road rehabilitated                                             Inadequate capacity of private roads
- No. of beneficiaries trained                                          contractors may limit achieving targets
- No. of communities involved                      Annual reports
Site inspection
Outcomes                                           Supervision
- Greater access by vehicles to at least 50% of all                    Inability to organize beneficiary villages
participating communities by 2001                                      to undertake VTT work
- Delay in evacuating surpluses reduced by 25%
annually                                                                Adequacy of IEC critical
- Reduced headloading by women and children
Impact
- Employment in villages through labour-based work
increased by 50%                                                                                                      -
- Higher production of surpluses and higher incomes    Project ICR
for 50% of participants by 2001                    Studies
- Rural incomes increased by 250% by end of
project life
Comparison with
Baseline Data
oZ



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Logical Framework/M&E Indicators
Means of                    Risks/Assumptions/
Project Components              Narrative Summary                        Objectively Verifiable Indicators                Verification                      Comments
Post harvest Processine
Processing equipment         Finance post harvest management     Inputs                                                   AWP/B Monitoring   Capacity building aiming beneficiaries critical
facilities for small farmers to reduce   - 600 new cribs and drying floors by 2001           Supervision         linkages between individual investment to
On-farm storage              post harvest losses (currently      - At least 1000 grinding machines installed by 2001, these  Progress reports  enhance synergy
estimated a 30% in Ghana),         would include: shea butter extractors, cassava processors ,oil  quarterly audits
Fish processing              increase shelf life and storability,  palm extractors, and other miscellaneous equipment.                         Construction would involve contribution of
thereby enhancing market           3000 on-farm storage facilities constructed by 2001       Supervision         labor and basic material by beneficiaries
Drying Facilities            flexibility, and increasing product  - 3000 improved community-level storage facilities      Progress reports
diversity and value.               constructed by 2001
Supervision
Outputs                                                  Progress reports
- Outputs of quality processed food and goods
increased by 25% by 2001                                 Supervision
- Incomes to beneficiaries increased by at least 25% by  Quarterly reports
2001
- Quantity of stored products increased by 50% at the
community level by end of Project
Outcomes
- At least 50% of all facilities still operating after six years
- Healthier (more hygienic) food available locally and at
wider level. Shelf-life increased by 50% of current levels by
2000
- Prices of processed food stable due to increases in
supplies
Impact
At least 50% of communities with enhanced food security
by 2001 (e.g. elimination or reducaion of lean season stress;
- Better quality of life (e.g. improved indicators for health,
including attendance at health facilities and nutrition, higher
school enrollments, esp. of girls)
- Capacity enhanced and empowerment fostered (village    MOFA Reports
undertakes new projects with own funds, without relying in
outside assistance) Long term sustainability assured (facilities
are properly run and maintained independent of project)  MHO/MOE Annual
Reports
District Assemblies
records
District Assemblies
records
v>
oZ
u-X



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Logical Framework/M&E Indicators
Means of                      Risks/Assumptions/
Project Components                Narrative Summary                        Objectively Verifiable Indicators                  Verification                       Conments
Institution Strengthenina
District-level                 Develop a broad programme to build    inputs
capacity within District Assemblies.  - At least 90% of district covered by project by 2001   District Assemblies     Staff availability within DAs is crucial to
Community-level               Community groups and associations,     - At least 30% of all communities participating within  records                 achieving desired programme impact
as well as NGOs that will act as      District by 2001
Groups/Associations           private sector partners in            - At least 25 NGOs trained by 2001                      MLGRD Annual             Lack of capable NGOs may delay
implementation.                       - At least 50 NGOs providing technical assistance by 2001   Reports             implementation
NGOs                           Capacity building will consist of     - Training/sensitisation of 110 district assemblies
training, workshops, IEC, and other   completed by 1998 end                                   MOFA Annual Reports   Full complement of key DA staff needs to be
information campaign to enhance       - Training/sensitisation of district NGO staff completed by                     in place
beneficiary awareness. Collaboration    1998 end
will be with Government, training     - IEC campaign for traditional leaders (village chiefs and                      Capacity building to be parallel financed with
institute and other private sector    elders) launched in all areas by 1999                                           E.U. Human Resources Development
groups.                                                                                       Zonal Project Reports    Programme (HRDP)
Outputs
- At least 220 district assembly members trained by Mid-
term Review
- At least 110 planning officers trained by 2001
- At least half of all traditional leaders participating in the
project trained by 2001                                MLGRD annual
assessment of DAs
Outcomes
- Backlog in DA processing of rush project reduces by
half by 2000                                           Quality of District
- Assembly members and traditional leadership more     Developement Plans
aware of gender and poverty issues
- NGO staff assure suppon role effectively
Impact                                                 Supervision
- DAs capable of independent setting of development    Annual DAs Reports
priorities by 2001
- At least 75% of DAs with improve district administration   MOFA Reports
by 2001
- At least 50% of DAs with improved financial
management by 2001                                     MOH/MOE Annual
- At least 50% of participating villages capable of    Reports
undertaking new projects with own funds, without relying    Supervision
on outside assistance by 2001
- At least 50% of all facilities are properly run and by  District Assemblies
beneficiaries by 2001                                  records
Supervision
>t    f



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Quantitative Inputs/Outputs, Targets and Key Project Factors
Components                           Unit    PY1 (a)   PY2    PY3    PY4    PYS    Total                           Instruments/Comments
A       INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT
A. 1    Postharvest Management
A.1.1 Inputs
a) Village Drying and Processing
Construction of drying floors and platforms  unit           8      100      450      600       600      1,758   Basic investments to strenghten postharvest
Construction of coolers                     unit            2        6       12        12       12        44   management through collaboration between MOFA,
Crop processors (chippers, graters, etc.)   unit           10       50      225      300       300       885   Crop Services and Postharvest Unit.
b)  Cn-farm/village storage                                                                                         Use of NGOs for organizing and training farmer
Group-owned storage                        No.              4       20       40       100      200       364  groups.
Village-level storage                       No.             4       20      100       100      200       424
Farmer Group Training                       No.            40      200      560      800       800      2400   Address constraints of poor farm and village
storage. Use of inputs (TA) of SG 2,000.
c)  Targeted Income Generation                                                                                      Technoserve
Smallscale Income Activities               Unit            20      200      200      200       200      1000
Group Credit                                No.            10      100      100       100      100       500
Training Beneficiaries                      No.            10      100      100       100      100       500  Focus on the poorest segment of the poor through
Group Training                             No.             20       20       20       20        20       100  geographic targeting.
Organising associations                     No.            20       20       20       20        20       100   Use of NGOs
NGOs                                        No.            10       10       10        10       10        50                                                                   >
A. 1.2   Output
Facilities constructed                          No.              -     480    1,440    1,440    1,440       4,365   Demand-driven activities.
Mills operation                                 No.            45       150      150      150      150        600  Actual number depends on ability to train village
Groups trained                                  No.             15      15        15       15       15         65  groups in management and provision of O&M.
A. 1.3  Impact
Higher incomes                                                                                                      The proposed intervnetions would lead to higher
Groups sustaining                                                                                                   rural incomes, food security aid market flexibility.
Farmers unsing better seed for new investments                                                                      The comined impact would be reduced poverty.
Incremental production and food crops
Flexibility in marketing
Improved quality products
B.    RURAL WATER INFRASTRUCTURE
B. I    Design/Construction of Dams                                                                                         Engineering works designed by irrigation Devt.
B. 1. 1   Inputs                                                                                                            Authority and executed by private contractors after
Dams Rehabilitation with spillways as needed    No.             2        10       20       30       30        92  local tender.
Pilot protection works                          No.             2        10       20       20       20        72   Pilot protection works to test catchment protection
techniques designed to halt silting up.
Dugouts rehabilitation (with spillways)         No.             2        10       20       30       30        92
no irrigation                                  No.              5       20       20       30       60        135   Designs provided by GWSC, built by local
Handdug wells sunk                              No.             11      50        80      110      140       391   contractor.
Schemes maintenance                                                                                                                                                           w  >
_______  ___________________________________ _  _Beneficiaries responsibility through users groups
(a) First year devoted mainly to organizing and training beneficiary communities and groups.



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Quantitative Inputs/Outputs, Targets and Key Project Factors
Components                           Unit   PY1 (a)   PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5    Total                          Instruments/Comments
B.      RURAL WATER INFRASTRUCTURE (cont'd)
B.1.2   Outputs
Sites developed                                   No.             5       20       40       75       75       215
Ha
Family units benefitting                          No.             5      25        40       40       40       145  Land allocation by compound according to
Ha                                                                number of family units av.2.5 family
Women benefitting                                 No.             2       10       20       55       55       142  units/compound - 1000 m2/family unit
Ha                                                                15-20% of overall area allocated to local
Population with safe water                        No.            72     420       660    1,020    1,020     3,192   women's groups 500 m2/women.
Livestock access to water                                       144     840    1,320    2.040    2,040      6,384
B.2     Boreholes/Spring Development
inputs
Included in crop production
sub-component Agricultural Development
B.2.2   Outputs (cumulative)
Incremental area planted                          ha              1      20        30       40       40       131
-   Rice                                          ha              1      20        30       40       40       131
-   Tomatoes                                      ha              1      20        30       40       40       131
-   Onions                                        ha              1      20        30       40       40       131
-   Cabbage                                       ha              1      20       30        40       40       131
Incremental field
-   Rice                                          ha            0.2      0.4      0.8      1.0      1.2
-   Tomatoes                                      ha            0.6      0.8      1.2      1.2      1.4
-   Onion                                         ha            0.2      0.4      0.8      0.8      1.0
-   Cabbage                                       ha            0.4      0.8      1.4      1.8      2.0
B.3     Stream flow Divers./pumping
B.3.1   Inputs                                                                                                              Initial TA to be supervised by Ghana Irrigation
Small-scale irrigation                            ha             5       25       60       75        75       240  Development Authority (GIDA); Crop Services
Stream flow diversion                             ha             5       25       60       75        75       240  to provide technical inputs; and NGOs to
Gravity-fed System                                ha             5       25       60       75        75       240  organize and train beneficiaries.
Routine maintenance                               ha             15      75       180     225       225       720
Focus on sample design and management.
B.3.2   Outputs
Intensification of village production             ha             15      75       180     225       225       720
Higher fields                                    t/ha           0.5      0.8      1.0      1.2      1.4       1.4
Incremental production                           t/ha           0.5      0.8      1.0      1.2      1.4       1.4
B.4     Run-off Management
B.4.1   Inputs
Water conservation methods
Bundling                                          ha             5      150      300      400      400      1,255  focus on middle arJ northern belts.
Water storage                                     no.           20      600    1,200    1,600    1,600      5,020
Terraces and banks construction                   no.           20      600    1,200    1,600    1,600      5,020                                                           P>
B.4.2   Outputs
Intensification                                  t/ha           0.5      0.8      1.0      1.2      1.4       1.4
I Higher Yields                                    t/ha          0.5        2        3        4        3   _        1                                                            X
(a) First year devoted mainly to organizing and training beneficiary communities and groups.                                                                                          r-_



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Quantitative Inputs/Outputs, Targets and Key Project Factors
Components                          Unit   PYI (a)    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5    Total                           Instruments/Comments
B.5     Pilot-catchment Management
B.5.1   Inuts                                                                                                             Focus of pilots to develop and test basic skills of
Community/groups organization                  No.             4       20       40       60       60        184  communities to manage integrated catchment water
Group training                                 No.             4       20       40       60       60        184  resources. This would be linked to National Water
Resources Management Steering Committee. Lessons
learnt to be used to better plan, manage and sustain
surface water impoundment.
B.5.2   Outputs
Beneficiary members                            No.            40      200      400      600      600      1,840
Beneficiaries inventory credit                 No.            20      100      200      300      300       920
Beneficiaries women's working
working capital loans
Beneficiaries production loans not estimated   No.            20      100      200      300      300       920
C.      TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
C. I    Inputs
C. 1. I   Road rehabilitation                           km              0       50      100      300      300       750  Inputs and technical guidance from Ghana
Spot improvement                               km              -       50      100      200      200       550  management of Feeder Roads (DFR).
Roads regrevelling                             km                      50      100      200      200       550   DFR offices at the level of District Assemblies to
Routine maintenance                            km                     100      200      500      500      1,300   provide technical supervision.
Period maintenance                             km                     100      200      500      500      1,300
Feasibility studies and road surveys           unit            4        5        5        5        5        24
C.1.2    Outputs
Access to markets                              No                      10       20       50       50       130
C.2     Village Tracks and Trains (VTT)
C.2.1   Inputs
VTT construction                               Km              0       20       50      100      100       270   For VTTs, communities organized and trained by
Drainage                                       km              0       10       25       50       50       135   NGOs. Involvement of community leaders.
Routine maintenance (by communities)           km              0       30       75      150      150       405
Group training                                 no.             0       40      100      200      200       540
C.2.2   Outputs
Access to farms                                No.             0       49      100      200      200       540
Reduction in post harvest losses              t/ha             0      0.5      0.8      1.0       1.0       1.0
C.3    Intermediate Means of Transport
C.3.1   Inwuts
Group formation                                Unit            0      125      125      125      125       500  Technical supervision by DFR and District
Units trained                                  No.             0      125      125      125      125       500  Assemblies.
Cycle trailers                                 No.             0      100      100      100      100       400
Donkey carts                                   No.             0      100      100      100      100       400
Light trailers                                 No.             0       50       50       50       50       200
C.3.2   Outputs
Groups trained                                 No.             0      125      125      125      125       500                                                                 7  >
Units adopted                                  No.             0      250      250      250      250      1,000 .IE; _fi
(a) First year devoted mainly to organizing and training beneficiary communities and groups.
41,X



GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Quantitative Inputs/Outputs, Targets and Key Project Factors
Components                                 Unit      PYI (a)    PY2    PY3    PY4    PY5    Total                      Instruments/Comments
D.      INSTITUTION STRENGTHENING
D. I    Inputs
Development of Groups/Associations                          No.             20       40       60       120                      District Assemblies strengthening in
Procuring and training NGOs                                 No.              10      20       30                                collaboration with E.U.
Workshops                                                   No.              10      20        5        5                       Information campaign on programme in PYI,
MIS for District Assemblies                                                 20       20       20       20                       reporting on programme experiences in PY2
IEC                                                                                                                             to PY5
Training for trainers                                                                                                           Multiple workshops for low density districts
participatory rural development, conumunications     Worksh.             4        4        2        2                      and one for high density district.
and gender sensitization                                                                                                   To review project performances and obtain
Financial managemnent                                     Worksh.            3        3        3        3                       beneficiary feedback.
Training by trainers of GIMPA                               No.              4        4        4        4                       Workshop organised for 24 key regional and
Village support and training                                No.              3        3         3        3                      district staff, by private agency engaged on a
Annual and quarterly audits                                 No.                                                                 contract basis. Workshop to include practicals
in form of field survey in 6 villages not
covered by existing surveys.
Workshops organized for 24 key regional and
district staff (incl. overlap with previous
workshop)
Additional training and support to
communities benefiting from dams
rehabilitation.
D.2     Outputs
Trainers trained in participatory rural development, etc.   No.            100       100     100      100                 400
Trainers trained in financial management                    No.             10       10       10         -                 30
Trained juniors/NGO staff                                   No.             100      100     100      100                 100
Baseline survey of villages in .............. districts     No.             20       20       20       20       30        110
E.      RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE COORDINATING UNIT
E. I    Inputs                                                                                                                          Three zonal and one national programme
Office Rehabilitation                                       Unit             1         -        -        -        -         I  offices established. Greater autonomy of
Contractual staff                                          Years            11       1        1 1 I    11       I         55  zonal offices.
Technical assistance                                       Month             2        2        2         -        -         6  Zonal programme officers (3), procurement,
Studies and surveys                                        Unit               -       I         -       2                   3  engineering and administrative staff.
Twinning arrangements                                       Unit            20       20                  -                 40  TA to design and install MIS, consultancies
Seconded staff                                             Years            20       20                                    20  for special studies and surveys (e.g. M&E)
Study tours to IFAD/IDA projects with similar
features
Twinning b/w District Assemblies
Community mobilization officer (from CDD)
and rural engineer.
(t  >
(a) First ycar devoted mainly to organizing and training beneficiary communities and grcoJpS.                                                                                               p   f



-78-                                               ANNEX XII
Page I of I
GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Bill of Estimated Quantities for Village Tracks
1 km of Village-to-Farm Track (Width = 2.5m)
ITEM      ACTIVITY DESCRIPTION                    UNIT           QUANTITY            RATE             AMOUN[T 
I.  Settingout                               m                    1000             108             108,000.00
2.  SiteClearing                             m2                   5100              25             127,500.00
3.  Tree felling I-2m girth                  No.                     5           29,295            146,475.00
4.  De-stump trees Im                        No.                     5           66,559            332,795.00
5.  Grubbing                                 m2                   2500              48             120,000.00
6.  Form Camber                              m2                   2500             293             732,500.00
7.  Trapezoidal drains                       m                     400             300             120,000.00
8.  Exc. Sub-grade material from borrow      m3                    150            5906            885,900.00
pit and bill n.e. 200m
9.  Exc. unsuitablermaterial in swampy       m3                     50            3994             199,700.00
areas and dispose
10.  Exec. for culvert& drain (3ml/km,4m      m3                  17.16            3994             68,537.04
long)
11.  Conc.1:3:6                               m3                   18.2           76601           1,394,138.20
12.  Conc. 1:2:4                              m3                   5.04        98,193.40           494,793.94
13.  Sawn Formwork                            m2                   70.2            5313               372,972
14.  Reinforcement 13mm O m.s out, bent,      kg                    400             990            396,000.00
fixed
15.  Exc. sub - base, spread & compact       m3                      75            7229            542,175.00
haulage n.e I km
16.  E. 0. Haulage                         m3-km                    375             351            131,625.00
17.  SconorChecks                            No.                     30            8169            490,140.00
18.  Excavate, break and remove boulders     No.                      5           11.497            57,485.00
and dispose
19.  Exc. dry unsuitablematerial and          m3                     50            1997             99,850.00
dispose.
Sub-Total         6.820.586.00
Add 30% Contingency - 2,046,175.86   GrandTotal - 8,866,762.06   US$5,912/km



-79-
ANNEX XIII
Page I of I
GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Tentative Project Field Supervision Schedule
Dates           Activities                 Skill Requirements                     Staff Weeks
Year I    (a)   Project Launching          Task Team Leader                            2
Workshop                   Procurement Analyst                         2
Disbursement Analyst                        2
(b)   Supervision                Task Team Leader                            2
Rural Infrastructure Specialist             2
Financial Analyst/Economist                 2
(c)   First-Year Implementation   Task Team Leader                           2
Review                     Rural Infrastructure Specialist             2
Sociologist                                 2
Year 2    (a)   Supervision                Task Team Leader                            2
Monitoring/Beneficiary Assessment           2
Specialist
Financial Analyst/Economist                 2
(b)   Supervision                Task Team Leader                            3
Rural Infrastructure Specialist             2
Sociologist                                 2
(c)   Supervision                Task Manager                                2
Annual Work Program       Financial Analyst                            2
Year 3    (a)   Supervision                Task Manager                                2
Rural Infrastructure Specialist             2
Beneficiary Assessment Specialist           2
(b)   Supervision                Task Manager                                2
Financial Analyst/Economist                 2
(c)   Supervision Annual Work    Task Manager                                3
Program                    Rural Infrastructure Specialist             3
Financial Analyst/Economist                 3
Year 4    (a)   Supervision                Task Manager                                2
Rural Infrastructure Specialist             2
Beneficiary Assessment Specialist           2
(b)   Supervision                Task Manager                                2
Financial Analyst/Economist                 2
(c)   Supervision Annual Work    T'ask Manager                               3
Program                    Rural Infrastructure Specialist             3
Financial Analyst/Economist                 3
Year 5    (a)   Supervision                Task Manager                                2
Rural Infrastructure Specialist             2
Beneficiary Assessment Specialist           2
(b)   Supervision                Task Manager                                2
Financial Analyst/Economist                 2
(c)   Supervision Annual Work    Task Manager                                3
Program                    Rural Infrastructure Specialist             3
Financial Analyst/Economist                 3
TOTAL STAFF WEEKS                                                      92



-80-
ANNEX XIV
Page I of I
GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Spot Improvement of 1 km Feeder Road
(Road Width: 6m)
ITEM               DESCRIPTION                    QTY          UNIT        UNIT RATE CEDIS             TOTAL
AMOUNT
CEDIS
I.       Clear existingroad of neglected bush        4500       m2                          25            112,500.00
2.       Clear out and deepen existingside drains    1400        m                         300           420,000.00
3.       Shape road (cambs) formation                1000        m                         293           293,000.00
4.       Excavate sub-grade material from borrow       100      m3                        3994            399,4Co.00
pit place and compact in low-lying areas
and culvert approach
50      m3                        7229            361,450.00
5 .
Provide and lay sub - base
6.                                                    600      m3-km                       351           210,600.00
E.O. haulage of sub - base
7.                                                      8       No.                       8169            65,352.00
Provide scon checks
8.                                                       l      No.                   4,500,000         4,500,000.00
Construct I m b.c. including excavation
backfilling, formwork and concrete.
9.                                                   2000        m                          108          216,000.00
Settingout
Total without Contingency
+ 30% contingency      = US$ 6,578,302.00



-81-
ANNEX XV
Page I of ]
GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Performance Characteristics and Relative Cost of Some IMTs
Max.             Max.                                               Relative
Vehicle           Load             Speed                  RouteRequirements             Cost
(kg)             (km/h)
Wheel barrow                100              5               Flat, narrowpath                20
Bicycle                    75                20              Flat, narrow path               50-90
Bicycle and trailer        200               10-15           Flat, wide track                90-150
Bicycle and sidecar         150              10-15           Flat, wide track                90-150
Pack Animal                 100-250          5               Hilly,narrowpath                Variable
Animal-drawnsledge          200-400          5               Unsuitablefor steep terrain     10
(buffalo)
Animal-drawncart (oxen)     500-1500         5               Flat, wide track                100-180
Motorcycle
100             40-90            Motorablepath                   250-600
Motorcycleand sidecar      250-500           30-60           Unsuitable for steep hills      350-800
Motorcycle and trailer     250               30-60           Unsuitablefor steep hills       350-800
Single axle tractorand trailer   1500        15-20           Unsuitablefor steep hills       1500
Asian Utility Vehicle       1000             60              Motorableroadortrack            3000
1. Typical values are quoted with variationsexpected in specific locations. No currency is quotedor intendedforthe relativecosts. The
orderofcost magnitudeis in relationto othervalues in the table.



-82-
ANNEX XVI
Page I of I
GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Comparative Costs of Village Tracks and Trails
ITEM     ACTIVITY                                        COST PER KILOMETER
2m. wide               2.5m           4m
I  SettingOut                               108,000.00         108,000.00           108,000.00
2   Site Clearance                           82,500.00          127,500.00          175,000.00
3   Tree Felling                            146,475.00          146,475.00          292,950.00
4   De-Stump Trees >1 m girth               332,795.00         332,795.00           665,590.00
5   Grubbing                                 96,000.00          120,000.00          192,000.00
6   CamberFormation                         586,000.00         732,500.00          1,172,000.00
7   Trapezoidalside                         120,000.00         120,000.00           230,000.00
8   Filling to culvert approaches and
low areas                               708,720.00         885,900.00          1,488,312.00
9   Excavate swampy material                199,700.00          199,700.00          279,580.00
10   Excavate for culven foundation          54,829.32           68,537.04           164,488.90
1 1  Concrete 1:3:6                        1,115,310.56        1,394,138.00        3,345,931.68
12   Concrete 1:2:4                         395,914.18          494,793.94          1,196,214.57
13   Sawn Formwork                          298,378.08          372,927.26           559,390.89
14   12mm 0 m.s. reinforcement              316,800.00          396,000.00           950,400.00
15   Excavation and laying of sub-base      433,740.00          542,175.00          1,301,220.00
16   Excavate dry unsuitablematerial         99,850.00           99,850.00            99,850.00
17   Sconorchecks                           490,140.00          490,140.00           490,140.00
18   Remove boulders                         57,485.00          490,140.00           490,140.00
19   E.O. for haulage of sub-base            105,300.00         131,635.00           315,900.00
TOTAL                                 5,747,937.14        6,820,551.44        13,084,553.04
or US$3,832.00     or US$4,547.00         US%8,723.00
Note: Comparativecosts of I km of 2m, 2.5m and 4m wide
Village -to-farrn tracks for imts
Using labor based technology



IBRD 28274
3BURKINA  FASO                                                                                                                 IR 28274
.J  Bawku                      G H A N A
g ) ' ~~~~~Tmu                                                  Nvog   BnZJ'VILLAGE
.OLGATANGA                          INFRASTRUCTURE
Lawrc                                                 Sandemra,    ('.\<PROJECT
OGambog                          PROJECT
COORDINATING
,    0                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Walewlez      an'  _     X        t           O E
TA-u PROJECT ZONES
10      -,WA                 ~                               '                       /       )       (         PRIMARY ROADS
Gushiegu                             DISTRICT CAPITALS
\(3  REGION CAPITALS
j Ii\Saboba~ *; 69NATIONAL CAPITAL
0-     S     aelS\:  >DISTR CT BOUNDARIES
) v      r /2 J REGION BOUNDARIES
Yendi \  r    ,   ])       INTERNATIONAL
_l                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~Tolono   f       ~2Yendil            r. .          BOLJNDARIES
(- 0_ Ale                     ODamongo
\   X               /                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bimbill  < 41
C 6   T E      0           \                      /           -                 Salll: ~ ~^l  _   - >   +;\\.\tX          TOGO
D 'I V    O I R E                                               <                                                     x\WNkwanti 
p_/             ~~~Kintamopoo  /
.  ,'    /                                                    \0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kete    
OKwome Danso            Karachi
Wenchio                        ~~~~~0    0
'Drobo-                                                Atiebbu                                  LAKE
/(             ,~   Techiman              oranza                                                                adjebi
/ ~~~~~'7 < b~~~~~~Eiure'                                                                   Jasika *
gAhenkr                         e
MOampong                             K 
, -.,Kenyasi Tep                                                                           p       n
Offins    -    jEffiduose
Monkronsoa      - o Mamponteng
zS          ~~~Goaso'.       ,                     u         Kng
rKnago
Nkawie          MAS         mase Mproesa                                       SHO
\~~~~~~~~~~~~    KunfemiseO                                                     
Bibiani                     0          unso                                          V OL T A'
Junbeso                          !-INew'-.'  -,(/f- -J
8  '-    , WiowsoO             ObuosivQ                 Abirem                         OKJunls&, iAimpeku          Ekt'       \
6'~ ~ ~~was                                                                                   ., Krounw-bq_OA     > <fs_P>           -
KIdeo   . (ib  -  \           obt         Adidomao         '
{  Enchi      Asarrkrangwa                V          oau           ,VAaaa                                           d
d  , , Om ~~~~~~~Nw                                       Swedu    O i    TemaA,                   C                    CR 
' w>'-- 1 -  .                      \~~~~~Dunw  Dunkwg,- '            A                   O    0203    0   06
t~ ~~~~~~~i                                  Aki Tarkw  .  , ,,  inb                                   IE
>   5)(   ,          2    ~~~~Dobgase OQ_O-           Satipnd         This map was preparoesd by the Map Unitr of the Wordd Baonk.
n hishown an Rhkr                                                                         moFp do nas impluydonS teah t f The Worldnk 5"
Axim  ACg antZ  TAKORADI  GULF OF GUitNEA                 e
NkwentraAbra   Aj
| . . .... . _1_ ,rk~.                                                                                                ILE
SEPTEMBER 1 996






IBRD 28275
BURKINA FASO                                                                        GHANA
VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECT
WT },iF  |   <              <    i>s    AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES
UPP t    ,  /   WEST  X  -31   l                - t       .   .                   AGRO - ECOLOGICAL ZONES:
SUDAN SAVANNA
_,   1t   WAj  /   \  i-   NT+EF    l iiP  t  ;    8 ' / {          GUINEA SAVANNA
-S-obob                  TRANSITIONAL
DECIDUOUS FOREST
D'IVOIR                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAIN FOREST
COASTAL SAVANNA
PREDOMINANT
LIVESTOCK REGIONS
~-,euc--  ISOHYETS N
NATIONAL PARKS AND RESERVES
SANCTUARIES
-8 .p/X PRIMARY ROADS
/;   /    J  /  /   XBR<iHAFO  >   >    iC  A  |  s      MAJOR SECONDARY ROADS
RAILROADS
X / ibiu ., ,9/ +, 9 2 | n - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
PORTS
  REGION HEADQUARTERS
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
/ \/  \so (I  \    \    -REGION BOUNDARIES
ff   V  ANy  4   /rA N Ti  \>,    i9   C   <%i    ( 1g t    --   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
95 Z - > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 170
O  90  2    54   09
0   20  40  00      0 KILOMETERS
BURKINA FASO      IR
9; ~~~~~~~~~COAST r-..
-\~~~~SEKONDI  )
<9rg    koxa~I;;                   GULF OF GUINEA                                        7                ' 
This map was prepared by the Mop Unit of the World Bank.           1-ANA
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information  b                r
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bonk
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any      A
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
;Gulfof Guine1
SEPTE.BER I1996









IMAGING
Report No.:        15942   GH
Type:     SAR



