                            Document of
                         The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 31016

             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IF-N0200 PPFI-P9690 PPFI-P9691 COFN-03840 COFN-04110 COFN-04340)

                                ON A

                              CREDIT

               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$30.0 MILLION

                              TO THE

                     GOVERNMENT OF GHANA

                              FOR A

               VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT




                          December 29, 2004

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective April 26, 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = Cedis
                                       C 8,502 = US$ 1
                                   US$ 1.4666 = SDR 1

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1    December 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC      Area Council
ADB     Agricultural Development Bank of Ghana
ASIP    Agricultural Sector Improvement Project
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBO     Community Based Organization
CBRD    Community-Based Rural Development Project
CDD     Community-Driven Development
CWSA    Community Water and Sanitation Agency
DA      District Assembly
DCE     District Chief Executive
DFR     Department of Feeder Roads
ERR     Economic Rate of Return
ESMF    Environmental and Social Management Framework
FRR     Financial Rate of Return
GoG     Government of Ghana
IEC     Information Education Communication
IMT     Intermediate Means of Transportation
ISCB    Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
MMC     Market Management Committees
MOFA    Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MTADP   Medium Term Agricultural Development Program
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
NTSC    National Technical Steering Committee
PDO     Project Development Objectives
PPCC    Project Policy Coordinating Committee
PSR     Project Status Reports
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
RFI     Rural Financial Institutions
RICU    Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report (now Project Appraisal Document)
VTT     Village Tracks and Trails
WATSAN  Water and Sanitation
WBG     World Bank Group


                               Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
                             Country Director      Mats Karlsson
                              Sector Manager       Mary A. Barton-Dock
                           Task Team Leader        Charles Annor-Frempong

                                            GHANA
                              VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8 Beneficiary Survey Results                                               29
Annex 9 Borrower ICR                                                             30

Project ID: P041150                                                  Project Name: Ghana:VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE
Team Leader: Charles Annor-Frempong                                  TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Ghana:VILLAGE INFRASTRUCTURE                             L/C/TF Number: IF-N0200; PPFI-P9690;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P9691;
                                                                                                     COFN-03840;
                                                                                                     COFN-04110;
                                                                                                     COFN-04340
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (40%); General transportation
                            sector (22%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (15%);
                            General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (13%); Other
                            social services (10%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Other social protection and risk
                            management (P); Decentralization (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/01/1995                                     Effective:                           02/04/1998
     Appraisal: 06/27/1996                                         MTR:                             05/30/2001
      Approval: 05/30/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GHANA/MOFA/RICU
                      Other Partners:      IFAD, KfW

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Serge Michailof
Sector Manager:                 Mary A. Barton-Dock                            Jean Paul Chausse
Team Leader at ICR:             Charles Annor-Frempong
ICR Primary Author:             Nicolas Kotschoubey


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's main objective, as stated in the SAR was to support the efforts of the Government of Ghana to reduce
poverty and increase the quality of life of the rural poor through increased transfer of technical and financial
resources for the development of basic village-level infrastructure that could be sustained by beneficiaries. The
project was also to support capacity building of District Assemblies to better plan and manage these investments
and was to empower rural beneficiary groups and associations through training and other forms of technical
assistance that would enable them to sustainably operate and maintain these investments at the community level.

The project was important for improving rural living standards. The main constraints to improving rural
livelihoods have been identified as the poor state (or non existence) of basic rural infrastructure (rural water
supply, village post-harvest and transport infrastructure) on which the poor depend and which is needed to unleash
a rigorous supply response from agriculture. One other key lesson from the implementation of the Medium Term
Agricultural Development Strategy was the significant shortage of implementation capacity at the central and local
levels and although the decentralization process of governance was well advanced, the District Assemblies lacked
the financial resources needed to implement their set of development objectives.

The Village Infrastructure Project which was consistent with the objectives of IDA's Country Assistance Strategy
for Ghana and the Government's own strategy of decentralization and empowering the poor was the primary
vehicle for rural development and poverty reduction.

The project was complex and difficult for the Borrower to implement because of: (i) lack of familiarity and
implementation capacity with community-demand driven approach; (ii) the wide geographical area covered by the
project (nationwide); (iii) the number of activities, that is, sub projects and; (iv) the number of agencies required to
provide assistance to the DA's.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised. The mid-term review (MTR) mission re-examined the project development
objectives (PDOs) as well as the specific objectives and considered them valid, relevant and achievable.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had four original components:

(a)      Rural water infrastructure (US$ 13.8 m). The project would support the integrated development and
management of water resources, including catchment management and other water conservation practices, and
investments for the rational use of water for agriculture, livestock and human consumption including small dams,
dugouts, boreholes, hand-dug wells, streamflow diversion and pumping to support small-scale irrigation in the dry
season, and rainfall conservation and management for more effective use in rain-fed crop production.

(b)      Rural Transport Infrastructure (US$ 13.1 m). The project would support selective rehabilitation and spot
improvements of degraded feeder roads, the development of village tracks and trails (VTTs) linking farms to
villages that would permit the use of simple wheeled vehicles for reducing the drudgery of head portage (a task
performed mainly by women and children), and a pilot program to develop Intermediate Means of Transportation
(IMTs) for the rural poor to increase the efficiency of evacuating produce from farms to villages and onwards to
markets.

(c)      Rural Post-Harvest Infrastructure (US$ 4.8 m). The project would support the development of on-farm
and village-level drying facilities to reduce post harvest losses, on-farm and community storage, and other
village-level market infrastructure for more efficient marketing of produce, appropriate facilities for processing
crops, livestock and fisheries products to increase their quality, shelf life and market value, and income-generating
activities targeted at the poorest segments of the rural population to enable them to enhance their incomes.




                                                           - 2 -

Institutional Strengthening (US$ 9.6 m). The project would support capacity building within District Assemblies
(DAs) to strengthen their planning and financial management of rural infrastructure; strengthen NGOs and other
community based organizations (CBOs) to provide more effective implementation support to beneficiary
communities and groups in developing sustainable rural infrastructure; and empower beneficiary associations and
groups to take direct responsibility for the sustainable operations and maintenance of rural infrastructure.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not revised. However, minor restructuring in project management was made at MTR
when the roles of the District Director of Agriculture and the District Planning Officer were clarified.
Furthermore, two of the administrative structures, the Project Policy Coordinating Committee (PPCC) and the
National Technical Steering Committee (NTSC) were merged when it was found that the functions of the two
bodies overlapped; moreover the PPCC was not meeting as was anticipated. In place of the two bodies the Project
Steering Committee was created with the Minister of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) as the Chairperson and the
Minister for Local Government as Co-chairperson.

The mechanism for the provision of private goods was substantially revised. Management of the funds was
mainstreamed through rural financial institutions rather than District Assemblies and a grant element introduced
to cushion the poor.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Although a rating by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) was not made, quality at entry is rated
Satisfactory as the project accurately addressed two of Ghana's pressing needs: agricultural development and rural
poverty. The two sectors are linked, as poverty in Ghana is largely rural and agricultural. The objectives of the
project are consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ghana, which is to support the
efforts of the government to reduce poverty through rapid and shared economic growth and human resource
development. The core of the IDA assistance program is rural development, macroeconomic stability, and human
resource development. Thus improving basic rural infrastructure on which the rural poor depend can act as a
catalyst in accelerating rural development. The implementation method (demand-driven micro-projects arrived at
in a participatory method, on a scale at which the rural poor can be fully involved and can claim ownership)
ensured the delivery of a pertinent product.

As regards the project's preparedness, it correctly addressed fiduciary aspects, and put in place a Project
Implementation Manual and financial management system before implementation. The slow start observed in the
implementation of physical sub-projects is attributable to the late recruitment of contract staff and the fact that an
information, education and communication campaign had to be carried out to ensure District / Community /
Beneficiary participation before actual infrastructure could be constructed. The project carried out an
environmental assessment to ensure social and environmental protection in conformity with the World Bank
Group's (WBG) safeguards policies. Additionally, many of the activities supported by the project had minor
negative environmental impacts, and, being demand-driven, had numerous positive impacts.

A significant deficiency, however, was that almost half of the indicators (23 out of 57) had to be revised or altered
during the Mid-Term Review (MTR). as a few were found to be unrealistic owing to the demand-driven nature of
the project. Of these, some could not be quantified, while others were qualitative when they could easily have been
quantitative e.g. "km of road rehabilitated". However, the project was able to measure them. The indicators were
too numerous, and not always appropriate, particularly the indicator in health and education, when the project
specifically did not address these two topics.      Nonetheless, the Project successfully managed to measure 45
indicators. The inadequacy of indicators reflects the evolution of the Logical Framework method, which at present
utilizes fewer indicators than it did a decade ago, when the VIP was being prepared. Furthermore, in CDD
operations generally, quantifying indicators has proved problematical. The Ghana VIP, being one of the first CDD
projects in the Africa region, was designed with numerous indicators, some of which turned out to be either
over-ambitious or overly cautious. The lessons learnt have been incorporated in the follow-on project, CBRD.

These difficult-to-measure indicators demonstrate that as is usual in Community-Driven Development (CDD)




                                                         - 3 -

projects, it is complex to forecast the demand for micro-projects, and in this case more markets and less drying
floors and storage facilities, were requested by communities and many indicators were adjusted during MTR to
reflect this reality. For this reason the follow CBRDP does not attempt to quantify its outputs.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives is rated Satisfactory. Overall the project met the development objectives of reducing
poverty of the beneficiary groups, and of increasing their quality of life. The results achieved in terms of capacity
built at the level of the DAs are impressive, and the degree of empowerment of beneficiary groups, and their
ownership of the subprojects, has also been considerable.            All recipients demonstrated their support and
appreciation for the project, in particular in underprivileged areas, characterized with poor soils and harsh climate.
A Beneficiary Assessment (2003) states that from the beneficiaries' perspective, the project was very successful.
Half the farmers questioned declared that they now enjoy a better quality of life thanks to improved water
infrastructure, that the project's investments in rural transport significantly improved the life of rural communities
and that post-harvest infrastructure investments generated significant benefits: reduced losses, lowered costs,
improved quality and increased sales. The delivered outputs contributed to increasing the shelf life of harvests by
100%, the food tastes better and is produced in more hygienic conditions. As a result, the farmers were able to
produce more transformed products, at higher quality, and provided them with higher revenue. The project
operated, among other areas, within zones that have the highest level of "urban drift" in Ghana, a trend
characterized by the young, especially young women, leaving the rural areas and migrating to cities. Project
intervention in these areas slowed this devastating trend to a certain degree, as witnessed by the ICR preparation
team while visiting project sites; economic and social activity was centered around VIP micro-projects, while
activity in other villages was reduced. Finally, although an infrastructure project in nature, the VIP was well
justified in carrying out vast amounts of capacity building. This was demonstrated through some of its projects, in
particular water catchment dams, that infrastructure investment could not operate effectively without ample
training.

Regarding environmental and social performance, the project did not adequately address Safeguards issues for the
first two years of implementation as the focus was on Information Education Communication (IEC) and capacity
building. However, safeguards issues became important during the implementation of physical sub-projects; an
environmental impact assessment was carried out, which was used at the implementation of each micro-project.
Overall, impacts observed are minimal, with the exception of rural roads: exposure of borrow pits and increased
access to logging and poaching using roads developed under VIP is a reality that must be addressed by future
projects, with or without support from active agencies such as forestry or national parks. The follow-up project to
VIP, the Community-Based Rural Development Project (CBRD), has prepared an Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) in accordance to the World Bank's Safeguards policy on Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.01), to address these issues.

Although the program was slow to start and it is a tribute to the implementation team that the project eventually
managed to achieve most of its objectives within the time remaining, with only a six-month extension.
Approximately one year before project completion, the request for subprojects was such that the implementation
team had to take care not to over-commit funds.

The project was overwhelmingly a public goods project, although a small private goods financing window existed.
The private goods window consisted of loans to private groups to purchase capital goods, such as power tillers and
post-harvest equipment.       The private goods    window, which was implemented inefficiently through District
Assemblies, was suspended following the MTR (2001) until a new micro-credit delivery mechanism was
developed. It took a year to develop the new mechanism and educate beneficiaries in its use and application. As a
result, the implementation of income-generating projects was halted for at least a year (until 2002) and was
therefore active successfully for only two years (2002 - 2004). The new mechanism includes a loan component
from rural financial institutions (RFI) such as rural banks. The loan/grant under the private goods window was
made up of:




                                                          - 4 -

                    10 %     co-financing from the recipient
                    18 %     loan from the RFI's own funds (i.e. 20% of grant/loan)
                   72 %      mix grant/loan from VIP funds held in the Central Bank of Ghana, accessible to the RFI
                             (i.e. 80% of grant/loan)
                   100 % total

The resulting interest rate (repayment rate) to the recipient, taking into consideration the grant element, comes to
approximately 20% per annum of the loan portion by itself. The grant element was introduced to make repayment
more affordable to farmers without interfering with market interest rates.

Regarding beneficiary income, although a nominal average increase in income of rural beneficiaries of 116% is
registered, and that, accounting for inflation of approximately 25% per annum, this would represent a net drop in
inflation adjusted "real" income of approximately 10% after five years, most beneficiaries expressed satisfaction at
being included in the project. Furthermore, it can be argued that an average monetary increase of 116% does not
represent the full benefit of the project, and that the VIP contributed to non-monetary improvements also e.g.
reduced drudgery, improved access to clean water, reduction in urban drift, increased knowledge and awareness.
The probable scenario in the absence of the VIP would be a far greater drop in income. Finally, economic and
financial analyses carried out at project closure indicate that global economic rate of return (ERR) is 41% and
global financial rate of return is 30%, both figures indicating an overall positive return on investment.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(a)      Rural water infrastructure (US$ 13.8 m). The project aimed to promote catchment management, improve
water use for agriculture, livestock and human consumption, and improve rainfall conservation and management.
This component is rated Highly Satisfactory as the project provided 1,354 rural water facilities including boreholes,
hand-dug wells, dams, dugouts and irrigation systems, and is still in the process of completing numerous
investments. Crop production under irrigation nearly doubled through the provision of water, mainly as
beneficiary vegetable growers achieved four growing seasons per year. The local capacity of communities to
manage water resources was also greatly increased as witnessed by the high rate of facilities adequately
maintained, which had been problematic in the past; furthermore, the sense of ownership of the facilities by the
communities has been improved. The capacity of Area Councils (ACs) to plan, negotiate, operate and maintain
water-related infrastructure was greatly improved. These results have led to significant increases in the quality of
life of beneficiaries, through a reduction in water-borne diseases, improved nutrition and reduced effort at carrying
water and watering crops. A Beneficiary Assessment (2003), which surveyed project beneficiaries states that
"About half of the farmers have better access to safe water both for humans and for domestic animals.
Supplementary income improved food security for 40% of them, and half of the respondents declared that they now
enjoy a better quality of life."

(b)      Rural Transport Infrastructure (US$ 13.1 m). Improved access is one of the principal concerns of rural
populations. The project constructed or rehabilitated 552 km of feeder roads and farm tracks and trails under this
subcomponent, and supplied 207 intermediate means of transport (IMTs) made up of power tillers, motor-tricycles
with carts and animal traction carts through the private goods delivery system. The recipients of IMTs also
received training in the management of the equipment. These facilities have improved access to production
centers, and greatly reduced the drudgery of long-distance travel and head portage for women and children.
Vehicle access to participating communities was nearly doubled, and farm produce was sent to market significantly
faster. The project significantly improved the life of rural communities and individual beneficiaries.

Roads and tracks however require considerable resources to build and maintain on a per kilometer basis, and, not
being tarred, quickly degrade, especially after rains, if not maintained adequately (grading, grass cutting, ditch
cleaning, culvert cleaning, pothole and gully patching, repair of concrete and wooden bridges). The demand for
road and track improvement is insatiable, and the project had to make a decision that, under the CBRD, and to
maximize the dual benefit of infrastructure and access, it would finance tracks and trails and rehabilitation of
feeder roads, but not their maintenance. The VIP could easily have become a road maintenance project if it had
responded to all the demand for road rehabilitation.




                                                          - 5 -

One problem encountered regarding roads and tracks is the hand-over of responsibility for maintenance to
communities (in the case of village tracks) or the Department of Feeder Roads (DFR) (in the case of feeder roads).
Poor rural communities can ill-afford the labor and the resources to maintain roads. In the same way, the DFR is
under-funded nationally, and can, by all accounts, only carry out 50 ­ 70% of its maintenance work. It seldom
fully assumes its responsibility of maintenance, resulting in roads quickly falling into disrepair after being handed
over by VIP to DFR, following the MOU to that effect. To address this issue in future, the CBRD will hand over
responsibility for road maintenance to DAs.

Secondly, a negative impact of the project is that the improvement of roads and tracks by the project has resulted in
increased access by loggers and poachers to remote areas one particular instance. The project has not taken these
impacts into consideration, but intends to do so in the follow-on project (CBRD), according to the WBG
Safeguards policies, and has created an ESMF to address this need. Finally, the construction and rehabilitation of
roads and tracks requires fill material acquired from quarries and borrow pits, which, although theoretically
rehabilitated and sealed off by VIP after use, are often accessed by third parties, who do not follow environmental
laws, and expand the quarries. For these reasons, the component is rated moderately satisfactory.

(c)      Rural Post-Harvest Infrastructure (US$ 4.8 m). The majority of achievements under this component were
the construction and rehabilitation of 174 markets. It also included 16 grain stores, two abattoirs and one fish
landing site. Over 1,900 common groups benefited from post-harvest infrastructure, and over 300 villages received
training and capacity building. This component is rated Satisfactory as it contributed to more hygienic food
transformation, improvement in storage facilities, increased shelf life of harvests, provided better prices for
farmers, and improved quality of life.

Under the private goods window, 425 small-scale agro-processing projects supplying equipment to private groups
were completed (palm-oil presses, cashew nut processing) and have facilitated processing of agricultural produce at
the village level, adding value to commodities and reducing post-harvest losses. These have increased the income
levels of beneficiaries.

The project had not originally planned to include markets in the positive list. They were inherited from the
predecessor project, the Agricultural Sector Improvement Project (ASIP), which failed to complete them before it
closed. Markets are immediate sources of liquidity for DAs, representing 75% of internally generated revenue;
therefore they are high on the priority list of the local development plans of DAs. A few of the markets (less than
10%), although agreed upon and requested by Districts, remain unused owing to the inability of the DAs to
convince the traders to move to the new sites in spite of their involvement in the selection of those sites. The
reasons include political undertones, mistrust by recipients and / or refusal to use the markets for cultural reasons.
Furthermore, approximately two of the more successful markets were not fully rural, although they serve large
rural populations, and a few of the successful markets have problems of sanitation and waste collection, in spite of
training specifically aimed at addressing this issue. The CBRDP will continue to train market management
committees on means to address the sanitation and waste collection problems, however, the majority of markets are
functioning properly.

Institutional Strengthening (US$ 9.6 m). The project was Satisfactory in carrying out its institutional strengthening
and capacity building (ISCB): decentralization was increased and the capacity of Area Councils and District
Assemblies to plan and carry out their own development activities, process project proposals faster, and improve
administrative and financial management was improved.

A total of 12,995 communities with a population of over 3.9 million were included in the program through training
and awareness campaigns and are conversant with project concept and benefits. Capacity was enhanced in 300
villages, with these villages undertaking new projects with their own funds without relying on outside assistance.
All 110 DAs in the country (2,000 DA members) and 61 pilot Area Councils received training in participatory
planning techniques and have utilized the knowledge acquired to prepare their own development plans without
resorting to outside consultants. Over 100 District finance officers received training in financial management and
decentralization and planning, resulting in clearing project backlogs. Almost 200 NGOs received training and
participated in project implementation. More than 60 traditional leaders participated in the project, and over 3,300


                                                           - 6 -

beneficiary groups also participated, resulting in improved gender awareness. Various other groups, including
ACs, NGOs, CBOs and private service providers have undergone training programs in procurement, business
management, operations and maintenance of facilities, which has enhanced their ability to deliver services, and
sustainably manage facilities provided by the project.

The importance of delivering training in parallel to infrastructure, as the VIP successfully achieved, cannot be
over-emphasized, as even substantial investments in infrastructure e.g. dams cannot be fully utilized unless the
population is trained and made aware of the investment's full potential. This was eloquently demonstrated in the
VIP when a water catchment dam, itself inherited from the ASIP, which was previously inherited from an earlier
project, was not being used for its original purpose: irrigated agriculture. A beneficiary survey demonstrated that
the local population only considered agriculture the fifth priority in water use, placing drinking/household water,
livestock water, women industries, and fisheries ahead of irrigation. Grass-roots capacity building and support
under the VIP succeeded in re-prioritizing the uses for water, and in expanding the dry season farming capacities
of the recipients.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As indicated in the SAR, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the individual components, calculated at
inception, are as follows: rural water infrastructure: 23.1%; rural transport infrastructure: 26.6%; rural
post-harvest infrastructure: 32%. A financial and economic assessment could not be undertaken for capacity
building. Overall, project ERR at inception was 26% with a Net Present Value (NPV) of Cedis 218,683 million
(US$ 121 million).

According to an economic assessment carried out at project completion, the ERRs are as follows: rural water
infrastructure: 42%; rural transport infrastructure: 54%; rural post-harvest infrastructure: 29%. Global ERR is
41% and NPV is US$ 37.8 million.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
At inception, financial models for post-harvest processing investments and income-generating activities were
made, and showed a positive cash flow after the initial one-year investment period for all options of processing
technologies, indicating the relative profitability of these investments for smallholders.

At closing, the benefit/cost ratio ranged from 1.15 for corn grinders to 3.22 for cribs. The FRRs at completion are
as follows: rural water infrastructure: 39%; rural transport infrastructure: 34%; rural post-harvest infrastructure:
16%. Global FRR is 30% and NPV is US$ 19.45 million.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development is one of the most successful achievements of the project. As mentioned in "Output by
Components" above, institutional development and capacity building reached out to all tiers of project
implementation, and affected millions of participants over the course of the project.        Capacity was built in
government agencies, decentralized local government agencies, communities, private groups and with individuals.
It also went in parallel with infrastructure projects and assisted and trained user groups in managing and
optimizing their assets. Training and awareness raising accompanied all micro-projects implemented.

The project also successfully achieved the positive result of reversing a cycle of dependency that characterized
many rural communities. For decades after independence, rural communities were conditioned to receiving benefits
such as wells, tools and equipment from the government and donors, at no cost. This resulted in a situation where
a well or a pump would casually be known as "the [donor]'s handpump", demonstrating a lack of ownership by the
communities. This situation resulted in the expectation from villagers for the same donor to maintain and take
charge of the investment, which rarely happened. The VIP addressed this problem specifically to instill a sense of
ownership within the communities. This was largely successful, as witnessed by the numerous management
committees formed around the assets created by the project (e.g. water users associations around handpumps and
irrigation, farmer groups around carts and IMTs). During supervision missions, it was positively noted that
approximately half of DAs had achieved the ability to plan their own long-term development, which is a landmark
attainment.


                                                           - 7 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Overall, the project was implemented Satisfactorily, and no major factors such as natural disasters or political
unrest, disturbed its execution. The most notable aspect of execution is a very slow start, which was mitigated by
an accelerated implementation in the latter four years of the project's life (from mid-2001 onwards). The Bank's
role in supervision and guidance helped accelerate project implementation after a slow start.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Senior recruitment of key project staff was identified as a risk during both the project design and pilot stage and
accordingly noted in the SAR. The mitigating measure proposed by the team was to put all key management staff
on a one-year probation period so as to have flexibility in introducing changes as and when the need occurred.
Therefore when difficulties were encountered with the Project Coordinator, the Government agreed to a
management change after the expiration of the probation period.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As soon as the initial problems with the first coordinator were resolved, the implementing agency performed
satisfactorily, and successfully coordinated and kept track of numerous implementing, coordinating and
supervision activities. It successfully carried out audits, both financial and environmental, and made appropriate
use of consultants on an "as needed" basis e.g. for the production of a focused and balanced Beneficiary
Assessment and Survey.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Cost changes were not significant during the life of the project. Moreover, given the unforeseeable nature of a
demand-driven project, the initial allocations were very accurately predicted, and only a single reallocation of
funds had to be done, towards the end of the project (February 2003).

Implementation and disbursement delays were significant at the beginning of the project, but by June 2001 had
generally been resolved. Another anomaly with disbursement is that initially the ratio for disbursement was set
between IDA, IFAD and KfW at 3 to 1 to 0.7 respectively. However, during the first half of the project (until
November 2001), disbursement by KfW was disproportionately advanced, especially with respect to IFAD (7.6 to 1
to 3.6). This was mainly owing to difficulties encountered in the transmission of replenishment requests from IDA
to KfW and the problem of the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) of Ghana in promptly crediting the project
funds from IFAD. However, necessary actions were taken (transfer of resources and crediting project funds) and
the required ratio was maintained for the latter half of the project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated Likely, as the successor project, CBRD, has been approved by the Bank's Board and will
continue to provide funds and support training and capacity building. It will reinforce the ability of beneficiaries in
planning and managing their own development projects reached at the closing of the VIP.                 Many of the
communities and assemblies have responded extremely well to the training provided, which was ground-breaking
in its approach of being demand-driven and aimed at decentralization. It was encouraging to find certain Area
Councils requesting help in long-term urban planning, demonstrating that the project has truly managed to pass on
the desire for self-governance and demand-driven development to rural communities. The District Chief Executive
(DCE) of Jaman District summed up the capacity building efforts of the project this way, "for the first time we
prepared our three-year development plan ourselves without any outside consultants, using the knowledge we
acquired through the participatory planning workshop". As mentioned in 4.2 (d) above, capacity was enhanced in
300 villages, which now undertake new projects with their own funds without relying on outside assistance.

However, the approach is still very new for Ghana, and communities and assemblies require more time and
experience to become fully sustainable and autonomous. According to the July 2003 Beneficiary Assessment and



                                                          - 8 -

Survey, approximately half of the project recipients have achieved sustainability according to surveys and opinion
polls by field agents. The Assessment further states that the VIP "developed the ability of the DAs and ACs to
better manage their own resources and to provide stronger support to community development. The training
provided to communities and to farmers helped about half of them to be ready to take responsibility for their own
development and to undertake development projects without relying on outside assistance". The Assessment goes
on to state that, "However, sustainability of some of the VIP-financed income-generating activities is not yet
achieved" and would require a more positive cash flow to become sustainable. The latter corroborates with the
joint IDA-IFAD-KfW-GoG supervision team in November 2001 that concluded that sustainability of private goods
components could not be established and that communities did not have clear ideas as to the cost implications for
the maintenance and repayment plan for the goods that they had acquired. The team further stated that, "More
intensive education and training" was required.

As far as sustainability is linked to decentralization, maintenance of feeder roads will be more sustainable when the
DFR is effectively decentralized, which is currently ongoing with help from donors (Danish assistance ­ DANIDA
and the World Bank). The attitude of beneficiaries towards maintenance of subprojects is improving, although
further training is required. The project recommends that a maintenance plan, comprising maintenance from
beneficiary communities, or spot improvement by one-man contractors, drawn from surrounding villages, be
submitted by DAs for all new tracks funded under the project.

To achieve sustainability in water infrastructure, the project collaborated with Community Water and Sanitation
Agencies (CWSAs) and Water and Sanitation (WATSAN) committees at community level, and trained area
mechanics to maintain the boreholes and hand-dug wells. Significantly, it also encouraged the creation of user
committees around hand pumps, instituted user fees, and used the funds accrued for maintenance and spares.

In conclusion, although full sustainability of micro-projects is not assured, the follow-on project (CBRD) will guide
and support existing micro-projects, and will facilitate the creation of new micro-projects.          For this reason
Sustainability is rated Likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As the VIP comes to a close, the CBRD is being launched. As mentioned under "Sustainability", approximately
half of recipients have achieved sustainability, and the CBRD will build upon the achievements of VIP. The VIP
will merge into the CBRD, which is broader in its intervention, will include educational and health facilities, and
will have a more flexible form of financing (lump sum to DAs, which will be replenished as expenditures are made
and accounted for). KfW, IFAD and other donors have manifested interest for CBRD and the Agence Francaise
Developpment (AFD) have already indicated additional support of Euro 10.0 million.

The CBRD will target the poorest districts and communities in Ghana, and will utilize poverty assessments
currently being produced. It is expected that staff from the Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit (RICU), which
is the implementing agency for the VIP, will automatically be transferred to the task of carrying out CBRD-funded
activities. Essentially, a seamless transition will take place from VIP to CBRD.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall, the Bank's performance rating for lending is Satisfactory. The Bank, in identifying the project, responded
accurately to the Government's objective to reduce poverty and to improve quality of life, especially of the rural,
agriculturally dependent poor, as stated in the GoG's Poverty Reduction Strategy. It targeted four key sectors
(water, transport, post-harvest and capacity building), however it could have included health and educational
facilities. The Bank helped to design the project to engage the public and private sectors, and to do so at all levels
(District, Area and Community). In agreement with the goals stated in the Bank's CAS, the project also addressed
rural development, capacity building, private sector development and environmentally sustainable development.
The Bank helped prepare a demand-driven and participatory project that included financial and economic models.
Finally, the Bank fittingly included lessons from previous projects: Agricultural Sector Investment Project (ASIP),



                                                           - 9 -

Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP), Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP) and National Feeder
Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (NFRRMP).

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision is rated Satisfactory; close cooperation between the Bank team and the country
team during the life of the project ensured a dynamic and fruitful collaboration, which yielded positive results.
Through this collaboration, the project managed to override problems encountered early on (favoritism and
irregular procurement by project coordinator), and to resolve them using a mechanism built into project design
(one year probationary period of senior staff).        Experienced and multidisciplinary teams of Bank staff and
consultants held supervision missions regularly. Supervision missions addressed all issues raised, from long-term
strategy to daily administration. Although early project status reports (PSR) were weak, as the project advanced,
the PSRs addressed all issues adequately, and closely monitored project performance indicators. As regards
performance indicators, some were not adequate and could have been reviewed and redefined at MTR, or removed
altogether, however a number of these were successfully reviewed. The appreciation showed by the implementing
agency of the Bank's performance during supervision was manifest during the ICR mission.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory, based on good results in core objectives and high-quality
implementation. The Bank helped identify and put in place a project that addressed fundamental concerns for
Ghana, and provided continuous and dynamic guidance from the Ghana field mission, to allow close monitoring
and support, in partnership with the implementing agency.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance in preparation was, like the Bank's, Satisfactory, in that the resulting components and
beneficiaries were highly appropriate. However, no mechanism was put in place to measure the flow of funds
resulting from the provision of a public good facility, such as a market; although this is intrinsically difficult to do,
it makes it more difficult to track the benefits accrued from subprojects.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is overall Satisfactory; the Government of Ghana (GoG) successfully
contributed to counterpart funds by allowing the project not to pay taxes. The policy of decentralization being
undertaken by the government was key to the success of the VIP, as local planning by DAs was critical to project
success, and is important for the success of CBRD. The only flaw in the government's performance is the initial
appointment of a coordinator who did not perform adequately. This, as indicated earlier, was rectified early in
implementation and a new coordinator appointed.



7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementing agency (RICU) is Highly Satisfactory; a very small team (approximately 35
officers) managed to cover the entire national territory, and made great efforts to reach as many recipients as
possible. RICU was highly motivated and managed and organized a large number of activities, including audits,
environmental assessments, consultancies and accommodating teams visiting the project from overseas. High-level
staff members were recruited, who performed extremely well: they monitored numerous indicators, kept tight
accounts and controls over the project, and managed the project efficiently. The RICU made maximum use of
professional outside consultants when it recognized its own shortage of capacity.              Reflecting the Bank's
performance, the Implementing Agency could have reviewed and redefined some performance indicators at MTR,
or removed them altogether. However this was done for the most part.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory given the overall very positive outcome of the project, and the
means available to achieve the results obtained. The implementation team was a small unit that achieved extensive
and lasting results. The government's policy of decentralization allowed the project to develop. However, the




                                                          - 10 -

absence of a safeguards mechanism for the first two years of the project, and the achievement of only partial
sustainability, prevent this component from being rated Highly Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Many of the lessons learned during the life of the VIP were implemented immediately and during the course of the
execution of the project; however, no major changes in strategy or objectives were made, and the original project
components were maintained. Below are some of the main lessons learned:

Indicators in project design
The project utilized a large number of indicators, which were not always easy to measure, and did not promote
efficiency in the management of the project. This reflects the trend that projects formulated more recently have (i)
fewer and (ii) easier-to-measure indicators.

Forecasting demand in CDD projects is difficult
For CDD projects, micro-project implementation depends on demand from communities. It is therefore difficult,
and sometimes self-defeating, to predict the quantity of micro-projects that communities will request. The targets
predicted are difficult to attain, or alternatively, can be substantially exceeded; this is mitigated by reviewing the
indicators as projects progress, or at MTR. On the other hand, the indicators chosen can be just qualitative in
nature.

RFIs willing to lend to communities
Rural Financial Institutions expressed their willingness to lend to rural entrepreneurs without support from the
government or donors, and to therefore assume the entire risk for the loan. This suggestion was encouraged by the
VIP, which welcomed the proposal.

Capacity building is important even in an infrastructure project
A large amount of capacity building and training is essential, even in an infrastructure project, to ensure optimal
use of infrastructure provided. Without ISCB a project can fail in its original objectives (e.g. a dam built for
irrigation can be used for drinking water only, making sub-optimal use of a large investment). This demonstrates
that infrastructure development alone cannot lead to sustainability.

ISCB can lead to autonomy and sustainability
The project demonstrated that approximately half of recipients are able to carry out their own planning and
subprojects as a result of the training from the VIP. However, the remaining half requires additional training.
ISCB also led to communities taking control of their development.

Ownership
The project successfully reversed a "cycle of dependency" that characterized many rural communities and instilled
a sense of ownership within the communities by forming management committees around the assets created by the
project (e.g. water users associations and farmer groups). This situation will lead to improved maintenance of
assets.

Maintenance is problematic
Numerous examples in the VIP (power tillers, water systems, markets, roads and tracks) demonstrate that
maintenance, and planning for maintenance, is a serious obstacle to sustainability, that requires detailed attention.
User groups, although working as teams, fail to preemptively equip themselves with spare parts that wear out from
continued use, and find that their productivity declines when work has to be interrupted as a result of breakdowns
in machinery.

Sustainability of rural water delivery
The key to sustainability of rural water delivery lies in the viability of the supply chains. Stocking parts per se is
not the key but having a viable national spare part supply system including outlets at community / district levels to
ensure availability of parts year round is vital.       Area mechanics should be trained and available to render



                                                         - 11 -

maintenance services (including stocking of some basic items. Training of pump caretakers at community level is
the first line of action. The investment in rural water supply should therefore not be restricted to physical facilities
but also support development of viable supply chains for sustainability. Finally, to maximize health impact, the
integration of water, sanitation and hygiene education is key.

Road maintenance
As in the maintenance of other investments under the VIP, the long-term maintenance of roads and tracks is
problematic. In part owing to the high expense required, these are often rehabilitated and subsequently left to
degrade.     The CBRD will have to address this situation by putting in place an executable road and track
maintenance plan, in accordance with all actors (DFR, communities, DAs, ACs).

Beneficiary contribution is problematic
The payment of 10% beneficiary contribution is problematic and participants have suggested waiving the 10%
down payment. The issue of co-payments has been discussed extensively in CDD projects in Africa, however the
co-payments by communities ensures better ownership of micro-projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) submitted a final report, which is attached as an annex to this
document (main text only). The report finds the VIP Satisfactory overall, as the project achieved its original
objectives.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

Performance Indicators
This project, formulated nearly a decade ago, included a large number of indicators, some of which were difficult,
impractical and expensive to measure. Since then, the trend has been to reduce the number of indicators, and
make them clearer and easier to measure, the rationale being that project managers should not dedicate their entire
effort to measuring performance indicators.

Furthermore, some of the indicators were either considerably exceeded or fell significantly short, reflecting the
unpredictability of demand for micro-projects in CDD-type operations.

Therefore, if judged by the standards applicable to the project at the date of creation, the project was well prepared
and thorough. However, the use of indicators has evolved, and a project with 57 indicators would be considered
burdensome in current conditions.

Sources
Data for the preparation of this report came from a thorough review of Project Status Reports, Bank
aide-mémoires, a Beneficiary Assessment, economic and financial calculations, other project documentation, a
ten-day field visit, and conversations with project staff, beneficiaries, consultants, the authors of the Beneficiary
Assessment, the author of the economic and financial assessments and Bank staff involved in the project. The
Beneficiary Assessment was carried out in 2003 using 39 "enquêteurs" (surveyors) who interviewed beneficiaries
about the project, who overall found it "very successful". The field visit also showed an overall successful result.




                                                        - 12 -

  Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


  Indicator Matrix                                                 Target at inception    Revised Target at    Actual/Latest          *% of
                                                                                          mid-term             estimate               target
  Development Objectives
  Average income of rural beneficiaries                            25% (from Cedis 1.8m   25% (from Cedis      Average income of      116%
  increased                                                        to Cedis 2.25m)        1.8m to Cedis 2.25m) beneficiaries is Cedis
                                                                                                               3.9m
  No of groups with agro- processing                               30% by 2002 (from      30% by 2002          1,760 groups           640%
  increased                                                        275 to 357)            (from 275 to 357)
  Feeder roads in maintenance network                              750 km by 2001         300 km by 2003       364 km                 121%
  by 2002
  Rural Water Infrastructure
  Inputs
  Dugouts/dams constructed or                                      92 by 2001             20 by 2004           27                     135%
  rehabilitated
  Boreholes constructed                                            115 by 2001            1,000 by 2003        693                    69%
  Hand dug wells constructed                                                                                   454
  Irrigation pumps and accessories                                 160                    160                  180                    112%
  provided
  Outputs
  Community watershed management                                   4                      4                    4                      100%
  committees trained in integrated
  watershed management
  Water and sanitation committees put                              1,300                  1,300                1,312                  101%
  in place
  Area of lowland intensification                                  3,000 ha by 2001       1,000 by 2004        335 ha                 34%
  Outcome/Impact
  Incremental crop production for                                  20% per annum          20% per annum        192%                   460%
  beneficiaries with irrigation facilities
  Incidence of waterborne diseases                                 20% reduction          20% reduction        Reduced by an
  reduced by 20% by end of project in                                                                          unknown amount in
  rural areas                                                                                                  areas where potable
                                                                                                               water was supplied
  Yields increased for vegetables                                  20% increase by 2001   20% increase by      300%                   1,500%
  through supplemental irrigation                                                         2001
  Dry season crop intensification for                              2 harvest each year    2 harvest each year  4 harvests             200%
  vegetables
  Increase in access to safe water                                 From 1,300 to 1,950    From 1,300 to 1,950  1,993 villages         200%
                                                                   villages               villages
  *** Food security enhanced due to                                                                            Food security
  greater survival of livestock                                                                                enhanced through
  (insurance policy in rural areas), more                                                                      the provision of
  reliable crop production and dry                                                                             water facilities for
  season sources of income.                                                                                    dry season farming
  Local capacity strengthened                                      100% of micro-projects 100% of              98%                    98%
  (catchment area and slopes of                                                           micro-projects
  reservoirs and dugouts protected,
  boreholes properly maintained)
* percentage of target calculated from actual / latest/ target at mid-term




                                                                                - 13 -

Indicator Matrix                                             Target at inception                  Revised Target at    Actual/Latest         % of
                                                                                                  mid-term             estimate              target
Rural Transport Infrastructure
Inputs
Feeder roads rehabilitated                                   750 km by 2001                       300 by 2003          364 km                121%
Tracks and trails constructed                                270 km by 2001                       300 km by 2003       188                   62%
Units of IMTs provided                                       1,000 in use by 2001                 600 by 2003          207                   34%
Additional IMT beneficiaries trained in                      10,000 in use by 2001                10,000 by 2001       653                   7%
management operation and
maintenance
Outputs
Community leaders (representatives)                          400 by the year 2000                 400 by the year 2000 6                     2%
trained in maintenance of farm tracks
Outcome/Impact
Employment in villages through the                           Work increased by                    Work increased by    Achieved during
use of labor-based technologies                              50%                                  50%                  road construction
Rural incomes increased                                      250%                                 250%                 217%                  87%
Vehicle access to rural communities                          100% increase                        100% increase        100% increase         100%
increased
Greater vehicle access to participating                      50% of participating                 50% of participating 91% of                182%
communities                                                  communities by 2001                  communities by 2004  communities by
                                                                                                                       2004
Reduced headloading by women and                             63% of women and                     63% of women and     62% of women          98%
children/1                                                   children in areas with               children in areas    and children in       reducti
                                                             IMTs                                 with IMTs            areas with IMTs       on
Delay in evacuating surpluses reduced                        25% reduction                        250% by 2003         62%                   24%
                                                             annually
/1 Reduction of head loading: the percentage went from 63% to 1% i.e. a reduction of 62%; 62/63=98% reduction


Indicator Matrix                                               Target at inception                   Revised Target at   Actual/Latest          % of
                                                                                                     mid-term            estimate               target
Rural Post Harvest Infrastructure
Inputs
Construction of markets                                                                              200                  174                   87%
Agro-processing machines/equipment                             1,000 by 2001                         300 by 2003         425                    142
installed
Outputs
Increase in new cribs and drying floors                        600 by 2003                           600 by 2003         43                     7%
Improved community level storage                               3,000 by 2001                         3,000 by 2001       19                     0.006%
facilities constructed
No of common groups benefiting from                            50% (from 275 to 412)                 50% (from 275 to   1,947 benefiting form 608%
post-harvest infrastructure increased                          by 2001                               412) by 2003       post harvest facilities
No of markets constructed                                                                            200                  174                   87%
Outcome/Impact
Output of quality processed food and                           25% by 2001                                               Quality improved
goods increased                                                                                                          but by unknown
                                                                                                                         amount
At least 50% of all facilities still                           Most facilities only one              Not revised         Most facilities far
operating after 6 years                                        year old                                                  less than 6 years
                                                                                                                         old
Quantity of stored products increased at                       50% by end of project                                     Quantity




                                                                                - 14 -

the community level                                                                       improved but by
                                                                                          unknown amount
Better quality of life e.g. improved         N/A                    N/A                   N/A
indicators for health and education
Capacity enhanced and empowerment            50%                    50%                   50%               100%
fostered (village undertakes new projects
with own funds, without relying on
outside assistance). Long term
sustainability assured (facilities are
properly run and maintained independent
of project)



Indicator Matrix                             Target at inception    Revised Target at      Actual/Latest   % Of
                                                                    mid-term               estimate        target
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity
building
Inputs
NGOs providing technical assistance for      50 by 2001             50 by 2001             190              380%
project implementation
Traditional leaders participating in the     50% of all traditional 50% of all traditional 62 traditional
project, trained in participatory community  leaders by 2001        leaders by 2001        leaders
identification, planning, implementation
and management of projects
Number of communities reached through                               12,000                 12,995           108%
IEC strategies
Total number of individual reached by IEC                           3 million              3.9 million      130%
campaign
Outputs
Districts covered by the project             90% by 2001            90% by 2001            100%             111%
Coverage of communities participating        30% by 2001            30% by 2001            20%              67%
within district
NGOs trained to assume support role          25 by 2001             25 by 2001             190              760%
effectively
Training/sensitization of 110 DAs            110 DAs by en 1998     110                    110              100%
completed
District assembly members trained in         220 by 2001            220 by 2001            2,026            920%
project implementation mechanisms and
procurement
District Planning Officers trained in        110 by 2001            110 by 2001            110              100%
decentralization, participatory and strategic
planning skills
District Finance Officers trained in         100 by 2001            100 by 2001            110              110%
financial management
Beneficiary groups trained in group          200 by 2001            200 by 2003            3,309            1,554%
development, business management and
O&M
Outcome/Impact
DAs capable of independent setting of        100% by 2001           100% by 2001           50% of DAs       50%
development priorities
DAs with improved district administration    75% by 2001            75% by 2001            50% of DAs       67%
DAs with improved financial management       0                      85% of DAs             85% of DAs       100%



                                                      - 15 -

Participating villages capable of            50% by 2001           50% by 2001           50%               100%
undertaking new projects with own funds,
without relying on outside assistance
Facilities are properly run by beneficiaries 50% by 2001           50% by 2001           50%               100%
Increased capacity of communities for        0                     20 Area Councils      62 Area Councils  310%
planning, negotiation and O&M
Capacity enhanced and empowerment            50 villages undertake 50 villages undertake 305 villages      510%
fostered at village level                    new projects with own new projects with     undertake new
                                             funds                 own funds             projects with own
                                                                                         funds




                                                      - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


     Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal                       Actual/Latest                       Percentage of
                                                              Estimate                          Estimate                            Appraisal
                  Component                        US$ million                                US$ million
 Rural water                                                     13.8                                6.7                                48.6
 Rural transport                                                 13.1                                5.7                                43.5
 Post-harvest                                                     4.8                                7.9                               164.6
 Institutional strengthening                                      9.6                                5.0                                52.1
 RICU                                                             7.1                                8.8                               123.9
 Refinancing PPF                                                  1.2                                0.9                                66.7

                  Component                                 US$ million                       US$ million
 Total Baseline Cost                                             49.6                               35.0                              70.4
 Physical contingencies                                           4.6                                0.0
 Price contingencies                                              5.8                                0.0

 Total Baseline Cost                                             0.00                               0.00



 Total Project Costs                                             60.0                               35.0
 Undisbursed amount                                                                                 25.0
                        Total Project Costs                      0.00



  Total Financing Required                                     60.0                               60.0

Actual/latest estimates include actuals at March 2004; undisbursed amounts are committed and will be spent between current date and project closure, and into post-project
timeframe.


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                                 ICB                      NCB                                2                N.B.F.                  Total Cost
                                                                                                              Other
1. Works                                                    0.00                    20.70                      13.80                        0.00                      34.50
                                                           (0.00)                 (20.70)                      (3.00)                     (0.00)                    (23.70)
2. Goods                                                    1.20                     0.90                       0.90                        0.00                       3.00
                                                           (0.30)                  (0.90)                      (0.90)                     (0.00)                     (2.10)
3. Services                                                 0.00                     0.00                       0.00                        0.00                       0.00
                                                           (0.00)                  (0.00)                      (0.00)                     (0.00)                     (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                                            0.00                     0.00                       0.00                        0.00                       0.00
                                                           (0.00)                  (0.00)                      (0.00)                     (0.00)                     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                                            0.00                     0.00                       0.00                        0.00                       0.00
                                                           (0.00)                  (0.00)                      (0.00)                     (0.00)                     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                            0.00                     0.00                       0.00                        0.00                       0.00
                                                           (0.00)                  (0.00)                      (0.00)                     (0.00)                     (0.00)
     Total                                                  1.20                    21.60                      14.70                        0.00                      37.50
                                                           (0.30)                 (21.60)                      (3.90)                     (0.00)                    (25.80)
Figures in italics are procurement figures taken from Borrower ICR. The Borrower ICR does not distinguish between "Local Shopping" and "Consultancy Services" and
combines these two categories into "Other".




                                                                                - 17 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               3.27              0.00             1.78              5.05
                                           (0.00)             (1.33)            (0.00)            (0.42)           (1.75)
   2. Goods                                 1.21               0.39              0.34             0.00              1.93
                                           (1.21)             (0.03)            (0.22)            (0.00)           (1.46)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              2.91             0.70              3.61
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.00)            (0.10)           (2.10)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                1.21               3.66              3.25             2.47             10.59
                                           (1.21)             (1.36)            (2.22)            (0.52)           (5.30)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Rural Water                     7.50         2.90         6.60        3.60                    3.10       48.0      0.0      47.0
Rural Transport                 6.60         2.40         7.20        2.10                    3.60       31.8      0.0      50.0
Post Harvest                    2.00         0.60         3.30        5.80                    2.10       290.0     0.0      63.6
Institutional Strengthening     7.50         1.00         2.80        3.80                    1.20       50.7      0.0      42.9
RICU                            5.20         0.20         3.60        7.10         0.70       1.10       136.5    350.0     30.6
Refinancing PPF                 1.20         0.00         0.00        0.90                    0.00       75.0      0.0       0.0
Total                          30.00         7.10        23.50       23.30         0.70      11.10       77.7      9.9      47.2




                                                           - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The Village Infrastructure Project (VIP) was planned to transfer technical and financial resources to low-income
rural dwellers in order to reduce poverty and improve the quality of life of beneficiaries. The borrower, the
Government of Ghana, was assisted with financial resources from the International Development Association
(IDA), IFAD and KfW.

Four components fall under the VIP: Rural Water Infrastructure, Rural Transport Infrastructure, Rural
Post-Harvest Infrastructure and Institutional Strengthening of which the first three lent themselves to financial and
economic analysis. An executive summary of the analysis is presented below.

Rural Water Infrastructure

The net present value (NPV) of examined facilities in this components amounted to US $12,706,249m whereas the
economic rate of return (ERR) was 42%. The facilities under this component (dams, irrigation, dugouts, boreholes,
wind pumps and village pipe systems) each had a positive cost-benefit ratio; the benefit/cost ratios ranged from
1.88 to 3.5.

In addition, the facilities have created a considerable number of jobs (in person-days) in the rural areas, for
example, 9,054 in irrigation, 2,694 for dams and 1,770 for wind pump vicinities.

Rural Transport Infrastructure

The objective of the component is to make rural areas more accessible, reduce head loading and improve transport
of farm produce. The net present value of the subprojects amounted to US$ 16,368,951 and the ERR was high:
54%. The physical facilities of power tillers, donkey cart and bullock cart had benefit/cost ratios of 1.64, 1.23 and
1.05 respectively. A moderate number of jobs (in person/days) have also been created due to the use of the power
tillers and donkey/bullock-carts.

Post-Harvest Infrastructure

With an estimation that post-harvest losses are at about 30% of agricultural produce nation and continent-wide, the
facilities in this component had the objective of lowering losses, increasing shelf life and adding value to produce.
The net present value of analyzed activities in this component was US$ 8,772,443 while the ERR was 29%. In
respect of the benefit/cost ratios for this activity ranged from 1.15 for corn grinders to 3.22 for cribs. Jobs created
in person-days also ranged from 27 for warehouses to 1,819 for cassava processing machines.

Institutional Strengthening

The component sought to raise the capacities of District Assemblies, NGOs, CBOs and beneficiary
communities/groups. Since activities here consisted mainly of training, a financial and economic assessment could
not be undertaken, but achievements exceeded all the SAR targets with the exception of MIS for District
Assemblies and IEC. The qualitative achievements included:
     (i) Training all 110 DAs in administration, revenue mobilization, financial project management, planning
     and budgeting.
     (ii) Training of 60 Area Councils in administration and management of community projects as well as setting
     development priorities.
     (iii) Training of representatives of communities to manage better VIP and other projects.
     (iv) Managerial and technical training for NGOs, which improved their handling of rural projects.

Global Costs and Benefit

The examined activities of the VIP shows a global NPV of US$ 37,847,643 and an ERR of 41.40%.




                                                          - 19 -

The assumptions used in deriving these figures are given in the Contribution to ICR report, March 2004:

Assumptions

Loans received from the VIP are reimbursed during the first three years of the micro-project. The credit cost is
35% per year. The opportunity cost of capital is 12%. One person/day costs Cedis 10,000 for a non-qualified
worker and Cedis 20,000 for a technician. One hectare of land rent costs US$15 per year. It is admitted, that the
second year the micro-project's revenue will increase by 1.14, the third year by 1.29 and the fourth year by 1.43

US$1 = Cedis 8,502 (average exchange rate of 2003 where the VIP has done most of its investments)

Conversion of financial to economic values

2003 official exchange rate: US$1 = Cedis 8,502
2003 parallel exchange rate: US$1 = Cedis 9,200
Conversion coefficient (8,502/9,200) equals 0.92
Rural unemployment is evaluated at 67% (source: Irrigation Development Authority), the corresponding
conversion coefficient for rural salaries equals 0.61.

Financial costs and benefits of micro-projects

Component: Rural water infrastructure

Dam rehabilitation. Average investment per dam US$33, 309 allows to irrigate 12 hectares. Micro-project life: 20
years. The irrigated land is cultivated in equal proportions with rice, tomatoes and onions. One hectare of irrigated
rice growing requires (per season) 195 days of manpower, US$44 for land preparation, US$34 for local inputs,
US$236 for imported inputs, US$12 for transport. One hectare yields 6,0 tons of paddy at a price of US$244 per
ton; total US$1464. One hectare of tomato requires 125 days of manpower, US$32 for land preparation, US$42 for
local inputs, US$309 for imported inputs, US$70 for transport. One hectare yields 12 tons of tomatoes at a price
US$116 per ton; total US$1392. One hectare of onion requires 180 days of manpower, US$40 for land preparation,
US$417 for local inputs, US$120 for imported inputs, US$70 for transport. One hectare yields 12,0 tons of onions
at a price of US$226 par ton, total US$2823. On average, one hectare cultivated in one third with rice (during 2
seasons a year), one third hectare with tomato and one third with onion requires 232 days of manpower, US$53 for
land preparation, US$176 for local inputs, US$300 for imported inputs, US$55 for transport. Revenue from one
hectare equals total US$2382. Sources: Irrigation Development Agency, Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Bank of
Ghana price survey, VIP and mission's field survey).

Irrigation facility. Investment per one pump with accessories equals Cedis 20,000,000 equivalent US$ 2,352. One
pump is used to irrigate 2 hectares. Micro-project life: 8 years. Assuming that irrigated land is cultivated in 50%
by tomato and in 50% by onion, the corresponding expenses and revenues are as follows: 152 days of manpower,
US$36 for land preparation, US$229 for local inputs, US$214 for imported inputs, US$70 for transport, 36 for land
preparation. Revenue from one hectare equals total US$2108.

Dugout. Investment: US$49,793. Micro-project life: 20 years. Median productivity of one dugout equals 120,000
m3 during 7 months. The water is used for animal feeding and for domestic purposes. One m3 of water has a value
of 81,619 million Cedis or US$ 9,600 (120,000,000 liters of water equals 6,66f thousand buckets of 18 liters; one
bucket has a value of 12,5 Cedis). A dugout is maintained during 700 person/days; additional US$100 is required
each year for tools, fence, water purification and supervision.

Borehole with pump. Investment: US$7,785. Maintenance and supervision: 150 person/day. Pump life: 8 years;
residual value of a borehole: 50% of investment. One borehole is used by 49 households. The construction of a
borehole reduced walking distance between a household and the source of water by 2 x 13 minutes 26 minutes. One
rural family of 4.3 people uses daily 8 buckets of water. Total daily reduced time per household equals 208
minutes; for 49 households 10,192 minutes or 169.9 hours, or 21 working days (8 hours per day). Yearly time


                                                        - 20 -

gained per borehole equals 7,750 days. Assuming a value of one day of family work as Cedis 5,000 or US$0.57, the
proximity of the borehole provides an opportunity to earn US$ 4,346 per year. Sources: Community Water and
Sanitation Agency, Irrigation Development Agency, VIP experience.

Wind pump. Investment: 52, 162. One wind pump irrigates 12 hectares used for tomato and onion. Micro-project
life: 20 years. The corresponding expenses and revenues are as follows: 152 days of manpower, US$36 for land
preparation, US$229 for local inputs, US$214 for imported inputs, US$70 for transport, 36 for land preparation.
Revenue from one hectare equals total US$2108.

Village pipe system. Investment: US$ 182,814; micro-project life 20 years. Maintenance costs: US$819 per year.
Benefits: beneficiary population corresponding to the investment may be estimated at 10 800 persons; daily water
consumption at 20 liters per person. At Cedis179 per liter, the pipe system economic rate of return equals 12%.
Source: Community Water and Sanitation Agency.

Component: Rural transport

Feeder road construction. Investment per kilometer: US$12,100. Maintenance US$100 per year. Micro-project
life: 10 years. Benefits for average household per kilometer of improved road: increased agricultural output
US$97.7; avoided headloading US$16.9. Total benefit per household per kilometer: US$ 114.6. Average number of
beneficiary households per one kilometer: 88. Total benefit per year: US$10.085. For increased agricultural output,
benefits three first years partial benefits are at 33%, 55% and 78% of full benefit starting from the year 4. For
avoided headloading the corresponding benefits are at 88%, 92% and 96 respectively of full benefit starting from
year four. Sources: Ministry of Road and Transport, Department of Feeder Road, Consultant report: Working Paper
on Rural Transport sub-component (in SAR file) and VIP reports.

Feeder roads spot improvement. Investment per kilometer: US$2,900. Micro-project life: 10 years. Supplementary
maintenance: US$70 per year. Benefits for average household per kilometer of improved road: increased
agricultural output US$23.4; avoided headloading US$4.1. Total benefit per household per kilometer: US$ 27.5.
Average number of beneficiary households per one kilometer: 88. Total benefit per year: US$2.420. For increased
agricultural output, benefits three first years partial benefits are at 33%, 55% and 78% of full benefit starting from
the year 4. For avoided headloading the corresponding benefits are at 88%, 92% and 96 respectively of full benefit
starting from year four. Sources: Ministry of Road and Transport, Department of Feeder Road, Consultant report:
Working Paper on Rural Transport sub-component (in SAR file) and VIP reports.

Village track and trails construction. Investment per kilometer: US$8,300. Micro-project life: 10 years.
Maintenance per kilometer per year: US$75. Revenue from increased agricultural outputs US$64.6 per household
per kilometer per year, from avoided headloading US$11.2 per household per kilometer per year. Total revenue
US$75.8, for 110 households the total is US$8415. Output benefits three first years partial benefits are at 33%,
55% and 78% of full benefit starting from the year 4. For avoided headloading the corresponding benefits are at
88%, 92% and 96 of full benefit starting from year four. Sources: Ministry of Road and Transport, Department of
Feeder Road, Consultant report: Working Paper on Rural Transport sub-component (in SAR file) and VIP reports.

Power tiller. Micro-project life 10 years. Investment US$2,800. Manpower 300 person-days. Imported inputs US$
200, maintenance US$40. Revenue (Yearly fuel consumption equal Cedis 1,900,000, Equivalent to 109 gallons of
diesel that allow to travel over 869 kilometers) US$223. Charge per kilometer: Cedis 20,000. Total revenue 17
million of Cedis or US$1,975. Source: VIP experience and field survey.

Donkey cart. Investment: US$ 333. Micro-project life: 5 years. Person/days of work: 52, nourishment US$ 45 and
donkey and cart maintenance: US$20. Revenue: US$250 per year. Source: VIP field survey.

Bullock cart. Investment: US$ 514. Micro-project life: 5 years. Person/days of work: 61, nourishment US$ 270
and bullocks and cart maintenance: US$50. Revenue: US$550 per year. Source VIP field survey.




                                                          - 21 -

Component: Post-harvest infrastructure

Village markets. Investment: US$40136. Micro-project life: 20 years. Manpower 1,800 person-days per year
(Cedis 20,000 per day). Cleaning material and other inputs US$353 per year. Revenue: US$15,643 per year.
Source: VIP field survey.

Slaughterhouse. Investment US$7,391. Micro-project life: 20 years. Requires 75 person/days (Cedis 10,000 per
person per day) and local inputs for US$205 mostly for cleaning. Revenue from butchering 12 small ruminants
(Cedis 10 000 per animal) per day, during 108 days provides yearly US$1,524. Source: VIP estimates.

Warehouse for 5 tons. Investment: US$1,001, for 20 years. Maintenance requires 20 person days for goods
reception, book keeping and cleaning. Used to store maize harvested between January and April and marketed in
June or July. The marketing provides revenue of US$209. Source: VIP survey.

Crib for one ton of maize. Investment: US$214. Micro-project life: 10 years. Maintenance requires 2 person/days
per year (10,000 Cedis); no other expenses. Storage of maize harvested between January and April and marketed in
June or July provides Cedis 380,000 per ton; equivalent US$44.7. Source: VIP survey.

Cassava processing. Investment: US$2,140. Micro-project life: 10 years. A team working 600 person-days a year
plus 100 person-days for marketing. Local inputs (cassava and wood): US$ 1,705. Revenue (value of produced gari
): US$3,529. VIP survey.

Corn mills. Investment: US$1,085. Micro-project life: 10 years. Requires 108 person/days plus US$ 248 for
maintenance. Revenue: US$502. Source: VIP survey.

Palm oil production. Investment: US$4,885. Micro-project life: 10 years. Manpower: 200 person/day at Cedis
20,000 a day). Production costs: palm fruits US$3,952, wood US$988, processing: US$1,058. Revenue: US$15,808
per year.




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              3/18/1996                 8    Task Team Leader (1); Inst.
                                             Specialist (1); Ag. Economist (1);
                                             Rural Engineer (1);
                                             Disbursement (1); Procurement
                                             (1); Lawyer (1); Task Team
                                             Assistant (1)




 Appraisal/Negotiation
              6/28/1996               10     Task Team Leader (1);
                                             Sanitation Engineer (1);
                                             NGO Specialist (1); Rural
                                             Engineer (1); Ag. Economist
                                             (1); Inst. Specialist (1); Rural
                                             Sociologist (1); IFAD; KFW;
                                             Task Team Assistant (1)
              11/22/1996                4    Task Team Leader (1); FMS (1);
                                             Disbursment (1); Procurement
                                             (1); Lawyer (1)

 Supervision

              11/30/1998                5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                  HS              S
                                             INSTITUTIONS SPEC. (1);
                                             COASTAL ZONE SPEC (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MNGT (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              06/18/1999                3    SENIOR ECONOMIST (1);                  HS              S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              06/18/1999                6    TEAM LEADER/AG SPEC. (1);              U               S
                                             PLANNER (1); PROC.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FIN MGMT
                                             SPEC. (1); COUNTRY POT
                                             MANAGER (1); LOANS
                                             OFFICER (1)
              11/09/2001               18    AG. SPEC. TTL (1); AG.                 S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (4); SECTOR
                                             MANAGER AFTR2 (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                                             INFRASTRUCTURE SPEC. (1);
                                             SOC. DEVELOPMENT SPEC
                                             (1); TEAM ASSISTANCE (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC (1);



                                              - 23 -

                       RURAL ENGINEER (2);
                       RURAL DEV/DECENTRALIZ
                       (1); MIS SPECIALIST (1); IFAD
                       COUNTRY PORT MGR (1);
                       KFW (1); RURAL INST
                       SPECIALIST (1)
      05/27/2002    18 TEAM LEADER (1); SNR OPS             HS    S
                       OFFICER (1); SECTOR
                       MANAGER AFTR2 (1);
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1); FIN MGMT SPEC. (1);
                       SOCIAL SCIENCE (1); AG
                       ECONOMIST (1); IFAD
                       DIRECTOR (1); IFAD (1); KFW
                       (1); ECONOMIST (1);
                       INFRASTRUCTURE ENGINEE
                       (1); INTRASTRUCTURE
                       ENGINEE (1);
                       DECENTRALIZATION SPEC.
                       (1); ENGINEER (3); INST DEV
                       SPEC (1)
      02/28/2003    14 Mission Leader (1); Procurement      HS    S
                       Specialist (1); Financial
                       management s (1);
                       Environment/Safeguards (1); P.
                       Coordinator/Enginee (1); Rural
                       Infrast. Enginee (1); Institutions
                       Specialis (1); Banker (1);
                       Economist/Micro Financ (1);
                       Local Government (1); Agric.
                       Economist (2); Bank of
                       Ghana/Economis (1); Min of
                       Finance (1)
      12/18/2003    9  Team Leader (1); Ag Economist        HS    S
                       (M&E) (1); Financial/Private
                       Good (1); Financial Management
                       (1); Procurement (1); Team
                       Assistant (1); Project Coordinator
                       (1); Institutions Dev. Spec (1);
                       Director M&E (MLGRD) (1)


ICR
      3/19/2004     3  Task Team Leader (1);
                       Consultant (1); KFW (1)




                       - 24 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             n.a.                          376
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  n.a.                          n.a.
  Supervision                            n.a.                          200
  ICR                                    n.a.                           40
  Total                                  n.a.                          616




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

-    IDA 1997, Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
-    Kofi Manu, Manikowski and Sarpong, July 2003. Beneficiary Assessment of the VIP
-    MOFA VIP 1997, Environmental Assessment, by Technology Impro Associates Limited
-    PriceWaterhouseCoopers, June 2003, Audit Findings Report
-    REFAST LIMITED, January 2004, (Draft) environmental assessment and audit report.
-    World Bank aide-mémoires 1998 ­ 2003
-    World Bank Project Status Reports # 1 ­ 15




                                               - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

The results of the beneficiary assessment are, in summary:

Rural Water: the delivered outputs have had strong positive impacts on agricultural production and the
beneficiaries' welfare, although the VIP is still in the process of delivering the component.

Rural Transport: the project exceeded the assigned objectives in road drainage and in feasibility studies. Other
outputs are delivered to 30% or less. The project's investments in rural transport infrastructure significantly
improved the life of rural communities and individual beneficiaries. Vehicle access to rural communities has
doubled, and the delay in evacuation of production surpluses was reduced by more than 60%.

Post-harvest Infrastructure: the project delivered only a fraction of outputs. The delivered outputs increased the
shelf life of harvests by 100%, and the transformed food tastes better and is produced in more hygienic conditions,
and farmers were able to produce more.

Institutional Strengthening: the project successfully implemented this component, and exceeded almost all assigned
targets. As a result of the training, the DAs and ACs set their own respective development priorities.




                                                          - 29 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower ICR


Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry


3.1 Original Objective:

Background

The Village Infrastructure project (VIP), a five-year project, originated in line with the GOG Poverty Reduction
Program and will close in June 2004. It is financially supported jointly by the World Bank, International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) and Kreditanstalte Fur Wiederavfban (KFW) and the GOG. Its objective is
sustained reduction of poverty through increased availability of technical and financial resources for development
of basic village level infrastructure. This objective was consistent with the 1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
which had its key aim, assistance for GOG measures, plans and strategy to alleviate poverty through accelerated
economic development and human resource development.

The project has four main components namely: (i)Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building, (ii) Rural
Transport Infrastructure, (iii) Rural Water Infrastructure, and (iv) Post-Harvest Infrastructure. Therefore, in this
regard, the VIP was to transfer technical equipment, civil works, and technical skills to rural dwellers, NGOs and
local government to co-finance, administer, manage and maintain the infrastructure.

Original Objectives

To reduce poverty and enhance the quality of rural dwellers' life through transfer of financial and technical
resources, the project inclined itself to four main objectives: (i) to empower local communities and beneficiary
groups to identify, plan, implement and maintain small village-level infrastructure investments; (ii) increase rural
communities' access to development resources so that they can inform execution of rural development priorities set
by government beneficiaries; (iii) strengthen institutional capacity at community and district levels in order to
improve the efficiency of rural resources transfer and to ensure the sustainability of poverty reducing interventions;
and (iv) support the government's strategy of decentralization of development responsibilities to district assemblies
and other local entities.

Therefore, the VIP's developmental objectives are as follows:

1.       Rural Water Infrastructure: finance the integrated development of water resources for domestic and
         agricultural purposes to consist of ponds, dugouts, surface inpoundments, boreholes, hand-dug wells,
         spring development, stream flow diversions, pumping water, run-off management, pilot integrated
         catchment management, pilot and coastal zone management.

2.       Rural Transport Infrastructure: also finance improvement of selected existing feeder roads,
         construction and upgrading of village tracts and trails, promotion in Intermediate Means of Transport
         (IMTs), train users of infrastructure by NGOs and DFR.

3.       Post-harvest Infrastructure: to finance post-harvest facilities, namely drying floors and platforms, cribs,
         crop processors, chokor fish smokers, food processing equipment, such as grinding mills, digesters,
         extraction and presses and miscellaneous processing equipment, income generating activities plus
         technical assistance by NGOs for beneficiaries/beneficiary groups.

4.       Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building: to develop the capacity of local communities,
         beneficiary groups, local government institutions, selected ministries and MDAs and again from NGOs to
         offer skills enhancement to CBOs.




                                                         - 30 -

The project objectives were clearly and realistically stated in the SAR since its primary objective was to enhance
the quality of rural dwellers in GOG's efforts to reduce poverty. Interviews with high ranking officials of the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA), District Assemblies and VIP illustrated they clearly understood the
objectives of the program and the inter-sectoral/multidisciplinary coordination and collaboration needed for the
multiplicity of project subcomponents' implementation.

3.2 Quality of Entry


The project is rated satisfactory at entry. The project's overall poverty reduction objective being consistent with
the 1995 CAS which also had as its major focus, assistance to GOG's efforts to alleviate poverty through
accelerated economic growth and human resource development. The second reason is that Ghana is a country with
over 50% of its agriculture being subsistence ­ and thus a real need for financial and technical resource and
transfers. Thirdly, the assistance the project gave for the GOG decentralization program in all 110 districts of the
country justifies the above reasons. Fourthly, the incorporation/internalization in the project design of lessons, from
IDA-financed projects on rural infrastructure development, (Agricultural Sector Investment Project (ASIP),
Community Water and Sanitation Project (CWSP), Transport Rehabilitation Project (TRP) and National Feeder
Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project (NFRRMP) as well as IFAD agricultural development projects in
Ghana). These inclusions provided another basis for the satisfactory rating since they provided lessons on
beneficiary participation in the planning, implementation and management of projects.

Nevertheless the project faced a number of start-up challenges. Included are the one year delay in the start of the
project and hiring of staff , the apathy of line Ministry staff at the district-level, the perception by DAs on World
Bank Procedures as being cumbersome, which District Assembly staff had little knowledge of and 10% deposit
required for private goods. These challenges delayed the delivery of some facilities.

Achievement of Development Objective and Outputs


4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


 The objectives and outcomes of the VIP were largely achieved and thus are rated satisfactory. This is because the
project delivered infrastructure and financing to rural dwellers and built the capacity of local administrators, NGOs
and beneficiaries to manage the investments.

As its aim was to enhance the quality of rural dwellers, the project succeeded in:

         (a)       Having District Assemblies (DA) integrated/mainstream VIP activities into DA development
                   activities

         (b)       Strengthening local administrators, groups and NGOs in identifying, constructing, maintaining
                   and managing rural development infrastructure and financial resources.

         (c)       Constructing rural infrastructure in water, transport and post-harvest activities in every district of
                   Ghana.

4.2 Outputs by Components


Component 1. Financing and construction of water facilities in rural areas for domestic and agricultural
purposes.

A satisfactory rating is accorded this component. (S)

The construction and rehabilitation of boreholes and hand-dug wells exceeded SAR targets and was the biggest



                                                         - 31 -

success of the component. The effect of these facilities was the provision of clean water in areas, shortening of
walking distances and time for fetching water. The construction of new dams, for which the SAR did not give any
targets was the second most successful activity, with 10 new dams constructed which has allowed yield increments,
intensification of agriculture (2 to 4 cropping seasons for rice and vegetables in most cases), particularly in the low
rainfall northern part of Ghana. As well livestock access to drinking water from the dams is approximately 83,550
livestock against the SAR target of 6,384 animals. The area of stream flow diversification and pumping received
moderate success. Quite an adequate number of community and group training was also undertaken to deal with
technical problems such as operation and maintenance plus enables them (beneficiaries) to plan new water
projects. Thus, beneficiaries indicated that their quality of life has improved by accessing the water facilities.
Another good achievement was the high number of women, estimated at 45,070 against SAR's target of 142 who
are benefiting from the use of agricultural and drinking water facilities. Failing to achieve most of the SAR targets
in the run-off management (sub-component) was probably the result of time limitations and funding, and with only
a few months for the closure of the project, it is not expected that the project will achieve these subcomponents'
SAR targets (bunding, water storage, terrace and banks construction). Quite a lot of subcomponents' facilities are
under construction/on-going and it is suggested they should be completed since the benefits of access to safe
drinking water and increases in agricultural production for beneficiaries will be greater.

Component 2. Finance selective Feeder Roads rehabilitation, construct and upgrade Village Tracks and Trails
and promote Intermediate Means of Transport.

This component is rated satisfactory in view of the access rural roads creates for farmers and communities. (S)

The best sub-component in this sector was the construction and upgrading of arterial tracks and trails (62% or 188
km of the SAR target was achieved). This allowed farmers to increase access to facilities, services, and economic
activities such as shortening the marketing chain. More farms are also now accessible by road and transportation
cost decreased in most cases.

The rehabilitation of feeder roads ­ while 364km of the SAR target of 750km was realized, provided advantages to
farmers similar to that of village tracks and trails.
Further, rural dwellers were supported to purchase cycle trailers, donkey carts, power tillers (IMTs) etc. plus given
training in the equipments' operation and maintenance. The effect of the new equipment is reduced head loading
(especially for women and water fetching in the North), transport cost reduction, improvement in productivity (e.g.
power tillers allow rice fields to be tilled much faster and more frequently, plus can be hired to neighboring farms.

The weakness of the component was that: (i) the quality of IMTs and their technical backstopping could be
improved; (ii) more community members could use training in maintenance of the IMTs.

Component 3. Post-harvest Infrastructure.

The component is rated satisfactory. As a result of a lot of requests for agro-processing equipment. (S)

Under this component, the project provided grinding machines more than any other sub-component, followed by
storage facilities in the form of cribs, drying floors, on-farm and community storage facilities. The facilities
resulted in reduced post-harvest losses, lowered costs of harvest processing, improved food quality for
consumption/sale and increased sale volumes. Moreover, individuals and groups were trained in equipment
operation and maintenance given them and therefore, new skills they could utilize in other areas. A weakness of
this component is that more beneficiaries could have been impacted had the project financed more storage and
agro-processing facilities. However, the project, responding to an overwhelming request from district assemblies,
invested a lot of this component's funds in constructing rural and suburban markets, which while extremely useful
for marketing commodities and manufacturers, are according to an available study not cost-effective. (Beneficiary
Assessment of the VIP, World Bank, July 2003).


Component 4. Institutional and Capacity Building.



                                                          - 32 -

The project's development and sustaining of stakeholders' capacity was highly satisfactory. (HS)

For almost all the component's objectives (exception being the baseline survey of villages), the project exceeded the
SAR's targets. One of its best achievements was training of communities and groups in group development (45,248
persons, 23,884 males and 21,364 females), business management skills (16,896 persons 9,435 males and 7,461
females), technical skills and water and sanitation skills (6,309 persons; 3,610 males and 2,699 females). Other
very good achievements were training given to district assemblies' staff, area councils and RICU staff.

Resultantly, the decentralization objective of GOG was advanced further, and the trained DAs staff, Area Councils
and groups indicate that the training improved their administrative and financial management of VIP, donor plus
national/local projects. The DA staff also report that due to the trainings, their awareness of gender issues
increased.

The project trained local and district market management committees in market management. 1,124 and 1,608
persons respectively received trainings in this sub-component. The training assisted DAs to increase revenue
collection and management of the markets. VIP works with NGOs, CBOs and consultants to train people in rural
areas; thus, the project trained altogether 770 agents in group development, business management and
procurement procedures. This resulted in having more trainers of trainers to expedite VIP community activities.

Could it be said that the overwhelming number of officials, staff and communities members trained matched with
the other components. Maybe this could be one identifiable weakness of this component.

Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome


Introduction

The Village Infrastructure Project (VIP) was designed as a community driven development initiative to be
implemented within a context of an-going decentralization of national administrative system. Its implementation
strategy is Learning-by-doing. It had to absorb the assets and liabilities of an infrastructure project in the same
Ministry, which was closing at the commencement of the project.

Transfer of Uncompleted Sub-Projects of ASIP to the VIP

The transfer of uncompleted sub-projects (mainly markets) of the Agricultural Sector Investment project (ASIP),
also implemented by the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) to the VIP for completion, had both positive
and negative effects. The positive effect is that it accelerated disbursement of project funds, and the negative side
however, the process of selection of the sub-projects could not be said to have had the active involvement and
participation of the beneficiary communities which is contrary to the principles of CDD. Moreover, they caused a
disproportionate increase in the original budgetary allocation for the component even though their contribution to
the overall viability of the project has been found to be negligible.

Multi-Sectorial Nature of Project

The ability to perform under the project depended upon: many organizations/departments outside MOFA. This
called for a strong ability to coordinate and collaborate by Project Management. The extent to which these
institutions understood their respective roles and hence their commitment to implementation was a major
challenge. However the multi-sectorial nature allowed for a wide menu of eligible sub-projects which made
beneficiaries appreciate the usefulness of the project.

Incomplete Decentralization

Due to the incomplete decentralization, district officials especially those from line ministries exhibited lower that



                                                         - 33 -

expected commitment which resulted in delays and lack of attention to details in the processing and
implementation of sub-projects. This had a telling effect on the lean project staff.

Role of Regional Coordinating Councils

The omission of defined roles for the Regional Coordinating Councils in the project implementation prevented
them from supervising and coordinating project activities in the districts.

Delaying Factors

An effective delay of two years was caused to implementation by the government due to reasons that could have
been avoided. This put a lot of strain initially on the implementation process on, and caused the temptation to put
the cart before the horse to satisfy the anxiety of donors and beneficiaries alike for fast disbursement.

Siting of Markets

Lack of adequate consultations with beneficiary communities in the siting of some markets inherited by the project
has resulted in the non-use of a few of the facilities after completion.

Persistence and Consistence in Capacity Building Agenda

Brinkmanship in ensuring consistence and persistence in the delivery of the capacity building agenda contributed
significantly to the achievements of the project.

Role of Sector Minister and Task Team Leadership

The personal interest in and commitment to the success of project created an enabling environment for effective
implementation. The training of opinion leaders and development of community Action and Area Plans for 61
Area Councils on a pilot basis have community interest and created strong opportunity for ownership of potential
sub-projects.

M&E/MIS

Monitoring and evaluation M&E has been integrated into the VIP implementation and management. The M&E
system of the project has a geographical information system (GIS) based management information system database
component referred to as the "Village Infrastructure Management Information System" - VI-MIS. The VI-MIS
database together with the non-database aspects of the M&E form the complete M&E system for the project. The
system combines both the conventional and participatory sub-project monitoring and evaluation approaches.

In a participatory monitoring and evaluation manner, at the community and sub-district level, Area Councils and
beneficiaries monitored sub-project implementation and reported any anomalies observed. In the same vein, as key
implementers, District Assemblies monitored and reported on the performance of all service providers recruited.

The zonal offices of the RICU undertook regular monitoring visits to beneficiary communities, Area Councils and
District Assemblies and offered hands-on support wherever needed. Findings were incorporated into quarterly,
semi-annually and annual reports, which were regularly, submitted to the RICU head office. At the national level,
semi-annual and annual reports were prepared incorporating information from the respective zonal offices. Such
reports were submitted to the Project Steering Committee, financing Donors and the government of Ghana. Field
monitoring from the RICU Head Office was very regular. This was also enhanced by periodic Implementation
Support Missions, which went a long way to improve project performance.

In addition, external auditors and the World Bank carried out annual financial audits and periodic process audits
respectively. Two Beneficiary Assessments were carried out prior to mid-term and towards the end of the project.




                                                          - 34 -

At the National level, project performance was measured against the indicators set in the project logical
framework. A Baseline Survey Report prepared by the PPMED of MOFA served as a basis for the assessment of
the M&E Indicators.

The major challenge was however, the inability of the Planning Monitoring and Evaluation Divisions of the
Ministries of Food and Agriculture, and Local Government and Rural Development to perform their roles as
envisaged in the SAR with respect to M&E. Nevertheless, the project management was able to make up for the
deficiency.

Most of the project input/output targets were overly ambitions in the light of the available resources and the
demand-driven principle underlying the implementation process

Sustainability


6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


The VIP will certainly maintain the achievements reached in the context of reducing rural poverty after the closure
of the project in June, 2004. The sustainability of the project, is therefore, rated highly likely. The government is
still committed to the infrastructure and capacities delivered as seen in the Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy
(GPRS) which continues the poverty alleviation strategy. With decentralization also continuing, local
administration and beneficiaries will be given more responsibility to plan, manage and sustain developmental
knowledge and infrastructure, among which are VIP financed facilities. The recommended implementation of a
successor to the VIP, to be called the Community Based Rural Development Project, to be started in June 2006 by
the World Bank and GOG and which will fully utilize the VIP staff and continue and expand facilities already
provided by VIP will maintain the achievements of the VIP. Sustainability will, also, be greater if DAs are more
interested in the facilities, are more competent, delays in application processing reduced to a minimum and more
facilities are delivered to beneficiaries in the post-harvest component particularly.

Evaluation of Bank and Borrowers Performance


The Bank

7.1 Lending:


The World Bank and two other co-financiers namely IFAD and KFW financed the project. The World Bank led in
providing the technical backstopping for the project formulation team. Formulation involved local expertise and
consultation with a wide spectrum of stakeholders. The preparation of the SAR was carried out in parallel with the
pretesting of some of the component activities to generate lessons for mainstream implementation.

The Bank approved the implementation Manual and during project execution examined and approved requests for
the hiring of consultants, for investments and for purchases on behalf of the other two donors. Replenishments
occurred most of the time within two to three weeks of the submission of properly formulated requests which were
within Category Budget allocations. An initial disparity in the percentage expenditures of some Categories,
between IFAD and IDA, created problems for the project but were resolves later and harmonized.

Adequate number of specialists provided the technical skill mix necessary to address the concerns of the
multi-sectorial nature of the project. The two donor agencies were well represented in the appraisal mission and
cooperated well with the Bank Mission.

The project was consistent with the Bank's environmental protection and safeguards requirements. It incorporated
lessons from previous projects.




                                                          - 35 -

7.2 Supervision:


The Bank organized twelve joint Implementation Support Missions (ISM) with the other donors and the borrower,
including a Mid-Term Review Mission giving an average of a support mission every twelve months. Clear and
detailed Aid Memoirs indicating recommendations made and actions agreed with the borrower to be followed were
provided and Support Missions included representatives of co-financiers and included required expertise from both
the donor and borrower sides. The change in Task Team Leadership from outside to the local mission ensured
continual monitoring of project activities and proactive actions that facilitated implementation. Commitment and
cooperation of the local task team leadership have been very good.

Recommendations of the Mid-Term Review (MTR) helped to turn the project around for the better.

7.3 Overall Bank Performance:


In view of the above the overall Bank Performance is rated SATISFACTORY.

Borrower

7.4 Preparation:


The government participated actively in project preparation. Client consultation and stakeholder workshops were
organized to collate views of potential beneficiaries and other stakeholders prior to preparation. Pre-Appraisal
activities involved government experts in the various fields. Outputs from these activities provided inputs for
project preparation, which also had adequate representation from the government side.


7.5 Government Implementation Performance


The Government's performance has been moderately satisfactory except in the area of Counterpart Funding.
Difficulties have been encountered by the project in meeting the obligations under counterpart funding as a result
of government's inability to provide adequate and timely counterpart funds. Government also caused avoidable
delays to implementation initially. However government took steps to abolish the Ministerial Policy Oversight
Committee (PPCC) which never met and merge its functions with those of the Technical Steering Committee
(NTSC) into a Project Steering Committee (PSC) chaired by the Sector Minister.

The Committee has met five times after it was set up after the Mid-Term Review. The NTSC had met 10 times
prior to that. The Committee provided policy guidelines and support for the turn around in implementation.

7.6 Implementation Agency:


The Project Coordinating Unit's performance is rated satisfactory. After initial setbacks caused by delays from
government and the re-engineering of aspects of the project after mid-term review, the Unit exhibited
brinkmanship and with the support of the sector minister and the Task Team Leadership turned the fortunes of the
project around.

7.7 Overall Borrower Performance:


In view of above, overall Borrower Performance is rated moderately satisfactory.




                                                      - 36 -

Lessons Learnt


   1.   The project has demonstrated the importance of beneficiary involvement in the identification, planning
   and execution of project activities especially where they have to contribute in cash or in kind. Stakeholder
   participation and consensus building are essential for private sector community partnership.

   2.   A Community-Driven Development project like the VIP designed to build capacity and empower
   communities through Learning-by-Doing approach needs time, patience, persistence and consistence to yield
   tangible results.

   3.   The biggest challenge to project implementation has been the M&E system, which is also the weakest part
   of the project design. The design of a participatory M&E system separately from the design of a MIS by
   different consultants and assigning the responsibility for M&E functions to the sector Ministry complicated the
   effective use of the two systems. As much as possible participatory monitoring and management information
   systems should be harmonized and integrated into project management.

   4.   M&E as a management tool, should be used as a means to accelerate and improve organizational
   learning. M&E functions should therefore be a shared responsibility of the whole project team rather than that
   of an individual within the team or a group outside.

   5.   It is therefore advisable for project management to review M&E Indicators, analyze them and get clear
   understanding at the beginning of implementation.

   6.   Regional Coordinating Councils (RCCs) could not play their supervisory roles over the districts in matters
   relating to the project due to an omission of assigned roles in the project design. In a situation like that it
   becomes difficult to bring nonperformance district authorities to order.

   7.   Co-financing for public goods by DAs through a 10% contribution is good for contributing to a sense of
   ownership and commitment but it might not be necessary to insist strictly on upfront payment or synchronized
   contributions. In view of the DAs cashflow situation they end up contributing their share.

   8.   Co-financing by donors in which there is unified coordination and harmonized procedures create synergy.
   Continuous dialogue between co-financiers and project management is however essential for the sustenance of
   mutual trust, and smootheness of implementation.




                                                      - 37 -

- 38 -

