Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N020 GH
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(Village Infrastructure Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 
184 of the Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated October 16, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N020 GH 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 16, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution, the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution; 
and
(C)
The Borrower intends to obtain loans from the Government of the Federal 
Republic of Germany, through the Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW) and the 
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) in an aggregate amount 
equivalent to approximately seventeen million dollars ($17,000,000) to assist in 
Page  2
financing specific activities included in the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the respective agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and KfW, 
and IFAD, respectively; and 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term “Association,” wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement; 
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement,” “Credit” and “Credit Account,” 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement,” "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account,” 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: 
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5 (e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the 
Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5 (c) of said Resolution; and 
“Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such countries; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.” 
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect 
to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at  any time, the Administrator determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit will 
not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time the 
Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary 
of the Interim Fund Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, 
Page  3
without the Borrower having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Administrator to remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth 
or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Interim Fund 
Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account, the 
Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, 
such amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Administrator to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
December 25, 1995 and February 5, 1996 between the Borrower and the Administrator;  
(b)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(c)
“Ghanaian Cedi” and “C” means the Borrower’s currency; 
(d)
“DA” means a District Assembly established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Local Government Act, No.  462 of 1993; 
(e)
“MLGRD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Local Government and Rural 
Development; 
(f)
“MOFA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Food and Agriculture; 
(g)
“NGO” means a nongovernmental organization; 
(h)
“NTSC” means the Borrower’s National Technical Steering Committee 
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(i)
“PPCC” means the Borrower’s Project Policy Coordination Committee 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(j)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 
6.01 (a) of this Agreement containing, inter alia, work programs, training programs, 
monitoring and performance indicators and procedures to be used for the purposes of 
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, in 
consultation with, and with the approval of, the Association, and such term includes 
any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual; 
(k)
GIDA” means the Ghana Irrigation Development Authority, established 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Irrigation Development Decree, 1977, SMCD 85; 
(l)
“DFR” means the Borrower’s Department of Feeder Roads within the Ministry 
of Roads and Highways; 
(m)
“CWSD” means the Community Water and Sanitation Division of the Ghana 
Water and Sewerage Corporation; 
(n)
“GNAFF” means the Ghana National Association of Farmers and Fishermen;
(o)
“Beneficiary” means a District Assembly, community or group to whom or 
for whose benefit a Grant or Advance (as hereinafter defined), as the case may be, is 
made, or proposed to be made, for a subproject under the Project; 
Page  4
(p)
“Subproject” means a specific infrastructure development activity 
financed or proposed to be financed through Grants to the DA or Advances to community 
groups and associations under the Project; 
(q)
"Subproject Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and a Beneficiary for the purpose of carrying out a Subproject; 
(r)
"Advance" means an amount, out of the proceeds of the Credit, to be 
onlent to community groups and associations for the purpose of carrying out private 
sector rural infrastructure Subprojects; 
(s)
"Grant" means an amount, out of the proceeds of the Credit, to be made 
available to DAs for the purpose of carrying out public-good Subprojects; 
(t)
“NBSSI” means the Borrower's National Board for Small-Scale Industries; 
(u)
“GAPVOD” means the Ghana Association of Private Voluntary Organizations 
in Development, the apex body for NGOs in the Borrower's territories;
(v)
"DRIF" means the District Rural Infrastructure Fund, established by the 
Borrower and managed by the District Assemblies for the purpose of financing 
Subprojects; and 
(w)
"DACF" means the District Assembly Common Fund established pursuant to 
the Borrower's Local Government Act No. 462 of 1993. 
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit 
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million eight hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,800,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and pay to the Association 
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The 
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall 
thereupon be canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or canceled; 
Page  5
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each June 15 and December 15, commencing June 15, 2007 and ending December 
15, 2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 
2016 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A)
requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim 
Fund Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above 
falling six months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the 
Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
Page  6
administrative, financial and environmental practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
open and maintain, for the duration of the Project implementation, an 
account (the Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Administrator and 
on the terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount equivalent to 
$100,000, being the Borrower’s estimated share of counterpart funds required for 
Project implementation during the first year (the Initial Deposit); and (ii) 
thereafter, at annual intervals, deposit into the Project Account such amounts as 
shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrator at the beginning of 
each year; and 
(c)
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) above shall be used exclusively to finance the Borrower’s share of 
expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01 (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Administrator shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
Page  7
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
and the Administrator
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:
(a)
Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:  
(i) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any KfW Loan 
or IFAD 
Loan shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or 
(ii) 
the KfW Loan or the IFAD Loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(b)
Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrator that: 
(i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not 
caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such 
agreement; and 
(ii)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (b) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Designation of Administrator
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of 
Page  8
Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Administrator the Project 
Implementation Manual, in form and substance acceptable to the Administrator; 
(b)
the Borrower has deposited $100,000 equivalent into the Project Account 
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement; and 
(c)
the IFAD Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered, and all 
conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box M.40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
Telex:
ECONOMICON
2205 MIFAEPGH
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
Page  9
By /s/ Nana Effah-Apenteng 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Peter Harrold 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
  Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
  8,600,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Equipment 
    700,000
100% of foreign
and supplies
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Vehicles
  2,100,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(4)
Consultants’
  2,250,000
100%
services
(5)
Training
    550,000
100%
(6)
Studies
    550,000
100%
(7)
Rural Infrastructure
  3,250,000
100% of foreign
Coordinating Unit
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(8)
Refunding of
    850,000
Amounts due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c) of
Advance
this Agreement
Page  10
(9)
Unallocated
  1,950,000
  _________
TOTAL
 20,800,000
 ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, vehicle operation, travel, supervision costs, workshops and 
specialized semiannual audits, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's 
civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, and (b) Subprojects to be financed by Advances unless the Subprojects have 
been prepared in accordance with the procedures and/or terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and 
works under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, for services for 
individual contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each and for firms costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of life of the rural poor 
in the Borrower’s territories through: (i) empowering local communities and 
beneficiary groups to enable them to identify, plan, implement and maintain small, 
village-level infrastructure investments; (ii) increasing their access to development 
resources for investments in public-type goods; (iii) strengthening community and 
district-level institutions; and (iv) supporting its strategy of decentralization of 
development responsibilities to District Assemblies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Rural Water Infrastructure
1.
Provision of Grants or Advances to Beneficiaries for:
(a)
the construction and rehabilitation of dug-outs and other small surface 
impoundments;
(b)
development and equipping of boreholes and hand-dug wells in shallow 
aquifers;
(c)
development and equipping of spring water schemes in farming areas;
(d)
development of small-scale, full or supplemental, irrigation schemes from 
streamflow diversions, pumping and run-off management; and
(e)
carrying out of water conservation measures, including the construction 
Page  11
of water retaining infrastructure to manage run-off and infiltration. 
2.
(a)
Preparation of plans by Beneficiaries to develop and manage facilities 
for making productive use of available water, including related physical works and 
overall watershed management.
(b)
Development of basic skills of Beneficiaries for the appropriate 
application of recommended best catchment management practices. 
3.
Provision of training to Beneficiaries in the proper operation and maintenance 
of investments in water.
Part B:
Rural Transport Infrastructure 
1.
Provision of Grants or Advances to District Assemblies for the rehabilitation of 
feeder roads and spot improvements, including construction of culverts and appropriate 
drainage; 
2.
Provision of Grants to Beneficiaries for the development of priority 
village-to-farm tracks and trails identified by Beneficiaries. 
3.
Provision of technical advisory services to assist Beneficiaries to plan 
activities and to supervise implementation of contracts. 
4.
Provision of training to Beneficiaries to undertake routine maintenance tasks. 
5.
Introduction of intermediate forms of transport, including cycle trailers, 
donkey carts and light trailers.
Part C:
Post-Harvest Infrastructure
1.
Provision of Advances to Beneficiaries for:
(a)
construction and rehabilitation of small- to medium-size post-harvest 
facilities, including drying floors and platforms, cribs, crop processing and fish 
smoking units for use by communities, small farmers and fish handlers working in 
formal or informal groups;
(b)
development of appropriate individual, as well as group-owned and managed 
storage facilities for small producers of grain and other crops;
(c)
identification, analysis and implementation of financially robust 
small-scale business Subprojects; and
(d)
market facilities for rural communities and large urban towns. 
2.
Provision of technical advisory services to assist Beneficiaries to organize 
themselves into manageable groups, to be given essential skills to sustain their 
investments.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening 
1.
Empowering local communities and beneficiary groups, through the provision of 
technical advisory services, to enhance their capacity to plan and maintain 
village-level infrastructure in a sustainable manner. 
2.
Strengthening the capacity of communities and district-level institutions to 
improve the efficiency of rural resource transfer through the provision of training 
and technical advisory services. 
3.
Strengthening the management capacity of District Assemblies for planning and 
financial management through the provision of training, logistics and technical 
advisory services. 
4.
Assisting communities and groups to identify, prioritize and integrate 
self-initiated rural community infrastructure projects. 
Page  12
5.
Strengthening the planning, coordination and management of relevant departments 
of MOFA, MLGRD, GIDA, DFR and other relevant agencies, through the provision of 
training, logistics and technical advisory services. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods, including vehicles, estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent, and works 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $20,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods, including vehicles, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,400,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods costing $10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $900,000 equivalent, may, with the Administrator’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
Page  13
aggregate amount not to exceed $13,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Administrator, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and 
resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, and for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants 
1.
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
shortlists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports 
and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not apply to: (a) 
the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Administrator, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above. 
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions 
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
Page  14
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
Project Coordination 
1.
The policy coordination of all Project implementation activities shall be 
carried out by an interministerial Project Policy Coordination Committee (PPCC), 
comprising representatives from MOF, MOFA, MLGRD, Ministries of Works and Housing, 
Environment, Science and Technology, Trade and Industries, Employment and Social 
Welfare, and Roads and Highways.  PPCC shall provide overall policy guidance and 
advise the various implementing agencies accordingly.  PPCC shall be chaired by the 
Minister for Food and Agriculture, or his designate, and shall meet at least once in 
each year. 
2.
At the technical level, coordination shall be carried out through the NTSC, 
comprising representatives of MOFA, MLGRD, CWSD, as well as, DFR, GNAFF, NBSSI, the 
Department of Cooperatives, GIDA and GAPVOD.  The Chief Director of MOFA shall chair 
NTSC, and the National Project Coordinator shall serve as the Secretary.  NTSC shall 
meet semiannually to review the work program and progress reports on the Project and 
make recommendations to management on the actions required to achieve Project targets.
Project Implementation 
3.
The Borrower shall, for purposes of carrying out the Project, establish and 
maintain a Rural Infrastructure Coordinating Unit (RICU) in MOFA, with primary 
responsibility for coordinating implementation support to the District Assemblies and 
community groups and associations. RICU shall have broad autonomy in implementing the 
work program agreed upon with the PPC and NTSC. For purposes of avoiding duplication, 
the existing Project Unit, established under the Agricultural Sector Investment 
Project (Credit No. 2555 GH), shall be integrated into RICU to become a single 
implementation unit for rural infrastructure. RICU shall be headed by a National 
Coordinator, selected by MOFA, supported by relevant technical staff, including a 
rural infrastructure engineer and an institutions specialist, all under terms of 
reference and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Administrator and 
appointed in accordance with procedures under Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
4.
RICU shall:
(a)
implement technical and institutional strengthening aspects of the 
Project, including ensuring that Project actions and interventions complement those of 
other similar projects in the sector;
(b)
be responsible for timely reporting, monitoring and evaluation, and 
impact assessments;
(c)
establish and maintain a management information system to provide 
up-to-date information on the status of implementation of subprojects in the various 
zones; and
(d)
provide policy and technical liaison with the PPCC and NTSC. 
5.
The Borrower shall establish four decentralized zonal project offices to 
strengthen village-level institutions, Zone 1 with head office in Tamale for the 
Northern, Upper East and Upper West Regions; Zone II with head office in Kumasi for 
the Ashanti and Brong Ahafo Regions; Zone III with head office in Cape Coast for the 
Central and Western Regions; and Zone IV with head office in Accra for Greater Accra, 
the Eastern and Volta Regions. Each Zonal Project Office shall be headed by a Zonal 
Project Coordinator, with relevant technical and administrative staff. 
6.
Day-to-day responsibility for Project implementation at the district level shall 
be the responsibility of each DA with technical oversight of the respective zonal 
office. The District Executive Committee and its administrative offices shall be 
Page  15
strengthened for purposes of Project implementation. Public-good Subprojects shall be 
financed through the DACF, based on eligible Subprojects from the District Development 
Plan.  Private-good Subprojects shall be financed through the DRIF.
7.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, in 
carrying out the Project, apply the guidelines and procedures specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Project 
Implementation Manual or any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the 
Administrator, will materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about December 31, 1998, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by June 30, 1999, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on the matter. 
9.
Beneficiary Eligibility Criteria
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 7 above, the selection of 
Beneficiaries of grants to be made out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit for 
a subproject shall be made in accordance with the following criteria:
(a)
District Assemblies which qualify as Beneficiaries for public-good 
Subprojects shall have:
(i)
the following staff with the necessary operational training:
-
District Coordinating Director
-
District Financial Controller
-
District Planning Officer
-
District Works Engineer
-
District Agricultural Coordinator
-
Community Development Officer; 
(ii)
an operating bank account and the budgetary requirements for the 
current year; 
(iii)
adequate operational facilities; 
(iv)
a District Development Plan prepared in close consultation with 
the community 
concerned, taking into account their priority needs 
and resources, 
implementation capacity and 
sustainability considerations; 
(v)
established a DRIF account; 
(vi)
hired a manager for the DRIF account; 
Page  16
(vii)
basic office facilities and equipment; and 
(viii) DRIF Committees for purposes of approval of community and group 
Subprojects.
(b)
Communities which qualify as Beneficiaries shall have formed a user group 
or association which has been formally registered in accordance with the relevant laws 
and regulations on group activities, for accounting and monitoring purposes.  The user 
group or association shall have the following attributes: 
(i)
the members of the user group or association shall have 
satisfactorily 
completed appropriate training in group 
dynamics and management and acquired a 
basic understanding of the 
investment operation; 
(ii)
the executive officers (Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer) and at 
least four 
other members of the user group or association shall have 
satisfactorily 
completed training in managing the finances of 
the organization and the 
investment, and basic technical and 
management procedures for the facility; 
(iii)
the user group or association shall have operated a savings 
account in a 
commercial bank for at least three months immediately 
prior to making an 
application for a grant under the Project and 
shall have saved at least its 
minimum financial contribution to the 
investment;
(iv)
the group shall have agreed to take full responsibility for the 
proper 
operation of the facility, including adequate routine 
recurrent maintenance 
costs; 
(v)
the Community is organized for purposes of undertaking the 
Subproject; and 
(vi)
the Community has signed an agreement with the supporting 
organization and the 
District Assembly, undertaking to make 
adequate provision for related 
operations, maintenance and 
repairs.
(c)
Groups which qualify as Beneficiaries for private-good infrastructure 
under Part C of the Project shall have: 
(i)
formed an association, formally registered under local laws and 
regulations to 
operate as a group, association or cooperative; 
(ii)
undergone training in group dynamics and management of the 
investment, 
including technical considerations of the operation 
and essential routine 
maintenance; 
(iii)
signed an agreement with a supporting organization or NGO and the 
District 
Assembly undertaking to make periodic payments 
sufficient for operations and 
maintenance; 
(iv)
demonstrated that it can provide the required contribution, either 
in cash or 
in kind, as set forth in the Implementation Manual; and 
(v)
enter into an agreement with DRIF in which the Beneficiary agrees 
to carry out 
the Subproject and to repay the principal of the Advance in 
the amounts and 
terms as set forth in the contract, into the DACF, 
the amount so repaid to be 
used for development purposes as set 
forth in the operating procedures and 
policies of the DACF.
10.
The Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development and other relevant 
ministries shall take all necessary measures to ensure that all District Assemblies 
are provided with adequate staffing and operational facilities so that such Assemblies 
meet the criteria specified above, and RICU shall coordinate technical assistance and 
training targeted at districts and communities and associations to enable them to meet 
Page  17
the eligibility criteria. 
11.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph 7, no Subproject shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit unless RICU or 
its zonal offices shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation Plan, that the 
Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in more detail in the Project 
Implementation Plan, which shall include the following:
(a)
For Subprojects under Part B.1 of the Project 
(i)
the Subproject is consistent with national policies, procedures 
and priorities; 
(ii)
the Subproject is part of the District Development Plan; 
(iii)
the Subproject meets the required technical criteria; and 
(iv)
the Subproject includes adequate mechanisms to ensure timely 
operations and 
maintenance. 
(b)
For Subprojects under Parts A, B.2 and C.1 of the Project 
(i)
the Subproject shall be for one of the activities described in the 
relevant 
Parts of the Project; and 
(ii)
the Subproject shall be economically, financially and technically 
viable in 
accordance with the standards specified in the Project 
Implementation Plan. 
12.
Terms and Conditions of Grants and Advances made for Subprojects
(a)
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Subproject Agreements, to be 
concluded between the Borrower and the Beneficiary, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, which, inter alia, shall include the following: 
(i)
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out the Subproject in 
accordance 
with the Project Implementation Plan, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in 
accordance with sound environmental, technical, 
financial and managerial 
standards, and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Subproject;
(ii)
the requirement that:  
(i)
the goods, works and services to be financed from the 
proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit shall be procured in 
accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and 
(ii)
such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively in 
the 
carrying out of the Subproject; 
(iii)
the right of the Borrower to inspect, by itself, or jointly with 
the 
Administrator, if the Administrator shall so request, the 
goods, work sites, 
plants and construction included in the Subproject, 
the operations thereof and 
any relevant records and documents; 
(iv)
the right of the Borrower to obtain all information as the 
Borrower or the 
Administrator shall reasonably request 
regarding the administration, 
operations and financial 
condition of the Subproject; and 
(v)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Page  18
Beneficiary 
to use the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit for the 
Subproject upon failure 
by the Beneficiary to perform any of its 
obligations under its Subproject 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
Page  19
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
